ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-17-m0.u1	Good morning, dear fellows! Please take your seats, prepare for registration. Good morning, members of the media. Dear colleagues, prepare for registration, please. I realize that we have traffic jams on our way to the Council and not just to the Council, but we are still starting to work. Here we go, dear fellows. Are you ready to register? Please register. As always, I remind you, the registration takes place with the green button, the first button on the left. You can have red, but you won't register. [[10:11:28]] There are 283 Ukrainian national deputies registered in the hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear colleagues, we have a noun today -- our colleague Olga Volodymyrna Koval. Hello. Best of luck to you. [[Applause]] Dear colleagues, in accordance with article 25 of the Rules on Wednesday, we have 30 minutes to make statements to the national deputies with proposals, statements, and messages. Please sign up for the speeches by the Ukrainian National Deputies. Petty Officer Valentin Aleksandrovich. Don't you insist? Next. You're going to have to figure it out, colleagues. Ivchenko Vadim Evgenovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-17-m0.u2	Vadim Yvchenko, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear colleagues, signing a memorandum with the IMF, when we see 13 points of interest today. The 13 points that tell us about the day’s order, and here, in the hall, we stopped forming it. 13 points that sell Ukrainian land. 13 points that all of our state enterprises are selling. 13 points where we introduce supervisory boards of independent people in government bodies. 13 points where we don't raise social standards. 13 points where we're selling total Ukrainian land, where we're allowing a change of destination in some village. 13 points where we completely ignore the Earth Code and introduce systems of target change in the respective territorial, small territorial communities, even valuable lands. Colleagues, you know, wanted us to think before signing these things, we thought that after we did, our children would be living in this Ukraine. What quality medical services should be provided here. In these 13 paragraphs there is a continuation of the reform of Uljana Suprun. Do you remember what the minister of health said you voted for? That it destroyed what we had and was called medicine. We cannot offer quality medical services to people today. This reform will continue, which has lost thousands, not only doctors and doctors, but people who have contacted hospitals directly for medical services. The reform of decentralization, a colleague offered today, destroys the ability of most voluntary communities. You and I have forgotten about volunteering. Colleagues, I want to go back to the ground and say that we are with you on the threshold of what could not happen after five years of land in Ukraine. Even now, it is clear that 90 percent of the people who buy 100 hectares of assets offered in the laws will be well - founded people who will place their land in statutory societies of legal persons in a year’s time. Come on, guys, let's go. Look, without us today, you, the parliamentary republic, are signed by the government. And you know that the government, along with the National Bank and the President, is signing the relevant documents. I'd like you and I to have a day's work here during the adoption of the laws. And when these laws destroy national security, we go out as a faction of the Fatherland on this rostrum and we talk about it. Think about what you're doing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-17-m0.u3	Knyazevich Ruslan Petrovich. Hončarenko Alexyyyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-17-m0.u4	Alexei Hotcharenko, European Solidarity. Yesterday the heart of the Hero of Ukraine, Alexia Dustenka, stopped beating. The last days of his life were not the way we would like them to be the last days of our parents ’ life or our own. His son, the fifth president of Ukraine, Peter Poroshenko, was called a suspect, and a court was appointed on the fourth floor. He didn't make it to trial. What does Dusty judge? For Peter Poroshenko, the fifth president of Ukraine and the Supreme Commander, signed a decree to appoint the first deputy head of the Ukrainian Foreign Intelligence Service. Who else should approve the first deputy head of the External Intelligence Service rather than the Supreme Commander of the country? That's ridiculous. Yeah, it's completely absurd, but it doesn't stop active power at all. Look, we've had more than 20 cases announced by the Attorney General, who's got Dusty in it. There is everything, from bullying to importing pictures of world-renowned masters into Ukraine. Not exports outside Ukraine, but imports into Ukraine. There's the Kerchen Strait, when Ukrainian ships went from the Ukrainian port of Odessa to the Ukrainian port of Mariupol, there's the Minsk Accords, about which Zelensky talks every day about how to do them, there's everything. Why isn't there? There's no corruption, there's no corruption in these cases. The year they looked for nothing. That's why more than 20 cases were filed. Maybe there'll be more than 120 cases tomorrow, because the main thing is to get involved for anything. And that's why these are political repressions. That's obvious to everyone. These voices are echoing from Europe, and these voices are echoing from the inside of Ukraine, to the active authorities anyway. For the first time, for the second time in Ukrainian history, we see an active president trying to deal with the man he was fighting on the second round. Last time it ended badly for everyone. This time it'll be the same, or it can't be. Because we all have to defend the rule of law in the country with you. Power is in the truth, not truth, and we need to remember it with you. So I'm asking you, tomorrow the Cave Court will be at 3 p.m. I invite all the national deputies in which you are not a faction, because this is about each of us with you, and I invite all the citizens of Ukraine, all who can, first of all, come to the Pecher District Court in Vladimirsk, 15, near the Sofia Kyivsky, which was built by Jaroslav Wise, who is the author of the first set of laws "Russia Truth," and stop the aberration and destruction of truth and law in Ukraine. Let's do it together! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-17-m0.u5	Bondar Mikhailo Leontijovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-17-m0.u6	Good afternoon! Bondar Mikhailo, 119 constituency, Brodivsky, Buzeksky, Kamyanka-Buzký, Radehovsk oblasts, "European Solidarity". On Monday there was a decree on the formation and disposal of areas, number 3650. In particular, they want to create the Zoločov region, which is to be composed of the Brodivsky, Zoločivsky, and Buzek regions. Yesterday there was a subcommittee on the administrative and territorial structure of the Committee on Public Authority, Local Self-Government, Regional Development and Urbanization. I was present on this subcommittee, and according to methodological recommendations, I reasoned on why the Zoločov district could not be centered in Zoločev, which would be the Brodov district with the center of Broda. Starting with this, if, for example, the Crimes were to be the center of the 60-kilometre zone, because with the problems of accessing the center, there would be 15 population points of about 5,000 people left. If the center is in the Ships, only three locations will be outside this 60-kilometre zone, and their numbers will be just 2,000 people. This is from the methodological recommendations that the Cabinet of Ministers has made and that it refers to. Unfortunately, on a subcommittee and national MPs yesterday, representatives of Lvivščina and national deputies, members of this subcommittee, and generally the Committee of the Supreme Council on matters of public authority have ignored these methodological instructions, and they have said that, no, the Zoločov district with the centre of Zoločev should be useful. I'll remind you, the Brodov region is along the Kiev-Chop route, which is access to the capital, access to the centre of Lviv district is more convenient when the Brodiv region is. The oil pipeline of Odessa-Broda passes, two military units are located there. So whatever the cool thing is, there's got to be a Brody area with the center of Brody. I, my distinguished colleagues, have sent each of you a letter from myself, to the Cabinet of Ministers, to the Committee of the Supreme Council, and I am now addressing you. The letter also calls on members of the district council of the Brodov district not to vote for the establishment of the Zoločov region but to vote for the establishment of the Brodov district with the centre of Broda. Thank you. I look forward to your support.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-17-m0.u7	Nina Petrovn Yuzanin. Princess Mikola Leonidovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-17-m0.u8	Thank you. Dear friends, today we are again asked a language question to weaken the Language Law. We are grateful to the public activists who pay attention to this and will conduct protests. But I'm not going to talk about this right now, because we're being thrown into these unnecessary topics when society really cares about what people think, not what we think about in this room. Have you seen today's statistics on the Coronavirus? Have you seen how many people are sick? In my native Lviv, every day the city and the area become leaders after the disease on COVID-19. I got a call from my classmate, who's the director of the Lviv ZAGS, who tells me that people are sick, and there's other people sitting next to them that nobody checks, and they're asking for a thousand and 300 bucks for tests. They're coming to register. Small children come to register, register marriages, all in rooms that no one can disinfect. We have a great catastrophe ahead of us. Neither the relevant authorities, such as Minniest, nor the city of Lviv, pay any attention to the safety of the people. Now everyone's been spittin' on it for a long time. And so is central power. I don't know if you've seen an investigation on one of the channels that says Ukraine started producing Ukrainian tests. The President's office transferred the funds to a company called Feedtest, which appears to be in a small room of a KPI dormitory that received tens of millions of government money and charity money to produce tests and spent 430,000. Where are these tests? Where's the government money? Have humanitarian aid components been involved? Why are lions who suffer from thousands of diseases not provided with free tests, and they are required to pay money for tests? What do we do in this room? We have rallying and demonstrations around, we have political persecution, we fight against Ukrainian as long as the Ukrainians are destroyed. Shame and shame! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-17-m0.u9	Constanceevich Irina Miroslavovna
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-17-m0.u10	Dear National Deputies! Dear Mr. Head! I want to continue with the opinion of the previous speaker who said that we need to speak today on the topics that concern our society the most. And one of these sharp, topical topics is the subject of external independent appreciation. Society emerges from the fact that destruction can be one of the most successful, effective reforms that have taken place in Ukraine in recent decades. It is an independent appreciation of the knowledge of our disciples. We did a sociological survey. 98 percent were responsible for supporting external independent evaluation. This reform and evaluation are supported independently by parents, schoolchildren, teachers, and higher school teachers who support this reform. Who are the 2 percent, who are against this reform? Obviously, these are the people who realize that there is a chance of a return to corruption because the main objective of the reform was to overcome corruption, and this was done. Therefore, honourable national MPs, you are representatives of the political forces, you are representatives of the majority districts, listen to the Ukrainian society. As the group and the Party for the Future heard it, and we're talking about the UN being, because it's a platform for the future. If we want to have a smart society, we need to support the UN by all means, and our strength is in our children and in our unity. It's a different situation. A letter appeared that it was necessary to compensate parents for the cost of testing. I also think my colleagues in the Future Group that the recovery procedure should be as simplified as possible. You can't put that on the grading centers for the quality of knowledge. So to the minister of finance, to the government: do your best not to terrorize either parents or children or the centres for assessing the quality of knowledge, because this is our common problem. We are for the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-17-m0.u11	Kucherenko Aleksei Yuriovich
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-17-m0.u12	Alexy Kucherenko, faction of Fatherland. Honourable Ukrainians, honourable deputies, honourable chairman! In my speech, I want to tell you a few words and explain the situation that today lies in the energy sphere of Ukraine. Today we're going to be discussing with you a bill on the write-down and restructuring of old energy debts for 30 billion dollars, for an energy plant that worked a year ago. Dear friends, while we're dealing with old debts, there's been a lot of debt on the new energy market. Today, Energoatoma and Ukrenergo are already in debt for almost ten billion dollars. The calculation level is 50 percent. The so-called greens with the unresolved problem created back in the 16th year now have 14.8 billion dollars in debt. It's a tremendous amount of pressure that doesn't suck itself. And if we continue this chain, we see huge population debt -- 62 billion dollars for residential services, huge debts to NAC Naftogaz, its counterparties, we'll realize that there's a soap bubble in the energy fields that's going to break through and cover all of our Ukraine sooner or later. In this situation, I draw the attention of all Ukrainians, according to a memorandum with the International Monetary Fund, Ukraine has made a commitment to adopt laws that will simplify debt collection and debt recovery procedures and will primarily affect the population. And now, my friends, constructively. There's one organ called the National Energy and Utilities Commission. You still can't understand that it's you and your President today, I'm addressing most of them, who are responsible for this organ. Explain why. It is not about any independence of this body. Four members were appointed by your President, Greensky's decrees in October. They are now permanent members and make up the majority of the body. This very national commission, made up of 600 people and whose members receive very small salaries, is now responsible for regulating the entire area that has just been told you. Guys, I'm calling you with a construct. As long as it's not too late, let's create professional, uninvolved commissions of investigators to figure out what's going on in the energy market, why the barriers, the speculators make billions, and the miners and the Energoats sit without pay, what's going on in the housing and utility sphere of debt, and what's going on with NAK Naftogaz. Friends, if we don't do this today, trust me, this will cover our entire country in the fall, and this will no longer be about political responsibility, but about extraordinary.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-17-m0.u13	Andriovich Zinovy Miroslavovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-17-m0.u14	Good afternoon, honourable deputies, honourable chairman. 87 constituency, Nadvirniansky, Bogodchansky oblast, Jaremcan City Council, Odinijstina Kolomy district, National Deputy Andriyovich Zinovy Miroslavovich. You know, the honourable deputies, on Sunday, June 14th, Johno-Franco County, passed through another element. The results are tragic. Only today can it be said that more than 15 bridge connections have separated people from the signs of civilization. Stichia, negativity, plus old bridges that haven't been repaired for several decades on Prikarpatha, are collapsing today. Today, thousands of our citizens have lost their ability to move. You know, there's a big building in Ukraine in 2020: bridge building, state-of-the-art roads. Despite the great weariness of bridges, where there is a balance sheeter of state-owned enterprises, like in the Ivano-Frankiv region, it's a state-owned enterprise called Roads of Carnation. Today, the community of Ivano-Frankiv district, especially the region of Navirnyan, the Bogočan region, Kosivsky, Kolomiyski, Snitinski, all mountain regions, is concerned that bridge connections, small hydroware, are being destroyed today. There are thousands of bridges and crossings on the roads of general use of the local value. Only more than ten bridges in the last two days have been destroyed, resulting in thousands of people being unable to move freely. Individual bridge connections need immediate repairs since the flood of 2008. I would like to remind you that during the flood of 2008, several dozen bridge connections did not receive state support, funding. There are only isolated cases of financing on public road connections. Exemplary examples. A town in the village of Strupków in the Colomy region on the road of Otinia Bondarov, a town in the village of Lanchin, which passes through the River Služnica on the road of the national importance of Delitín Rakovčik, a town in the village of Babce of Bogrodčany district on the road of the local importance of Rosilna. Three bridges in the village of Krasna Nadvirnyan district, one of which collapsed on Sunday. I'm addressing the Minister of Infrastructure, the head of the Kravutodore, to the relevant committees of profile. We should not wait for the city to collapse, but today we should make a decree that the region of Ivano-Frankiv, which is underexpenditured of road subsidies, will receive financial support. People are indignant, and this is mildly said. They protest and have every reason to do so. After all, if any of you were to travel through the roads and bridges they drive each day.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-17-m0.u15	Thank you. Nina Petrovn Yuzanin.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-17-m0.u16	Dear colleagues! Dear citizens of Ukraine! All the questions that have been asked today from this high rostrum are all about the economy, the financial state that our country is in. So, first of all, do we need to talk about whether we have adopted enough laws, or do we have enough work to do in the past? In order to truly improve the economic situation of our country. I've heard on airs on a number of occasions from the new authority that this calling was the adoption of laws that had not been passed by the previous authorities. Yes, two systems and very important laws have been passed: this is the Authorized Operators Act and the Joint Transit Procedure Act. In fact, customs were to play a major and crucial role. It's also an additional control, it's also a transparent administration system, it's really getting the information that's really necessary for the work, the real work of our customs service. But none of these laws worked. None of these laws became the basis for the State’s additional funds. As far as the tax system is concerned, the most disgraceful Law 466 has only struck the economy and the potential for activity in Ukraine in general. I see a large series, a series of laws, draft laws that are registered. I'd like to address all Ukrainians. virtually every single one of you who is concerned about the situation in Ukraine has to keep an eye on what is happening in this room. The principles of statehood, the only approach to government that should be in the economy, are being dismantled. Those bills that are now going to be considered by the Hall will only be harmful, they apply to customs. You can see how an expert environment responds to changes that can be accepted in the room. To finish, I wanted to say. We registered Bill 3665 yesterday on the tax on the capital. Ladies and gentlemen, I understand that everyone is tired of this subject, but each of the presidential candidates in their program has been talking about the issue of accepting the tax on the resulting capital. And now that there's been a lot of talk about what needs to be done in terms of a sectoral or regional approach to applying the tax on capital output, everyone has to understand, all of this preparation is just to take the time away from the citizen's eyes before the local elections. Only the classic model of the tax on the capital output can produce a real result. Notice, Poland, which now, considering all measures to be taken for business, has made a decision since the 21st year to apply the tax on capital output. Is this not an example if not such a powerful example for us are not Estonia, Georgia, Latvia, which are countries.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-17-m0.u17	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the next Lopushani, but he gives the word to Lozinski. And then Roman Mikhailovich from the scene, six minutes, please. Oh, Bobrovsky. Six minutes. Colleagues, to be determined: 2 to 3, 3 to 2. Three minutes Bobrovska. After that, Lozinski? Klimenko. Okay. Bobrowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-17-m0.u18	Samantha Bobrowski, the Voice faction. You know, today is not a simple day, today our colleague, our friends, my sister, Catherine Gandzük's friends were supposed to be 35 years old. I would very much like you all to stand up for a moment of silence. [[A Minute of Silence]] Thank you. And I would like to invite all my friends here, and those who knew Katia, and those who are in pain for a fair trial against Katia, to me. Because it seems to me that this performance will be dedicated to her and to all those close to her today who cry and shed tears sitting at the cemetery next to her. And I'd also like to talk to you openly about much bigger things. It's about what happens to us until we get these certificates. And we have three choices. The first is to end up like Katya. Your life will cost you what, 100 dollars, 200, 300, 500, 1000? We can end up like Sergey Sternenko. Three attacks, and then you're going to S.I.A. or home arrest, and you're being charged with deliberate murder. Not enough, this suspicion was completely politically motivated and absurd, there were strange things written there, little in foreign language, but it doesn't affect the decision of the courts and the decision that the concierge had made in the high offices. And the third option is to be slaves, not even servants, and forget about the national dignity that we married in the 14th year. And it seems to me that that's when we came up with this notion as a nation, as a nation, as a huge nation. But what happened on Friday and Monday, and it shook the whole Ukrainian society, and many of you were there, not as much as you would like, but nevertheless, with their hands torn and so forth. We've seen veterans of the Russian-Ukrainian war beat. But who did? The one who was there in the east, or the one who did not hold the machine in his life and stand in front of the enemy’s eyes? And they see the enemy in the vet. And they were girls. The girls were depraved. They took off the boys. Is that okay? We tolerate it when, for the seventh year, the eighth year of war and everything that's going on? I'd like to say this today. It's not just that the interim minister of our internal affairs has to finally go. In fact, police reform must take place in depth. If Mr. President refuses to meet with the TSC and hides behind the back of the Jermak, and that's unacceptable, I don't know which President is hiding and running like that, then I want to say the following, that Ukrainian society and the Ukrainian people can make a colossal cold shower -- when it goes beyond their bending and the fighter who hides it like that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-17-m0.u19	Clemensa Julia Leonidivna.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-17-m0.u20	Dear colleagues, if the police divide the country into a gang of 90s, and we see it, then the economic authorities are submerging us in the days of Yanukovich. Instead of creating jobs, combating unemployment, the Ministry of Economics continues its policy of cleaning up small, medium-sized businesses for large oligarchic groups. This time they took over the farmers. And what they're doing. They decided to give the oligar Firtas by quotaing and limiting the import of fertilizers from abroad and allow Firtas to make a trip to Ukrainian farmers. And all of this is done by the Ministry of Economics in the person of the minister and the deputy minister. Are there any doubts as to what money was being bought by Firthash chemical companies? No, it's not. Because everyone knows that businesses were bought for Russian money and even raw materials, they got gas for government banks' loans under Gazprom. Do you think they're going to give a simple person in Russia State guarantees for the purchase of Ukrainian businesses? No, it's not. This is political and economic pressure on Ukraine. And here's what Mineconomy has decided to introduce import fertilizer quotas, so it's possible to make an oligar Firthash even more money on Ukrainian farmers. To make sure you understand that Ukrainian farmers are buying 7 thousand dollars worth of fertilizer, while they are exporting 5,000, 700 dollars. So that's 1 thousand 300 dollars, our Ukrainian farmers are already paying over in Ukraine. So, and this is when the gas has been down three times in recent times. Most of the factories of Firthash, as well as others that produce mineral fertilizers, work on the donor scheme. And when the Ministry says that, God forbid, they'll lose their jobs. No, they're going to lose jobs because the tax scheme just washes money out of factories, and profits remain in private companies that don't pay taxes in Ukraine that don't give jobs. The same is true of state enterprises. For example, you know that Odessa Airport is also working on a donor scheme. Because the Ministry of Economics can't order and allow you to work directly and get gas from Naftogazu. Thus, the private company only receives 150 million per month in return at Odes Airport. That's 15,000 medical wages a month. I would like to ask the Ministry of Economics to create jobs and not lobby Russian interests in Ukraine. And ask Mr. Zelensky and Mr. Schmigal to do what they promised.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-17-m0.u21	Thank you. Showtime's up. A statement came from two factions about a break with a replacement for the performance. Lubinet Dmitry Valeriovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-17-m0.u22	Thank you. Honorable Predestination! Dear National Deputies! Dear citizens of Ukraine! Three years ago, I was speaking from this very rostrum. This was true at the time of the National Fisherman’s company, which, contrary to all the laws of Ukraine, in contravention of logic, continued to trade in blood in fact and to place its production in occupied territories. It was at a time when his political power, which he had entered, claimed that this could not be done. We need to set an example and do the same things the world does, and we need to ban commercial companies from working in temporarily occupied areas. At the time, this national MP did his best not to touch his private business. He made millions and hundreds of millions of dollars, actually trading in blood. It's been three years. It was by means of the judicial system that he was able to block in fact the law enforcement system from doing its work. I want to thank you for the fact that, after the change in leadership and individual attention from the National Police, this situation is practically coming to a logical conclusion. In the course of three years, we came to a final court decision, and tomorrow the Court of Appeal may have resolved the issue of fully arresting the company and transferring them to the ARMA system. I call on all the MPs who want to get into this situation to take parliamentary control with me and not to let this situation just be sold. And the great concern of the National Deputies is that, before his office, the High Council of Justice, the lawyers of this national deputy, Rybalka, was such a Mr. Greek, currently in office in the Supreme Council of Justice. It would not be desirable for this friendship to interfere with the legal decisions of our Ukrainian courts. At that time, the Parliament made a political assessment of the eighth vocation, which voted and liberated Mr. Fish from the position of head of the committee, as was the political evaluation given to him by all Ukrainian citizens. So I urge you all to join me and do parliamentary control together so that unfortunately, at this time, the judicial system does not make this case simply, if you will excuse me, and once again this gentleman, this former Ukrainian national deputy, Mr. Rybalko, comes out of the water. So thank you for supporting those national MPs who are now involved in this situation. We'll win together.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-17-m0.u23	Ruslan Alexiovich Stefanchuk
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-17-m0.u24	Dear colleagues, we are now going to the law. I'd like your attention. Dear colleagues! Dear colleagues, I have a great request to all present at the National Deputies Hall. I am deeply convinced that this should be a model of law and order. So I ask you a lot of questions. In Ukraine, no quarantine was taken. And I'm going to ask you to put on your masks. Because taking care of others is also taking care of those who are next to you in this room. At the same time, I would very much like to ask that we have the principle of justice in place for all of us, and I would very much like that, if someone were to break quarantine in the room, it would be properly assessed by the authorities that should attract administrative responsibility. If you can't wear masks, let's fill the budget with administrative fines. I think it'll be fair. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-17-m0.u25	Thank you. And in the past days, we will also pass it on. Yes, Mr. Leonov? Dear colleagues, there is another statement about a break with a replacement for the performance. Pippa Natalia Romanovna. And invite the people's deputies, and then we'll move on to the day-to-day issues.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-17-m0.u26	Dear Ukrainians, dear colleagues! What kind of education minister do you want for Ukraine? What future do you want for Ukraine? Back in Janukovich's day? You remember how his totalitarian work ended, and I am not afraid of that word, the rule. Make conclusions. You can't be the minister of education of Ukraine, the man who was in the Party of Regions. Mr. President, you promised Ukraine a European future. Ukraine’s European future is impossible without European education. Yes, in English! Yes, an external independent evaluation! And a dot. Yes, "New Ukrainian School"! Yes, the reform of higher education! For Ukrainian unions to be included in the best world ratings, not just in our memories of what we once had scientific achievements. A person cannot be a minister of education who has plagiarism in his work. Mono plagiarism is when plagiarism from one source. Who's Scarlett? This is a man who escaped to Russia, a man who buys an elite car for money from a small university, worth almost 2 million dollars, a pickup to drive on a small Chernig. This data is open. So if we want a good future for this country, of which we are all citizens, if we want to change the education system, we have to choose and find a good minister of education, and these are already there. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-17-m0.u27	Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to issues. Please invite the national deputies to the hall. You are invited to consider a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Land Code and other legislation on land use planning (registration No. 2280). The chairman of the Agar and Land Policy Committee, Solski Mikola Tarasovich, is invited to the rostrum. It's a second reading. This crying. Don't insist. Puzichuk. Don't insist. Is he insisting? Amendment number 4.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-17-m0.u28	Good afternoon, dear chairman, distinguished colleagues! Dmitri Alexanderovich, and I'm asking for four minutes, I have 14 unaccounted for amendments, and I won't insist on voting.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-17-m0.u29	Once again, how many amendments do you have?
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-17-m0.u30	Fourteen unaccounted for, four minutes, please. And I don't insist.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-17-m0.u31	Please give me four minutes of Puzichuku. Turn it on, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-17-m0.u32	Andrew Puziyczuk, Fatherland faction, Zitomirščina. Dear colleagues, this bill contains a lot of positive standards. The issue of spatial planning is very important; it is an essential part of the development of areas, including land and the completion of a barrier. The implementation of integrated spatial development plans, which will simultaneously be city-based documentation and documentation at the local level, is aimed at moving from a two-way to a one-way system of land planning and use in Ukraine. Such planning is now carried out according to both urban and land records, which are often very controversial. In the absence of a long-term strategy, it is impossible to implement any comprehensive bill. I thank the committee for taking into account many of my amendments. But, dear fellows, this bill has a very important flaw in all its positives. Among them: The government is expected to adopt decisions on the appropriateness of making changes to the complex spatial development of the community. We're talking about decentralization right now, but somehow we're trying to give the government additional powers. The next thing I'd like to draw your attention to is that it refers to a totally unacceptable proposal for funding from the grant costs of international technical assistance for land planning at the state level. In fact, this means that once again, the important strategic things that have to be part of state policy will be imposed on us from abroad. And those who formally hold public office will continue to carry out the direction and will of their foreign owners. The Fatherland faction won't support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-17-m0.u33	Thank you. Please take the seat of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-17-m0.u34	Mr. Andrey, if you know, the government can only interfere in complex plans if it's a national need. Such a rule is already in force. Examples of this state necessity are, for example, the construction of major highways. So these are exceptional cases. In other cases, it is the authority of a completely local community. It's about grants. We discussed this on the committee. We are calm about the fact that financing these developments at the level of local communities can be at any cost involved in the decision of local communities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-17-m0.u35	Thank you. You don't insist on voting, do you? Thank you. Amendment number 5. National Deputy Batenko. Please, Taras Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-17-m0.u36	Dear colleagues! The MP's Group for the Future will vote in the second reading for this bill. We believe that this is a sufficiently revolutionary bill that amends the Ukrainian Earth Code, which is needed by the common people. Yet, with regard to this amendment. We have questions about the uncontrolled change in the target destination of land, and we understand at what stage of social relations we're at, what kind of law enforcement system we have, the judicial system. And we think that there is a danger -- a complete loss of control by the state and the authorities of local self-government to change the purpose of agricultural land. If we allow the owner to determine for himself the purpose of the land plot, will it not at this stage be a sign of chaos? Please comment on the committee head. And our position, and put it to a vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-17-m0.u37	Please, what is the position of the committee?
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-17-m0.u38	Mr. Taras, with regard to this amendment, how is the matter resolved in this law? The local community approves a complex plan within and outside. It defines where it can be: where it can be a road, where it can be an enterprise, where it can be a career, where it can be a school, and so on. Only when this complex documentation is reflected in the cadastre is I, as the owner of the land, can change it on my own, but on the condition that my wish matches the opinion of the community, only in that case.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-17-m0.u39	Thank you. You're asking me to set it up, aren't you? No, thank you. Amendment number 7, National Deputy Ivchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-17-m0.u40	Dear Chairman, Your Honor Chairman, I have 17 rights, which have been rejected. And I'm asking you at the end to give me three minutes to make a statement under this law. I'm not going to insist on editing, but three minutes, I'm going to end up saying by this law. Thank you. 17.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-17-m0.u41	Thank you, fine. Then we just skip. 17, okay, thank you. People's MP Tarasov. Don't insist. People's deputy Cabal. Don't insist. National Deputy Solski, number 21. Don't insist. National Deputy Fries, number 29. Don't insist. You don't insist on 35, either, do you? You won't insist at all, will you? Thank you. National MP Bondar, number 42. Don't insist. People's MP Plachkova, number 45. Don't insist. You're not even going to insist on editing, are you? You won't. Thank you. People's Deputy Moshenc, number 49. Don't insist. National MP Bondarenko, number 54. Don't insist. National Deputy Batenko, number 55. Don't insist. Yes, National Deputy Tarasov, number 57. You won't insist either, will you?
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-17-m0.u42	Taras Ivanovich Batenko does not insist. Tarasov does not insist. Tsabbal, are you insisting? 68 axles. Turn the cabal on, please. You forgot your card.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-17-m0.u43	I'm going to ask you, I've got 10 left-handers, I've got about that many left-handers, I'm going to ask for two minutes at the end, and I'm not going to insist on the right-hand side.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-17-m0.u44	Okay. Pussychuk's on, isn't he? Is there anyone else who's gonna insist on editing? Won't they insist? Honorable colleagues, everyone hear? Yvchenko – 3 minutes, Tzabal – 2 minutes and we go to the vote. Ladies and gentlemen, please invite the national deputies to the hall. Ivchenko Vadim Evgenovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-17-m0.u45	Vadim Yvchenko, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear colleagues, this bill amends 7 laws of Ukraine. This is under the Land Code on Urban Control, the Ukrainian Land Administration Act, the Water Code, the State Land cadastre, and the alienation of land and other immovable property and so on. And the Ukrainian Law on Local Self-Government. What's here? Well, first of all, there's a substitution, an actual substitution of legal concepts, of land legal concepts, where they're trying to completely change the concept of urban activity. What does that mean? This means that all agricultural lands that are outside the populated area will now be virtually land that can be built. The change of destination is so simplistic that today this change of purpose will take place directly in the rural, village council. Colleagues, we have categories of land. We have natural reserve funds, we have a land cadastre, where it's impossible, well, first of all, to limit urban activity. How, for example, can we introduce the concept of community spatial development? How will this be reflected in the earth cadastre? Next. The next is that this law is now still being taken more seriously by the Law on Urban Construction and Control of Urban Activities than, for example, the Code of Earth. That is, if there was an earlier land area (the Earth Code), there was a type of land area, the use of an appropriate land area, technical documentation was developed accordingly, it is now being attached to the construction and directly making the law higher than the Earth Code. To my great conviction, there will be a great confusion, and this law will not work effectively because the State Land cadastre, well, will not be able to contain all these geospatial data that is spoken of, including changes to the law. including even if we make changes to the law. Simplifying the target destination of land for business in certain areas, if it's agricultural land and someone wants to build crops, someone wants to build animal complexes, that's a plus. But you know, this simplification is always used by bad guys. And we might have a special purpose change in order to raise the standard-of-money assessment. This means that this land will then be sold entirely.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-17-m0.u46	Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-17-m0.u47	Vadim Evgenovich, I agree with you absolutely. This is indeed a major simplification. This is indeed the integration of documentation into a comprehensive community development plan that is decided by the local community. This really takes up a lot of archaic, bureaucratic and corruption schemes. I want to tell you that this law has been worked out even in practice. We have 12 territorial communities -- 70 population sites, where there's a pilot project that's been supported for almost a year. This bill is supported by the All-Ukrainian Agrarian Council, the National Association of Architects, the All-Ukrainian Association of Communities, including with which we have repeatedly met.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-17-m0.u48	Cabal Volodymyr Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-17-m0.u49	Dear colleagues, first of all, I address those who have not yet been identified. We have in Ukraine now, unfortunately, there are many different things, let's say, food, where people are forced to go, when they need to change the purpose of the land or do something else about their land. Very often it is, let's say, logically unsubstantiated organs and not entirely pure in terms of fighting corruption. What this law proposes. This law proposes to do three very simple and right things. The first is support for decentralization in land relations. That is, the community will now decide what to do with its land, not some incomprehensible official, an organ that is incomprehensible where it sits and how it makes a decision. The second is simplification for business and citizens. So this is a simplification, you don't have to go through complicated bureaucratic procedures, you get accepted by the community for your land, and you're still able to change it. But only the community can do that. And the third thing that this law is about is, let's say, a direct fight against corruption. Because, as I said from the beginning, there's a lot of different organs that are incomprehensible, that, how and how they decide, and just because we simplify, we're going to achieve that there's going to be much less corruption in land relations. So I urge all my colleagues to support this law, and I remind them that one of the 70 laws that was included in the land reform package and without this law, land reform is impossible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-17-m0.u50	Let's go to the vote. Dear colleagues, take your seats, prepare for the vote. Please prepare for the vote, Your Honor. Ready to vote? I am voting on the proposal to adopt a second reading and, in general, with the necessary technical and legal regulations, the draft Law amending the Ukrainian Code of Land and other legislation on land use planning (Registration No. 2280). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[11:08:36]] For the 320. Decision taken. Such results have never been achieved by the Committee on Land Reform. Show the factions, please. Next question of order. "The Servant of the People" 219, "The Opposition Platform -- For Life" – 28, "European Solidarity" – 23, "Fatherland" – 0, "For the Future" – 10, "Voice" – 16, "Trust" – 17, non-fractional – 7. Dear colleagues, you have been invited to consider the draft Law on Lists of Property Rights that Are Not Privatized. It is suggested that this issue be considered in a simplified manner. Registration numbers 2831-1, 2831-2. Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[11:09:36]] For 247 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, these two bills are being rejected. The committee's proposal to reject. Is it necessary to discuss whether we can vote? Discussion? No, it's not. Or they're all talking about it, there's not going to be one faction talking about it. Can we vote? Sign up then. No, it's not. I'm sorry. National Deputy of Ukraine, Skyczko Alexander Aleksandrovich
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-17-m0.u51	Honourable Dmitry Aleksandrovich, distinguished national MPs, is proposed for you to consider the draft Law on the List of Property Rights Objects That Are Not Privatized (registration No. 2831-1, dated 19.02). 2020), introduced by the People’s Deputies. Bill No. 2831-1 proposes to approve three lists of property rights that are not subject to privatization. Thus fill in the gap created by the entry into force on 2 October 2019 of the Ukrainian Law on Recognition of Deprived of Validity, the Ukrainian Law on Listing of Objects of State Property Rights that Are Not Subject to Privatisation. The adoption of the bill should allow for the optimization and reduction of the burden on the public sector of the economy, as well as for the increased control of the state in the area of conservation and use of State property, namely the property of shareholders, state enterprises, institutions and organizations that are not subject to privatization. I'm stressing that they don't have to be privatized. In addition, the bill takes into account the prescriptions of section 4 of the Ukrainian Law on Privatisation of State and Municipal Property and aims to eliminate the risks of the exit of railway infrastructure, which is directly used to secure the process of transportation from state ownership. However, a specific settlement requires the issue of the right of State ownership to corporate rights in the statutory equity capital of Ukrzaliznica and the management entities that will be created as a result of the structural reform of Ukraine's railway transport. I will note that two drafts of the Ukrainian Rail Transport Act are currently under consideration at the Transport and Infrastructure Committee. This is 1196 and 1196-1, which provides for the definition of legal organizational and socio-economic principles for the functioning of Ukrainian rail transport. Therefore, I would like to support the decision to return Bill 2831-1 to the subject of the legislative initiative. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-17-m0.u52	Thank you. I invite you to speak to the National Deputy of Ukraine, Royal Natalia Yuriyovna. Natalia Yuriovna, you've asked for more than anyone and you've been delayed. Please, Natalia Yuriovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-17-m0.u53	Dear colleagues, if you don't know how to run a country, that's no reason to sell it. You start by building something, and then you can sell it. But we can see that in power there is a constant desire to sell or rent something to international speculators, or to rent it to our entire country today. And surrender, as they say, without a fight. What are you doing? At first, you decided to sell out Ukrainian land. Yesterday you decide to rent and enslave Ukrainians, taking away any state control and support from the state. And the third. Today you want to sell, and more specifically, to rob all those state enterprises that are still in our country. If you had a governmental approach and a desire to really support and protect and protect our industry, our producers, we would be looking at with you today a programme of support for Ukraine's economy, which unfortunately we haven't been able to expect from you for almost a year. We would like to consider with you today how to review WTO conditions, because they are unacceptable to us today, how to review the Economic Association with the EU, because unfortunately it is not working for Ukrainian producers today. We'd be thinking with you today about how to protect the Ukrainian economy. But if you do not know how to do it, write a statement, and let the government resign. But it's enough to abuse Ukrainians and the Ukrainian economy. The U.S.C. against the sale of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-17-m0.u54	Thank you. I invite the head of the Economic Development Committee Committee, Alexy Vasilovich Movcan. Excuse me, there will be a head. You will, won't you? Please, Nataluha Dmitry Andriyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-17-m0.u55	Thank you, colleagues. Look, number one thesis. There must be a list of public property that is not allowed to be privatized. Period. Ukraine has an extremely large number of strategic enterprises that need to be protected and have no right to be implemented, privatized and otherwise alienated for the benefit of private individuals. Thesis number two. This list must be drawn up jointly, by all committees of Parliament. And this is our principle position as the Economic Development Committee. Now, what are these two bills and what is happening, unfortunately, really. This list is provided by the Cabinet of Ministers. To this list, MPs have the right to submit alternative bills. The list was introduced by the Government of Pottery. Because he resigned, his basic law was automatically revoked because he had not considered it in the hall. These two bills are alternative to the list of the government of Pottery, and they're stuck in the air. Their presence blocks the possibility for the new Government of Smigal to add a new list that will allow us all, all the committees of Parliament and all the deputies of the actual call to work it out, to complement it, to expand it and to approve it, and to ensure the implementation of the article of the Constitution on what this list should be, and it should reflect all the strategic enterprises of the state. So the only goal that we are currently considering these two bills is to reject them and thus unlock the possibility for the Cabinet of Ministers to introduce a new list of state property objects that are not allowed to be privatized. So I ask you to support the rejection of these two bills, and I invite you to work collectively on the development of a new list and on getting the Cabinet to submit it as soon as possible. It's in our common interest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-17-m0.u56	Thank you. Dear colleagues, after such a thorough explanation by the head of the Economic Committee, is it necessary to discuss it? Yes. Then I ask you to sign up: two in, two in, two in. Please, National Deputy Bondar Mikhailo Leontijovich, faction of the political party "European Solidarity".
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-17-m0.u57	Please give Irina Heratchenko the word.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-17-m0.u58	Irina Volodymyr, please. Did they pass it on to you? Stephen Ivanovich of Cuba.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-17-m0.u59	Dear colleagues, good afternoon. Indeed, the chairman of the committee reasoned on what this was to do. And I want to say that according to the commission that we discussed on the committee, the submission within 10 days, the approval by the Supreme Council of the draft Ukrainian Law on the List of National Property Objects. There are three important aspects. The first aspect of submitting the list is the right of today’s Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, not the national deputies. The second point is that the Constitution establishes that the legislative, executive and judicial authorities exercise their powers within the limits established by this Constitution, in accordance with the laws of Ukraine. And we're talking about Article 6. And the third is that article 85 of the Constitution defines the powers of the Supreme Council, and that's why our committee has decided that all committees should be parties to the process accordingly. At the same time, I want to say that the main economic administration has shown that a list should be given to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. A list of companies in statutory capital where the share of corporate rights belonging to a State cannot be less than 50 plus one share and does not meet the requirements of legislation, for 49 percent of these companies cannot be dispossessed either. And for example, like gas shelter operators, and we can increase that list. When we're talking about the second draft on the restoration of the former census, it's going to be against the current version of the Law on Privatization of State and Municipal Property. As a result of the debate we had in the faction, we will abstain from voting. But active participation in supporting the corresponding new listing will be in line with both the Constitution and the decision of our committee, where a constructive and professional discussion was held. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-17-m0.u60	Stephanie Olga Anatolyevna.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-17-m0.u61	Please pass the word to Solomia Bobrowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-17-m0.u62	You don't get it! Bobrovska Solomija Anatoliyevna
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-17-m0.u63	Bobrova Solomia Anatolyevna, The Voice faction. So first of all, actually, the Voice faction is definitely in favour of redrafting these bills -- alternative and basic. But why? Because we have not seen two important objects in this list. The first is the Kahov Highway, and the second is the North Korean Canal. So what I want to remind you is that in the fall we hear some very strange beacons, especially from a fraction of the majority and even then from the government, about the ownership and the need for water supply for the Crimea Peninsula. So, dear colleagues, if you're going to tell us that the government is going to accept it and so on, by decree and so on, and let's not do it in law, we'll say, no, that's not going to happen, because it's a matter of state security. This time. The other one. One who doubts that the population is not enough. There's no shortage of water, he's wrong. Let's be clear that Crimea is actually a fully military base of the Russian Federation. Not only have they taken the Black Sea away from us, they're taking away the Azov Sea, they're still trying to take our water away from us. Of course, we have a disaster with fresh water for the first time since the last drought of 50 years, and so have we. But the question is: If you have taken a prisoner, you are obliged to take responsibility for the prisoner and not to take him home. Not enough to remind all of you that Russia is definitely not going to any concessions to the liberation of more than 120 political prisoners in the Crimea. So, please, once again, you can't -- put the Crimea back home, we're waiting for him here.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-17-m0.u64	Laba Mikhailo Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-17-m0.u65	Laba Mikhailo Mikhailovich, 70th Majority District, Carpathian. Dear friends, it has been said that some objects must be built here, but we know that in 20 years of independence, many government objects that have been built that have made profits to the State are today, God knows what documents in private individuals in various parts of the world. I would like to say that by blocking these two bills, we will now vote to send them out for review, and the government will issue a new list of privatizations that are needed now. And it would not be desirable for the fine objects that truly benefit the State and are great payers to escape into the hands of the oligarchs again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-17-m0.u66	Batenko Taras Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-17-m0.u67	Please pass the word to Bondar Victor Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-17-m0.u68	Bondar Victor Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-17-m0.u69	Dear colleagues, this bill foresees a reduction in the number of enterprises that are subject to it. More specifically, which are not subject to privatization. And when I read this bill carefully, our lawyers looked at it, it turns out that this bill will allow us to privatize the shares of Naftogazu Ukraine, Ukraští, Artem Enterprises, Feodosian Shipbuilding Company More, Philonent Factory and so on. I mean, it's not just a management decision, it's a decision that can have a negative impact on Ukrainian strategic enterprises. And that's why I think, and our group will support this decision, that it needs to be re-examined, re-examined and rationalized. You can't sell these businesses with a spear. And what's more, "Small" provides a whole range of social functions: first of all, it's the delivery of pensions; secondly, it's the delivery of any other stuff to every village; it's a room in every village. We're talking about giving Crucifixion an opportunity to develop, and to make it a real state, with banking functions and so on, a powerful institution. Today you're asking this question of privatization and it's not clear who that new owner is going to be, how he's going to approach this network, whether he's going to need this state network for every village, or whether they're going to start again with the goal of economics reducing this network, leaving one post for ten villages, and then we're going to think about how to solve this problem. So the bill still needs to be redrafted. Think carefully and then put into the hall a truly consolidated version: what you don't need to do is privatize, and what you strategically leave in the state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-17-m0.u70	Ivchenko Vadim Evgenovich with motive.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-17-m0.u71	Vadim Ivchenko, Fatherland. Colleagues, on October 20, we were promised to submit a list of objects that were not allowed to be privatized. Our amendment was that we believe that the law should not enter into force where you cancelled the list of objects until the list of objects banned for privatization is brought here. Today, it's not clear, 124 Defenseprom objects, GTS -- we need to put our hands away at all, it's our energy independence. We need to bring this list, and we need to continue to accept what objects of small privatization can be privatized, and strategic objects need to be left in the state. Colleagues, we have been fighting for a year to implement the 85th article of the Constitution so that the Supreme Council approves this list. Of course, this bill needs to be rejected, but, colleagues, ask your government for its majority to bring this list of objects quickly so that we can see what the privatisation strategy is in this government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-17-m0.u72	Thank you. Coltunovich Alexander Sergiyovich, and then we go to the vote. Please prepare for the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-17-m0.u73	Thank you. Dear Mr. Head, honourable national deputies, in the course of the previous speaker -- I would ask you to listen very carefully -- have given a new list of objects that are not subject to privatization. And out of a thousand 436 objects, it has been reduced to 219, or a thousand 217 objects, out of this list that are not privatized. Another official figure. 101 objects, this is really going to be a list that is not privatized: 9 objects are 50 plus one and 109 objects are culture and sport. Here's what I know that 219 objects can't even imagine any country losing its industrial potential. And by the way, I'd like to draw the attention of the deputy "Serve of the People" who spoke here. You look at industrial statistics, after the decline in industrial output, then you'll see that we haven't lost industrial potential for 28 years, but actually these 8 months when you're in power. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-17-m0.u74	Thank you. Dear colleagues, let's go to the vote. Since the bill, registration number 2831-1, and 2831-2 is the committee's proposal to reject, I'm now putting these questions to the vote, two I'm going to bet on acceptance as a basis. But please support, I understand, the committee's decision, right? I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Law on the List of Property Rights that Are Not Privatized (Registration No. 2831-1). Ready to vote? Please identify and vote. [[11:28:54]] For-19 The decision is not taken. The bill was rejected. I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Law on the List of Property Rights that Are Not Privatized (Registration No. 2831-2). Please identify and vote. [[11:29:27]] For-56 The decision is not taken. Both bills are rejected. Let's move on to the next question of order of the day. Dear colleagues, you have been presented with a report from the Provisional Investigation Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to carry out parliamentary monitoring of the attacks on Catherine Hanszük and other public activists during 2017-2018. Reported to the head of the interim commission of inquiry, Vasili Igor Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-17-m0.u75	Good afternoon, dear colleagues, distinguished voters, distinguished Dmitri Alexanderovich. Your attention is drawn to the report of the Provisional Investigation Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to carry out parliamentary control over the investigations of the attacks on Catherine Gandzük and other public activists during 2017-2018. During the period of operation of the interim commission of inquiry, eight meetings were held. The work of the temporary commission was carried out in public. In open sessions of the interim commission of inquiry, representatives of the media and the public were present. In agreement with the members of the temporary commission, stenography of the meetings was carried out on behalf of the persons invited. During the work of the commission in order to obtain the necessary information for the implementation of the decisions of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of December 12, 19th, the following steps have been taken. 162 petitions were sent, including 151 petitions to law enforcement authorities and state authorities, 2 petitions to the President of Ukraine, 2 replies to requests for public information, 7 letters and a submission to the Structural Units of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. As a result of the work of the interim commission of inquiry into the attack on Catherine Gandzück, a number of shortcomings have been identified in the investigation. In fact, the criminal investigation of July 12, 19th, after some success, has actually stopped. In April 20th, after the liquidation of the Special Department of the Attorney General's Office of Ukraine, due to the procedural supervision of the attacks on activists and the dismissal of Deputy Attorney General Trepak, who claimed political pressure, suspect Manger was not removed from office. The chosen precautionary measure, the mortgage at the time, has not been changed. This created risks for Manger to use his office in his own interests and to put obstacles to court proceedings. The indictment in criminal proceedings under the charge of Pavlovsky is being tried in the Primorski Court. During the 10 months, there were no 13 appointed court hearings for the accused and for the officers of the investigative isolation where Paulussky is kept. The above facts indicate the reluctance of the prosecution to take active action to bring Paulovsky to criminal responsibility. There is also reason to believe that Paul’s actions are unwarrantedly overqualified, and the trial against him must be carried out for a more difficult article. It's about Sergio Sternka's case. As a result of the interim commission of inquiry into Sternenko, we have received such. So the secret to investigating the attacks on Sergio Sternenka is not fully assured. There are isolated cases of the flow of criminal conduct materials. In other criminal proceedings, no criminal activity was carried out. In addition, we want to point out what.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-17-m0.u76	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please sign up: two in favour, two in opposition to a statement by MPs and groups. Sumar Victoria Petrovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-17-m0.u77	Guys, I'm gonna have a hard time talking right now. I knew Katherine Gandzük. And the fact that she's having a birthday that she's not going to celebrate today is very unfair. Because he is a very active man who fought very hot and honest for justice in Ukraine. I didn't know Sergei Sternenko, but today the whole country is watching what's going on around him. I'm very sorry that today this Parliament, which knows very well the torments of a girl who has been given a liter of acid, can't listen to a 10-minute report from a commission that has discovered really important things. Because she found that the investigation was taking place improperly. Because the commission heard a lot of witnesses. Because the commission did everything possible to make the case of Catherine Gandzück, who had already been closed and brought to trial without having to take all necessary steps to order the purchaser to hide it. Now, thank God, the investigation continued and gave hope to all those relatives who loved and knew Catherine, and in fact to all Ukrainians who feel either protected or firmly protected in Ukraine. Because if we do not get the answer to the question: Who is allowing himself to hire criminals to kill those he does not like, your children and you in Ukraine will never be protected. Both Catherine Hanszük and Sergey Sternenko have all the signs of political procurement. We had evidence of political pressure from the side, including Attorney General Irina Venedictov, on a group of prosecutors in the Sternenk case. And speaking of justice in this matter, you don't have to. And what's boiling out there right now is matches, you know what FSB brings to Ukraine. And it can so ignite Ukraine along with the political persecutions that will take place tomorrow.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-17-m0.u78	Stephanie Olga Anatolyevna.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-17-m0.u79	Please pass the word to Solomia Bobrowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-17-m0.u80	Bobrovska Solomija Anatoliyevna
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-17-m0.u81	Good day again! In fact, I would very much like the head of the TSK to be able to familiarize you with the entire report, because what Victoria said, I'm going to repeat here, in fact the two things we're talking about, and the Catherine Hansuk case, and the Sergey Sternenka case as such two key, especially Sergey Sternenka, it contains political essentially orders and pressure. And what I want to say is that according to the testimony of all those who came to us for questioning, there was a clear understanding of the position. The progeny of the former Attorney General's Office was not intended to give the suspicion to Sergey Sternenko, because those testimonies and the expertise that had been done, and that's what the pro-Russian channels in Ukraine are shouting about, they're saying that experts are giving enough reason to give Sergey the suspicion. What the previous leadership of the Attorney General strongly denies and says is that in fact a great deal of follow-up has yet to be done and done in order to give or not to give the Sergey a suspicion and what article it is. And to mention that we're going to give him a suspicion, at least, of possession of a cold weapon that any of you can buy, which is not a cold weapon, in a store, well, friends, it's actually sewn with white threads. That's the first one. The other one. It's about Catherine Gandzück. We know that you all know and we know that actually two months earlier, you finished the case without doing a lot of other investigative work. To that end, the previous deputy attorney general Victor Trepak was concerned about the complete and complete performance of not only one suspect manger, but let's also mention the head of the Hersonian ODA and his deputy, Ritchcock and Gordjeev, who are not actually present in this case. I would like to stress once again that, despite the fact that both Catherine and Sergei have some other 80 activists, some of the cases have been closed without even informing the activists who have suffered these attacks. However, once again, these cases lie in high offices and.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-17-m0.u82	Dear Mikola Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-17-m0.u83	Please give the word to Jehor Chernev.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-17-m0.u84	Chernev Yegor Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-17-m0.u85	Good afternoon, colleagues. I'd like to have a moment of your attention. And you, journalists. Today, several cases have been discussed. This is our TSC, I'm also a member of the TSC. Today, under the Office of the President, several brothers of Vitali Olesko are starving to death for the invitation to Sarmat, which was killed in Berdjansk in the 18th year. He is also an activist who exposed the facts of corruption in both Berdjansk and Zaporozhye. They're starving because the murderers who were killed in cold blood, who were detained, are now simply being arrested by the Berdjansk City Court. Killers of 115 articles to sit behind bars to be arrested. That's why, and on this issue, our TSC will be sending questions to the law enforcement agencies. Have such a court properly evaluated by the Office of the Prosecutor-General, the President as a guarantor of the Constitution and the rule of law. In particular, I would like to point out that attacks on activists in the Kharkiv region are being investigated improperly. The case is not properly investigated again by the attack on Judge Golnik, who stole the facts of the corruption of former mayor Poltava. So there's a lot of questions that we have today in law enforcement, in courts that either don't work at all, or they work improperly. So we're going to continue our work at TSC. We'll keep going. 85 things we have today. It's not just Handzück's business, it's Sternek's, it's Sharmat's. But 85. Some of them are closed in the first place. We'll figure it out. We have another six months. And I'm asking. I already told you about the Harks. Thank you. It reminds me, too.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-17-m0.u86	Thank you, Igor Volodymyrovich. Scroak by Mikola Leonidovich. Two more speeches with motives, and then we move on to the vote. Please invite the national deputies to the hall. Skork.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-17-m0.u87	People's MP Skork, faction "The Opposition Platform for Life." Honorable Presidium, respected colleagues, respected citizens of Ukraine, our political power has decided not to support the report of the commission. We supported its creation, and we thought, and we hoped that the work of this commission would help the law enforcement authorities to identify the perpetrators of the murder of Catherine Gandzük. Instead, we see rhetoric today that this commission has focused on a figure like Mr. Sternenko. I think it's completely different, let's say, different goals. Because Catherine Hanszük was killed, and Mr. Sternenko, there is reason to believe that he is suspected of murder. Mr. Sternenko. As for Mr. Sternenk, several criminal cases are under investigation, including kidnapping, extortion, and so forth, many. Making him a hero and making him a subject of the commission's work is the absolute degradation and discredit of this commission, and the Institute of Temporary Investigation Commissions in general. From this rostrum of my time, I called for the majority to create a commission to investigate the events in Odessa on May 2, 2014, in which, by the way, Mr. Sternenko took an active part. This commission was not created. And so it was very clear that the previous President's policies were continuing. When one law for activists and another law for all other citizens. Until we do with you, the Supreme Council will not make the law one for all, our country will normally work and not be able to live. And no temporary commission investigators that you're about to vote on are going to help her. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-17-m0.u88	Cosmiakin.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-17-m0.u89	Good afternoon. Andrew Kozemyakin, faction of the Fatherland. Colleagues, "Fatherland" supports the report that the interim commission of inquiry is doing today. But I wanted to talk about something else. The point is that paragraph 9 is still February 28, 2019, when you and I made a decision, you remember the same interim report. It clearly stated that a draft Law on the Supreme Council of Ukraine should be brought to the attention of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. to article 345-1, with badge 1 and 171 of the Criminal Code. Our faction drafted this bill. We are amending the Criminal Code and we are obliged to increase sanctions to 12 years after 345 years and 171 articles to 14 years for assaulting journalists, their families, loved ones and everyone else who has a bearing on the journalist's profession. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-17-m0.u90	Andry Anatolyovich, thank you. Chess? Shahov Sergei Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-17-m0.u91	Sergey Shahov, Trust MP, Luhanščina. Dear colleagues, the "Trust" MP will support the report of the interim commission of inquiry. But we want to point out that not only did they kill Catherine Gandzück. Repeatedly, we addressed all law enforcement agencies, giving evidence of the murder of Sergey Samarski, who was killed three years ago, in the central city of Luhansk. A volunteer, a public figure, a colleague of ours. He was killed for speaking the truth, and he was killed for exposing the apprentices he needed to be treated. We demand that all the deputies of the local council of Severodonetsk, not the MPs, be heard immediately, because they have been dismissed by all, that gang, immediately removed from the position of prosecutor Gregory, who was appointed to the post that he is now in charge of the police, the investigation, and the investigation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-17-m0.u92	Let's go to the vote. Please take your seats, prepare for the vote. I am voting on the proposal for the adoption of draft Decree No. 3634 as a whole on the report of the Interim Investigation Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to carry out parliamentary monitoring of the attacks on Catherine Gandzük and other civil activists during 2017-2018. Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[11:47:21]] For 307 Decision taken. Let's see the factions. "People's Servant" – 214, "The Opposition Platform for Life" – 0, "European Solidarity" – 25, "The Fatherhood" – 17, "For the Future" – 9, "The Voice" – 17, "The Trust" – 16, "the Non-Factional" – 9.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-17-m0.u93	Dear colleagues, announcements. Pursuant to article 60, prime. The Supreme Council Rules, I report on the creation in the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the ninth invocation of the interfractional parliamentary association "For the Development of Atomic Energy". The heads of this association are the national deputies Kopanczuk Olen Yevgenovna, Gerus Andrija Mihajlovich, Yacik Yuliy Grigorovna, Mejalik Viktor Neciporovich, Herman Denis Vadimovitch, Aleksiychuk Alexander Vasilovich, Nagornyak Sergija Volodymyrovich, Černomorova Artema Olegovich, and Shipajla Ostap Igorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-17-m0.u94	Thank you. Dear colleagues, you have been invited to consider the report of the Provisional Investigation Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to investigate information on compliance with the requirements of legislation when changing the owners of information channels and to ensure that the information influence of the Russian Federation is resisted. The head of the interim commission of inquiry, Vasilevska-Smagluk Olga Mikhaylovna, is invited to the rostrum. Four minutes, please turn on.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-17-m0.u95	Honorable Presidium, Your Honor! The one who owns the information owns the world and the one who owns the information channels owns the weapons of mass destruction. The need to create a Temporary Investigation Commission is driven by a tendency to concentrate information channels in the hands of a group of people. This is also confirmed by statements by the President of Ukraine about the inadmissibility of monopolizing the information space market by persons with pro-Russian views. The subject of the investigation was three TV channels directly owned by our colleague from the faction of the LLC, Taras Kozak: ZIK, NewsOne, "112". The status on the date of reporting by the commission of inquiry and the main investigators of the BSS is followed by a pre-trial investigation, a follow-up on the signs of wrongdoing provided for in the Criminal Code: crime attempts, treason, illegal property ownership, legalization and money laundering, terrorist financing. During the processing of the information provided to the commission of inquiry, there was a set of documents that contained information with limited access, but we can still publish some of the information. In the absence of time, I'm only going to stop at 112 Ukrainian TV channels. Since the summer of 18th, the participants of the mediation have started to mark a significant increase in positive references to Ukrainian Election leaders, which has led to an assumption of the acquisition of or associated with them by the people of the television channel. In December 18th, Edward Katz sells 112 Ukrainian national deputy Taras Kozak, who becomes his final beneficiary. According to the revised declaration, at that time he had a financial commitment totalling more than $2 billion to a non-resident company from Switzerland for the acquisition of the above-mentioned association. The former owner of "112" Andry Podzczepkov was invited to our temporary commission of inquiry and gave a sensational witness. "In the 15th year -- he says, I quote -- I was approached by Alexander Oneshchenko, then a Ukrainian national deputy, showing interest in buying a television channel. We had a series of talks with him, but unfortunately we did not reach agreement at the price level. In turn, Alexander Onishchenko represented the interests of the then President of Ukraine, Peter Alexiyovich Prashenko, and assured him that he would be able to press and buy my television channel at an acceptable cost for me," said Podszczypkov to the investigating commission. After refusing to sell the television, according to Podczepkov, he was under pressure. "In the 18th year -- that's a quote again -- I learned from the media that, without success in buying a TV channel through Oneshchenka, Makar Pasenyuk joined the game, then the advisor of President Peter Poroshenko of Ukraine." The latter, according to Podczepkova, has established a friendly relationship with the main lawyer of the television channel. Also from the explanations given by Podszkopkova: "In order to retain power and influence public opinion, Poroshenko organized the persecution of me by means of threats and fabricated criminal conduct with the aim of obtaining consent to sell 112 channels." And so on. According to information provided by members of the TSC, the cash flows directed by Kozak for the purchase of cable financing and other financial needs could have been made through offshore companies for Russian and then Belarusian banks. This is confirmed by the fact that on June 7, 2020, Kozak made a declaration on income, where he displayed the acquisition of a number of television companies through Belarus on December 11, 19th, that is, during the work of our TSC. Another question is why Belarus became the center of television contracts and where the money for such purchases came from. The Cossack gave no explanation. The full text of our TSC report can be found on the Supreme Council website. I would like to vote for the testimony given in our report to the Supreme Council, to publish it in the Voice of Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-17-m0.u96	Thank you. Sign up: two in, two in. Speaking from MP factions and groups. Rušin Jaroslav Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-17-m0.u97	Please pass the word to Alexandra Ustinova.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-17-m0.u98	Ustenova Alexander Yuriyevna.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-17-m0.u99	Dear colleagues, now the issue of the pro-Russian TV channels is being discussed almost every day in society. And unfortunately, the consequences that we have today are a huge pro-Russian wing, which is not just in Parliament. But what we see is that now, and the support of the pro-Russian forces is increasing, they're rocking Ukraine from the inside. When we started working for the TSC, we asked very, very hard, first of all, the law enforcement agencies that run the crime scene by buying these TV channels, not paying taxes, giving us information, coming to the TSC. You know, we are. We need to talk about what the previous authorities have done and what they are doing now. Yes, I support my colleague, Mrs. Olga, who said that unfortunately these TV channels were purchased for the previous authorities. And instead of fighting the pro-Russian TV channels, they were trying to make a deal with them. They tried to reach out to various political forces. And their names have already been embroidered here. There are not only names that were called today from this rostrum, there are very many names (I urge you to read) of those top elite representatives of the former who are still sitting in this Supreme Council today. But the problem is different. The problem is that we have a new government in the country for the past year, and we haven't been able to get representatives of the Ukrainian Security Service to come to us for a year and give us clear answers. The security service that's investigating the purchase of these TV channels. They, you know, came? They sent us a man every time and said, "Oh, I don't know. It's from another department." And that's what happened for six months. Nevertheless, we realize today that the past authorities have made a zero in order not to allow these channels. These channels are connected, as can be seen from the TSC report, with Mr. Medvedchuk, and with the pro-Russian forces. There's Russian money, and you can't deny it. Sadly, the past authorities did nothing but want to make a deal with them.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-17-m0.u100	Fedina Sofia Romanovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-17-m0.u101	Please pass the word to the Prince.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-17-m0.u102	Princess Mikola Leonidovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-17-m0.u103	You know, there's some sort of cheese going on here when a former journalist from a TV channel that belongs to one of the part-of-the-way people's deputies of the PIC, who are present here in the room, is investigating his activities in the establishment of other TV channels that belong to him or another of his colleagues from the same faction. What are we talking about? What investigation into Russian influence? Representatives of Russian influence lead the commission and investigate themselves, not really themselves, but somehow raise the question that someone has spoken to someone named Podzkopkovsky, and it turns out to be a crime, not that TV channels are financed from Russia, they support Russia and they support an aggressor's policy. There are two really important points in this report. One of them relates to the fact that, since July 19th, the BSB has been investigating the possible involvement of beneficiary owners of NewsOne in financing the defence complex of Russia. These are the same owners who recently paid the salary of the warden of this commission. So she doesn't say anything about it. The same statement states that the TSK concluded that the purchase of the ZIK channel in June 19th took place with tax evasion. But close to the owners of the ZIK, the manager of the commission does not write about this request, but writes a request for Dusty and Podczepkova. You know, let's not really turn a holiday for many Ukrainians into an aggressor into a farce and an absurdity led by the aggressors. It is therefore possible to propose, in accordance with section 2, paragraph 3, of section 2, of the Interim Investigations Commissions Act, to continue the work of the TSK until October and to pay attention to the need to carry out the tasks entrusted to the Commission by a decision on its creation from October 17th, 19th, and not to sabotage these tasks.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-17-m0.u104	Volosin Oleg Anatoliyevich
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-17-m0.u105	My dear colleagues, unfortunately, some of our fellow MPs have not yet realized that the screams of the aggressor do not create immunity from the investigation of systemic corruption, which was the case of the fifth President of Ukraine and which he will still answer. I would like to emphasize the main point in this situation. In a modern European developed society, there is only one acceptable instrument of censorship: the TV remote. If a viewer does not like what they show on a television channel, he simply switches it to another television channel, which, thanks to God, is enough, some of which belong directly to the fifth president of Ukraine. And it doesn't matter to anyone like the pansies that sing there, and the dirt that flows into the attempts of today's authorities to figure out the crimes of the previous authorities. I would like to point out that it was the creation of this commission, and I have discussed this with many colleagues in the European Parliament and many other parliaments of the EU countries, that caused great surprise, because the state cannot interfere with the editorial policy of television channels. If there are any commercial issues regarding the purchase of television channels and so forth, the law enforcement authorities have sufficient authority to investigate. But anyone who watches the television channels that are referred to in the report of the commission knows that there are absolutely all the political points of view, just as they are present in this room, from the extremely nationalistic to the socialist and the left. And this is a problem for the initiators of this commission, they want the whole society to put on one nationalism to come to power forever and never have a chance to lose again as they lost a year ago. If we didn't have pluralism on TV, still the president of Ukraine would be Prashenko, not Zelensky. It's because of freedom of speech, because Ukrainians who differ in their views are able to hear different views on television, that we now have a democratic country. And those screamers, the warrior majority.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-17-m0.u106	Thank you. Dear colleagues, let's vote, 12 o'clock, and break. Please take your seats, prepare for the vote. Prepare for the vote, please. Ready to vote? I would like to vote on the proposal for adoption in the entire draft Decree on the report of the Interim Investigation Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to investigate the compliance with the requirements of legislation when changing the owners of the information channels and to ensure that the information influence of the Russian Federation is countered (registration number 3363). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[12:02:25]] For-191 The decision is not taken. The commission stopped its activity. Let's see the factions. There's a break until 12:30.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-17-m0.u107	Please invite the people's deputies into the hall. Let's get started. Dear colleagues, please prepare for work. We need to look at the issue of the short-term consideration of the bill. Please prepare for the vote. You are invited to consider the draft Act amending the Law on the State Service on the Candidate Reserve (registration number 3491). Please prepare for the vote in favour of the reduced procedure. Ready to vote? I would like to vote on the proposal to consider the bill outlined above in the summary procedure. Please support and vote. [[12:41:06]] For-189 Decision taken. The National Deputy of Ukraine, Kloczko Andriyovich, is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-17-m0.u108	Good afternoon, Reverend Head, distinguished national MPs! For your consideration, a bill amending the Public Service Act on the candidate reserve (registration number 3491) is being introduced. Its essence is quite simple. According to the State Service Act, out of the number of candidates who are included in a total rating of no more than 5 persons, the designated entity or the head of the public service can be identified as the winner of any candidate for office, not necessarily the one who has won the highest number of points, or not to identify any of them. At the same time, candidates included in the overall rating are considered to meet the professional competence of the candidate to take up the relevant vacant office of the public service. In order to be able to use the professional potential of such candidates, the bill proposes to form from their number a candidate reserve, which will be available on the sole public service vacancy portal. A candidate who is included in the candidate’s reserve, through a personal office on a single service vacancy portal, will receive an automatic invitation to participate in competitions for other public service posts if his professional competence meets the requirements. Information on such candidates will also be provided on appropriate requests from public authorities. The bill proposes the establishment of a one-year stay in the database of the candidate information reserve for the selected candidates to publish the information. The procedure for maintaining the candidate reserve databases is proposed to be included in the candidate reserve database approved by the Cabinet of Ministers. The adoption of the law will help to ensure that more professionals are made available to the public service. Please be supportive. It's a good law, and it's going to promote the public service. Thank you all.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-17-m0.u109	Thank you, Andry Andryovich. I invite the co-rapporteur under this law to speak to the head of the Committee on Public Authority, Local Self-Government, Regional Development and the construction of Alexander Sergiyovich Korniyenka. Please, Alexander Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-17-m0.u110	Good afternoon, colleagues. It's a simple law, but it's very important. Our committee discussed, at its meeting on June 3, a draft law amending the Law on State Service concerning the candidate reserve for (registration number 3491), submitted in co-authorship with me by the Ukrainian national deputies Kloczko, Bezhin and Alona Skrum. The committee will support the idea of creating a candidate reserve from the number of public service candidates who participated in the competition, winning the highest score as a result of the overall rating of the candidates, but not defined by the winners. Taking advantage of the professional potential of such candidates will help to ensure that more professionals possess the necessary knowledge, skills, skills, and moral qualities are available to the public service. In view of the above-mentioned committee, he approved recommending a bill to the Supreme Council of Ukraine in accordance with article 114, paragraph 1, of the Rules of First Instance. The Committee also asked the Head of the Supreme Council to declare, in accordance with the first part of article 116 of the Rules, the draft law at the plenary meeting on the need for proposals and rights for corrections, clarifications, the elimination of errors and/or contradictions in the text of the bill, other structural parts of the bill and/or other legislative acts that were not considered in the first reading and correspond to the subject of the legal regulation of the committee. The Committee also recommends, in accordance with part two of article 116 of the Rules, that the time limit for the subject to submit proposals and rights in preparation for the second reading be reduced by half. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-17-m0.u111	Thank you, Alexander Sergiyovich. Dear colleagues, there is a need to discuss, so I understand. Please sign up: two in, two in. Heratchenko Irina Volodymyrna, faction of the political party "European Solidarity", please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-17-m0.u112	Please give the word to Ruslan Knazevitch.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-17-m0.u113	Ruslan Petrovich Knazević, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-17-m0.u114	Thank you, Irina Volodymyrno. Dear colleagues, I think this is the best example of what the so-called reform of the public service has led to. My friends, they've actually destroyed the government service. All the best professionals who had worked professionally for decades, regardless of what power was in Ukraine, were virtually expelled from their jobs, left on the street. Instead, they offered the idea of fair competitions as if they were being criticized. You're telling me now that we have to make changes to the law, because we have a situation so complex that five people are chosen as a result of the competition, and a winner, in the opinion of a leader who is not the one who has the highest score. Friends, so who invented this system? You're the one who offered these five people. We were already yelling at you not to do that because it would lead to mass corruption, and actually it would not be a competition, it would be a competition, it would be a competition, it would be a competition. That's what you do. And now you want moral satisfaction, as if you're making it up. Let's let those of us who have no chance of ever winning competitions, just always invite them to these competitions, and morally destroy them during these competitions. Little has been done and amended the Code of Procedure in order to disenfranchise the court order, to stop these contests, which had never been done before in Ukraine. There is no such practice anywhere in the world. That's why we can't support it. Instead, we collect signatures and ask our colleagues to join in the constitutional application to undo this shameful so-called reform of the public service. And such things should not pass. As for such things as reserves, it is such a Soviet nomenclature that is long overdue. Too bad we're going back to him. Shame!
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-17-m0.u115	Alona Ivanovna Shkrum, faction of the "Fatherland" Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-17-m0.u116	Colleagues. You know, I have a great dream that our country will become a country where reason for appointment is mind, education, talent, and conscience, not that they used to baptize children together. That's not what I said, that's what President Zelensky of the same rostrum said when he took an oath from the President of Ukraine. Do you know what my dream is? I have a dream that Ukraine and every next President will not remain a country of unfulfilled dreams and slogans when this is not done, and it hurts me very, very much. Because today no one can say from the Ukrainians that the reasons for appointment are intelligence, professionalism, honor, and conscience, not the fact that children were baptized together in all public service positions. This law, colleagues, is certainly right, and we will support it, we will vote for it. We need a candidate reserve for positions, we need normal competitions, we need people not to be served ten times, and we need the same competitions if they've already passed a language or legislation test. But this law is just the tip of an iceberg that doesn't solve the problem. And, you know, colleagues, what's the worst selection system for any position? It's a system that makes it look like honest selection is. Let's face it, we don't have an honest choice for government positions in the country. He's gone, he doesn't exist. And only when we're honest will we be able to move on. We're saying that the government service is ruined, of course it's ruined. What does that mean? This means that there is no strategy that professional people do not want to go to public service because there are no real competitions. This means that they will never get into this reserve because they are disappointed and are leaving the country. That means you've cancelled public service competitions at all during quarantine, and now they're not being held. And this quarantine will continue for months and months and months. That means in the country, I'm sorry, shit doesn't work. The president's giving orders, these orders are not being carried out. You've cut populist district government funding by 50 percent, and people, employees have cut only 20 percent, and they don't get paid today, and we can't solve anything on our committee. The only 2260 bill that speaks a little bit about government.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-17-m0.u117	Please, Tzabal Vladimir Volodymyrovich, faction of the political party Voice.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-17-m0.u118	The Lozinski Roman.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-17-m0.u119	Who, didn't I hear?
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-17-m0.u120	The Lozinski Roman.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-17-m0.u121	Roman Lozinski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-17-m0.u122	Dear colleagues, perhaps all of us would like to associate the public service with at least three words: professionalism, patriotism, and orderliness. Unfortunately for now, we can see that there is no such thing. And it's certainly not because there are no professional and competent people in our country, it's because there are such conditions that professional, decent, and patriotic people will never go into public service. Recently, I had a conversation with my colleagues from Lviv who wanted to go to one of the competitions. And when I asked, do you really want to and do you really want to go to the public service, they started to mention the examples of the last competitions, the competitions, not the days of Yanukovic, but the competitions of the previous year. And of course, they went into their own business now, they didn't go to the state service, even though that was their intention. At present, the government service is unfortunately discredited and staffed. But when we talk about the human resources reserve, it won't solve the problem. This is a good initiative, but this initiative will not restore confidence in the public service, we will not return professional people who are eager to do something for the state, they will either go somewhere, or they will work in their private affairs. So according to the Voice faction, we need to create sufficient conditions for professional patriotic and decent people, sufficient financial conditions, sufficient guarantees that they won't be released the day after tomorrow, unless they want to do whatever they want to do for their leadership. As far as this bill is concerned, the initiative is good, as far as the public service is concerned, this initiative does not change anything.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-17-m0.u123	Batenko Taras Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-17-m0.u124	Dear friends, dear colleagues! The parliamentary group "For the Future" notes that in recent months there has actually been a campaign in the country with competitions to replace government posts. We remember that it all started with a big experiment called an elevator, and we see that the results of this experiment in the country are already in the second, the third time the heads of district government administrations, heads of district government administrations, heads of heads, heads of heads, heads of administrations and so on. So this social elevator didn't work. And then we're talking about, in fact, we're experiencing a very deep governance crisis today in the entire state apparatus. And we have a conflicting feeling about this bill, whether we should support it in the first reading at all. And given the pro-Radians that my colleagues have talked about in their previous speeches, I'm going to look at the following and the disadvantages. The bill does not answer the question: how many persons are included in the candidate reserve – one, two, three, ten. There is no answer in the bill that defines candidates for inclusion in this reserve. The bill does not take into account the specificities of public service competitions. We realize that these contests were different plans and artificially created competitions that were cancelled, cancelled, then re-appointed, and so on. To the staff reserve, we have often seen these contests, on terms of submission. weak candidates, we're going to assign the strongest of the weak candidates to the staff reserve. So there's no answer as to the quality of the human resources reserve. And that's why the parliamentary group "For the Future" will abstain from voting on this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-17-m0.u125	Bacunec Pavel Andryovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-17-m0.u126	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs! This is a very important document that will help to ensure that real professionals work in the government service in Ukraine. The purpose of the bill is to create a reserve of quality experts who, as a result of any competition for the public service, did not fall into the top five. And this bill proposes an automatic invitation mechanism for people from this staff reserve to compete for other positions in the public service. This initiative can overcome this human hunger a little bit, and it will give real professionals access to the public service. That's why the "Trust" MP supports this bill and urges you, Your Honor, to vote for it here in the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-17-m0.u127	Thank you. All those who wish to speak? Let's go to the vote. Please invite the national deputies to the hall. Ready to vote? I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of a proposal by the Committee to take account of the clarifications in the preparation for the second reading, in accordance with article 116 of the Rules, of the draft Act amending the Law on the State Service on the Candidate Reserve (Registration No. 3491). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[12:56:22]] For 275 Decision taken. The committee made a suggestion to shorten the preparations for the second reading. In accordance with part two of article 116 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules, I am voting on the proposal to cut back on half of the sentences and allowances and prepare for the second reading of the bill (registration number 3491). Please support and vote. [[12:57:05]] For 273 Decision taken. Thank you. The next issue of the agenda is the draft Act amending the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, the Ukrainian Law on the Status of Ukrainian People's Deputies, the Ukrainian Act on Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the grounds for the absence of Ukrainian national deputies at plenary meetings of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and the meetings of the Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. We need the support of 226 people's deputies to include this issue in the agenda. I'm betting on the voting proposal for inclusion in the agenda of the above-mentioned issue. Please support and vote. [[12:57:55]] For 280 Decision taken. Consider the bill urgent and shorten the deadlines for the introduction of alternative bills. I'll bet on the vote on the above-mentioned proposal. Please support and vote. [[12:58:25]] For 268. Decision taken. The next question is also about the inclusion in the agenda and the shortening of the lines. This is a draft law amending article 34 of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of Ukrainian People's Deputies (registration number 3644). I'm voting on the proposal to put the matter in order of the day. Please support and vote. [[12:58:59]] For 262 Decision taken. I am voting on the proposal for, in accordance with part two and part three of article 101 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Rules on the definition of a bill (registration number 3644), an urgent and halving of the deadlines for the introduction of alternative bills and the conclusion of relevant committees on it. Please support and vote. [[12:59:37]] For 259. Decision taken. The next question is also about including and shortening periods. This is a draft law amending the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the schedule of plenary meetings (registration number 3608). I'm voting on the proposal to put the matter in order of the day. Please support and vote. [[13:00:11]] For 295 Decision taken. In accordance with the second and third parts of article 101 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I am voting on the proposal to define a bill (registration number 3608) as a matter of urgency and to shorten the deadlines for the introduction of alternative bills and to draw the conclusions of the relevant committees on it. Please support and vote. [[13:00:47]] For 285 Decision taken. Thank you. The next issue of the agenda is the bill of amendment to the Supreme Council of Ukraine Order on the Election of Heads, First Deputys, Heads, Secretaries, Members of the Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the Ninth Call. It's suggested to consider this is registration number 3590, and it's suggested that we look at this under shorter procedure. Please support and vote. [[13:01:26]] For 266 Decision taken. The report is given to the head of the Committee on Rules, MPs, and the organization of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Sergio Vitaliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-17-m0.u128	The honourable presidency, the honourable national deputies, the regulatory committee at its meeting reviewed the application for election by a member of the Committee on National Security, Defence and Intelligence of the non-fractional National Deputy of the Light Street of Alexandrovna, who, on April 13, this year, has gained parliamentary powers and does not join any committee of the Supreme Council. The Committee noted that neither the Committees Act nor the Rules regulate the question of election to committees of non-fractional deputies. At the same time, the Preparatory Group of the Parliamentary Committees of today's vocation sets quotas for MPs who do not form part of any faction, on individual committees, including the National Security, Defence and Intelligence Committee, is available for the non-fractional National Deputy. The committee then decided to support the statement made by the People's Chamber of Lights, and members of the Regulatory Committee were introduced for consideration by the Supreme Council, Draft Decree 3590, which the Committee recommends to Parliament as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-17-m0.u129	I'm betting on the vote on a proposal for acceptance as a whole. Please prepare for the vote. I would like to vote on the proposal for adoption in the entire draft Order amending the Supreme Council of Ukraine Decision on the Election of Heads, First Deputys, Representatives of Heads, Secretaries, Members of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the Ninth Call (registration No. 3509). 3590, sorry, 3590. Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[13:03:49]] For 210 The decision is not taken. Show the factions, please. Let's move on to the next question of order of the day. You have been invited to consider a draft regulation amending the Supreme Council of Ukraine Decision on the Election of Heads, First Deputys, Heads, Secretaries, Members of the Supreme Council Committees of the Ninth Call of Ukraine (registration number 3641). It is suggested that this issue be considered in a simplified manner. Please support and vote. [[13:04:39]] For 253 Decision taken. The report is given to the head of the Committee on Rules, MPs, and the organization of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Sergio Vitaliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-17-m0.u130	Honorable Predestination! Dear National Deputies! At its meeting, the Committee on Humanities and Information Policy considered a letter from the deputy faction of the People's Party on change to the Personal Composition of the Committee on Humanities and Information Policy, which made a proposal in connection with the early termination of the powers of the National Deputy, the head of the Committee of Tkachenka, who was appointed as Minister of Culture and Information Policy of Ukraine, to elect the head of the committee of the Chamber of Parliament, Mr. Mikitov Ruslanović, to relieve him of his duties as deputy head of the committee and Deputy Deputy Mr. Drushka Pavel Mikolayovovich as Deputy Head of the Committee of the Committee. In accordance with the provisions of part seven of article 83 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules in the event of the resignation of the head of the committee, the deputy candidature belongs to the deputy faction or group under whose quota he was elected to the post. And then the regulatory committee decided to support the proposal of the Party's Servant of the People, and members of the Committee, the People's Deputies, was introduced for consideration by the Supreme Council, the 3641 Decision, which the Committee recommends to Parliament as a whole. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-17-m0.u131	Please prepare for the vote. Ready to vote? I would like to vote on the proposal for adoption in the entire draft Order amending the Supreme Council of Ukraine Decision on the Election of Heads, First Deputys, Representatives of Heads, Secretaries, Members of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the Ninth Call (registration number 3641). Please support and vote. [[13:07:16]] For 281 Decision taken. The next issue of the agenda is the draft Order amending the Supreme Council of Ukraine Decision on the Election of Heads, First Deputys, Deputy Heads, Secretaries, Members of the Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the Ninth Call (Registration No. 3643). It is suggested that this issue be considered in a simplified manner. Please support and vote. [[13:07:55]] For 256 Decision taken. The report is given to the head of the Committee on Rules, MPs, and the organization of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Sergio Vitaliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-17-m0.u132	Honorable Presidium, distinguished national MPs! At its meeting, the Committee discussed the application for election of a member of the Committee on Economic Development of the Non-Fraquential People's Deputies of Magomedov Musa Sergojevic, who had gained parliamentary powers on 29 August 19th and did not form part of any committee of the Supreme Council. The Committee noted that no law or regulation of the Supreme Council regulated the election of members of the Committee of Non-Flocking People’s Deputies. But the committee noted that the Supreme Council Order of 29 August, at the time of the creation of the Committee’s personal composition on economic development, had elected a nonfractional national delegate, Davidenko, whose mandate had unfortunately been suspended in connection with death. On this basis, the committee decided to support the statement made by the national deputy, Mahometov Musa Sergojevic and the deputies, members of the regulatory committee, the draft Decree (registration 3643), which the Committee recommends to the Supreme Council as a whole. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-17-m0.u133	I would like to vote on the proposal for adoption in the entire draft Order amending the Supreme Council of Ukraine Decision on the Election of Heads, First Deputys, Representatives of Heads, Secretaries, Members of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the Ninth Call (registration No. 3643). Please support and vote. [[13:10:04]] For 323 By Goose procedure, please include Igor Volodymyrovich. Turn on the Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-17-m0.u134	Mr. Dmitri, I'd like to see you. I've worked in the past, we've had this story: some deputies haven't been on the committee in years, because they don't have that political position. My colleague, Irina Konstanovic, was unable to join the committee for a year and a half. We've seen it today, without politics, we're not letting one of the deputies into the committee, we're letting another in. I believe that you have declared, personally you, a new approach. I feel like I have to put an end to this. And tomorrow all the MPs who can't work on the committee have to include democracy, not as they did in the last summons, you're for Dusty, you're against, and you're gonna have to have these people working on committees. I'm asking Mrs. Svetlica to work on the committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-17-m0.u135	Igor Volodymyrovich, I, by your permission, since you have approached me, will answer. I did what I had to do. There's a verdict. And the committee did. There's a decision. It's in the hall. Unfortunately, I cannot vote for you. If we're talking about other colleagues, for non-fractional people's deputies, the quotas were set at the beginning of our committee work. Anyone can go there. I'll make the same decision in the hall. If we're talking about this issue, I think the question of personnel, this decision can be made in the next plenary session. Thank you. Dear colleagues, you are invited to attend. Dear colleagues, you have been invited to consider the draft Law on Amendments to the Final and Transitional Provisions of the Ukrainian Electricity Market Act on the supply of electricity to ensure the operation of the common property of apartment buildings (registration No. 2098). It is suggested that this issue be considered in a simplified manner. Please support and vote. [[13:13:01]] For 265 Decision taken. The report is given to the first deputy head of the Committee on Energy and Housing Services, Kucherenko Aleksija Yuriovich. And from the committee, and from the authors? Four minutes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-17-m0.u136	Honorary Presidium, Honorary Fellows, your opinion is proposed by a draft bill amending the Law on the Electricity Market, which refers to certain features of electricity supply in multi-family buildings, where, on the one hand, we live with you as a population, and on the other hand, property, pumps, elevators and so on are being used. The project proposes to determine at the legislative level that the provision of electricity to ensure the operation of the common property of a multi-housing apartment house is being made at prices for the supply of electricity to the population, namely by completing Chapter XVII of the Law on Electricity Market. It is proposed to add a new paragraph of this content: "Electronic energy purchased by consumers from the universal service provider to ensure the operation of the common property of the apartment building and is spent on technical purposes (the work of elevators, pumps, lock and bargaining devices belonging to the owners of apartments of the apartment on the right of common property and the lighting of courtyards, stairways and license plates) is paid for the prices at which the universal service provider makes provision of electricity to the population." The adoption of the bill will guarantee the provision of electricity for the operation of the joint property of a multi-housing apartment building under the same conditions as the provision of electricity to the population. So there's not going to be two kinds of electricity in the house. There will be one form of electricity for the population and the corresponding price. And this will avoid increasing tariffs for maintenance of a large apartment building and will help reduce social tension. The Committee on Energy and Housing Services reviewed the draft law in January and recommended to the Supreme Council a revised draft law amending the Final and Transitional Regulations of the Law on the Energy Market of Ukraine and recommended that it be adopted on the first reading and the basis. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that, in its conclusion of January 23, the Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority does not object to the definition at the legislative level of the order according to which electricity is supplied in a multi-housing apartment building and is compared by tariff to the supply of electricity to the population. I mean, she does. The findings of the Anti-Corruption Policy Committee: Similarly, no corruption factors have been identified. And it's determined that it meets the requirements. What I want to say is that I, as co-author of the bill, went to the National Commission on Energy and Public Services and asked whether it would lead to higher prices for the population and services of maintaining the apartment building and managing the bill. I received a positive response from the regulator of the National Commission. Therefore, on behalf of the co-authors, I ask you to support and vote in favour of this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-17-m0.u137	Thank you, Alexei Yuriovich. Dear colleagues, there's a need to discuss this law, isn't there? So please sign up: two in, two in, two in. Ion's Maria Mikolayevna, faction of the European Solidarity political party.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-17-m0.u138	Please pass the word to Michael Bondar. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-17-m0.u139	Mikhailo Bondar. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-17-m0.u140	Thank you. Michael Bondar, European Solidarity. We will vote for Law 2098 in the first reading. And a very big request, as we often do, is that between the first and the second readings of good laws, there are some lobbyists who are allowed to go to the committee and be included in the bill. So to the second reading, colleagues, I urge that this law remain as far as it is left. And then he can be accepted in a second reading. "European Solidarity" votes in favour of the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-17-m0.u141	Thank you. Please, Zimbaluk Mikhailovich, faction of the political party of the All-Ukrainian Motherland Union.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-17-m0.u142	Mikhailo Cimbaluk, Fatherland. Please pass the word to a colleague of the Kucherenko faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-17-m0.u143	Please, Kucherenko Alexei Yuriovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-17-m0.u144	Thank you. Alexy Kucherenko, faction of Fatherland. Dear colleagues, I certainly want to say once again that from both of us, and from the faction, we ask you to support this bill. The Fatherland faction will support it. But on the other hand, I want to draw your attention to all of us, to the fact that we've blamed so much in front of our Ukrainian consumers, in front of our population. Because this bill and one small problem that can be addressed in the case of positive voting is one hundred what we need to do to remedy the catastrophic situation in regulatory regulation of both the energy market and the housing services system. A clear example is a scandalous enough bill of 2458, where, in principle, the right things, and I support my colleague Bondar, thanks to one wrong line that allowed the communautaires to enter without the permission of the owner of the apartment and disconnect them, it recognized a very large social resonance and social dissatisfaction. I very much ask you carefully, carefully, to be professionally suited to any further changes and to any action to remedy the catastrophic situation that has arisen today in the regulation of housing and utilities. I don't want to call the predecessors now, fortunately, they're no longer ministers and they're no longer deputies, but once again I want to pay attention to my fellow committee members, first of all, that we need to work very hard with you to fix this disaster. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-17-m0.u145	Thank you. Moroz Vladimir Viktorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-17-m0.u146	I'd like to give the floor to a doctor of economic science, National Deputy Coltunovich Alexander Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-17-m0.u147	Coltunovich Alexander Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-17-m0.u148	Thank you. Dear Mr. Head, honourable national deputies, we will certainly support this bill on the basis. Another very important moment. We know all of you, and many of you, even those who are not professionally involved in energy issues, have heard the crisis that is in the country's energy balance system. Many of you know that we give priority to individual energy producers, as a result of the loss and the crisis there are other priorities more for the state. This is one moment. The second point that we also want to pay attention to is to prevent individual clauses of the memorandum with the International Monetary Fund from being implemented with regard to the increase in tariffs and, in particular, the rise in electricity tariffs. We know that we've already been told that the 1st of December 68 is in one kilowatt is going to be the tariff. I want to remind you that in his time when he was picked up, he was 28 copies. Of our 28 copies, we were first cut to 150 - 800, made to 100 - 90 copies, and then to December 1, 68. Now they want to level it up and give everybody a 1 bracelet of 68. It's not possible to raise the electricity tariff six times because we haven't even grown nominal six times, not that we have real revenue. As a result, you know, we only have 5 billion dollars in debt on electricity. So these are the things that are important to avoid, including similar draft laws. And in this case, of course, we support that. And to conclude, I can't help but say that today this 90-pound group that has up to 100 kilowatts, they can't actually go here, because all those who did energy conservation measures, who put electric boilers, other things, the amount of electricity consumption is much higher than 100 kilowatts. That's why people have a tariff of 68. I'm going to ask you to look at these groups. And second of all, let's not let the tariff rise to 1 bracelet 68. Thank you for your support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-17-m0.u149	Thank you. Osadchuk Andri Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-17-m0.u150	Please pass the word to Inni Sussoon.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-17-m0.u151	Sussun Inna Romanovna
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-17-m0.u152	Dear colleagues, the Voice Party will support this bill in the first reading. We understand that we have a problem paying for electricity for houses, we will support them. We believe that we need to work on it in the future. But at the same time, we will be supportive in our first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-17-m0.u153	Honorable colleagues, all willing to speak? Invite the national deputies to the hall and prepare for the vote. Dear colleagues, prepare for the vote, please. Yegor Volodymyrovich, have you left the Supreme Council, gone to the guest bed? Ready to vote? I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Law on Amendments to the Final and Transitional Provisions of the Ukrainian Electricity Market Act on the supply of electricity to ensure the operation of the common property of the apartment building (registration No. 2098). Are you ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[13:24:57]] For 331 Decision taken. Thank you. The next issue of the agenda is the draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on qualification as a factor for the adaptation and mobility of Ukrainians (registration number 2481). It is suggested that we consider the matter in a simplified manner. Please support and vote. [[13:25:31]] For 246 Decision taken. The report is given to the head of the Committee on Social Policy and Veterans' Rights, to the Third Party Galina Mikolayivni, 4 minutes from both the Committee and the authors.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-17-m0.u154	Honorable National Deputies, Honourable Leaders, Honorable Ukrainians! I want to start with a few numbers. As of June 1, 2020, we have registered 511,000 unemployed people in the unemployment fund. Between March 12 and June 15, the number of unemployed increased by 154 thousand. The number of people released from vocational education facilities in 2019 is 124 thousand. The number of people released from colleges is 50,000. Our superiors release 333,000 people a year. The average time it takes to qualify is 5 to 6 years. The number of job classification positions is about 11,000. In fact, they do not fit most of the current labour market and are regulatory in nature that does not meet any European standards. The main problems are that professional standards need to be updated today because the labour market is changing very quickly, and employers, employers' associations in the preparation of new professional standards spend between 250 and 400,000 dollars on them. They have prepared about 200 professional standards today. At the same time, the classifyor is being reinstated very slowly because it is currently being taken care of by officials. Why support this bill? It will help quickly develop professional standards. He's going to allow him to have an additional qualification, which is introduced as a concept of this bill in six or eight months or less. Thus, almost a million workers today competing for jobs in our market will be able to quickly change their classification and type of employment. The bill also proposes the prioritization of professional standards and gives professional associations and representative professions and employers the right to amend the classification procedure. The bill will also remove the conflict between professional standards and qualifications. The bill worked with the Education Committee. I think our faction will give Olga Koval, who is today the nominee, to speak on this bill. He was also supported by all associations of trade unions and all associations of employers, except one, and so the committee at its meeting decided to recommend to the Supreme Council that the bill be adopted as a basis for the first reading. Thank you. Please support this bill. It's very important for adapting Ukrainians to new conditions in the labour market.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-17-m0.u155	Please sign two in, two in, and no in, from the MP factions and groups. Ziba Tetjana.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-17-m0.u156	Please pass the word Oli Koval.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-17-m0.u157	Koval Olga Volodymyrna.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-17-m0.u158	Dear colleagues, we know that in the country we have a long history of the need to meet the demands for professional knowledge and skills. In particular, the regulation of the pay system, including the legislative provision of partial qualifications. For more than a year, work is under way on drafting a National Qualifications System Bill that should take on these functions in particular. But now I would like to stress once again that this bill proposes to establish the rule of professional standard over professional qualifications. This will eliminate some of the contradictions that employers face. I also want to pay attention to the legislative anchoring of partial qualifications. It is very important to both employers and educators. It will enable workers to be more flexible in the labor market, rather to find jobs on the basis of faster learning and skills. There are some comments to this bill, but I am sure that together with the social committee with Mrs. Galina and the educational committee, we will take all the wishes into account. And now I want to ask you to support this important bill, both for the labour market and for the education sector. Please, colleagues, back up.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-17-m0.u159	Juršin Jaroslav Romanović.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-17-m0.u160	Please pass the word to Inni Sussoon.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-17-m0.u161	Sussun Inna Romanovna
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-17-m0.u162	Dear colleagues, the Voice party is not ready to support this bill in the way it is now proposed. There are several reasons why we are not ready to vote for this bill. Reason one. This bill does not fully comply with the current legislation on education, including the recently adopted Education Act. In particular, the bill does not in any way mention independent qualification centres to assess the level of qualification of workers. There are also serious questions about how best to define professional standards. Now we're proposing to delegate authority to the definition of professional standards or employers' associations, or to the Mineconomy, but we have a whole range of professions for which this option is not appropriate at all, for example, to doctors or lawyers or teachers. It's those professions that have to have a high degree of self-reliance, but there's obviously got to be a involvement of professional ministries in defining these professional standards. It's just that working through the economy isn't the best way to deal with it. In addition, there is a big question as to how representative employers' organizations are now and whether we pose additional threats to the purpose of including or not including certain requirements for the competence of employees in certain standards. The same is true of the proposals for a tariff network based on professional standards. The professor does not determine the level of complexity of the work, so it is not possible to determine the level of pay. That's why we think that the bill needs to be worked out, worked out very carefully, and only then can it be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-17-m0.u163	Irina's heroine.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-17-m0.u164	Alexei Hotcharenko, European Solidarity. Look, it's the "Raise Up" Act, right? And I think we need to increase the skills of the copyright team. Have you read the name of this law, dear friends? So this is about qualifications as a factor of adaptation and mobility of Ukrainians. Not a Ukrainian citizen, but a Ukrainian citizen. What about Armenians, Georgians, Jews? You don't have to? They don't need qualifications? What is it? We have the Constitution of Ukraine, all nationalities are equal. Write "the citizen of Ukraine" instead of "the Ukrainian." I am with all due respect, of course, all Ukraine and Ukraine, but we respect all other nations. I understand that there may have been a curse on you there, but it needs to be rectified as a matter of urgency. Next. We're told, look, let's adopt this law, it's going to be very important. I have a simple question to ask you, "People's servants: where are the 500,000 jobs promised by your government that will be in May?" That's what your Prime Minister said. Where are 500,000 jobs for Ukrainians, Armenians, Georgians, Russians, Moldovans, for all where are they? You told us. As long as we can see you're creating jobs for the Chinese, buying medical suits in China. I see you're creating jobs anywhere but Ukraine, in which Ukrainian citizens are independent. So it's completely empty, it's absolutely nothing, it's not the law, it's something weird. Ask you: Increase your qualifications. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-17-m0.u165	Kirilenko Ivan Grigorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-17-m0.u166	Please give my word to my colleague Zimbaluku Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-17-m0.u167	Cimbaluk Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-17-m0.u168	Dear Mr. Head! Honorable Predestination! Dear drafters of the bill! The Fatherland faction has made a professional analysis of what is proposed, and we have a number of important observations. I agree with the previous reporter that there are still questions about the title of this bill. Next. When we talk about new skills, first of all we have to talk about the level of education. When the system of vocational and technical education is almost destroyed in the state today, will this law allow you to maintain the training of professional staff of those professions that are already in place by valid legislation. Next thing. When we want this bill, more faithfully, the authors, to replace what is the same qualification as "light" and "professional." This too is an extremely serious observation. And the Ministry of Justice itself denies the adoption of this law in such an order, because it is not correlated with the applicable Education Act. It's the authors who are suggesting that we split the profession, and we can get to the point where this law will qualify as a "high-teeth dentist" or "car transmission operator," I'm not talking about other paradoxical things anymore. The Fatherland faction can't vote for that. Let's go back to work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-17-m0.u169	Is there anyone else who would like to make a statement? I see: one, two. Dear colleagues, now two speeches of motive. Then we go to the vote. Invite the national deputies to the hall. Royal Natalia Yuriovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-17-m0.u170	Dear colleagues, do you really believe that a qualified person will help the country today to overcome unemployment? Well, that's, really, well, we have to start with ourselves. I suggest you conduct the Supreme Council's qualification. Because unfortunately, well, what's going on now? In the country, there is a shock in the country, a crisis, a violent unemployment, a huge debt on wages. More than a hundred thousand businesses have stopped their work. And at this time in the Council, we're talking about how to introduce a qualified person. Ladies and gentlemen, may I have enough bullying? Well, maybe that's enough joking. Well, we need to make a responsible decision. We've offered you an anti-crisis plan, we've proposed hundreds of bills to review social standards, support the economy and stop fighting in the East, implement the Minsk Accords. So let's go back to solving problems, not creating them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-17-m0.u171	Thank you. Shahov Sergei, isn't it? Everything? May I go to the vote? Invite the national deputies to the hall, prepare for the vote. Ready to vote? I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation on qualification as a factor for the adaptation and mobility of Ukrainians (register No. 2481). Ready to vote? Ready? Please support and vote. Registration number 2481. [[13:39:21]] For 219 The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, I am voting on the proposal to refer to the Committee for a re-reading of the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislative acts on qualification as a factor for the adaptation and mobility of the Ukrainian (registration number 2481). Please support and vote. [[13:39:59]] For 263 Decision taken. Thank you. The next issue of the agenda is the draft Veterinary Medicine and Animal Welfare Act. It is suggested that this issue be considered in a simplified manner. Well, you pick the names. [[B in m in s a l in]] [[13:40:39]] For 260 Decision taken. The national deputy of Ukraine, Artem Olegovic, has the floor for the report.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-17-m0.u172	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs, you have a bill on veterinary medicine and animal welfare to your attention. This is a Euro-Integration Law. Therefore, the rules directly taken into account are more than a dozen EU legislations, such as the Animal Health Regulation 2016/429, 2019/6 "Veterinary preparations", 2017/625 "Food chain control". In addition, the bill provides an opportunity to implement several more dozen EU directives and regulations. The basics of it are these. This is the protection of animal health, the monitoring of prevention and treatment of animal diseases, animal welfare, the proper conditions for maintenance, care, transportation, veterinary practice, the licensing of veterinarians and hospitals, and veterinary medicine, as well as public administration and veterinary control. I would also like to add, the main ones are that the state is facing people, farmers, farms, and it reduces the number of veterinary documents that perceive the conditions of animal farming, the issuance of appropriate veterinary documents and recipes, both in paper and in electronic form. Extras are decreasing from 30 to 1 days. According to the Association Agreement with the EU, Ukraine was long overdue to harmonise its legislation on veterinary medicine and animal welfare and EU legislation. These are our international commitments that we have not yet fulfilled. Therefore, without this law, Ukraine risks losing its export markets to the EU, its jobs in the agri-sector, its food industry, and its significant revenues to the state and local budgets. Please support this document and Ukrainian agrarians. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-17-m0.u173	Thank you. The chairman of the Committee on Agricultural and Land Policy, Solski Mikola Tarasovich, has the floor for the report.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-17-m0.u174	Good day again, dear fellows. Today, a new edition of the Veterinary Medicine Act, as well as changes to other related laws, is being considered in the first reading. This law is, in fact, mostly a rewritten and adapted EU regulation. Why is this necessary? It's not an absolute political law, it's an economic law. When we talk about increasing the exportability of the Ukrainian agricultural sector in the first place, we have to adapt our legislation to the requirements of the European Union, because this is one of the main markets and the sign market in which other markets are oriented. What's going on? Deregulation, decreases in the number of veterinary documents, shorter editions, and an uninterrupted registration of veterinary devices. Digital possibilities for issuing veterinary documents and recipes are introduced. The system of State control is improving, as is the case with the EU. Detailing the composition of the offences and linking the size of the sanctions to the minimum wage is provided. Licensing is established according to EU standards by analogy. Requirements are made to monitor the movement of living animals between animal capacities. There is also a whole cluster of issues related to the pharmacodynamic surveillance system. The committee unanimously supported the bill at its meeting of the deputies present. A lot of associations ask for that. Before this bill, there are many technical points. He's not simple. Lots of new terminology, lots of comments. I'd like to support you very much. And we'll consider them between the first and the second readings in case of your support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-17-m0.u175	Thank you. Two in, two in, two in, two in factions. Mesenchev Maria Sergiyevna
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-17-m0.u176	I was so surprised. The first time the button worked. Thank you, sir. Dear colleagues, I suggest you take a look at the title of this bill. It's called Veterinary Medicine and Animal Welfare. But in fact, respectable colleagues, it is about the well - being and health of people as well. What the chairman of the committee and another colleague, his deputy, have just said is absolutely true. But a lot of the words "standardization," "EU," "euro integration," that may not be quite available to our Ukrainians. Indeed, this bill strengthens the field of veterinary medicine. We're talking about security. We're talking about simplifying procedures for the production of animal safety drugs. And, of course, this is fully in line with the international legal norms and the Association Agreement that we signed with the EU. Indeed, we also know about the observations that exist in the Committee on Environmental Safety. This bill does not conflict with the humane treatment of animals. And all the remarks can be counted between the first and the second readings. Dear colleagues, at the next meeting of our profile committee, we said that this was not contrary to the objectives of the Treaty. Please be supportive. And the substantial remarks that Mr. Solski made can be worked out between the first and the second readings. So, dear colleagues, we're talking here, starting with antibiotics, to the very problems that can arise with human health. So animal safety is both safety and human security. I'd like your support, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-17-m0.u177	Mealer Victor Nichiporovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-17-m0.u178	Please pass the word to Kucher Mikoli Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-17-m0.u179	Kucher Mikola Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-17-m0.u180	Dear colleagues! I'm asking you all to support this bill. The Animal Veterinary and Animal Welfare Bill is primarily about people's welfare. The bill is very much needed by our agrarians. The bill is highly needed by agrarians. It was a long and thorough development. As early as 2017, a working group was formed. The bill has achieved quality, systemic, Euro-integration, which deals not only with veterinary issues, it deals with the systemic and integrated management of all animal health and welfare relations, it deals with veterinary practices, it deals with the circulation and use of veterinary products, taking into account those international obligations of Ukraine, particularly under the EU Association Agreement. The bill provides for the management of well-being, the regulation of antimicrobials and the creation of conditions for the minimization of antibiotics, the use of antibiotics in animal farming, reduces the number of veterinary documents needed to work in this field, i.e. the very large deregulation function of this bill. Introduces the timely registration of veterinary medicinal products, increases the responsibility for violations of veterinary legislation and animal welfare. And, I'm sure that the adoption of this law will do a lot to improve the health and veterinary health situation of Ukraine and improve the efficiency of the state administration of veterinary medicine. Thank you. And once again, I urge you all to support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-17-m0.u181	Bondar Mikhailo Leonidovich, faction of European Solidarity.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-17-m0.u182	Thank you. Bondar Mikhailo, European Solidarity. Please give my word to my colleague Arthur Gerasimov.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-17-m0.u183	Please, Arthur Gerasimov.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-17-m0.u184	Dear Mr. Golovo, distinguished colleagues, respected Ukrainians, a comprehensive bill, a work that began in 2017. In fact, it solves many matters of veterinary medicine. "European Solidarity" will support this bill in the first reading. As for his preparation for second reading. I'd like to go to the National Deputies of the Professional Committee, and to all the National Deputies who are going to be involved in the work, there are a few points that are really going to have to be improved and made more effective. For example, there is a point about the registration of animals by individuals who are self-employed. I would like you to pay attention to this moment and more effectively, and more carefully processed for the second reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-17-m0.u185	Lozinski Roman Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-17-m0.u186	Please give Volodymyr the Cabal.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-17-m0.u187	The cabal of Volodymyr Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-17-m0.u188	Dear colleagues, surely the Voice faction supports this law in the first reading. We are for the protection of animal rights, including agriculture. But we would like to point out that in this law there are a lot of technical flaws that apply to definitions that apply some of the rules, so these things need to be corrected for a second reading. But I also wanted to point out that we're really here in the Supreme Council, and I hope that most of us will support this law, most of us are in favor of protecting and treating animals properly. But we also need to think about people, for when we see how the police treat the protesters in court with Sternenko, we understand what we need to think, including how our authority should deal with people properly. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-17-m0.u189	Thank you. Two other motives are Royal. And who else wanted to? Yvchenko. And then we go to the vote. Royal Natalia Yuriovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-17-m0.u190	Dear colleagues, well, we have the impression that when the Supreme Council hears the word "Euro-Integration Law," that's when the loss of common sense begins. Listen, well, protecting animals is good, definitely. And I'm sure there are animals in Europe. But I'm sure only after they've protected their people. In our country, the hospitals are closing down, the doctors are being expelled, we have a payout in front of the doctors, we have a day of medical work this Sunday, but they won't get a payday on time. Instead of solving these questions, you start talking about anything, but not what you need. So we demand that medical reform be abolished, we demand that the issue of tuberculosis be resolved, about the coronavirus, about the psychiatric patients today. And then all we have to do is start talking in the hall. We won't.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-17-m0.u191	Thank you. Ivchenko Vadim Evgenovich. Then we go to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-17-m0.u192	Yvchenko, "The Fatherland" faction. Colleagues, everyone's talking about benefits. I'll tell you about the flaws. But we support this law in the first reading. First. This is the use of non-certified veterinary equipment. What does that do? First. Well, it's allowed to be by permission of the competent authority. First. Corruption Risks. That is, the competent authority should grant permits. The other one. It's that they can go into the market uncontrollably. Next. There is no basis for weakening the requirements for dealing with by - products. They've been recycled before, and now they're going to go quietly into the previous processing. And finally. Colleagues, 4.5 million singles. They now have, they have to keep records. You can imagine it's an unrealistic piece of writing that's suggested here. So, of course, we will work to protect self-employed and small farmers. And farmers say it's unreal in today's conditions to keep them in 4.5 million farms. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-17-m0.u193	Prepare to vote. I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Veterinary Medicine Act (Registration No. 3318). Ready to vote? Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[13:55:22]] For 306 Decision taken. Thank you. Dear colleagues, we have four minutes with you. Can you please tell me Bill 2386, someone will insist on the proceedings? Can we vote? Yeah? I am voting on a second reading proposal and, in general, with the necessary technical and legal regulations, the draft Law on Measures to Eliminate Debt, which was established in the wholesale electricity market (registration No. 2386). Please support and vote. [[13:56:19]] For 243 The decision is adopted, the law is passed in general. Dear colleagues, the next question is bill registration number 3314. Are you going to insist on the papers? Should we put it to a vote? I am voting on the proposal to adopt a second reading and, in general, with the necessary technical and legal regulations, the draft Act amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine in connection with the adoption of the Ukrainian Law on Amendments to Certain Legislative Acts on the Simplification of Pretrial Investigation of Certain Categories of Criminal Offences (registration No. 3314). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[13:57:18]] For 316 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Dear colleagues, the morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed. Thank you. Good-bye.
