ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-05-m2.u1	Dear colleagues, please prepare for registration. Good evening again, distinguished media reps. Dear colleagues, please prepare for registration. It's not possible to register red. You've passed this law! Alexander Rafkatovich, you know, just green! I can't hear you, Irina Volodymyr. Do you mind? Are you against everything? This is your credo. Are you ready to register? Please register, Your Honor. I'm reminding you, the registration takes place with the green pros button. [[18:34:09]] There are 311 Ukrainian national deputies registered in the hall. I now declare open the plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Dear colleagues, in response to the demand of 152 Ukrainian national deputies and in accordance with part eight of article 19 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, we are today holding an extraordinary plenary meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. At the next meeting, Ukrainian national deputies insist that the issue of mistrust be considered by Prosecutor General Ryabosapka Ruslan Georgievic. Let's move on to the question. According to article 80, part 1, paragraph 25, of the Constitution of Ukraine, the Supreme Council of Ukraine is responsible for expressing mistrust to the Attorney General, who is the result of his resignation from office. According to article 213 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Rules of Procedure, the question of expressing mistrust to the Attorney-General is included in the agenda of the Supreme Council's day session, at least one third of the national deputies from the Supreme Council's constitutional composition, supported by their signatures, and voted in favour of more than half of the national deputies from the constitutional composition of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The proposal for a mistrust by the Attorney General Ryabosapka Ruslana Georgievicz was made by 158 Ukrainian national deputies. In accordance with article 85 of the Constitution of Ukraine, article 213 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules puts to the vote the proposal to include in the agenda of the day - to - day session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine the ninth call for a statement of mistrust to the Attorney General Rybosapka Ruslan Georgiyovich. Please prepare for the vote. Ready to vote? In order not to ask why, at times you may listen. For inclusion in the agenda of the day - to - day third session of the Supreme Council on the ninth occasion of this issue. I'll bet you a vote. Please support and vote. [[18:36:50]] For 279 Decision taken. Let's see the factions. 207 - Servant of the People, Opposition Platform for Life - 29, European Solidarity - 0, Fatherland - 0, Future - 15, Voice - 0, Trust - 14, non-factional - 14. Let's move on to the question. [[B in m in s a l in]] I'll be right there. I'll read it first, as planned. It's strictly by the Rules. We can't take it for reasons right now. In accordance with the Rules, the next procedure for dealing with the matter is proposed. A report by Ukrainian national deputy Maxim Arkadyovich Bujanski from the initiators of the proposal – up to 15 minutes. Answers to questions from representatives of MPs, MPs, national MPs, up to 15 minutes. A report by the head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the law enforcement activities of Denis Anatoliyovich Monastirski, in 10 minutes. The answer to questions from MPs, MPs, MPs is up to 10 minutes. Procurator General Ruslan Georgiyovich Ryabosapka will speak for up to 15 minutes. His answers to questions from representatives of MPs and MPs, national MPs, are within 15 minutes. Talks from MP factions and groups for up to 21 minutes. Talks from the National MPs for up to six minutes. The timing of this issue is up to 1 hour and 50 minutes. [[B in m in s a l in]] About what? With motive? Now there's no motive. No, it's not. Let's not get confused: with motive and procedure. Let's go to. [[B in m in s a l in]] You define the next one. What, by procedure, is Irina Volodymyr? Out of procedure, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-05-m2.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that on Tuesday, our political power addressed the Supreme Council of Ukraine's apparatus to provide us with signed letters to hold an extraordinary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to consider the Supreme Council's application for the sixth anniversary of the Crimea annexation, as well as to put into order the day-to-day issue concerning pension indexation. These points supported the factions of Voice and Fatherland. But I have to inform you that our political power has not been issued a signed letter within two days. The head of the Supreme Council never signed off.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-05-m2.u3	I wrote it down, Irina Volodymyr!
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-05-m2.u4	We haven't been published.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-05-m2.u5	And this is not the procedure for this issue, with all due respect. This is not a procedure. I've got the Chief of the Supreme Council and they'll give you the letters. With all due respect, let's be true to each other. Let us now consider the issue that is included in the agenda of the day’s extraordinary meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Discussion. Let's move on to the performances. The word is given to a representative from the initiators of the national deputy of Ukraine, Maxim Arkadyovich Bujanski.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-05-m2.u6	Dear colleagues, the honorable Presidium, the honourable Ukrainians! It's spring, and where's the spring landing? None. As you recall, the whole country expected the landings to take place in the spring. Not only did the electorate of President Green and Servant of the People expect this, but all those who do not accept five years of looting, five years of speculation on blood, on the patriotism of our citizens, five years of lying to our eyes and stealing money. Not only did they steal money, they stole five years of life. And someone has to answer for that. Stealing for life and stealing for death. You all know the so-called "Swinning Case", "Ucrobornprom." Whose partners were the Swinarchs? Who here in the country doesn't know whose and where Swinarczuk is now? He's watching football. Why is he watching football? I'll tell you why he's not looking at him from behind bars. Because our country doesn't have a Attorney General. There is no Attorney-General of Ukraine, there is the Attorney-General of Dustenka, the Attorney-General of European Solidarity, Mr. Ryabosapka. Look who's protecting the Attorney General! Just two factions: "European solidarity" (you've seen how they do it now) and "The Voice." No one else, no one but them. They're like Mr. Ryabosapka's paratroopers. What do I want to say? This person has completely, completely wasted what millions of citizens expected. I'm sorry. I'm worried. I've been waiting a long time. Our country is fighting a war. Our country is in crisis. Nobody's behind bars. No one is punished. No one is drawn to responsibility. But it's not just idleness, it's concrete work for interested people. Please tell me, did you hear yesterday's performance of the Director of the State Bureau of Investigation, Mrs. Vendiktova, our former colleague? What did she say? She said that 1,000 200 cases have no procedural direction. This is the banal work of the Attorney General’s Office, not even in the interests of Peter Alexiyovich Prashenko, who is not being carried out either. You all know what's going on here is the ruined prosecutor's office. Our country no longer has a prosecutor’s office. The so - called reform, the so - called appraisal, is designed to drive away professionals who do not know how to feed a police horse. This is the only thing the Attorney General knows. All those who, like me, supported his appointment as Attorney General of Ukraine are responsible. Yes, I admit it was a mistake. But adults, especially government officials like you and I, must correct their mistakes. I invite you, especially those 227 people's deputies who have signed a statement of mistrust to the Attorney General, to admit this error and correct it. And to give the country what it's waiting for: justice at the end of the end and the Attorney General, who's going to work, not like this, sorry, empty space. I think it's our responsibility not only to the electorate, we're not in elections, we're not in citizens. Someone has to sit down. No one is just sitting there, no one is even going to interrogation, no one is going to work. He's wasting his time, he's bored. I ask you to forget which factions you are. I ask you to remember that you are all members of the Ukrainian Parliament, the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I ask you to do your duty and resign. Let's all do it together! The country is looking forward to this. I'm asking you to do this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-05-m2.u7	Thank you, Maxim Arkadyovich. 15. Sign up. The replica.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-05-m2.u8	That's who protects the Attorney General!
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-05-m2.u9	The replica.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-05-m2.u10	Look who's protecting him! They're partners, they're working together, and they want to make us with 40 million citizens.Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-05-m2.u11	Maxim Arkadyovich! Replica - Heroshenko. Maxim Arkadyovich!
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-05-m2.u12	Dear colleagues, I hope there are not only former rabbits in this session room, people with a criminal past, but there are professional lawyers who know very well that in fact just sounded unacceptable in relation to the opposition, to the faction of "European Solidarity." The speaker in the rostrum, in fact, admitted that the only goal that the Attorney General had in mind was political repression against the opponents of the active party and power. And in fact, I call on people who have a first degree in law to realize that what just came out of the rostrum is the basis for any case being brought before the European Court of Human Rights and to say that from the highest stage of Parliament, there has just been a call for a future Attorney General to be 300 percent Attorney General of Greens. And the key task that we're dealing with is not legality, it's just dealing with opposition, with our political opponents.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-05-m2.u13	Sign up for questions from MPs and groups. No, not with motive. Did you mention the Voice faction? Wait, wait, wait, wait. "The Voice," who's going to be speaking? Samantha Bobrowski. Samantha Anatolyevna.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-05-m2.u14	In fact, when I see who is collecting signatures under the Procurator General's Order, and this is a friend of Portnova's, there's a big question for me: where, dear colleagues, is your Russian footprint hidden? And your Russian should be sitting here at the rostrum. Yes, yes! So, FRY and the servants who are going to resign them, think about it this time. And the second is your first spring. Sit down, Mr. Bujansky!
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-05-m2.u15	Please sign up for the questions. Mamyan Suto Čolojevic.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-05-m2.u16	Please pass the word to Mommy.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-05-m2.u17	Volosin Oleg Anatolyevich. Volosin Oleg Anatoliyovich, please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-05-m2.u18	Dear colleagues, today is not just an important moment. This is the defining moment. Or we will prove that we are the parliament of a truly sovereign and independent Ukraine, which is not governed outside by those who are very interested in keeping today's Attorney General in office, because they are very afraid and objectively investigating interference in the 16th year's American elections, and objectively investigating the Burisma case, and objectively investigating other cases that have been committed here by sorority and their shareholders over the past five years. And I don't know what else has to be here to prove that the people who today represent the globalist circles who were trying to establish an external governance regime in Ukraine are trying to sabotage this event today. And the only question I have is Max Bujansky. Why didn't you do it before?
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-05-m2.u19	The answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-05-m2.u20	I'm sorry, but it took time to make it absolutely clear to everyone who didn't have any political preferences if he wasn't sitting in that corner of our room. I didn't say a lot of things. This is the Attorney General who accepted the killer in his office, sorry. This is the Attorney General who didn't find time to meet the mother of the murdered Buzana. This is the Attorney General, who didn't care what was going on in the country, and he was only interested in his own person and his own cooperation with those I hate to mention. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-05-m2.u21	Bobrovska Solomija Anatoliyevna
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-05-m2.u22	You know, it's embarrassing and embarrassing to be in the hall when there's not only so-called square ears from that word "sorority," but there's more "pathy." These are probably the most likely opponents of this state, not political opponents. That's the first one. And the second question. Mr. Bujansky, you were talking to Katerina Gandzük's dad. You don't care, do you? And the activists and Dad will tell you that they've been talking and they're finally starting to move in with the attacks on activists. So the question is, are you going to cover for the killers or do we have Olese Busin's national hero? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-05-m2.u23	I'm in. I believe that the roadway was meant by Mr. Vakarczuk, who hadn't paid taxes in years and stole from our army, who sang at a concert in Minsk when we were voting on our country's defense bills. That must be the roadblocks. You think at least sometimes when you say so. With regard to the father of Ekaterina Gandzük. I'm a national MP, and I promise everyone here that we'll do everything we can to get the killers punished, whoever they are. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-05-m2.u24	Vitatrovich Volodymyr Mihajlovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-05-m2.u25	Please pass the word to Michael Bondar.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-05-m2.u26	Bondar Mikhailo Leontijovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-05-m2.u27	Thank you. Bondar Mikhailo, European Solidarity. I have a question. According to the reporter (because he does not even want to say who he is, what he is, what he is to mention) or whether he was to sign the Attorney - General’s Office for the suspicion of Medjanika, Korivchenkov, Tishchenka in connection with information that clearly points to corruption and service crimes.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-05-m2.u28	Answer. I believe that the Attorney General must sign suspicions to any person who would draw enough conclusions from the body that initiates this suspicion. It doesn't matter what we're talking about: either it's the national MP of our "Serial of the People" faction, or it's the opposition. Anyone has to be held accountable if there's a fact.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-05-m2.u29	Thank you. Shahov Sergei Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-05-m2.u30	Sergey Shahov, Luhanščina, Deputy Group "Trust". Dear colleague, I know your principled position, thank you for that. And we will support the full resignation of the Attorney General. Please tell me, are we ready to make a temporary investigative commission along with all the factions that we will vote and support in connection with the Luhansk region, where war is going today, 79 criminal conducts that have been violated but have not been investigated? It's very serious looting schemes, the murder of Sergey Samarski, also our fellow journalist, a public figure, for whom he spoke on several occasions. We were at Mr. Ryboshapka's three months ago. We didn't get any answers. Not the Mighty, not the Sukhov, not the Shahov. Please tell me, are we ready to investigate criminal conduct today and to see that miners were not paid wages? No one was responsible for today’s failure to answer to the Criminal Code under article 175. And there's a "gas surplus," and there's also a "gas surplus," and there's a "gas surplus."
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-05-m2.u31	Sergei Volodymyrovich, I announced at the beginning of the regulation. Are you asking Bujansky a question right now? Can he take this investigation? He can't be sure.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-05-m2.u32	I don't have the authority to promise my faction to create this TSC, but I think we should all help investigate any cases of violations, of law enforcement, including the Attorney General's Office, whatever this is about. We're all Ukrainian citizens here, we're all Ukrainian national deputies.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-05-m2.u33	Ionushas Sergey Konstantinovich. No questions asked. Thank you, Mr. Reporter. Have a seat, please. The report is given to the head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the Law Enforcement of Denis Anatoliyovich Monastirski. Up to 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-05-m2.u34	Ladies and gentlemen, our committee yesterday reviewed a draft ruling that we are considering today at the extraordinary meeting of the Supreme Council, and decided that since there is a will of more than 200 national deputies, this decision should be made in the Hall, and we have to decide on it by free voting. However, I would like to point out that six months ago we gave unprecedented authorization to the Attorney General of Ukraine for a term of two years. And I don't care who's going to do that for the next year and a half. Of course, the reform of the Public Prosecutor’s Office must be continued and continued by the successor of the Attorney General. Of course, the Attorney General must formulate a strategy for criminal justice reform coordination. Unfortunately, this has not been done in the last six months. Of course, you and I have to go back in this room and cancel Lozov's rights, as we did six months ago, and very clearly and responsibly review the balance of powers between the prosecution and the defence's party, so that the law enforcement authorities have a real opportunity to bring those responsible to justice. Last year, you and I had to postpone the establishment of one of the leading criminal delinquency institutes that divides criminal offences into crimes and misconduct. We put it off for six months. And this is us with you and the Attorney General's task to get this institution finally to work on July 1, 2020. It is he who needs to change the system of pretrial investigation very seriously, namely, the investigation into crimes. One of the key steps to be taken by the Attorney General is the introduction of electronic criminal conduct. We're all talking about dijitalization. And in that regard, it would unload both the investigation and the court. Finally, in times of war, we have to determine whether there should be a Specialised Military Prosecutor's Office within the Public Prosecutor's Office. Without that answer, we will not be able to continue this work and get the investigations that are needed by countries today. Besides, the last thing I want to mention is the reform of the Academy of Public Prosecutions. It shouldn't be a change in the sign-up, and, above all, it shouldn't be the loss of the valuable footage of the science and teaching staff that work there today. It has to be created, let's call it a training center or something, but it has to be a powerful training and retraining center for prosecutors. This is important. Who's going to do this, all these points? Who will decide? Let's figure that out today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-05-m2.u35	Thank you. Denis Anatolyevich. Please sign up for questions from MPs and groups. Boyko Yuri Anatoliyovich. [[B in m in s a l in]] Oleg Anatolyovich Volosin? Mother Grigory Mikolaiovich. Mothers, please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-05-m2.u36	Good evening, distinguished colleagues, distinguished national MPs, Ukrainian people! Dennis Anatolyovich, please say such things. We did not speak on the committee once and where the Attorney General was present. In fact, we've heard several times that reform has taken place, it's continued. We've asked awkward questions like this. But how many times we on the committee, in addition to the speeches and everything else, we have raised difficult questions precisely in the work of the law enforcement agency, one or the other! How many times have I personally asked the Attorney General and raised questions about the Attorney General’s response to any parliamentary motions and questions! Have we had any issues on the committee, in any additional way, or have the Attorney General informed the committee, apart from his statements, at his meeting, about reform, about control resonance, criminal conduct and all that? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-05-m2.u37	Thank you, Gregory Mikolaiovich. As you know, at the sessions of the profile committee, seven times we have referred to questions related to the activities of the prosecutor’s office. Three times, the Attorney General personally took part in these meetings. All the questions that were formed on the committee that were bugged and that were not answered, and to which the answers were given, we sent a transcript to the Attorney General, and then the answer was sent to every national deputy. I think, of course, our control capabilities are somewhat limited, but despite the basic issues that I have highlighted, today should be under our clear control as members of a single committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-05-m2.u38	Bobrovska Solomija Anatoliyevna
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-05-m2.u39	I'd like to give you a word to Jurchino.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-05-m2.u40	Juršin Jaroslav Romanović.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-05-m2.u41	Mr. Dennis, thank you so much for the show. Please tell me, why did the committee avoid its responsibility to give, in fact, a legal assessment of the "portnova logs", which are written in the argument of the ruling? This is because Rybosapka is guilty of letting Alperin go to trial, which it is Rybosapka who is responsible for the reduction of the Zadov flag, that it is Rybosapka who, by the way, has finally made progress in the case that ordered Catherine Gandzuk that does not work in this case. Give at least as a lawyer a legal evaluation if a committee like Pilate "washed his hands."
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-05-m2.u42	I'm sorry, but I've presented the profile committee's position here and I can't add anything more to it. If you need answers, you can ask the committee members or then look at the results of the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-05-m2.u43	Pauline. Arjev Vladimir Igorovich
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-05-m2.u44	Dear citizens of Ukraine! The initiator of this show, a few minutes ago, made clear the purpose of the removal of the Attorney General of Ukraine. But there's this newspaper, it's quite famous and influential in the world, and it's called the New York Times. Last week, February 28, there was an article that made it clear that the conduct against the fifth President of Dustenk was perceived as political persecution. And then I have a question: do you realize that you are seriously undermining the image of Ukraine as a state of law? And then you can dijitalize, "investive nanny," do whatever it takes, even though it's a coup, but no investor and no normal partner can do anything with Ukraine then, and you're the first to hit Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-05-m2.u45	Thank you for asking. You and I understand very well that the question of involving any person in criminal responsibility is the authority of the investigative body. So let's get these questions straight to them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-05-m2.u46	Shevchenko Eugene Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-05-m2.u47	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. Good afternoon, Ukrainians, good afternoon, distinguished national MPs! Dennis Anatolyevich, I have a question for you. Feeling the degree in the room, I can see that there are voices to send to Mr. Ryabosapka's retirement. But my question is, what happens next? Will your committee, which you lead, be more subjective, or will it have more impact on reforming the Attorney General’s Office, or on the vachanalia that was first launched by professional people who were simply released? What will you do then? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-05-m2.u48	Thank you for asking. We all understand that the answer to your questions lies first in the name of the Attorney General. And I think when we present this name, we'll come back to those very questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-05-m2.u49	Krzemyakin Andriy Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-05-m2.u50	Can you see me, Dennis Anatolyovich? Good afternoon! Denis Anatoliyovich, the committee I led at the time, prepared a European committee -- you know, right? - Procurator's Act. It was endorsed by the Council of Europe and endorsed by the Venice Commission. And they demanded the only one -- an independent prosecutor from political influence. And for four years they insisted. We did that, and a standard was introduced: the CDC, which is the commission that. The Supreme Council could not have withdrawn the Attorney General without its conclusion. Today, in September 1032 you broke this rule, and you were able to return to the law in 1991. The prosecutor has great authority, and there will now be many who want to hunt for this position. Don't you think there's a lot of people who want political blood from the Attorney General's office? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-05-m2.u51	Thank you for asking. I would like to stress that the credentials that you listed are temporary and two-year deadlines. This is exactly the term that is needed for the reform of the public prosecutor's offices that have begun. After that, I think that by the end of this year or the following year, you and I have to adopt an updated Prosecutor's Office Act that meets all European standards. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-05-m2.u52	Aresonkov Vladimir Yuriovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-05-m2.u53	Vladimir Aresonkov, trust MP. Mr. Dennis, my question is practically consistent with the question of my colleague Mama, and it relates to communication, shared responsibility, including national deputies, and law enforcement. Because together we are all interested in making the right real reforms. So let me remind you of our relationship with the Ministry of Internal Affairs. Each month, members of the committee were in the units of the National Police, in educational institutions, meeting with the management to understand what was going on there. At the same time, we had no such contacts with the prosecutor’s office during the reform process. Perhaps this is where the problems that have arisen may need our more active help in carrying out these reforms? I think we need to think about this.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-05-m2.u54	Thank you. Well, that was actually more of a performance than a question. The only thing I can say is that, as I repeat, the Attorney General was on our committee three times, but at the same time, we have to go to the district attorneys' office and talk to them about the results of the reform and the necessary adjustments that need to be made. I'll do it next week.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-05-m2.u55	Thank you. Denis Anatoliyovich, your answer time is up. The word is given to the Attorney General, Ruslan Georgiyovich Ryabosapci. Rules up to 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-05-m2.u56	Good evening. I don't know what the solution is, I guess. But I want to take this opportunity to talk to people and to every Ukrainian. For twenty - eight years, the Ukrainian prosecutor’s office was a tool of pressure and political repression. And there are people in this room who felt it on themselves. For 28 years, this institution had no confidence in people. For 28 years, the Public Prosecutor's Office was a source of its own wealth for the chosen as a result of the oligarchy in the prosecution's pursuits. We are reforming the prosecutor's office, which has already entered the history of Ukraine. Never before in 28 years has the Public Prosecutor’s Office experienced such mass cleansing and renewal. 729 prosecutors who failed a test of professionalism and integrity were released. And those who remain have doubled their appreciation for their profession, and primarily because for the first time in 28 years they've felt independence, they don't give them illegal instructions. Only a third month out of these 28 years, the new prosecutor’s office lives by law. That's why I'm standing in this room and that's why the question of my resignation is. Because those we got rid of want to go back and live on as they lived these 28 years. What has been done in these three months by law? Let's start with torture. Have you ever heard of law enforcement being tried for torture of our citizens? In three months we opened 27 tours, seven law enforcement officers were held responsible for the abuse and torture of our fellow citizens. You've ever heard of illegal. So someone's being tried for illegal logging and selling forests? And I didn't hear. But in three months of life by law, we have discovered more than 3,000 criminals, bringing more than 60 people to justice, including forest managers. More than 300 indictments have already been filed in the courts. How many people’s lives have been broken by illegal gambling? The statistics are not even available because the prosecutor or the police are behind every gambling business. In three months of life by law, we have stopped the operation of more than a thousand illegal gaming establishments, which means that we have saved hundreds of thousands of human lives. Now, about the money, about the money stolen from the Ukrainians. In three months of living by law, we've brought the ownership of 12 banks, they've stolen 13 billion dollars from you, and they've taken them off. Practically all these criminal cases were sold, compounded, hidden, closed. We found this money, and we know how to get it back. All these crimes would be impossible without corruption and without corruption. Politicians want to land top-corruptioners -- yes, that's true, and simple people demand justice where they live and where they work. Their request for justice is to stop the daily defeats of local feudals and princes. In three months of life by law, we have opened more than a thousand two hundred cases against corrupters, awaiting trial now — almost nine hundred. We've just detained Lieutenant Colonel DSNS, who's been taking bribes from entrepreneurs to close his eyes on violations of the Fire Safety Act. The consequences of such crimes were seen in Odessa when many burned alive. For the first time in the history of Ukraine, we were called to account for the negligence that led to the death of people. And the demand for justice is not just landing. Our prosecutors return land, forests, property, and businesses to the Ukrainians. In three months, prosecutors returned 29 electricians, 10,000 acres [10,000 ha] of land, and returned more than five billion dollars to the budget. Only in the Gulf near the sea where the Ukrainians are resting have we returned 48 plots of land. Mayan. We haven't lost a case, we haven't lost a day of investigation. And now, almost every week, we're sending new cases to court, bringing new people to justice -- and that's six years from now. War. We have created a special department that collects and transmits to the International Criminal Court and National Courts evidence of Russian armed aggression. We have seen more than 10,000 crimes, including war crimes. We have brought responsibility for war crimes, 86 people, 40 are awaiting trial, and 27 are now serving sentences. The Bill of War is also a celestial loss. The people who went through the war, and even those who are in this room, know what it is, but no one ever wanted to do it. We created a special unit that works with the family of the dead to establish truth and justice. And finally. An instigator’s decision is based on outright lies and manipulation. And I'm not interested in Bujansky's opinion. I'm not interested in Bujansky's opinion on the reform of the prosecutor's office. For me, the best assessment and response to this decision is the letter from Father Catherine Hansük, who finally had the hope that the murderers of his daughter would be punished. I didn't become anyone's "servant." I've been and I'm independent. And you can't force an independent prosecutor, you can only fire him. And I'm going. But I'm going back.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-05-m2.u57	Thank you. Ruslan Georgievicz, Ruslan Georgievicz, I apologize, answers to questions. [[B in m in s a l in]] Please sign up from the MP factions and groups. Bondar Victor Vasilovich. Batenko Taras Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-05-m2.u58	Dear friends, what the Attorney General has left the House of Parliament is sad, but no tragedy has happened is the first. Secondly, Ukraine is not Russia, where the Attorney-General can hold office for 14 years in a row, I mean the last Attorney-General Yuri Tchaik, if you remember, and you know the authoritarian vertical of the Russian Federation. Thirdly, we recently, i.e. yesterday, resigned the Ukrainian government, which failed to meet the challenges facing Ukraine today. And I think today, and our "For the Future" MP group thinks that today we're going to have a complete de facto collapse of the prosecution's system. Let's think about it: from over 1,000 300 prosecutors of the U.S. Attorney General's Office of Ukraine today, the number of U.S. Attorneys is about 600. The number of cases for one prosecutor has increased, increasing the workload on one prosecutor and suffering from the quality of the cases prepared. During the last year, the prosecutor’s office’s systematic decline took place. On average today, the district attorney receives 50 to 100 phone calls a day. Consider: Up to 100 turns a day that objectively, qualitatively, cannot be considered in a short period of time. There's a huge shortage of prosecutors at the district level, I'm not talking about the Attorney General's Office, at the district level, considering that prosecutors have to run the courts and defend the cases there, although the Procurator's Law says it's perfect. During the re-testing, a strict time frame was chosen, which was placed before the prosecutor’s choice: either to teach the answers to tests or to investigate cases. Well, that's true, my friends. For example, when the Office of the Attorney General was reagented, he had 6,000 certification issues. For the average D.A. network today, the number of questions has increased to 6,000, and prosecutors have only had to learn in one week. And today's the last day of these re-tests. At 12 o’clock in the morning, prosecutors were retesting for psychology. It's kind of inhumane and unprofessional for such a professional team. And today, by the way, is the last day of this retesting, as I said. So the Henprocuror's office created conditions that experts did not get the right number of points, and then professional prosecutors became smaller. Guys, we had different attorney generals. We had Victor Shishkin, the first Attorney General of Ukraine to whom we all have great respect. We had Victor Shockin, whom we remember from the "heat-vision" attack on ourselves. And I wouldn't be stuck with the D.A.'s name. We need such a general prosecutor's office of professionals, from whose work ordinary honest Ukrainians will feel protected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-05-m2.u59	Victoria Petrovna Sumar.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-05-m2.u60	Thank you, Your Honor. Seven months ago, I remember Ruslan Ryaboschapka as a bright, beautiful representative of the Vladimir Zelensky team, who was driven across Europe, in Paris, showing a young, updated face of active authority. What do I see in the hall today? Today in the hall, I see it being released by the authorities themselves, calling it "it," demonstrating, apparently, a high level of political culture, well, and probably the level of relationships within your team. Well, it's kind of a signal. The president, indeed, said softer. The president said he couldn't make it. Let us consider what we remembered about Ruslan Rybosapka, what he did or did not do. Well, let me tell you, the first thing I remember is that this is obviously about veterans and volunteers. Henprocuror himself then admitted that the evidence he felt was not sufficient. But Julia Kuzmenko, Riffmaster is not in prison for the first month, Jan Dougar for the house arrest. Instead, we saw the release of the Berkuts who had been in prison since the 15th year, but who had been released today, handed over to the Russian fighters. Well, it must have been someone who had to fight politically. And it must have been somewhere to demonstrate a new political course for Ukraine. What we've seen is more. We've talked to you a lot about justice if we get rid of the MP's inviolability. We have the first suspicion signed by the Attorney General, Ruslan Ryabosapka. Is it signed for what purpose to our colleague Sophia Fedina? Speaking of which, she recorded a video on YouTube that said no one was immortal. And for that, she got political. It's a politically motivated suspicion. But is it today, or is it for these calculations that Ruslan Ryboshapka is being released? No, he's getting fired for signing politically motivated suspicions. And this today is announced from this highest rostrum literally in this room, showing the total destruction of any European standards, opening the way to the European Court of Human Rights of any policy against which such politically motivated suspicions will be written. He is accused of meeting ambassadors. My colleagues, since when has meeting with the EU and NATO ambassadors become a crime in Ukraine? Maybe we've turned our foreign policy course around. Let's be honest. In fact, the story with Ruslan Ryaboschapka is about how to get even more of his Attorney General than 100 percent of his Attorney General to get Victor Pshonka to sign and print these politically motivated suspicions. This Sabbath that we're seeing today, the pro-Russian forces, the party of power with the oligarchs, you know, the feeling that you just didn't make Ruslan Ryabosapka, you're making yourself.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-05-m2.u61	Vlasenko Sergei Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-05-m2.u62	Dear colleagues, speaking from this high rostrum two days ago, yesterday, I'm sorry, the President of Ukraine said, "I'm not influencing the law enforcement system." It caused a crazy laugh in the hall, because every person in this room, every citizen in Ukraine, clearly understands that the President has an influence on the law enforcement system, and what the President has said is an honest lie. Everyone remembers the transcript of the conversation where the President told the other President that 100 percent of his men would be appointed as Attorney General. Yeah, I'm also against what's going on in the Attorney General's Office right now when professionals are being kicked out of work when they're holding competitions. But please tell me, is this sometimes not on the basis of the Greens bill voted by the majority of Greens and signed by Greens? Let's be honest. And today's session wouldn't have happened if it hadn't been for President Greensky's team. How many initiators have been collecting signatures for months. And they couldn't get together until a few days ago, the team came forward. I have a simple question: why isn't the President here? Why didn't the President come and explain why he appointed Ryaboshapka? Why does he want Ryboshapka released? And if there's a parliamentary decision today, let's face it, it's not a parliamentary decision, it's President Greensky's decision to remove the Attorney-General from the Greens, whether good or bad, he was doing President Zelensky's policy. Do you know what's bothering me? I am concerned about what a terrible thing occurred yesterday during the rape report. It was said that effective interaction between law enforcement and judicial authorities should be achieved. I know the time of the country when there was such an interaction. This is 1937-1939 and the period of Janukovitch. We're definitely against it. And one more question. Please tell me, who's next? The next one is the same 100 percent guy as the president's boyfriend or the president's girlfriend. He's gonna be the same guy as the president. Therefore, the Fatherland faction will not take part in the staff sabbatical of the President acting in relation to the Attorney General's Office. Rather, we will discuss the real reform of the Public Prosecutor's Office, which will give people real justice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-05-m2.u63	Juršin Jaroslav Romanović.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-05-m2.u64	I will not protect Ruslan Ryabosapka. We who have not voted in favour of him, who have not voted in favour of the law that has violently expanded the rights of the Attorney-General, have many questions to ask the Attorney-General, who is 100 per cent of the President's man. This is also the behavior of the charges against Sheremet, the murder of Sheremet, which is also a spineless position in volunteer affairs. I will speak against stopping the reform of the prosecutor's office. The reform that our international partners have recognized. The reform that cleared the central office of the Attorney General's Office by 60 percent of those responsible for this corruption. And now the reform is going to the district level. It can be criticized, but it will destroy links with local feuds, which unfortunately seem to be very much in this room, I hope, not the majority, and corrupt law enforcement. And of course, you could ask the question of resigning Ryboshapka, but not on the basis of a false decision written entirely in lie. And this lie is paid quite a price, not by the ephemeral unpaid taxes of the leader of our faction of Vakarczuk, but by the real costs. 5.5 billion dollars were discovered by Kroll's auditing company in private bank fraud. Only the Attorney General, together with the detectives of the National Anti-Corruption Bureau, has begun to work more actively on this case, as has the case of "who ordered Kathu Gandhiuk" as well as on many other cases that turned out to be inconsistent with the prosecutor. I want to remind everyone. We gave the Attorney General a very broad mandate, and that's the right thing to do. Because reform can be carried out only with extraordinary powers. But seeing how the pro-Russian factions and friends of Portnova are mad, who was more likely to write this decree, and most of them, the next prosecutor will be exactly pro-Russian. And to those of you who were standing on Maidan, I just want to ask, who's next? We will vote against the completion of the reform of the Public Prosecutor's Office.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-05-m2.u65	Chess? Shahov Sergei Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-05-m2.u66	Sergey Shahov, Luhanščina, Deputy Group "Trust". Dear colleagues, as soon as we heard the Attorney General turn around, came out and answered no questions. Maybe he's right that the prosecutor's reform took place. Someone was appointed as new prosecutors. In places, prosecutors, once again, played politics, rather than actually dealing with the people's MPs, namely in the "Trust" group, national MPs elected in majority districts throughout Ukraine: from Carpathian to Lugansk, Lvivščina, Ivano-Frančina, Odesčina, Donetskina. From this rostrum, I have repeatedly claimed a crime committed against a simple worker, a miner. Yesterday the president of Ukraine, Vladimir Zelensky, spoke about this. Who will be responsible today for the fact that no criminal conduct has been investigated under article 175 of the Ukrainian Criminal Code? Who will be responsible for starving children today, starving families, and leaving abroad? I'm the son of a coal miner. I don't have a father or a mother, they're buried in our Ukrainian land, I want to point out. And so I'm saying, we don't even know who's going to be the new Attorney General. But we turn immediately to criminal conduct that applies to every Ukrainian. Who destroyed the 28 years, as the Attorney General, who destroyed the enterprises, flooded the mines? Who cut out factories for scrap metal and exported it abroad? Who sold businesses for cash? I could call some of them Lysicansksodda. Today, I want to say again, the Proletarian factory. People know who's behind this. It's a stolen company called Zorya Rubian. And for three months the prosecutor did not appoint a prosecutor after this criminal act. Stolen money, yeah, 20 million dollars on Carl Marx's road in Lysichansk. Who Will Answer? From this rostrum, I spoke for Governor Garbus, who stole one and a half billion bracelets, which were being kicked out by our own district team, for Luhansk. So I say, with honor and conscience, we need to address all the issues that are being addressed, not just the Ukrainian National Deputy, but any citizen. Today, I am calling for a temporary investigation.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-05-m2.u67	Thank you. Mother Grigory Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-05-m2.u68	Dear National MPs, "The Opposition Platform for Life", Ukrainian National MP Mamka. Too bad there's no attorney general in the office, but I'd still like to say more professionally, without the political emotions that are getting worse. And question number one: who runs the law enforcement system in Ukraine? With the powers vested in him by the Supreme Council, he is the Attorney General of Ukraine. With the old changes they made a new law, they made a new body, essentially on paper, but actually the same thing. I would like to point out that anti-corruption policies in Ukraine, as well as the fight, are led only by the Attorney General. Why so? Because the Attorney General, the Attorney General's Office has a deputy. The Deputy Attorney-General of Ukraine and the Head of SAP are we have the Coldy, who leads the processual leadership of all criminal conduct that is in the NABU. Period. One person responsible. As for the testimonial presented by the Attorney General, I want to say very simple things. It used to be very simple: the schedule changed, people confessed -- and that was the end of it. For the time being, the new reform is no different than the introduction of a commission. Imagine that a trial director or prosecutor of a particular region comes to the interview. Having passed tests that are nowhere certified, which have been changed from the Attorney General's Office to the district offices, and 600 questions have come up new, nowhere approved, none checked. He comes to the commission and he receives an exam, or an interview, admits to kindness, or some questionable operation, or records in his declaration of people who have nothing to do with the law enforcement system, and they can conclude. At present, we have a decision by the courts to renew the persons who were released from the Office of the Attorney General, and 55 percent of them have been confirmed by the Attorney General. The main problem is indeed the concern for people, people who are harmed. But yesterday, the head of the D.B.I.’s task told me about the figure: more than a thousand criminal conducts, where there is no trial manager. I want to say that the law enforcement agencies where the Attorney General's Office is responsible for the various levels of prosecution are conducting procedural guidance on this matter.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-05-m2.u69	Gregory Mikolaiovich! No, I'm sorry. Uncluded Vladen Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-05-m2.u70	Dear colleagues, dear Ukrainians! I remember very well the day we elected the Attorney General. We supported him, we gave him enormous powers, the President gave him political will. He should be given due credit for starting and taking responsibility for reforming the prosecutor’s office. And in fact, he cleared some of the bodies of those who disgraced the status of the prosecutor by their actions, and he made serious progress in the case of the murder of Kati Gandzük. But, along with what the President said yesterday, spring came, and there are no results. And the main figures today have no status as suspects. You know, yesterday after the D.B.I.'s speech, I already have. This speech completely convinced me that the time had come for change. When the D.B.I. is ready to report the suspicion, and the Attorney General and his deputies are looking for a reason to return the suspect's project, it's against the expectations of the people and the President's promises. A prosecutor's profession is not a lawyer's profession, it's not a figure defense, it's the ability to take responsibility for complicated matters, it's the ability to take risks when it's necessary, especially in matters of treason and theft of property in wartime. If the Attorney General were to report the suspicion to the figures in a legitimate way, the people would see that we are restoring justice, that the law is one for all that we have, according to the President of Estonia, Mrs. Kersty Caluleid at the Munich Security Conference, is rule of law that everyone who has committed a crime should be punished. Unfortunately, the Attorney General has not taken the responsibility of responding to the great question of society, and we no longer have time because it is spring, and we do not see the results. I'll tell you honestly, I'd take responsibility and let the main figures know of the suspicion. I know that someone who comes in for a replacement will do that and will show society that we are ready to respond to a big request and to report the suspicion to those who deserve it and to organize others in a quality manner. The investigation of other resonant criminal acts: both the events in Odessa on 2 May 2014 and the Mayan cases, and the officials of the Ukrainian Football Federation, who stole the budget allocated to children. The Attorney General is such a locomotive for all the bodies of pretrial investigation that moves them forward to protect the interests of citizens, society, the state. Such a locomotive, such a leader as the Attorney General, unfortunately did not. As a result, figures today do not have legal procedural status and boldly undermine the institution of the Presidency, endanger national security and the rule of law in society as a whole. Under such conditions, when the actions of the figures are tarnished to undermine the authority of all law enforcement and public authorities and are detrimental to interests.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-05-m2.u71	Thank you. Vladen Mikhailovich, thank you. Time's up. Ladies and gentlemen, please sign up for the speeches by the National Deputies. Rules up to six minutes. Mother Grigory Mikhailovich. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-05-m2.u72	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw attention to the fact that the issue of decision-making is not just today. On the committee yesterday, when the ruling was considered at the committee meeting, a vote was taken, the Attorney General went out to the media and said very simple things that the national MPs or the people who ended up there.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-05-m2.u73	Dear colleagues, I apologize. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues! Mikhailo Borisovich Raducci. Raducci, dear colleagues, let's do it a little bit. I understand everyone's tired. Dear colleagues! Thank you. Please continue.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-05-m2.u74	Yesterday, when the committee adjourned, the Attorney General went out to the media and said such, in my opinion, offensive very things that, when the ruling was considered, the deputies voted, note that those who had graduated from the 3rd grade who were unable to speak properly, and that was said by him personally, had made decisions regarding the reform of the Office of the Attorney General. The problem in law enforcement is, she's staring up, and in fact, only the State Bureau of Investigation yesterday from the rostrum said that more criminal conduct. There are no more than 1,200 trial managers. All law enforcement agencies do, too. The National Police, the Ukrainian Security Service, tax, other -- there's also no procedural leadership. If you count more than 5,000 criminal leads, they're just not being investigated. And that attitude is just the Attorney General. Yesterday he went out, called the national MPs to tell them that they had finished three classes, and today he just didn't answer the question, turned around and left. I think it's just rude. Please pass it on to Bakumov.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-05-m2.u75	Regrettably, this is not the case. I'm sorry. Aresonkov Vladimir Yuriovich. And, dear fellows, after that, let's move on to making a decision. Please be prepared.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-05-m2.u76	Vladimir Aresonkov, trust MP. Dear fellow national MPs! Dear viewers! I'd like us all to calm down and finish today's work, and the decision-making is in a professional, first and foremost, atmosphere of evaluation. It's not political, it's not emotional, because it's a leader of one of the largest and most important law enforcement agencies that has to ensure stability, order in our country. So, first of all, I think that the Attorney-General has become a prisoner to some extent not because he is, and here I do not quite agree with my colleague Maxim Bujansky when he speaks of one of the main shortcomings and failures of the prosecutor that he has not signed any specific suspicions to individuals, to politicians. I'll put it that way. If quality materials were prepared, no Attorney General would refuse to sign them. But the most important question is how well the process of reforming the work itself and not just the prosecutor's office, but the entire system of law enforcement in the state. And it's the leader and the locomotive in this regard that I agree with my colleagues that the Attorney General should be. And I want to tell you that we're convinced, and now I'm addressing that Coordinating Council that was set up with the President of the State and that should be working out and offering us a strategy for the work of the Ukrainian law enforcement agencies with a clear delimitation of powers: what is the DBR responsible for, tell me, for today? Is it the D.B.I.'s question of how they voted for the government in the 15th year? Tell me, this is what, today the question of the NAB, what is the cost of living with the deputies at the hotel "Ukraine." This has been the work of investigators of these law enforcement agencies for years. You have to mark all the trifles, focus on serious matters. The Public Prosecutor's Office should act as a co-chairman and a real leader of the process in serious cases of top-corruption and so on. So today the prosecutor’s office needs help to complete the reform process. And let's focus on that. And to the end. I have heard of the prosecutor of the Luhansk region twenty - five times. So maybe he should retire after all? Thank you and appeal to.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-05-m2.u77	Thank you. Dear colleagues, take your seats, get ready. We're moving on to making a decision. I would like to remind you that the draft Decree (Registration No. 3154) on Distrust of the Attorney-General is proposed by 158 national deputies. (Dear colleagues! Thank you. 158 Ukrainian National Deputies According to article 213 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules of Procedure, the Decision on Distrust of the Supreme Council of the Prosecutor General is made public. Dear colleagues! With an open name vote, the majority of the votes of the national deputies from the Supreme Council’s constitutional composition and the result of his resignation. In accordance with article 85 of the Constitution of Ukraine, article 213 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, articles 42 and 63 of the Procurator's Act "Procurator's Office" put to the vote for adoption in the entire draft Decree, registration number 3154, on the statement of mistrust of the Attorney-General Rybosapka Ruslan Georgievovich. Ready to vote? Please vote. [[19:47:38]] For 263 Decision taken. Let's see the factions. "People's Servant" – 179, "The Opposition Platform for Life" – 36, "European Solidarity" – 0, "Fatherhood" – 0, "For the Future" – 15, "Voice" – 0, "Trust" – 16, "non-fractional" – 17. Thanks again for the job. I now declare the plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine closed.
