ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-06-m0.u1	Good morning, dear fellows! Good morning, media officials! Please invite the national deputies to the hall, prepare for registration. Are you ready to register? Dear colleagues, as always, I remind you that registration takes place by clicking on the green button, the first button on the left. Even if there's no Sergei Volodymyrovich Vlasenko. Please register. [[B in m in s a l in]] Can I help you? Yes, yes. You just don't register. [[10:05:10]] There are 169 Ukrainian national deputies registered in the hall. The plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Honourable National MPs, Prime Minister Denis Anatoliyovich Schmigal and members of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine are taking part in the meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Please welcome them. Today, November 6, Kiev's Day of Deliverance from the Fascist invaders. I think it's one of the major events in the history of the capital of Ukraine. And I am sure that all of us should remember those who have given up their lives for the happy and independent future of our nation. And I would like to mention immediately all those who have died, liberating the capital of our state, a moment of silence, please. [[A Minute of Silence]] Please sit down. Dear colleagues, in accordance with article 229 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine regulations, we spend an hour of questions to the Government on Friday. At the suggestion of the deputy factions and groups, members of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine today will answer questions about the condition of coronary disease in Ukraine and urgent government action to combat this disease in the context of its rapid spread. The following order is proposed for the "hour of questions to the Government": within 20 minutes, the Prime Minister of Ukraine will speak on a specific subject, the Prime Minister of Ukraine will reply in 21 minutes and will answer questions to the Government's distinguished representatives within 20 minutes (up to 1 minute for a question, up to 2 minutes for an answer). Is there no objection? None. Thank you. Mr. Denis Anatoliyovich Schmigal, Prime Minister of Ukraine, is invited to the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-06-m0.u2	Good afternoon, Mr. Head of the Supreme Council! Good afternoon, distinguished national deputies of Ukraine! Good afternoon, dear Ukrainians! First of all, I want to thank the people's deputies for supporting the 2021 budget in the first reading yesterday. I hope that you and I will work on the budget as quickly as possible, and without too much population, we will work on the budget for the second reading. And the country is, of course, waiting for the adoption of our nation's main asset. The project that we voted on yesterday is indeed a budget of opportunities for Ukraine's development, its economy, its human capital. In many areas, we offer record costs. This is about medicine, education, road construction, social support, cheap business loans, industrial support, and machine building. All of these programs we plan to fund by increasing the income of the state budget of Ukraine. Income will increase thanks to the effective work of fiscal authorities, which continue to work towards eliminating schemes, scrolls, and combating smuggling. With regard to the work of these services and the revenue of the budget this year, I will inform you of the following. In October 2020, the general budget reached 65 billion dollars -- almost 15 percent, an additional 8 billion dollars. In 10 months, we have a budget failure of 1.6 billion dollars, and when our government came and started a system of tax and customs in the spring, the budget failure was 44 billion dollars. So we actually cut the budget gap by 42 billion dollars. So the fact that the budget is not being implemented, these scarecrows are completely contradicted by the figures and they don't match the reality. If you look at the work of the tax office, we're also going to say that tax-added tax congregations have increased by 40 percent compared to the 19th year, with no increase in business loads. So this speaks of the efficiency of working and breaking those schemes that were before. I'm going to briefly focus on another topic that caused resonance and manipulation in media space: the cost of a single treasury account. On November 1, the cost of a single treasury account was 15.1 billion dollars. Let me tell you something else. In 2018, there were 7 months when the amount for the first month of the reporting month was much lower. For example, on July 1st, 18th, the amount of money was 2 billion dollars. Similarly, in the 19th year, there was almost a half-year period when the amount of funding for the first issue of the reporting month was less than 15 billion dollars, for example, on March 1, 19th, 8.2 billion dollars. I know that most of the people’s deputies in the Hall are aware of this, but I wanted to inform society that the government is funding and will continue to fund all the State’s social obligations to the Ukrainians. I will now move on to a major topic that concerns national MPs and most Ukrainians: urgent and consistent measures to combat the spread of coronavirus and the support of our medical system and medical personnel during the pandemic. One of the most effective tools to combat the coronavirus is the adaptive quarantine that we have introduced. Is it possible now to return to the country’s full loaddown? There's no way on the table right now. Adaptive quarantine is the best model. We communicate with the epidemiologists of France, Germany, to improve our response to the pandemic. And we and Europeans, of course, understand that the most effective way to break the disease chain is to introduce more stringent quarantine restrictions. That's why we see that France, Germany, the United Kingdom, the Czech Republic, Italy, Poland, Hungary, Lithuania, and many other countries are introducing hard-boiled lockdowns. It must be understood that these countries have very powerful medical systems and sufficient economic resources to combat the pandemic, but they even have to shut down their countries. I would like to stress once again that the government is not currently considering the introduction of total quarantine. Indeed, the Ministry of Health is considering introducing additional restrictions for a certain period of time to break the disease chain. But once again, this will not be a complete and permanent ban. For example, we're talking about increasing responsibility for not wearing masks, such as raising fines. And we thank the National Deputies for their support in the first reading of the relevant bill. As for the increase in quarantine on the so-called weekend. This topic is discussed at the level of different working groups, experts, and societies. If we approach such a decision, the Ministry of Health will inform, communicate, and consult on such an initiative with the Ukrainian National Deputies, with scientific institutions. I want to point out that the government is also constantly communicating with the regions. We are now, indeed, working together, and I see that the attitude of many mayors towards the problems of the Coronavirus has changed. And this question has really stopped being political for all the local leaders. Today is theme number one. And we're actually having two days of selector consultations with district management to quickly solve the problems that are on the ground. We, along with local authorities, determine what restrictions we may or may not apply in specific areas, cities, or areas. So the local authorities don't ignore the government's recommendations. Work to determine the most optimal model of quarantine is carried out continuously and in conjunction with local authorities. We now say this: If the authorities in the regions ask us not to impose additional restrictions, they take responsibility for the consequences. This is really a flexible model of adaptive quarantine, and I would even say it's part of decentralization reform, because regional leaders don't run away from responsibility anymore. Now I'm going to take a closer look at what our government is doing in the medical field. We're constantly working towards increasing the ability of our medical system to have a large number of PLR tests. The increase in PLR from 200 per day in March of this year to 50,000 in October of this year and the target of 75,000 per day by the end of the year is exactly what we are setting ourselves. For these purposes, we've actually allocated 1 billion dollars to increase the capacity of the labs. Another 1 billion dollars have been allocated for the purchase of additional express tests that will produce results within the hour. In fact, more than 50 laboratories were restored from scratch. In general, the labs during this time funded 1 billion dollars, and at the beginning of the epidemic in Ukraine there was only one automatic station for the extraction of RNAs during the implementation of texts. Now it's 56, and soon it's going to go up to 68. This is the basis for PLR testing. Another important aspect is the employment of beds. At the beginning of the epidemic in Ukraine, there were 12.5,000 beds available for the sick, now increasing to 42,000, and by mid - November it will be 52,000. This is the task for the Ministry of Health and Regional Administrations of 80 percent of the city's beds to provide oxygen. In the past week alone, the number of beds was increased by 2.2 thousand. For the time being, the completeness of the beds with COVID is 18,000 people, and we still have 23,000 beds in reserve. Two days ago, at a meeting with district managers, the heads of government, it was directed to increase the number of beds in the city by another 25,000. ADAS should also prepare additional facilities. These could be sportscomplexes, exhibition halls, other facilities of infrastructure that should be equipped with everything necessary in case the number of patients and those who need hospital beds continues to increase in line with projections. Another very important question that I would like to draw your attention to. On November 5, I'm going to report that the number of artificial ventilation devices active in the lungs was 638. In general, 4000,876 devices of artificial lung ventilation are located in the country, a little more than 12 percent of the total. What we're working on and what's important. It's very important to provide oxygen to hospitals. Last week, nearly 600 million dollars were additionally spent on these needs. I repeat, 80 percent of the beds have to be oxygenated. Now it's a little bit more than 40 percent. At present, 16 businesses in Ukraine have been licensed for the production of medical oxygen in Ukraine, and the Ministry of Health is still very active in a short period of time ready to issue licences for manufacturing enterprises. Doctors often hear the problem of lack of oxygen in hospitals. I want to assure you that this issue is being resolved expeditiously, as I have already said. We conduct selectors with district managers three times a week, and we figure out what's done every day. 20.5,000 beds in medical facilities that help combat COVID are already oxygen-secured. By the end of November, more than 42,000 beds would be equipped with adequate oxygen supplies. For these needs, the government allocated 572 million medical subsidies in October. We've simplified all procedures to get the oxygen to bed quickly. The heads of the areas have all the tools to do this. Where work will be unsatisfactory, there will be staff decisions. Regarding the mortality of the Coronavirus in Ukraine. We have one of the lowest indicators in Europe, fortunately: 1.8 percent. This is the same level as in Germany. In Britain, for example, 4.3 percent, in Sweden, 4.4 percent, in Spain, 3. But unfortunately, people from the Corona die, and so do people in Ukraine. So I express my sympathy to the families of those who died, sadly, from the Coronavirus. But their lives are a signal to all of us to take action and to protect ourselves and our family from the Coronavirus. Of course, we can increase the number of beds-towns, increase the rate of oxygen supply, but the main thing in the medical system is not the bed-places, not the oxygens, it's the doctors, it's providing them with protective equipment, it's worth paying for. To this end, the government has set up two simultaneous levels of supplements for doctors in the advanced fight against the coronavirus. Of course we can. An extra 300 percent, which is already being paid. And we had a spring question to pay off, they were solved, in the day-to-day mode worked out, it was the issue of March of the month. To date, payments are made automatically through NHRIs in the corresponding COVID packs for all hospitals and doctors who do the work. Today, all necessary agreements are made with the National Health Service of Ukraine and medical facilities. The government has also made additional payments of 25, 75, and 125 percent. If health - care workers provide assistance to more patients and have more stress, corrective rates will be activated to allow them to receive more wages. It should also be noted that since September of this year, the government has increased all salaries by 25 percent, 50 percent, and 75 percent. These are additional costs to the salaries of health - care workers, whose total numbers range from 1.3 thousand dollars to 3.5 thousand dollars a month. We realize that the stress of the pandemic has increased on family doctors who are also partially or fully involved in the fight against the coronavirus. Recently, the government has adopted a decision that will allow family doctors to receive more money for each declaration. The surrender rate for one filed declaration will be increased from the current 600 bracelets to 652 bracelets. I would like to thank all of our doctors for their dedicated work, for their hard work in the fight against the pandemic, and for saving the lives and health of our citizens. Dear colleagues, I don't have pink glasses when I look at Ukrainian medicine, just like any of us. We are well aware that the number of problems that have accumulated is not solved in a single moment. The Coronavirus pandemic has exposed only a fraction of the problems that there are so many. That is why in the budget for the following year, the government, along with the people’s deputies, has set a record number of health - care funds — more than 156 billion dollars. This was nearly twice as much as it was in 2018, when the medical budget was 87 billion dollars. I am sure that the efficient use of these funds that we put into the budget will be a starting point for real health reform. And there's another very important question that we need to emphasize and put the dots over "and." This is about financing the fight against the coronavirus and the sources of such funding. Costs to combat COVID-19 come from three different sources: directly from the Coronary Foundation and its consequences, from the National Health Service of Ukraine, as well as from local budgets, which also help with anti-epidemic measures. As early as April, the Supreme Council and government increased the budget of the Ukrainian National Health Service by 16 billion dollars just to finance the fight against the coronavirus. On November 5, the National Health Service of Ukraine funded a CZK 7.3 billion worth of hospital bills, including 4.5 billion dollars — per patient’s medical care package, 2.5 billion dollars — per patient’s emergency care package, and another 251 million dollars per package of medical care provided by mobile medical teams. Funding for medical needs is also provided directly from the Coronary Fund and its consequences, particularly in the area of health care -- 16.3 billion dollars, 14.4 billion dollars directly from the Ministry of Education, 6.5 billion dollars from the Ministry of Health -- to increase the allowance and pay for medical workers who are struggling with the disease, 4.7 billion dollars -- to buy equipment at the reception office of health based establishments, 2.7 billion dollars from the prevention of epidemic outbreaks, 1.7 billion dollars from the construction, reconstruction and repair of reception facilities, and 600 million from the provision of oxygen to the health facility's bedside fund. So we use different sources of funding to quickly finance the needs of hospitals, laboratories, and to increase payments to our doctors. With regard to other funds spent from the Coroner Foundation and its consequences, all these figures can be found on the Ministry of Finance’s website in boards that are constantly being updated. So all the information about the Coronavirus fund is completely transparent and open, it's being updated on a permanent basis, and every citizen of Ukraine can read it daily on the Ministry of Finance website, no secret where the funds are being used. In addition, an audit of a Coronary Foundation called the State Audit Service of Ukraine was initiated. 10.4 billion dollars was allocated to social programs: it's support for unemployed people, it's hospital payments for sick people, it's payment to families of natural persons who are entrepreneurs who have stopped their activities during quarantine. In addition, 19 billion dollars already have funded infrastructure projects that have been able to build, and it was actually a joint decision to keep Ukraine's economy from falling into a fall that it could fall into through a lockdown in the spring. Today we have witnessed an unprecedented economic global crisis, and the developed countries of Europe are also an example where GDP is declining by 7-10 percent or more. At the time, we have clear economic research that indicates that investing in infrastructure during a crisis has a very high multiplier effect from the point of view of job creation, as well as the state budget. State investment is needed to support employment and demand for business products. According to Ukraine’s U.S. Construction production in September of this year increased by 12.5 percent compared to September of last year. A key reason for this growth was the significant increase in the construction of engineering buildings in Ukraine. That's why in the next year's budget the same record amount of funds will be allocated to this program for investment projects. That's almost 150 billion dollars to build and develop infrastructure in Ukraine. To conclude my speech, I would like to point out the fact that the government is doing one of the key tasks of the state -- social protection for the people. I have already pointed out that coronaryism has become an extraordinary shock to economic social systems in all parts of the world, millions of people have lost their jobs. So we automatically continued all the subsidies, we made it much easier to get housing subsidies. We've taken three steps to raise pensions. We've launched a program to support the elderly. Thank you for your attention. We're going to keep working in that direction.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-06-m0.u3	Thank you, Denise Anatolyovich. Please register with the factions for a question to the Prime Minister of Ukraine. Cimbaluk Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-06-m0.u4	Mikhailo Cimbaluk, Fatherland. Please give the word to your colleague after the faction of Evtushka Sergei.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-06-m0.u5	Eutusek Sergey Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-06-m0.u6	Sergey Eutuszek, Equinox, Fatherland. Mr. Prime Minister, I have a specific question for you, the answers to which may be waiting for millions of Ukrainians right now. In the Ukrainian Parliament, the initiative of Yulia Timoshenko voted on the regulation on the fight against the coronavirus, which includes very clear tasks for you, for the executive branch of power, namely: free testing by mobile brigades, 100,000 PLR tests per day. Because it is people who are infected who transmit the disease by traveling in queues at medical institutions. When and in what way will you fulfill this determination? At what stage is this decision being carried out? And second moment. I also want to ask. The president of Ukraine, Zelenski, said that a vaccine would soon be available to all Ukrainians. Also answer whether there is a vaccine, and will these vaccines be given free to our Ukrainian citizens? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-06-m0.u7	Thank you, Mr. Sergei, for asking. So it's about the decision. She's at work. The part that the government is responsible for is being implemented, and in the near future we will provide a written report on the execution of the document. In turn, I emphasize that virtually every week there are several meetings of the State Commission on Technological Safety and Emergency Situations, which is actually a legislatively regulated mechanism of the state headquarters to combat the pandemic and its consequences. Also, the President of Ukraine takes the lead and holds coordination meetings with all government authorities, as well as with regional, district government authorities, on the fight against the coronavirus, several times a week. So this is the proposal that was, to lead the President this process, this is happening throughout the entire epidemic, and the President and the government are leading and using the government's machinery to combat the pandemic. So the National Security and Defence Council, headed by the President of Ukraine, is working on a commission of technological and environmental safety and emergency situations, making the right decisions. All of these decisions are implemented from the State authorities to the regional authorities, and some of these measures are actually in line with the proposals set out in the decree. It's about testing. I noted in my report that the tests increased from 200 in the spring, in March, when we encountered a pandemic to more than 50,000 today. By the end of the year, it'll be $70,000. These are objective indicators and targets that are set from the point of view of increasing laboratories and their abilities. About the vaccine. Indeed, the work is carried out by several scientific groups, and the work is done by Ukrainian pharmaceutical companies. As soon as this information is available, I'm sure both business and scientists will go out with it to society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-06-m0.u8	National MP Koltunovich Alexander Sergiyyovich, faction of the political party "The Opposition Platform for Life".
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-06-m0.u9	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. Dear Mr. Prime Minister, firstly, there's a replication of a comparative analysis of the decline in GDP and other macro-indicators where growth is occurring. Now, you can honestly say that we have a low comparison base. The downfall of the predecessors before you has left you with these economic parameters, after which you can grow, I mean the previous government. It's not about that. First. We're interested in the experience of the European Union, and we see that the second wave of the so-called Lokdown is coming, and we're being approached by voters about what will be the quarantine restrictions, other restrictions. For example, our neighbours in the countries of the European Union already have restrictions on Schengen, there are restrictions on what is closed for months and businesses, and food, trade, and so forth. What do we have to wait for, what kind of scenarios do you have? And so we can understand how November-December is going to be from an economic point of view. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-06-m0.u10	Thank you. It's really an up-to-date question. And, indeed, society is awaiting answers today as we move on. We consult with our European colleagues every day. I've already called it in my report, it's both epidemiologists, and the governments of France, Germany, other countries of Europe, we're really in full contact. And all governments today are looking for the most efficient models. The Ukrainian quarantine model, as we see from the situation in European countries, has justified itself most to date. We don't have as active and as big a growth as some of our neighbors do. So we also share our experiences. Our experience is also used by European countries. It's about how we're going to move on. Realizing that the adaptive quarantine works, but it takes extra, perhaps more stringent measures, we will certainly address them, to these more stringent measures. But once again, as I said in my report, we will be implementing all these things after communication, including consultation and communication with the Ukrainian National Deputies as representatives elected as representatives of civil society, who, as yesterday, by the way, in the session room sounded the closest to the people. So we will hear the reactions of the national deputies, and we will take them into account so that they will be most effective. We don't have the right and we can't afford to have a full lockdown, a business stop. In order to break the chain, it is necessary to use the available means of adaptive quarantine. All of them, once agreed upon at the level of the Ministry of Health, will be made available to the National Committees, and we will be able to work on this together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-06-m0.u11	Thank you. Please, National MP, Urban Anatoly Igorovich, MP's Party for the Future.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-06-m0.u12	Good afternoon! Please pass the word to Taras Batenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-06-m0.u13	Batenko Taras Ivanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-06-m0.u14	Thank you. Mr. Prime Minister, well, first of all, we hope that you will listen to those remarks made by the MP's group "For the Future" that voted yesterday in the first reading of the budget, including the second reading. First of all, we stress leaving a excise tax on fuel 13 and a half percent in the structure of local taxes. That's the first question I want to hear. Second, how much of the unscheduled funds were left in the cadaver fund that we created in April, of 65 billion left? And the third is the so-called death pay from the coronavirus. Mr. Prime Minister of Ukraine, Ivan Wenzinovich (we were asked a question to the Minister of Health who did not answer him), a therapist at the Pochai district hospital, Teresa Yakimović, a doctor at the Ohmatditu City of Lviv – those who had an unconfirmed test, or those who died, doctors who died outside hospitals. And commissions, district commissions don't give them compensation for death. And there are many cases in Ukraine. I'm asking you to take these questions on your own, and I'm ordering you to pay them off, because it's a disgrace to these people and to their lives that they put up in the fight against SOVID. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-06-m0.u15	Thank you, Mr. Taras. The first question is excise tax. We are working with the Ministry of Finance on options and possibilities for such a redistribution of excise taxes and in conjunction with the professional committees of the Supreme Council and Majority deputies, we will make a completely balanced and constructive, balanced, compromise, I would say, decision on excise taxes. With regard to the Coronary Foundation. I'll repeat that there's absolutely open information, all the costs of the Coronary Foundation are allocated, so they're distributed. But there's also information in the boards, it's updated daily, about what's called cashier's expenses. This is what is used for treasury accounts and already paid for. All this information is, if we need it. I called part of these parameters in my speech, the rest, if necessary, first of all, you can look at the Ministry of Finance website, open information, otherwise we can give in writing the whole decryption. With regard to compensation for the death of medical personnel. We have two types of compensation. There's a little over 200,000 dollars in legislation -- that's the Social Insurance Fund that pays everyone who's busy if they lose their jobs or die at work. Plus, the single norm voted by the Supreme Council, and the government is totally following it, is one and a half million dollars per person killed in medical work. All this information is there. I'm going to ask Marina Volodymyr's Lazebne to name the number of medical bills that have already been paid out right now, one and a half million in medicine. The rest is followed by work, where, in fact, appropriate measures are carried out, investigations are carried out. Marina Volodymyrno, how much for today?
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-06-m0.u16	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that there are 33, indeed, deaths in the workplace today. These are the ones where we're going to make payments. Of these, there will be 20 insurance cases. Family members of the dead will receive 210 more than one and a half million. And unfortunately, three medical personnel are dead, they don't have family members, so there's no payout. And we're working three cases right now. So we have two programs, 210 thousand and 1.5 million that we provide. In addition, we provide full payout and medical personnel at the proper time, and any people who go into self-isolation. This program is also implemented by the Social Insurance Fund.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-06-m0.u17	Thank you. Please, National Deputy Savrasov Maksim Vitaliyovich, faction of the political party "European Solidarity".
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-06-m0.u18	Please pass the word to Sophia Fedin.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-06-m0.u19	Sophia Romanovna Fedina, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-06-m0.u20	Mr. Prime Minister, would you please tell me if this is an indication from the top, is it already local self-activity, when doctors who are reporting a critical situation with oxygen or drugs are being questioned by the police and for preventive discussions with the government? The situation that has become public day, particularly, is that of a hospital infective doctor at the Černivecka District Hospital, Olga Kobevko, who was called into question for information that there is not enough oxygen in the hospital. There are also numerous situations where doctors are threatened with being released for publication in social media. And I also have to say that there is a critical drug situation in Ukraine, especially in pharmacies, when you don't have the ability to buy any antibiotics or drugs that dilute blood. I would like you to pay more attention to this particular situation, as well as to payments to sick medical people, because it is in the case of sick medical people that we have a critical situation when family doctors.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-06-m0.u21	Thank you for asking. As to the facts that you cite when doctors are called or released. Of course, such instructions are not available and cannot be found in Kiev. I personally use information from doctors published in open sources to understand the situation in hospitals, asking appropriate local authorities about the situation in them. And this is actually a very useful thing that gives objective information and an objective picture from doctors, and what happens in regions and places. Therefore, if such facts are available, they are absolutely ready. I think Arsen Borisovich is here in the hall, looking at objectivity. Thank you for the information you gave. Regarding medical supplies in Ukraine, the availability of them in pharmacies, I would like to ask Maxim Vladimirovich Stepanova to provide information now. In fact, we have daily operational advice on the number of medicines, on the number of personal protections in hospitals, in pharmacies. The Ministry of Economics and I are very much tracking and cooperating with Ukrainian producers on their plans for release to understand what stock and what kind of release can be forward for a month, a month and a half, two months ahead of what we have inside the country. And we actually have control and we have control of these processes. Regarding the absence or the absence of separate drugs in the pharmacy networks. Maybe there's some kind of skirmish between regions. But now, in general, the statistics we have, please, Maxim Volodymyrovich, please give us some information.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-06-m0.u22	Thank you. Dear national MPs, what's going on with medical supplies, especially antibiotics, has actually increased our consumption of antibiotics. Compared to the previous year in the same period, this three and a half times increased the consumption of antibiotics. But our communication and the program that we have in terms of security, along with our companies, we're fully secured, they're raw materials, it's true. That's true. If one of the pharmacies has gone away, or if they haven't, let's say so, I think it's just one of these isolated cases. Including holding appropriate meetings, gathering managers of our pharmaceutical networks on security and antibiotics, and other drugs, anticoagulants, above all. And a big request was made from these sectors, that the great request to the Ukrainians alone not to engage in self - medication, not to buy antibiotics. Because sometimes they come and spend money, they buy 3-4 antibiotics right away. This is unnecessary, and it harms the health of the Ukrainians. Therefore, if you take this opportunity, please also speak to your constituents, so that you can have a doctor and a specialist. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-06-m0.u23	Thank you. The word is given to National Deputy Rahmanin Sergey Ivanovich, faction of the political party "Golos".
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-06-m0.u24	Please pass the word to Olga Anatolyovni Stefanishni.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-06-m0.u25	Olga Anatolyevna Stefanishina, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-06-m0.u26	Denis Anatoliyovich, thank you for this report against the Coronavirus. But we all understand very well, both in this room and people who see us as catastrophic today: failed mass testing, failed hospital preparation. Today, people simply cannot go to the hospital and their relatives die. I have many references from patients. And it is clear that the only person in this country today who is specifically responsible for this situation is the Ministry of Health and its Chief of Staff, Mr. Stepanov. Denis Anatolyevich, we are the opposition, but we are a constructive opposition, we would like to help you. As early as July, Voice registered a decree signed by almost 100 national deputies to resign this person. Wouldn't you like to take this opportunity right now and support Mr. Stepanov's finally leaving his post? Assign a manager.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-06-m0.u27	Thank you for the critical and difficult question. In fact, the situation in Ukraine is extremely complex. We, I repeat, don't have pink glasses and neither of us. We see that each one of us has a familiar, relative illness, and this is, indeed, a crisis, a difficult situation. But it's like this all over the world. It is even worse in many countries of our neighbors. And today, our medical staff, including the Ministry of Health, are doing their best, sometimes working 18-20 hours a day. So I respect the medical community, the employees of the Ministry of Health, and I believe that they are, indeed, our fighters today in the frontal battle against the coronavirus. As for the catastrophic situation, it is vital for all of us together, as was the case in this House yesterday, to unite and fight together against this pandemic so that we can successfully overcome its consequences, its impact, and preserve as many Ukrainian lives as possible, as well as the health of our loved ones and loved ones. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-06-m0.u28	Kulinich Oleg Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-06-m0.u29	Oleg Kulinich, trust MP. Mr. Prime Minister, a specific question. We have a daily increase in the number of patients with coronary disease, we already have a stable figure of 10,000. We've got about 20 billion dollars in the state budget to fight the coronavirus. Are there specific programs directed from the Ministry of Health to how these funds will be used? We have a huge problem with retraining doctors, we don't have enough catastrophic infections, we don't have to work very soon. And the second question. Now we're all talking about expensive equipment, for HlV, and I think we should start with the basic conditions in which doctors are now working, and the conditions in which infectious hospitals are now. For example, the same Poltavščina, a district infectious hospital: 60 patients have one sanvusol. It's just a disaster! How can people work there? So, have all the infectious hospitals in the country been audited, or have the MOH informed you what the situation is now? Please comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-06-m0.u30	Thank you for asking. Regarding the 21st year, I've already said 156, over 156 billion we're putting in the draft budget next year. It's almost 30 billion more than this year, and almost twice as much as it was in the 18th. Accordingly, the National Health Service program of Ukraine has set up all the necessary cost of anchor packets so called to compensate for all costs of hospitals on the Coronavirus. Regarding the situation in our hospitals, especially the infections. Of course, we know and see the complex state of our medicine. Of course, we are talking about the need for reform. But today, when an infectious hospital is filled with cadavers and doctors are providing help, I would like to do repairs, but this is obviously not possible, since the hospital works to rescue people from COVID. Sadly, conditions are what they are. To that end, we say that those hospitals that today have the capacity to prepare for the treatment of the sick, under simplified procedures provided by the government, are now venturing oxygen and making the necessary minimum current repairs. The cost of this is estimated to be almost 600 million dollars. More than 870 million more governments have also prepared and will pass it on to the region as soon as possible for the continuation of this work. But this can be done in hospitals where there are no coronary patients yet that we are preparing. Another element is the preparation of additional facilities to accommodate another 25,000 beds, actually, for the reception of people. We're also working with the interns, and we've drawn up lists of health workers that we're going to add to our work. And we already have a legal mechanism to attach additional intern workers or former health workers to specific hospitals to which these additional facilities will be attached.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-06-m0.u31	Laba Mikhailo Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-06-m0.u32	Good afternoon, Mr. Prime Minister! Laba Mikhailo, Carpathian. We can see how difficult and difficult things are for you and your team to do right now. I want to thank you from our faction, as well as from all the Carpathians, for the work that is being done properly in the state. And that says 17 billion dollars in treasury accounts, an increase in engineering infrastructure by 12 percent. I have a few questions, and one of them that I would like to see better on the spot is all the financial instruments that the state is now giving at some point in time to compensate for damage or business or to the population. Support, it really is, I thank you. The question of this plan is saved excise duty in the local budgets, the railway's rent. Please settle the issue of fines for imported cars by January of last year. And I also wanted to ask about the construction of the HVL plant.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-06-m0.u33	Thank you for your assessment. Thank you for asking about the information in the regions. We do this work all the time with the government. I'm sure the district chiefs are also doing appropriate communications. We will now also strengthen through the Ministry of Health, as well as through the Ministry of Culture and Information Policy, such social communication through the country’s key television channels. I mean, I'm sure and I'm convinced that communication is going to get more and more. Social networks are also being filled with all the necessary information today. It's about the questions you asked about the financials. Car tickets. Of course, we've got a job now and we're going to look for options, even though we understand that this is the law of Ukraine, and we need to find appropriate approaches together with the profiling committees. Regarding the rent paid for the land of the Crucifixion, I have already answered this question today. And we also understand that next year's budget should find a compromise, a proper, balanced solution on these issues. And we're going to look for him for second reading, along with the profile committee, along with the majors. I'm sure we'll find the best option, and literally, I think for the next two weeks, we'll already understand how we're moving from the point of view of this issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-06-m0.u34	The word is given to the Deputy Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Oleni Constantineni. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-06-m0.u35	Good afternoon, Mr. Prime Minister! You know, today I'd like to ask you a little bit more about a broader framework, including new approaches, new methods that the national governments of European countries are using. In particular, Slovakia has conducted free national testing on a new method, a method of rapid antigen testing. Of course it's kind of like the PLR test, but much faster, it's in 15 minutes already there's a result. So 3 million people were protested, found to be up to one percent of the infected. Please tell me if you have ever spoken, or is there something similar in your mind? Because that proves the only thing: that national testing, and I stress, is free, you can do, well at least in some separate million cities or on the border. So how can you use these new approaches, or will you use them? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-06-m0.u36	Thank you for asking. In part, I will give the following word to the Minister of Health. We have absolute understanding, we keep in contact, especially, and we look at successful experiences. What's happening now is it's ordered and will be shipped to Ukraine in the near future 2 million such fast tests that really, from 15 minutes to 1 hour, give a quick result. These tests are up to 60 percent accurate, unfortunately. It's not an indicator that gives PLR or IFA testing, but they can be quickly identified and maximized. Ukraine is a great state, we have over 40 million, so we are more than 12 times than Slovakia. Of course, the number of such tests should be very large. We consulted our European colleagues on the possibilities and relevance of such testing. Today, for Ukraine, this technology can be used, in fact, in separate cities, where there are red zones, consistent with, again, our adaptive ones. So we're going to import the first 2 million of these tests and we're actually going to use this technology in Ukraine as well. And I'm going to ask Maxim Vladimirovich Stepanov to complete some of the other innovations that the Ministry of Security is currently working with our European colleagues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-06-m0.u37	Thank you. What's going on with the fast tests, the antigen tests. We plan to use about 1 million tests per month, these tests in our testing strategy. Besides, we've registered, by the way, all the leading manufacturers, they've already been registered, and we're going to be buying into the leading manufacturers of these tests. Besides, there's our Ukrainian antigen test maker, so-called IFA-method for antigen. It's in laboratory conditions, but these labs are located in many hospitals that are in our country, except for the lab centers. In this way, I think we're going to be testing more than 100 to 120 thousand, together we're going to be doing more than just antibodies, PLR tests on antigens, rapid tests and tests of IFA. This will completely cover all the testing needs, but there will be a clear algorithm that we're testing with. That's the kind of algorithm that we're going to move on and move on. It's about medicine, and we can't just do it in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-06-m0.u38	Thank you. Thank you. Mr. Prime Minister. Please have a seat. Now, I take it, we have a question for the government, don't we? Please sign up for a question to the representatives of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine from the National Deputies. Rules up to 20 minutes, questions up to 1 minute, answers up to 2 minutes. Thank you. Pavlenko Rostislav Mikolajovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-06-m0.u39	Thank you. Please pass the word to Pottery Alexia.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-06-m0.u40	Hončarenko Alexyyyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-06-m0.u41	Alexei Hotcharenko, European Solidarity. I have a question for Mr. Prime Minister. Dear Mr. Prime Minister, indeed, as mentioned in this session hall, during one weekend Slovakia protested more than half of its population with rapid tests. You're telling us in your report that we went out for 50,000, and we're going to get to 70,000 PLR tests. I have a simple question: At this rate, where are we going and when will we get there? Once again, Slovakia protested free of charge for one weekend, which is on a scale of 20 million people in Ukraine. How many days does it take to ask you about math? And the second question is, again, after the tests. Tell us where we're going to do an ophthalmological examination, because we don't really see 500,000 jobs that you said you'll find in May that they'll be created, but no one in the country can see them, maybe other than you. Tell me, where are these 500,000 jobs? And now you've found a trillion dollars in reserves. You're just a wizard! Tell me about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-06-m0.u42	So it's about doing the tests. I repeat, and I remind you that rapid tests give a very low quality indicator -- less than 60 percent of their probability that the test is correct. So we can do this as a quick test, and we will do it, as the health minister and I have just said, in Ukraine, according to an adaptable quarantine in those cities where it will be necessary. It's about testing. The PLR testing and the IFA testing that we have today are extremely clear and accurate tests that enable us to understand that a person is sick and that a person needs help. I will also now ask the Minister of Health to complete this information, It's about jobs. Please see official statistics: more than 400,000 jobs have already been created since the beginning of the pandemic, adaptive quarantine. More than 400,000 have been saved thanks to the funding programmes that we and Parliament have approved in the budget and in the cadaver fund this year. So there's actually a huge job going on, and you can see it, this job. At the beginning of March, 360,000 unemployed were registered in Ukraine, a little over 400,000 today. In the midst of the pandemic, more than 600,000 people have become unemployed. More than 400,000 are now officially employed through employment centers. It's official statistics. Maxim Volodymyrovich, please fill in if you have additional information after the test.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-06-m0.u43	In addition, I can say just to repeat what you have already said repeatedly, but, as I understand it, Mr. People's MP, he was not interested in listening to the speech. Once again, we have a clear understanding and opportunity for PLR testing. We started from 200 tests a day, and that was the whole country's ability to do that amount. Today we've done 50,000 506 tests in the past day. About 80 percent are made laboratory and community health facilities. The PLR laboratory test is a complex procedure, and I've explained it to you over and over again. And in order to do it, besides equipment, you need experts. As for the rapid tests, the antigen tests, we said a month ago that as soon as they came into the market, we quickly ran the proper registration of these tests. There was an allocation, and now there's a process of buying. And we're going to start with our strategy, according to our algorithms, to test Ukrainian citizens with the indicators, according to the medical indicators they are. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-06-m0.u44	Larissa Mikolayevna.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-06-m0.u45	Larissa Bilozer, Trust Group. Well, I'd like to say the word Mr. Urbansky. I give you his word, Mr. Anatoly.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-06-m0.u46	Thank you. Dear Mr. Prime Minister, the honorable government! In my 143th constituency in Ishmael, there is Ukrainian Danube steaming. In recent times, steaming workers have been protesting that the management of the enterprise has agreed with the Ministry of Infrastructure that the entire fleet of steamship is either transferring or transferring to the statutory fund of the private Hungarian company Business Shipping Sompany. In doing so, social networks contain letters of agreement from the Ministry of Infrastructure that make it clear that this transfer of the fleet is contrary to the statutes of the enterprise and the requirements of legislation that clearly define the order of reconciliation and condemnation of state property. More.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-06-m0.u47	Who Answers?
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-06-m0.u48	I'm going to ask the Minister of Infrastructure to answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-06-m0.u49	Good afternoon, distinguished national MPs! Dear Mr. Urbansky, I want to assure you that from the very beginning, in the Ukrainian Danube Sailing, one of the priority tasks was to disorient this company. As you well know, there have been many representations in the company, various branches, and individual registered legal persons in Europe. And actually, it didn't allow all of the revenue, all of the expenses of this company to be transparently controlled. And as a result, for many years the company was underprofit. As a result of this logic, the only operator who will actually be managing all the ships, all the barges that are on the balance of Ukrainian Danube steaming, will be coordinated in this way alone. Any additional information you need, I'm happy to give you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-06-m0.u50	I understand there was a last name. There was nothing wrong with that, was there, Anatoly Igorovich? You asked questions -- they answered you, that's why they called you. The alien Boris Viktorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-06-m0.u51	The alien Boris, the MP group "Trust." Please pass the word to Shahov.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-06-m0.u52	Shahov Sergei Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-06-m0.u53	Sergey Shahov, Luhanščina, Deputy Group "Trust". Dear Minister of Health, you have a question of this nature. Please tell me, has anyone checked the hospital at all for their responsibility? Are they capable of receiving so many patients? And what's the state of the hospital today: roofs, is the water hot, cold? For example, there is a hospital in Poltava district with 60 patients with one sanvusol! Second question about Luhansk. There's no water in Lysicansk. There was no gas or heat in Rubizny. The whole area is suffering today. And you all know that the fire happened literally a month ago, 40 days ago, we're going to celebrate people's deaths. Please tell me, does anyone pay any attention to these burners? 500 houses are burned down, people are already here. Children run naked, nobody helps, only volunteers and public officials today help people. Is Kabin helping today? The governor at all.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-06-m0.u54	Ladies and gentlemen, the state of hospitals you're talking about has been in this state for decades, and no one has paid attention to them for decades. And I thank you very much for paying attention to these hospitals in which they are in a state of need, including funding, and financing of infrastructure, equipment, and, above all, fair pay for our doctors and nurses, and all the hospital staff. In this situation, you know, there is not only one hospital in Poltava region, most hospitals are in that condition. And this is our joint task with you to make sure that in a few years they're not in that state. I personally go to these hospitals and see their condition, and I see the horrors they are in.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-06-m0.u55	Thank you. Zinkevich Jan Vadimovna. Don't scream, please!
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-06-m0.u56	Please pass the word to Michael Bondar.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-06-m0.u57	Who, again?
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-06-m0.u58	Michael Bondar.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-06-m0.u59	Bondar Mikhailo Leontijovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-06-m0.u60	Thank you. Dear Prime Minister, miners are one of the professions most vulnerable to coronavirus because they have a problem with their lungs. Unfortunately, by the time they're 20, they have an income debt, and they don't even have the ability to buy drugs on their own. Instead, when the Minister of Energy proposed to switch from the hedge fund, they didn't do it, but they started to go through the law of the Cologne, where they put in 1.4 billion mining money, manipulating the hall to vote for it. And for the 21st year, there's no money in the budget that actually miners can upgrade their mines and don't ask with their hands stretched out in the government to pay off their wages. What is planned next? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-06-m0.u61	It's about miners. In the spring, both the President and I personally had a big, all-U.S. meeting with miners. We're doing the best we can this year -- and we're doing it -- not to have debt to coal miners in the state. And we're together with you, in fact, in the first reading, the bill has already been drafted, it's been voted, we expect a second reading, when 1.4 billion will be allocated so that by the end of the year the state doesn't have a shameful debt to miners. We have great respect for the people of this profession, and we will do our utmost to ensure that their pay conditions are dignified and that their wages are paid on time. Regarding the next year’s expenditure. It's 4.5 billion dollars, and it's calculated enough to pay the government share of the wage to miners. This year, I repeat, 1.4 billion, we are waiting for a second-reading vote in order to obtain additional funding from Naftogazu's income to the codowage fund, to the codowage fund, and to allocate to coal miners the corresponding salary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-06-m0.u62	Borrowing Irina On purpose, faction of the political party "Serve of the People."
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-06-m0.u63	Good afternoon! Irina Borzov, Winnitzkin. I have a question for the Minister of Health. The situation with the proliferation of the Coronavirus is tense, and today it is essential to increase the bed-and-bed space. Please tell me there's talk today about the hospital opening at the stadium. But you and I have the potential of regional, local, and district hospitals. And today, these hospitals are being submitted to the NSA for a package contract for COVID-19. But it's going pretty slowly. And does the National Health Service of Ukraine have financial resources to provide additional beds and additional packages of district, local and district hospitals?
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-06-m0.u64	Thank you for asking. What's going on is the bed-supply for the treatment of patients with COVID-19. We have 30 percent of the beds, which are 52,000 beds, which we already understand which hospitals will be selected for treatment of patients with COVID-19. You and I understand that other diseases didn't make a vacation on COVID time. And we also have strokes, heart attacks, various surgical pathologies, and people who need medical attention. The maximum possibility of our hospitals, I think we can increase it by about 20 to 23,000 beds again by rerouting patients with other diseases. That is why the issue of the rapid spread of COVID, with such hurricane distribution, is being addressed and the issue of temporary hospitals is being considered. Regarding the National Health Service of Ukraine. It is fully funded. There's a clear position of government: if necessary, these financial resources will be redistributed, to 100 percent, I emphasize, 100 percent are provided for the treatment of patients with COVID-19 and for the payment of salaries with higher percentages to our health workers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-06-m0.u65	Thank you. Please, National Deputy Solomia Bobrowski, Voice faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-06-m0.u66	Good afternoon! Samantha Borovska, the Voice faction. I was really looking forward to seeing Mr. Reznick in the hall, but I know there's a representative. Then I have a question. So the day before yesterday, five points of the so - called Minsk road map were presented. But we understand very well that those pieces that were written in Telegram Channels or in the Interfax interview are just pieces. Then I have a question: When will the complete plan be moved, is it? When can you get to know him, and where? And the second question is, about CERs in Gold and Happiness. We know that on November 10th, a discovery is being prepared. But we remember very well that the Golden KEVC has been discovered regularly since the 16th year. The question is, on the other hand, is ORDLO ready to open CERs on its own? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-06-m0.u67	Thank you for asking. Rostislav Zamlinsky, first deputy. First of all, he wanted to say hello to Alexi Juryovich, who was in the east today, who was conducting an inspection, actually, of the CER on Happiness. You know, this year, we're going to open two new KPCs that we agreed on at the Tripartite Contact Group in Minsk. So, about the things you asked. As soon as a delegation in the Tripartite Contact Group reaches agreement on a further action plan, we as a government will carry out those tasks that will be agreed upon. That's the first question. With regard to the CPV on Happiness and Gold. In fact, Gold is built by the CER, and unfortunately, the occupation regime of Russia does not go to concessions. We're going to expect that because of working in the Tripartite Contact Group, by the way, to which a number of Ukrainian national deputies are involved, the occupation regime will accordingly be pressed to work, all of them, and to provide adequate services to Ukrainian citizens. Thank you for asking.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-06-m0.u68	Please, National Deputy Dear Mikolayovich, faction of the political party "Slut of the People".
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-06-m0.u69	Good afternoon! Mikola Road, 162 constituency. I'm addressing the government with two questions. First. I'd like to ask the government to consider the possibility of abolishing a fine that introduces fines to so-called 'eurobills' by the time a compromise bill is passed, which has already been registered with the Supreme Council. And the second question. Recently, the government has allocated additional funding to schools for antiseptics and child protection. I have been asked to provide information when appropriate funding will be available and how quickly schools will be able to acquire and secure their activities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-06-m0.u70	Please respond.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-06-m0.u71	Thank you. As far as fines are concerned. This is regulated by the proper legislation of Ukraine, of course we follow it. But given this problem, as we've been talking about today, and when we're asking questions from the hall, we're ready to work on this issue together with the Supreme Council's profile committees. With regard to the allocation of funds for local authorities to provide educational facilities with appropriate antiseptic means. Costs are marked. The question goes further to the local authorities, which are to provide either funds or appropriate funds for appropriate educational institutions. The Ministry of Education actually initiated the allocation of such funds in addition, and I am confident that both this and the following year the educational institutions will be adequately provided. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-06-m0.u72	Please, Skipper, Alexander Alexander, the "Slut of the People" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-06-m0.u73	Dear Mr. Prime Minister, the Honourable Minister of Finance! I'm calling you on the State Budget 2021. According to the first reading of the UK funding budget, 128 million dollars are available -- a similar figure that was adopted in 2019. The committee has repeatedly addressed the minister of infrastructure regarding the work of this organization, the UK Security Organization, and in general reform issues. However, frankly, the minister of infrastructure doesn't hear the committee, and, frankly, there is no hope for its response, in principle. That's why I'm talking to you. At the moment, it is imperative to increase the funding of the Ukratrans security in the following year, because eight inspectors with a salary of 4.5 thousand dollars and one complex of gauge-weight control cannot control the overcharges of the entire area. So it's less than 0.5 percent of all the money that's going on next year's road repairs. So, Mr. Prime Minister, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-06-m0.u74	Thank you for your questions. It's about Cruccross Security. You and I also understand that until the last few years, this has been one of the highly corrupt spheres of activity, including government control. And today, reform is actually in one of the key stages when we install automatic weight control complexes on Ukraine's roads. And by the end of the year, we had planned to set up plus 70 of these complexes that would take away the human factor and the human factor from control, and so they would take away the corruption component and the corruption potential. This is a very important moment. I'm going to ask the Minister for infrastructure to complete these reform directions. But in fact, the direction is that UKtranssecurity and those working today should work on the issue of permits, on the development of some relevant documents that our carriers need, and on the other hand, on automatic and computer systems that carry out automatic and control, and on the release of fines. And this is definitely going to be a reform that will take away corruption from this body. Therefore, the issue of additional funding can be discussed, and we have time for second reading to give appropriate arguments. I will now ask the Minister of Infrastructure to complement the plans for the installation of heavy-duty complexes this year on Ukraine's roads.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-06-m0.u75	Dear Denis Anatolyovich, thank you. Dear Mr. Alexander, thank you for paying attention to the question.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-06-m0.u76	Dear colleagues! I'm sorry, Mr. Secretary, well, we're running out of time, with all due respect. Thank you. The "hours of questioning to the government" are over. I would like to thank Mr. Prime Minister, distinguished ministers. Thank you! And we and you are going back to work. Thank you. Dear colleagues, on October 28, 2020, the Central Election Commission registered the National Deputy of Ukraine, who was elected to the Ukrainian National Deputies' elections on July 21, 2019 in the state-wide multi-mandatory constituency, Sharaszky Andrija Andrijaovic, who was included in the voter list of the Political Party "The Voice". In accordance with article 79 of the Constitution of Ukraine, a Ukrainian national deputy takes an oath before the Supreme Council of Ukraine before taking office. To make an oath to the rostrum, the national deputy of Ukraine, Sharaszkin Andriyovich, is invited.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-06-m0.u77	Oh, my God, hello! People of Ukraine, deputies, deputies, brothers, sisters, heads, deputies! The Supreme Council of Ukraine on the Ninth Call It's an oath. I swear allegiance to Ukraine. I commit myself to upholding Ukraine’s sovereignty and independence by all my actions, caring for the welfare and welfare of Ukraine’s people. I vow to abide by the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine, to carry out my duties in the interests of all fellow countrymen. November 6th, 20th. National Deputy of Ukraine Sharaskin Andriyovitch [[Applause]] Thank you. Mr. Head!
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-06-m0.u78	Hello! Dear colleagues, a statement has been made by the National MP, Sharaskin, about the entry into the party's parliamentary faction of the "Golos" political party in the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the ninth call. Ladies and gentlemen, a statement has been made for a recess with a replacement for the performance. Ustenova Alexander Yuriyevna. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-06-m0.u79	Dear colleagues, good afternoon! What I'm about to talk about is very scary and very unpleasant. I especially want our majority to hear this because President Zelenski has his Swinarczuk and the name of this "Swinarczuk" is Oleg Urussky. This is our Minister for Strategic Industry. Four months ago, when you appointed this man, then 248 deputies voted in favour, and I told you that this person is part of the Radar Land Debates; that this man has a corrupt chauffeur. Nevertheless, you have appointed this man to serve as a minister in the strategic field and industry. I'll tell you what's going on at the Ministry. That Radar factory I was talking about is actually under very strong pressure from the minister himself. Now he's trying to put his "watcher" there to scratch the ground that they didn't get. In their time, they were able to produce nearly one and a half acres [1.5 ha] in the center of Kiev, which was given to the Caterpillar, and now there, instead of industrial objects, stands the height. But they don't have enough, they're 1.5 hectares short, they want to take another land out of a state-owned enterprise that's working in the defense field, and they want to put it back up in Kiev. The man who at one time, when Mr. Urussky was the head of the Supervisory Board and was involved in this "schematosis," the person who signed all these documents now wants to put the head of the Radar plant to finish the property withdrawal scheme. Now, too, Mr. Urussky wants to lead six airlines directly under the Ministry of Aviation. You all remember how you voted for the development of the aviation sector. There'll be no development, there'll be no drainage. He promised that no enterprise would be put into direct subordination by the Ministry, and now it's happening. You know what's most interesting? That there are 7 people working at the Ministry, they can't take more jobs, and 7 people are now supposed to be doing all the airlines in the country. He also initiated the arrest of the Kyiv Armouring Plant, and the factory’s work was blocked. Do you know why they were initiating the account arrest? Because the factory refused to count 24 million dollars of his company. This man now serves as the deputy minister, Mr. Unmerciful. So now, if what we see goes on, then Svinarczuk -- it's going to be childish tales, compared to how Ucrobornprom is going to be torn apart and the entire military sector in general. Also now, Mr. Urussky wants to lead all exporting companies directly into the Ministry's subordination, a ministry that doesn't even have a secret department. So if you do now, Mr. Greensky.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-06-m0.u80	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to issues. You are invited to consider the draft Law amending the Law on Privatisation of the State Housing Fund on Privatization of the Housing Fund (Registration No. 3031). It is suggested that this issue be considered in a simplified manner. Please prepare for the vote. We have many questions today, and we need to work quickly and qualitatively. Please get ready for work. Ready? I'll bet you a vote on the above proposal. Please support and vote. [[11:26:59]] For 202 Decision taken. The National Deputy of Ukraine, Shevchenko Evgeny Volodymyrovich, is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-06-m0.u81	Dear colleagues, Bill 3031 is not about privatization, it is about restoring the constitutional right of all Ukrainian citizens to have housing and to have privatization for housing, which they have been given as a result of the businesses they worked for. I won't say anything, I want people to say it for themselves. Please turn on the video.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-06-m0.u82	Thank you. The chairman of the Committee on Economic Development, Mr. Dmitry Andriyovich, is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-06-m0.u83	My colleagues, congratulations! Mr. Speaker, honourable national MPs, this bill has actually been discussed several times on the committee. Eugene Volodymyrovich repeatedly demonstrated this video, other videos, direct contact with these residents. I'd like to say that no matter how much you look, at first glance, the controversial way itself, this problem goes far beyond the island of Hortica. This problem actually exists in Ukraine in many places, and unfortunately, every call by the Supreme Council was carried on simply because no one knows what the right decision is. We don't know the same thing, but at least we want to start this discussion. And it seems to us that it is unfair to expect that just those who live there will eventually die out and that this problem itself will dissipate, and, as we see, the glory of God, there is not one generation of people living on these objects on other sites. So we made a pretty bold decision to support this bill in the first reading and to start a discussion about how to solve this proud node not only on the island of Hortica, but simply as a model problem, a model example, but also throughout the country as a whole. Such problems exist in Kamyanz-Podilski, such problems even exist in the Kyiv region, and they are constantly blindfolded because, indeed, no one knows the correct answer. Let's find her together. And I'm asking you to support the bill in the first reading. And the committee adopted this very decision: to support Bill 3031 in the first reading on the basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-06-m0.u84	Thank you. Please sign up: two for, two for, two for, factions for the performance. Eugene Nina Petrovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-06-m0.u85	Please pass the word to Kubi Stepan Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-06-m0.u86	Kubi Stepan Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-06-m0.u87	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues! I want to say that, indeed, the head of the committee has shown the problem of all of Ukraine. Indeed, this issue was addressed in various committees and ministries. In fact, the Horticians became hostages when housing was available, but there was no right to it. And I want to point out that this fact actually has a problem in all of Ukraine. But at the same time, part of article 33 of the Ukrainian Act on Privatisation of the State Housing Fund establishes a list of objects that are not subject to privatization. And it's not just that norm, because it's not a discriminatory norm of law, it's a certain limit that we need to regulate. Unfortunately, this problem does not have an easy solution and requires very balanced solutions for all of our fellow citizens. But the point is that the law has to be legal, it has to be universal and a rule for everyone. And when the Anti-Corruption Policy Committee uses the phrase that there are corruption factors in the project that can contribute to corruption. At the same time, I want to say that six different ministries have also expressed a position that is right today on the legal plane and that it has no solutions to people. The Ministry of Culture could change, regulate the boundaries of the Hortica Reserve, but it's also a process that needs to be done. That's why we discussed this issue in factions. We don't mind, we're in favour of settlement. But today we cannot violate the law of the reserve. And that's why the faction is going to hold. At the same time, we are ready to support an adequate proposal from the government to resolve this problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-06-m0.u88	Thank you. Eutusek Sergey Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-06-m0.u89	Puppy.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-06-m0.u90	Kucherenko Aleksei Yuriovich
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-06-m0.u91	Thank you. Alexy Kucherenko, "The Fatherland" faction, head of the All-U.S. Association of Housing Owners of Ukraine. Dear friends, the problem that we are discussing today, and which he wants to help his electorate to resolve, Mr. Shevchenko's distinguished majority MP, is actually much broader. It's global if you want. And if you noticed when the Horticians were talking in the video, they were saying, "We want to privatize our apartments." Dear friends, listen to me carefully. And even though someone said to the residents that they're privatizing not the apartments, they're privatizing the house? They're co-owners of a joint property called the Rich House. And then they understand what to do with this house? And then they understand the state of the house, and who will pass it on to them? Is there going to be a capital repair? And what do we do with the 200,000 houses that have basically got the underprivileged today, and people don't know or realize that they're not just owners of apartments and they're co-owners of this house? And the state no longer has any obligation to this house. So, dear colleagues, I propose a really broad discussion, and I would like to understand in general whether there is a housing policy in Ukraine that we have with the Housing Code, which is the institution that cares for this Housing Code of the Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic, which binds the state to its citizens and what obligations the citizens have. That's why we can't support this bill. We will vote in favour of his re-reading, but we offer you, indeed, to take up this global problem immediately. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-06-m0.u92	Slavic Antonina Kerimovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-06-m0.u93	Suffritch Nestor Ivanovich please pass on the word.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-06-m0.u94	Nestor Ivanovich Šufrich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-06-m0.u95	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. Dear colleagues, let's explain to people what we're talking about. Now we have a historic mission with you to correct the mistake of Mr. Yushchenk, the President of the Third Ukraine, and his "loving friends," including one very dear friend. What did they do? Desiring to encroach on history, they ignored the interests of people who, in fact, have the right and conscience to own and manage this dwelling. We correct this mistake, and we will correct it, I am convinced of it, and I hope that the Supreme Council will unite around these specific people. And by the way, Mr. Zelensky could now study this issue, so that then we don't happen to be in the upcoming calls of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to correct his mistakes as a "prosecutor." So this is another example of how not to do it. By the way, there are parallels with the apheristic, and I would even say anti-constitutional and criminal efforts to violate constitutional order and order in the Constitutional Court. So our faction will certainly support this legislative initiative. The only thing is, we ask for a second reading to be more specific, because, as it is written today, everyone can be abused, and we many truly historical and cultural centers can descend from the hammer at no cost. And in this particular case, we have to help people, go meet them, treat them humanly, because they're worth it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-06-m0.u96	Klochko Andriyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-06-m0.u97	Good afternoon! Dear colleagues, this bill opens the Pandora box where we can lose all the cultural heritage of our country. Secondly, this bill did not go through me as a head of a committee with housing policy in its subjects. So don't do that. Yes, people need help, they need to study the matter perfectly, and then put it to a vote in the Council. For such a bill to have consequences, please, who will run these houses after you hand them over to the people? Have you thought about that? They didn't think so. That is why this bill cannot be voted on today. I'm asking you very much not to support it, it's a political project, not a project that will help people get their own housing. I'm asking you very much, before you press the button, think about what you're going to do. Today we sell Horticia, what are we tomorrow? Tomorrow we're going to have the underdevelopments that are going to ask you to do what is privatization? Let's do this. But I'm asking you very much, I don't support this right now. Thank you. And I think that everything about the subject of committee knowledge should go through committees, because housing policy is on our committee. He did not approach us, there is no conclusion of our committee. So thank you. I am not voting for this law, and I urge you not to vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-06-m0.u98	Thank you. All those who wish to speak? Let's get to the vote. Please take your seats. I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Law amending the Law on Privatisation of the State Housing Fund on the Possibility of Privatization of the Housing Fund in Municipal Property (Registration No. 3031). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[11:40:36]] For-141 The decision is not taken. I would like to vote on the motion to refer to the committee for the re-reading of draft Law registration number 3031. Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[11:41:07]] For 232 Decision taken. Thank you. The procedure is the Monastery Denis Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-06-m0.u99	Dear colleagues, today we have a bill of 3891 in order with an alternative: to amend the Code of Administrative Violations to prevent the spread of coronary disease and to introduce responsibility for wearing masks. I ask you to support him and now look into the hall, and support him without discussion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-06-m0.u100	Dear colleagues, we have an important question to consider. So, if you don't mind, we'll vote. And on the basis and in general. I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Law amending the Code of Administrative Offences for the Prevention of the Dissemination of Coronary Disease (registration No. 3891). Please support and vote. [[11:42:22]] For 267 Dear colleagues, I'll put it to a vote. 267 – yes. Decision taken. I am voting on the proposal for adoption, in general with the necessary technical and legal regulations, the draft Law amending the Code of Administrative Offences for the Prevention of the Dissemination of Coronary Disease (registration No. 3891). Please support and vote. [[11:42:58]] For 262 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. The word is given to the First Deputy Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Ruslan Alexiyovich Stefanchuk, of the procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-06-m0.u101	Dear colleagues, I'm very sorry, I'm very glad we voted on this bill. And from now on, I personally believe that people, national MPs who will be in the Supreme Council Hall without masks, are demonstrating either stubbornness or superiority to the newly adopted law, or lack of self-preservation instinct. So I am very much asking you to apply administrative measures to them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-06-m0.u102	Thank you. Dear colleagues, next question is the agenda. Honorary colleagues, on July 1, 2020, the Committee on Legal Policy, based on the Constitution of Ukraine, the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and the Law of Ukraine on the Constitutional Court of Ukraine, recommended that the Supreme Council decide by way of a vote on the appointment of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine for the four candidates submitted by the MPs. In accordance with the requirements of Article 208, pr. 4 Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, recommendations of the Committee of Reference on the results of the special examination and other documents submitted by candidates for the post of judges of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine, were given to you. The Supreme Council of Ukraine provides for this order of action: a report by the Vice-President of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the legal policy issues of Sougiri Olga Volodymyrovna, up to 3 minutes; statements by judges of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine, up to 2 minutes; statements by MPs and groups, up to 21 minutes (each faction will have three minutes); statements by national deputies, up to 9 minutes, and decisions. Decisions shall be taken as follows: first, there shall be a rating vote for all four candidates, then one candidate shall be put to a vote that has won the rating. Is there no objection? Then I put this proposal to the vote. There's no way out of the procedure when it comes to questions, there's only motive. Dear colleagues, since there are objections, I am voting on the above proposal. Please support and vote. [[11:45:46.]] For 304 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, the procedure is not in question. [[B in m in s a l in]] When it comes to motives, I will definitely give it to you. Let's move on to the question. The deputy head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Committee on Legal Policy, Olga Volodymyr, is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-06-m0.u103	Good afternoon, dear fellows! According to article 85, paragraph 26, of the Constitution of Ukraine, a third of the composition of the Constitutional Court is assigned to the Supreme Council. According to the provisions of the second part of the first part of article 12 of the Ukrainian Constitutional Court Act, the preparation of the question of the examination of candidates for the post of a Constitutional Court judge in the Supreme Council shall be carried out by a committee, the subject of which shall be the question of the legal status of the Constitutional Court, in accordance with the order laid down by the Rules of the Supreme Council. According to a decision of the Supreme Council Committee on Legal Policy of 5 February 2020 (Protocol No. 20), the opening of a competition for the selection of candidates for the vacant seat of the Constitutional Court judge and the opening of proposals by the parliamentary factions, the parliamentary groups, for candidates for the seat of the Constitutional Court judge, were announced. I report that materials have come to the committee regarding the Buromen Mikhail Vyvoldovich (the subject of submission – the faction of the political party "Slug of the People"); Pavelka Jurija Alexiyovich (the subject of the submission – the faction of the political party "The opposition platform for life"); Bodnar-Petrovska Olga Borisovna (the subject of the submission – the faction of the political party "The All-Ukrainian union of "The Fathers"); Sir Mikoli Ivanovich (the subject of the submission – the faction of the political party "European solidarity"); Denisenko Natalija Mikolayevna (the subject of the submission – the faction of the political party "Golos"). In accordance with the decision of the Committee on Legal Policy of 17 March 2020 (Protocol No. 23), it is recognized that it meets the requirements established by the Constitution and the Law of Ukraine on the Constitutional Court: Buromenski, Pavlenko, Bodnar-Petrovsk, Siro and Denisenko. And it's submitted to the Supreme Council's Office the documents of the designated persons for the organization of special tests. On June 25, 2020, the committee heard a statement by Bourômenski Mikhail Vyvoldowicz about the withdrawal of his candidacy from the list of candidates for the post of Constitutional Court judge. In accordance with article 148 of the Constitution, article 12 of the Constitutional Court Act, and part six of article 208, p. 4 of the Rules of the Supreme Council, the Committee on Legal Policy at its meeting on July 1, 2020 (Protocol No. 30), recommended that the Supreme Council consider the following issues: Pavelenko, Bodnar-Petrovska, Siri and Denisenko. Please consider. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-06-m0.u104	Ladies and gentlemen, the word is given to the candidate for the post of Judge of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine, Pavelek Jury Alexiyovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-06-m0.u105	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues of the Ukrainian National Deputies! First of all, I would like to thank my colleagues and the committee in profile for their support and submission to the honourable Supreme Council of Ukraine. This is a serious choice for me, a responsible ruby, all my professional work has been designed and built by the Ukrainian rule of law. My experience and the position of Ukrainian national deputy gives me the right to run for office as a judge of the Constitutional Court. Undoubtedly, the Constitutional Court is the most important body in the system of state authority based on the rule of law, which is why it stands over other authorities: the legislature, the executive, the court, with extremely important powers. The solution of political disputes between higher-level institutions is the simplest function that is the leading part of the iceberg in the work of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine. But in any political crisis, I am convinced that the Constitutional Court is the very body that can regulate the interests of the state. And that's what all candidates should be guided by. But the most fundamental, fundamental question in the work of the Constitutional Court is, in my view, the protection of fundamental human rights and freedoms, and it is my experience, which has been largely directed to the protection of human rights, to the protection of the rights of the child that will give me this new quality of the Constitutional Court.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-06-m0.u106	Thank you. Thank you, Yuri Alexiovich. The candidate for the post of judge of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine Bodnar-Petrovska Olga Borisovna is invited to the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-06-m0.u107	Dear people of Ukraine! Dear Chairman! Dear National Deputies! I am very grateful for this opportunity to present myself as a candidate for the post of Judge of the Constitutional Court and to be once again in this rostrum. Today, more than ever before, Ukraine, and the whole world, needs to be given the utmost attention and careful attention to the acquisitions of mankind, including the centuries - old acquisitions of democracy. History shows that mankind has no more perfect mechanism than it has. Quarantine associated with the pandemic must stop all political problems, bring to or turn attention to the rule of law and the rule of law. Any national body of Ukraine, local self-government and, of course, the Constitutional Court must act in accordance with the Constitution, the existing legislation (this article 19 of the Constitution) and remember and implement article 5 of the Constitution on the fact that we have sovereignty and the only source of power in Ukraine is the people, and no one can usurp state authority. When I am elected to serve as a judge of the Constitutional Court, I am obliged to carry out my duties honestly and conscientiously, to ensure the rule of the Constitution of Ukraine, to protect the constitutional order of the State, to protect the constitutional rights and freedoms of man and citizen. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-06-m0.u108	Thank you, Olga Borisovna. The word is given to the candidate for the post of Judge of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine, Mikola Ivanovich Sirem. Please, Mikola Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-06-m0.u109	Dear Chairman, members of the presidency, distinguished national deputies. My path to this rostrum is 33 years old, and from day one it has been related to the issue of judicial reform, the constitutional and legal foundations of the organization of the judicial system, the constitutional rights of human beings. I am truly grateful to the faction that supported my candidacy, and I want to thank you for that. In addition, I would like to thank you in the context that, back in 1992, when the first draft on the Constitutional Court was being considered, there was an acute question about balancing political and professional interests. From the first day of support and to this day, I had no political consultations, just supported. And that, in my opinion and in terms of international standards, is the proper performance of the candidate's support function. And now essentially about constitutional justice. Subject number one. At the top of the judicial system are two courts: the Constitutional and the Supreme. What is happening soon at the top of the judicial system? At the top of the judicial system, the Supreme Court is not working on its responsibility under the rule of law, and the Constitutional Court has entered into the area of responsibility of the Supreme Court, and there are conflicts on this issue. Next thing. You and I would like to have quality decisions of the Constitutional Court, but they will only be of quality when the infrastructure of the constitutional and legal opinion around this institution works. That's something to think about. And finally, third position. In order for the Constitutional Court to make good decisions, it is necessary for the instruments of argument of the Constitutional Court to respond.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-06-m0.u110	Thank you. The word is given to the candidate for the post of Judge of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine, Denisenko Natalija Mikolayovni. Out of the way. If you have to, you can get out of here.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-06-m0.u111	Honorable National Deputies, Your Honors! Thank you for the opportunity to address you in the Plenary Hall. A common man’s dream came true: to be in the hall of meetings, under the dome, not during a tour, and to be able to see the active national deputies of Ukraine. After a limited period of time, I will move on to the matter. I would like to thank the factions for their courage to announce a public appeal for the possibility of submitting documents to them for submission to the Constitutional Court. Some thanks to the head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for the opportunity to meet with the electorate, or you. You have, as candidates in the Ukrainian national MPs, a certain period of the agitation process, and we're out of it, so thank you for the opportunity. Short for you. She was born and grew up in a common labor family in the city of Žitomir. I am a citizen of Ukraine. The age needed to reach office has reached its peak. Higher law education, completed by the Institute of International Relations, after specializing in International Law. He's a candidate for law school. In accordance with the Constitutional Court Act of Ukraine, I do not have a representative mandate, I am not a member of the political party. And by the way, I may be one of the few people in the country that, starting in 2017, had a special check every year, including NAZK, because. (please give me another 15 seconds), because this is my sixth attempt to become a judge of the Constitutional Court. Now I'm going to the most important thing that you may not have read. That I have worked for 23 years at the Constitutional Court of Ukraine in a department that does comparative research. And from the experience of work, I'm sure it's better in the Constitutional Court to work, not in theory, but in practice. And by the way, your vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-06-m0.u112	Thank you. Thank you, Natalia Mikolayevna. Please sign up from the MP factions and groups. Zbrodsky Mikhailo Vitaliovich. Peter Alekseiovich Poroshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-06-m0.u113	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues, I would like first of all to welcome the entire Hall, the entire Supreme Council with a very important victory. Winning when we failed to destroy the Constitution, when we failed to usurp power, when we did not give Mr. Greensky, without any constitutional authority, a hundred percent of his people, destroying constitutional jurisdiction, the Constitutional Court. It is vital that representatives of all factions, understanding the importance of this position, unite and preserve Ukraine. I thank you for that. Second position. We've all heard Greene's appeal and the monotony that the appointment of the judges of the Constitutional Court will be radically altered. Changed by the mechanism for the involvement of foreign advisers, through the involvement of the Public Council of Virtue in order to further in professional knowledge, just as we did in the formation of the Higher Anti-Corruption Court, we had a guaranteed mechanism not to get suspicious personalities into the Constitutional Court of Ukraine. We've suggested that there are two vacancies in Parliament right now, and we have to form changes to legislation. And today, I thank those People's Deputies from the factions that have signed up to ensure that the Commission of Virtue, for the participation of international advisers, assumes the role of assistance both to the President and to the judiciary and to the Supreme Council, in order for each candidate to be tested for integrity by restoring confidence in Ukraine and in the Ukrainian Constitution throughout the world. I have a request to cancel the contest now. I have a request to put in place a law that is now registered for voting, to form a procedure when we involve a commission of good faith in the appointment of the judges of the Constitutional Court, and then to return to the appointment of perhaps all deserving people. This will help them to be new in the Constitutional Court. Please support this. Thank you very much. Mr. Zelensky, welcome, and keep your word. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-06-m0.u114	There's a break until 12:30. We'll continue the discussion. Please don't be late. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-06-m0.u115	Dear colleagues, back to our work. Kirilenko Ivan Grigorovich is invited to attend. Vlasenko Sergei Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-06-m0.u116	Thank you, Your Honor. The last week's situation with the Constitutional Court is totally unacceptable to any state. The Constitutional Court began a openly manipulative, false attack, including an informational attack. This attack is being carried out by people who have not been able to prove in five years the effectiveness of anti-corruption reform; those who have created, who have been ideologists to create NAZK, NABU, and who would now have to be held accountable for the fact that corruption in Ukraine is only increasing, rather than diminishing, that no high-level officer is involved in the responsibility that the declaration mechanism has worked for the third time that effective mechanisms for attracting corruptioners to date are, but they are not. Instead, of course, it is easier to blame the Constitutional Court. Who prevented these fighters from fighting corruption for all five years? Nobody. They were hampered by incompetence, and they were hampered by unprofessionality. They found it difficult that instead of a tiny day - to - day job, they would just make the slogans out of the TV screens. But they're masters at organizing information provocations, manipulative provocations, and that's the tool they use. By the way, the lax attitude of Parliament towards a key founding state institution, such as the Constitutional Court, we can see today in the session room. There are no people in the hall. The MPs are doing their job. There are not enough people, national deputies, to vote. People's deputies are doing their job. No one is interested in candidates for the Constitutional Court. With all due respect to my colleagues, I'm convinced that few people have looked at the biographies and materials of these people to evaluate them. This is totally wrong and unacceptable from a governmental point of view, from the point of view of the construction of independent judicial institutions. The Fatherland faction has the honour to propose to Parliament Ms. Olga Bodnar-Petrowski's candidacy as a candidate for the post of Judge of the Constitutional Court. Knowing her personally for many years, I would like to urge the entire Parliament to vote in favour of Mrs. Oli's candidacy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-06-m0.u117	Thank you. Juršin Jaroslav Romanović.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-06-m0.u118	Dear colleagues, in fact, Ukrainian society is probably completely entangled by our incoherence with regard to the resolution of the crisis in the Constitutional Court of Ukraine. So we urge you to stop this crazy printer now, who can cancel all the reforms that have begun, arguing that perhaps in the Constitutional Court, according to the Secretary of the Council of National Security and Defence, there is a pro-Russian group that will be able to cancel even the Declaration of Independence very soon, and it would be logical for us to block it, so we are forcing the adoption of new judges to unlock the work of this body. Yesterday, the majority, many of whom welcomed the position of four judges who had not joined the destruction of anticorruption infrastructure, welcomed the fact that they had stopped working in the Constitutional Court, reducing the quorum of less than 12 persons, or 11 persons, who had been able to block the temporary work of the court. Today we are renewing his work. It's just mega weird. So I really urge you to follow up on the proposal of the President of Ukraine of Greens -- and to stop these issues now until a competitive procedure is put in place, as required by article 148 of the Constitution of Ukraine. In fact, the introduction of a system that is now operating in the Supreme Anti-Corruption Court, and the initiative is already registered by representatives of the Ukrainian opposition, will allow for the selection and control of this process by international experts as an additional filter. That's exactly what we have to do. If we choose now, of course, we have to look at those candidates who will definitely agree not to go to work until we get back to the National Anti-Corruption Agency, and then unlock the work of the Constitutional Court, and ideally, we will be able to improve these procedures. So I urge very, very much: think, act consistently, vote only for those who will not participate in the actual destruction of our European integration direction. And best of all, let's start with an adequate, not a political competition for international experts, and then get back to that. After all, you stopped him for more than seven months. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-06-m0.u119	Thank you. Shahov Sergei Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-06-m0.u120	Dear colleagues, hallelujah! It has not been a year and a half since we have been staffed by the Constitutional Court. That's very good, because today the state is holding on to three whales -- legislative, executive, judicial power. And three whales today stick to the Constitution, six articles, and the Constitution holds everything. We will be supporting this initiative today, and we need to deal with the constitutional crisis that has taken place in our country, and above all, we need to deal with the social crisis that is going on in our country today, along with the epidemic. Winter is coming, people today are in trouble, hungry, cold. How many can be claimed from this rostrum that in the Luhansk region of Donbas today the most difficult situation?Oh, my God! 500 houses were destroyed, 500 families were left on the street. They have no support, no support, no need to feed their children. The government has no interest in the people who chose them today. Not a single tablet was put in place to make something new. Where does our nation go? First, we need to build a society and think about people. One and a half years went by as a complement to almost the body that did. The institution is guilty of taking care of the Constitution today. Everyone's playing politics. Stop playing! We still have to think about people today. Thank you. Sergey Shahov, Luhanščina, Deputy Group "Trust".
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-06-m0.u121	Suffritch Nestor Ivanovich. You don't? Oh, there is. Turn it on from there, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-06-m0.u122	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, please give the floor to the National Deputy, German Vassil Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-06-m0.u123	Germano Vasil Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-06-m0.u124	Good afternoon, dear fellows! I want to start by saying that today is the 33rd birthday of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine, and it was the 33rd Court in Europe. It's been a long time since we've had constitutional jurisdiction. And it became on these still weak legs just as we were building up, the beginning of the construction of an independent legal state, as stated and written in article 1 of the Constitution of Ukraine. What is the Constitutional Court? I was very sorry to hear today that there are some people's deputies out there, we're extremes out there. Once upon a time, Groisman used to call us on the gallery, so let's keep it on Groysman's conscience. We're from a nation that's standing there, I say, and it's a wing, and it's a wing. But the question is that they blocked the work of the Constitutional Court. Dear colleagues, so it turned out that I was and am the author of the Constitutional Court Act, and so it turned out to be used that we were the first to take an oath and we built it. Thanks to taxpayers who have created an institution to monitor compliance with the Constitution by the executive and legislative authorities of citizens. I would like the question that we are considering today to be taken up in the fairway of legal understanding and constitutional understanding that we are today at great risk of having nihilism, not legal nihilism, but the existence of constitutional nihilism, when we are trampling on the Constitution when the rules of the Constitution are not being followed. And this is nothing more than a constitutional crisis. This is happening, and at the disposal of criminal norms, this is a real threat to the collapse of the state. I'd like people to understand that. And when we choose today, and that every faction or candidate, we came out of the fact that the Constitutional Court, the one and only, acting on the basis of constitutional control, has the right to exist without interfering with any other branches of power. Dear colleagues, please decide. That candidate, who is offered by our political power, has.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-06-m0.u125	Polakov Anton Eduardoovich. Batenko Taras Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-06-m0.u126	Dear colleagues, a respected Ukrainian society! We understand that the latest developments around the Constitutional Court have caused us today in the Supreme Council of Ukraine to consider the question of the recruitment of two members of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine, a question that has been awaiting a decision by the Ukrainian Parliament for a year. But what we want to say is that the attempt to legitimize the Constitutional Court is seen as an attack, in a sense, on the very Constitution of Ukraine. What do we see today? We see the moods of society, we see a low level of government, which has affected the quality of our laws, which we adopt, which we should then consider in accordance with the Constitution of Ukraine. We're seeing a severe economic crisis that the government is virtually out of control, and it's not controlling the pandemic situation. And when we don't respect and violate the Constitution of Ukraine, we have, friends, rephrasing the words of Bulgakov or Professor Prezewski, we're going to have a crisis. It's just a brain crisis. And the dictatorship or irresponsibility of all branches of power and impunity of officials will begin. And so respect for the Constitutional Court as the only institution that can treat the Constitution of Ukraine should be at the heart of today's stable situation in the country. So we are convinced that friends that anti-corruption legislation should work in the country should be responsible for the illegal enrichment and access to the register of declarations. We understand, colleagues, that the issue of illicit wealth concerns the entire political class. We have 43,000 deputies of all councils, 25,000 of whom are deputies of rural and rural councils, and all of them are declarants. And we have a caste of classified declarations -- those are the employees of the BSS, members of the military prosecutor's office, whose declarations society doesn't see. And we have an executive body -- NAMK. No one will doubt that it is an executive body and that it subjectively interprets the existence or absence of crime in the declarations? Dozens and hundreds of rural deputies who have been victims of article 366 of the Penal Code because of a misapplication made it generally banal because of problems with access to the Internet that prevented the MP from submitting a declaration in time. But here, as in here, NAZC is breaking matters, in fact, under article 366. And right now, we have as many as 35 punishments for this article, and most of the punishments are to vote for the bill of lading. Such an amazing battle against top-corruption in the country. They were sentenced to up to 150 hours of community service and so forth. Friends, we need to respect the independence of the Constitutional Court. This institution today cannot face prejudiced pressures from NAMC, the President's Office, individual deputies, public activists. First of all, respect for the Constitution must be exercised. We don't have a constitutional crisis -- we have a crisis in our brains, in our government's offices, where we see the Constitution as something that we can boldly violate. We shouldn't let that happen to you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-06-m0.u127	Thank you. Please sign up for the presentations by the Ukrainian national deputies. Rules up to six minutes. Vlasenko Sergei Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-06-m0.u128	Thank you, Mr. Head. Unfortunately, the last days of this rostrum are totally unacceptable calls, such as the blocking of the work of the Constitutional Court, the failure of judges to attend meetings of the Constitutional Court, which is absolutely, absolutely unacceptable. By the way, I would like to remind honourable colleagues who do not know that there is a criminal responsibility for failing to comply with court decisions, including a separate part of this article speaks of failure to comply with the Constitutional Court's decision. I think we're electing the judges of the Constitutional Court today not to block work, not to wait for something from someone, but to allow that candidate or candidate who is to be elected to enter the Constitutional Court and start work to protect the Ukrainian Constitution at a time when attacks or borrowing are taking place on this Constitution. Let's be honest with each other: this session hall from the 14th year to today has adopted many ideologically correct laws, but laws that have anti-constitutional things to correct. And the task of the Supreme Council is to restore confidence in the Constitution in order to restore confidence in the constitutional order, not only to select a judge of the Constitutional Court, but also to correct those errors that have been deliberately or unconsciously incorporated into the country's necessary bills. Perhaps in order for these ideological bombs to explode and to be able to use these bombs to distract us from the complete failure of Ukraine in fighting corruption, particularly. So once again, I would like to emphasize that Fatherland has put forward her candidate. Our candidate is Ola Bodnar-Petrovska. I'm asking the session room to vote in favour of this candidate. But I'd like to say one more thing. We were urged to vote today on a bill that was introduced today to change the procedure for the election of judges of the Constitutional Court. Please tell me, how does this differ from Zelensky's proposal to launch the Constitutional Court? Nothing. Because it's the same Bolshevikism, it's the same disregard for basic principles of jurisprudence, the rule of law and Ukrainian legislation. So I ask everyone to be very careful and careful about all state institutions, including the Constitutional Court, and today to vote and choose a judge of the Constitutional Court. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-06-m0.u129	Moroz Vladimir Viktorovich. Nestor Ivanovich Šufrich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-06-m0.u130	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the presiding officer, we now pay tribute to our obligation to the Constitution of Ukraine and to the Ukrainian people. Unfortunately, it has happened that we do not assign our quota for almost a year, on the quota of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, ours, I emphasize, our representatives of the Supreme Council of Ukraine in the Constitutional Court. And of course, we have to fix this, especially today, this issue has become the most relevant. Today I had the opportunity to pay attention and respect to every candidate who is now in the guest bed and will present his program, present himself and his vision. This respect for them personally, and certainly for those people who supported those political forces that supported the political parties, who now have the right to propose their candidates to serve as judges of the Constitutional Court. Our political power in the parliamentary elections received a second national measure of support from Ukrainian citizens. So it's perfectly logical that our political power has presented to you one of our best representatives, Yuri Pavlenko, whom I have known for many, many years. His sincerity, openness, principle, and objectivity, and humanity are the characteristics that today distinguish him from classical politicians. That is why we have taken the responsibility of proposing it during the consideration of the appointment of judges of the Constitutional Court from political factions. I reiterate my deep respect for the choice of every Ukrainian who voted in favour of my fellow Ukrainian national deputies, who today are formed into factions and have the constitutional right to propose their candidates for the free seats of the judges of the Constitutional Court. I urge you to move away from political engagement, to move away from the principle of political opposition, and to move away from the principle of justice, transparency, objectivity, respect for every electorate, every Ukrainian citizen, whether he voted for your political power or supported others. Because these are our citizens, they are the Ukrainian people, and this can be united today.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-06-m0.u131	Thank you. Question completed. Let's move on to making a decision. Pursuant to Article 208 pr. 4 The Supreme Council of Ukraine rules the selection of judges of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine is carried out by the Supreme Council of Ukraine by an open rating vote for each candidate separately. And then the person who gets the largest number of votes should be approved by the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and more than 226 votes. Pauline is about a conflict of interest.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-06-m0.u132	Dear Mr. Head, the distinguished national deputies of Ukraine! I declare that there is a conflict of interest, I will not vote. Thank you all for your choice.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-06-m0.u133	Thank you. Let's move on to the alphabetical voting in each candidate separately. I'll call it a name, a name, after the candidate's father, and you're determined to support a candidate. Candidate number one is Bodnar-Petrovska Olga Borisovna. Please vote. [[12:54:03]] For-126 Denisenko Natalia Mikolayevna. Please vote. [[12:54:24]] For-38 Pavlenko Yuri Alexiovich. Please vote. [[12:54:46]] For-154 To 150. I'm sorry. Grey Mikola Ivanovich. Please vote. [[12:55:08]] For-97 Let's move on to the final vote. Pursuant to Article 208 pr. 4 The Supreme Council of Ukraine rules on the voting of a candidate who, on the basis of the rating vote, received the largest number of votes of Ukraine’s national deputies. Pursuant to articles 85, 148 of the Constitution of Ukraine, article 208, para. 4 The Supreme Council of Ukraine rules on the question of the appointment of a judge of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine, Pavlenko Jurija Alexiyovich. He won 154 votes of support in the previous vote. Ready to vote? Please identify and vote. [[12:56:08]] For-100 The decision is not taken. In line with article 208, part 10, please. 4 The Rules of the Supreme Council. Wait, I can hear! The Supreme Council of Ukraine is requesting a profile committee to prepare for the re-election of the judge of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine. Please show the results of the final vote in factions. "The Servant of the People" – 23, "The Opposition Platform for Life" – 40, "European Solidarity" – 0, "The Fatherland" – 14, "The Party for the Future" – 4, "The Voice" – 0, "The Trust" – 14, "the Non-factional" – 5. Thanks again. Dear colleagues, we have three minutes left before the "Victory" begins, before we begin, I'm sorry, a read request. Please remain seated. Two more requests are being sent to the President of Ukraine. They should be supported by the Supreme Council of Ukraine or not. Olena Konstantinovna Kondratjuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-06-m0.u134	Thank you, Dmitri Alexanderovich. Ladies and gentlemen, we have received two requests from the President of Ukraine. That's why I'm asking. You remember that we should vote in the hall. That's why there is an open-ended vote in support of the request by Dmitri Kostuk to the President of Ukraine for the restoration of the work of the Novograd Wallin Military Hospital and the establishment of a rehabilitation centre on its basis. Please prepare for the vote. Please vote. [[12:57:51]] For 289 Decision taken. Colleagues, vote on the decision to refer a previous parliamentary request to the President of Ukraine. Please prepare for the vote and vote. [[12:58:21]] For-286 Decision taken. Thank you. And, honourable colleagues, there is an open-ended vote in support of the request made by Rostislav Tistik to the President of Ukraine for the award of the Order of Merit III of the Blessed Saints. Please prepare for the vote and vote. Please support this request. [[12:58:56]] For 274 Decision taken. Colleagues, vote on the decision to refer a previous parliamentary request to the President of Ukraine. Please vote. [[12:59:24]] For 276 Decision taken. Please show by factions. Thank you, Your Honor. Thus, during the plenary week, 83 parliamentary inquiries were made, and 26 remained unannounced from the past plenary weeks. A total of 109 parliamentary inquiries were made for the announcement. To the President of Ukraine - 2; to the Supreme Council - 1; to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine - 62; to the heads of other public authorities and local self-government bodies - 39; to the heads of enterprises, institutions and organizations located in Ukraine, regardless of their subordination and forms of ownership - 5 parliamentary requests. So the MP's questions are: Andrija Derkača to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the organization of the competitive selection of the leader of Ukraine. Groups of National Deputies (Peterovka, Lunchenko and others) A total of 4 deputies) to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the settlement of the issue of the repayment of arrears in respect of salaries in front of budget workers. Olga Saladuha to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the Ministry of Education and Science of Ukraine, the Ministry of Youth and Sport of Ukraine on the development of the National Programme for the Reform of the Physical Education System of different levels and new standards of sports and health infrastructure of educational institutions. Sergey Demchenka to Head of the State Road Agency of Ukraine for the repair of roads in Dnipropetrovsk. Sergey Demchenka to the Minister of Environmental Protection and Natural Resources of Ukraine on the annulment of the conclusion on the environmental impact assessment of the planned activities of the BIO ENERGY DNIPRO from 3 April 2020. Groups of National Deputies (Tkachenka, Shinkarenka and others) to the Ministry of Health of Ukraine on the use of effective measures to provide residents of the village of Karnalyevka Bilgrod-Dnistrovski district of Odessa, a minor Anatolia Russo with immediate free medical care. Bogdan Thorochti to the Head of State Service of Ukraine on matters of geodesy, cartography and cadastre on the status of compliance with legislation on free allocation and privatization of land for agricultural purposes held in state ownership. Bogdan Torokhti to the head of the General Directorate of the Ministry of Agriculture in the Kirovgrad region regarding the state of compliance with legislation on free allocation and privatization of land for agricultural purposes, which are state-owned. Vladimir Timothychuk to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the allocation of funds for the acquisition of artificial cover for the sports course in the village of Toulova, the district of Svetienne, in the region of Ivano-Frankiv. Vladimir Timothychuk to the Minister of Culture and Information Policy of Ukraine on the launch of the DVB-T2 digital television signal. Alexander Kunicko to the head of the Kyiv City State Administration for Information, the list of existing parking facilities in Kiev and the legalization of the restrictions on persons who have the right to use them by cafe owners, offices, and other owners, where such parking areas of the city of Kiev are located. Alexander Kunicko to the head of the National Environmental Inspectorate of Ukraine for the conduct of out-of-plan inspections at Zaporozhye’s enterprises and for the monitoring of the city’s air condition, the use of other measures in accordance with the competence for significant environmental degradation that endangers human life and health. Alexander Kunickýk to the Minister of Infrastructure of Ukraine on the need to implement monitoring systems for fuel locomotives with the aim of halting the dissipation of diesel fuel and the detection of corruption schemes on railways when transporting goods without making relevant contracts for transport. Mikhail Zimbaluka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the implementation of the decision of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine to restore the benefits to the black people. Mikhail Zimbaluka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for funding in 2020-2021 for the creation of jobs in rural areas. Groups of National Deputies (Crowrukina, Koravchenkova, Zacharychenka) to the Minister of Social Policy of Ukraine, Krivrožki Urban Head, on the need to ensure the right of citizens to social protection. Groups of National Deputies (Crowrukina, Koravchenkova, Zacharychenka) to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the need to eliminate discrimination in pension insurance for citizens directly engaged in underground and open mining work. Oleg Kolev to the Odessa city head for the technical survey of the children’s playgrounds in Odessa Oleg Kolev to the Minister of Interior of Ukraine for the protection of the interests of residents of the Ulutno Residential Complex on the street of Mikhail Gruszewski, 39/1, Odessa. Groups of National Deputies (Shinkarenka, Tkachenka, Slavicka) to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on the need for a comprehensive review of citizens' appeals to improper housing and utility services. Groups of National Deputies (Tkachenka, Shinkarenka and others) to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine for the creation of a sports rehabilitation centre in Bilgorod-Dnistrovsk district for people with resistance. Groups of National Deputies (Tkachenka, Shinkarenka, Slavicka) to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on the need to approve limits and projections for the possible special use of water resources. Groups of National Deputies (Tkachenka, Shinkarenka and others) to the Ministry of Health of Ukraine on the use of effective measures to provide the Ciliian Medical Center with medical equipment and products in response to the COVID -19 pandemic. People’s Deputies (Tkachenka, Shinkarenka) to the Ministry of Health of Ukraine for the use of effective measures to provide the residents of Killia with a minor, Anna Sukhovi’s immediate free medical care. Groups of National Deputies (Tkachenka, Shinkarenka and others) to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine regarding the use of effective measures to ensure the financing of the work related to the completion of the reconstruction of the Colossian Stadium property complex in Tatarbunara. Groups of National Deputies (Tkachenka, Shinkarenka, and others) to the Ministry of Justice of Ukraine on the use of effective measures to properly enforce a court decision on alimony to support a minor child. Groups of National Deputies (Tkachenka, Shinkarenka and others) to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine for the provision of funding for jobs from the gasification of the population sites of Artiska, Saratsk, Tatarbunar and Kili district of Odessa. Groups of National Deputies (Tkachenka, Shinkarenka and others) to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine to address the issue of additional allocation from the National Budget of Ukraine of medical subsidies to provide insulin to diabetic patients with diabetes. Andrija Derkača to Prime Minister of Ukraine on the use of emergency response measures to ensure payment of arrears to employees of the Kharkiv State Aviation Company. Andrija Derkač to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the development of the "Communication Strategy of the Supreme Council of Ukraine". Sergey Minka to the Head of the National Commission for State Regulations in the Field of Energy and Municipal Services on the Unjustified Tariff for the Distribution of Natural Gas for the PRAT "Melitopolgaz". Michael Bondar to the head of the Police Department of the National Police Department of Ukraine for the approval of pre-project proposals for a bus stop in the village of Banjunin Kamyanka-Buzki district of Lviv. Michael Bondar to the head of the National Police Department in the Lviv region for the resolution of the problem of repairing the Church of the Council of the Holy Virgin in the village of Batyatici Kamyanka-Buzki district of Lviv. Alexander Bakumov to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, Prime Minister of Ukraine, on the issue of the promotion of the post salary of higher education students with specific training conditions for police training. Valérie Teeth to perform the duties of Director of the State Bureau of Investigation as to the use of urgent measures to investigate the facts of the act c.o. Head of the Directorate-General for Combating Economic Offences of the U.S.F.F. A crime. Solomonia Bobrowski to the Attorney General on effective procedural guidance in criminal conduct brought to the EDD No.4202004000000156. July Lighthouse to Head of the Ukrainian State Road Agency for the repair of R-79 Road Sahnovščina-Izum-Kupyansk-Kupian checkpoint Pisky. July to the Ministry of Infrastructure of Ukraine regarding the non-reorganization and liquidation of Lozova Lozova Lozova Lozova depo. Igora Kolyhayeva to the Prime Minister of Ukraine to address the problem of illegal debt to consumers who used gas without counters. Igora Kolyhayeva to the Minister of Environmental Protection and Natural Resources of Ukraine regarding the change in the position of the National Natural Park "Oleškovsky Sands". Igor Guza to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the need for an immediate resolution of crisis issues in the coal sector of the Volin region. Igor Guza to the Minister of Environmental Protection and Natural Resources of Ukraine for the creation of the National Natural Park "West Powziya" in the western part of the Volin region. Michael Kryachka and Roman Soha to the Attorney General for supporting public prosecutions and the organization and for procedural management of trial investigations regarding Ponmarov O. Michael Kryachka and Roman Soha to the Attorney General for supporting the public prosecution and the organization and for the procedural management of the case with regard to the former head of the Brill K.I. District Authority. Michael Kryczka and Roman Soha to the Attorney General on the groundless closure of a series of criminal conducts, the need for their renewal and full and comprehensive investigation. Mikhail Kryachka and Roman Soha to the Attorney General on illegal acts with the GDR by prosecutors and criminal offences of Fedorov I.S. (again). Igor Negulewski to the director of the State Enterprise Odeska Maritime Trade Port to provide information. Tetjana Grishenko to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the establishment of an economic-based tariff for transport services and distribution of natural gas. Roman Gritchcock, to the temporary duty of the Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine to the transparency and publicity of spending in the field of education. Roman Gritchcock is under the temporary responsibility of the Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine to finance the preparation of project and cost-benefit documentation for the NAU Stadium's capital repairs. Roman Gritchcock, head of the district office of Solomon in Kiev, is the government’s administration for the implementation of projects financed by a state - budget subsidy. Roman Gritchcock to the temporary duty of the Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine to reorganize the State Centre for Innovative Biotechnology. Solomonia Bobrovsky to the Secretary of the National Security and Defence Council of Ukraine on the review of the PNDP by special economic and other restrictive measures (sanctions) regarding the Institute of Nuclear Research of the Russian Academy of Sciences. Tarasa Batenka and Irina Konstankević to the Minister of Health of Ukraine, head of the Volin district government administration for the provision of KNP "Ljubešivska CRL" with HLC equipment and oxygen concentrators for the treatment of patients with COVID-19. Victor Mjalik to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Infrastructure of Ukraine, Minister of Interior of Ukraine, Head of the Equality Regional Government Administration, Head of the State Road Agency of Ukraine, Head of the National Police Department in the Plain Region, Prosecutor General on the improper quality of repairing the road of state importance T-18-08 Engagement - Stara Rafalovka - Police Department of the Vara district of the Plain region. Oksana Savechuk to the Minister of Interior of Ukraine for the proper response to the violation of the rights of the owners of the Sokoli garage cooperative in Ivano-Frankivsky and its possible raid. Paul Melnik to the Minister of Youth and Sports of Ukraine, the head of the Primorski District State Administration, the head of the Primorski City Council, the head of the Zaporozhye District Administration, the President of the Ukrainian Football Association, the head of the Ukrainian Football Committee for Strategic Development of the Ukrainian Football Association for the provision of support and effective measures to obtain budgetary funding for the project of reconstruction of the Olympic Stadium (Town of Primorsk, Zaporezka District) for the establishment of a regional football development centre. Paul Melnik to the Minister of Health of Ukraine on the question of the need for the right of pregnant women, at the request of the latter, in view of the significant risks posed by coronary disease (COVID-19) to the health and life of the future mother and child, to a remote (home) form of work during quarantine. Paul Melnik to the Minister of Culture and Information Policy of Ukraine, Deputy Prime Minister of Digital Transformation of Ukraine, Head of the National Council of Ukraine on Television and Radio, Head of the Zaporozhye District Government Administration on the lack of effective response measures to address the low coverage problem with a T2 signal in Tokmak, Primorsk, as well as in the populated areas of Mihailski, Yakimivski, Priazovsky, Veselovski district of the Zaporez region, and in some of the populated areas of these areas there is no coverage with this broadcast signal. Vladimir Ariev to perform the duties of Director of the State Bureau of Investigation, Attorney General for Violent Violations of Land Law, Counterfeiting Land Rental Contracts, Indequate Disruption of Land Collective Property, Transfer of Land Collective Property to Reasonable Persons and Other Violations Systematicly Committed in the Ulashani OTG Slavutsk Region of Hmelnick. Jury Pavlenko to the head of the National Audit Service of Ukraine, acting as head of the National Fiscal Service of Ukraine for the use of measures in connection with possible violations of legislation by officials of the National Agency for State Service, the State Forest Resources Agency of Ukraine, the State Road Agency of Ukraine. Jury Pavlenko to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on dissatisfaction with the Ministry of Social Policy's response to the MP's request for urgent measures to ensure that the local authorities carry out their functions to respect and protect the rights of the child. Hennady Watzak to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine, Minister of Infrastructure of Ukraine, Minister of Justice of Ukraine, Head of the State Border Service of Ukraine, Head of the State Agency for Roads of Ukraine for the construction of a border crossing through the Dniester River on the Ukrainian-Moldov State Border in the Yampil-Koseuc district. The Gennady of Watsaka to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the Ministry of Community and Territory Development, the Ministry of Economic Development, Trade and Agriculture of Ukraine, the Ministry of Finance of Ukraine on the need for rural development and state support for the rural population. Nelly Yakovljevoy to the Minister of Health of Ukraine, temporarily acting as Head of the National Health Service of Ukraine, on the settlement of the situation of the allocation of additional medical care packages for COVID-19 in KNP "The Lighthouse Multi-Professional City Hospital Planned Treatment of the Bahmut District Council". Anatolia Ostapenka to the Attorney General on illegal land use. Sergey Eutushka to the Director-General of the Crucifixion Association for the non-admission of the planned closure of the post office in the region of Sarna Ravenska. Groups of National Deputies (Eutuska, Yvchenka, and others) to perform the duties of Director of the State Bureau of Investigation in connection with the unlawful actions of Svetlana Usik, the city’s head. Alexander Aliksiychuk to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Health of Ukraine, is temporarily acting as Head of the National Health Service of Ukraine for the provision of medical services to the population of the province of Dulbunovo for 2021. Sergey Ljowczyn to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on proposals for the "Response Platform for Life" to the State Budget Project for 2021. Igor Abramovich to the Minister of Justice of Ukraine, Minister of Economic Development, Trade and Agriculture of Ukraine, acting as Director-General of the Ucrobanprom State Company for the protection of the constitutional right of employees of the Kharkiv State Aviation Company to pay for their work. Maria Mezentsevsky to Prime Minister of Ukraine on the crisis situation of the Harkov thermal network utility, the debt of wages and the need for urgent measures. And the final request for today. From Roman Lozinski to the head of the Donetsk District State Administration for the payment of debts to KP's employees. Dear colleagues, these are all the questions that have come to us today. Thank you all for your attention. Thank you all. And we're moving on to the question of "Crazy." Please sign up for everyone who wants to do this. Coming through. Yes, please welcome Light Julia Alexandrovna. Please, Mrs. Julia.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-06-m0.u135	Dear colleagues! Dear Ukrainian people! Today I would like to draw your attention to what happened this morning in the Supreme Council. We heard a report by the Prime Minister of Ukraine, as well as the Minister of Health, on the medical situation in Ukraine as a whole. But what I want to tell you is that sometimes some of the minister's answers don't match the reality of what's going on in the regions and in the places. As an example, this is Kharkiv district. We also heard a health minister talking about the medical situation, the unsatisfying state of the medical field. Yes, indeed, in many areas medical institutions are in a very difficult state, but in some areas there has been a lot of attention: about the condition, about improving the conditions of both the patient’s stay and the treatment of doctors. And not the exception is the Kharkiv region. By 2019, we had made medical development our priority and achieved some results. As an example, the decision was made in principle — the construction of a new cancer complex. For those of you who live in Kharkiv and Kharkiv, the word "Death" is causing friction. For those of you who don't know what it is, I'll tell you. This is a place near the center of Harkova, where there is an oncology complex located a few decades ago under the treatment of cancer patients. Some buildings have already been demolished and cannot be rebuilt, so in 2018 a fundamental decision will be made on the construction of a new, modern cancer complex. A number of works were carried out and extensive preparation and project work was done, funding was planned for the year, and work was done in 2019 to build a new oncocomplex. But in 2020 all the works were shut down, and no money from the district budget was allocated for new funding. Those finances or funds that were set up in the state budget, back in 2019, we had arrangements with Kabmin, they didn't give us the opportunity to build the oncocentre in those construction lines that would allow us to complete all the construction work by December 2021. Instead, we get a year of simple construction and have a problem with all those who are oncological. Among other things, I would like to point out that further construction work is vital for 80,000 oncologists in the area. As an example, in Kharkiv, the situation with COVID is critical. And I want to stress the attention of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine: you need to pay direct attention to the regions, put specific tasks and do them in places. Because it seems like the ministry or the Cabinet is living in some kind of place.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-06-m0.u136	Thank you. Alexander Bakumov, the "Serving of the People" faction, is invited to the floor. Please, Mr. Alexander. Nesterenka, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-06-m0.u137	Dear colleagues, a venerable presidency. Of course, at the moment, as with each of you, I am faced with a solution to the pressing issues that depend on the further development of Ukraine and on the fate of every citizen of our country with you. But I'm going to use the opportunity to continue to raise questions that depend on the conditions of the inhabitants of hundreds of thousands of deniprians in my district, namely: I'm talking about past local elections in Dniper. I am not currently taking responsibility for the Minister of Internal Affairs and Justice, but I am acting as a representative of the Majority District, where he was elected as a national deputy, but I can speak boldly about the violation of the standards of adopted electoral legislation in Ukraine at the last local elections in Dnipri. Everyone, I'm sure, who is of course interested in the fate of the local pines, and especially Dniepra, has seen well how in the central district of Dniper the territorial election commission under the cover of the three members of the commission put the sidekicks in the ballot boxes in the central district of the council. I'm paying attention to the law enforcement agencies and I want to take control of the use of the law enforcement measures established by the law enforcement agencies that have already been introduced into the GDR. And I demand concrete action from the law enforcement agencies and the courts again, because if such cases do not lead to a logical outcome, what transparent elections are we talking about here? So the elections will continue, and we will see large-scale forgeries, the collapse of the local government. And that's what I'm not talking about in detail about the vast ransom of votes, the ransom of franchises of many parties in places. Yes, my friends, don't make surprised eyes. Colleagues, this is a collapse, a collapse on the local level, and I know what I'm talking about. Next. I'll talk about Dnipro. This is my district and my city. I will not leave aside the problems that I am paying attention to today’s local authorities, but whenever it is defrosted, it does not see or respond to them. It's very unfrozen, I'm not wrong, because in other words, I don't want to reflect the behavior and reaction of the local authorities to my appeals as a national MP. I know the problems of my district and of Dnipra in general, and so on and on and on, I'm paying attention to the law enforcement agencies of Dniper: look at the run of the elections in the second round of Dniper's city head. I call on Boris Filatov's current city head to hear me, regardless of his position, or perhaps this may be called inadequacy, and I would like to draw attention to the opinion of the deniers. Don’t stick to the local budget and the chair. Your chair is what you designed yourself at the Central Bridge presentation, as you proudly presented to the President of Ukraine. That's where you belong. Suffer. But these are your words that the chair of the city is suffering. Hence, perhaps the time has come when the office will take place.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-06-m0.u138	Thank you. Thank you for the talk. Hennaday Kasai, the "Slut of the People" faction, is invited to the floor. Please, Mr. Hennaday.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-06-m0.u139	Honorable national MPs, a venerable presidency, one of the main elements of Ukraine’s internal and external policies is the preservation of the environment. This is vital to man’s existence. I believe that public environmental policy should be geared not only to solving existing environmental problems but also to preventing them from occurring. The negative area is one of the loaded areas of industrial potential, concentrated by a large number of black, color metallurgy enterprises, heat, nuclear energy, chemistry, machine building. A large part of industrial enterprises are located in the center of residential dwellings, which forms a major technological burden on the lives of our citizens. The district of Zaporozhye is home to Europe’s largest nuclear power plant, 168 black - and - color metal industry, 21 of which are a metallurgical complex. In addition, a major part of the city’s air pollution is transit transportation, which is not even accounted for. Systematic monitoring of the contents of pollutants in Zaporozhye’s atmospheric air becomes urgent. But the absence of established forms and regulations on the environmental situation and the level of air pollution in accordance with the Cabinet of Ministers Regulation of 14 August 2019, at number 827, blocks the work towards environmental security. I am directed by appropriate requests to government agencies responsible for environmental security. I'm waiting for an answer. In view of the above, I consider it necessary to implement the cruel control of large gastropods, the use of new environmentally sound and energy-efficient technologies, the monitoring of atmospheric and water pollutants, the impossibility of coastal erosion and water in the Zaporozhye region. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-06-m0.u140	Thank you. This is Dmitri Kostuk, the "Serve of the People" faction. Please, Mr. Dmitri.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-06-m0.u141	Dmitri Kostuk, Zitomiršina. Please consider your appeal to the Ministry of Health, to the Minister of Health for a critical situation involving COVID disease in the unified Novograd Volin district of the Žitomir region. That's the point. According to ILO plans for the whole of Novograd Wallinsk, a large united area, which includes three areas of activity: Novograd Volinsky, Baraniovsky and Emilczynski – a resilient hospital has been established which accepts patients with COVID. This is the Novograd Wallin City District Hospital. The second wave hospital, Baranov Central District Hospital and the third wave hospital, Emilchinsk, were designated. According to plans of the Ministry of Health, a second - wave hospital would be opened for the reception of patients with coronary disease when filling up the hospital. Sadly, these plans remained only on paper. Novograd-Volinska Hospital is full, and it's been overcrowded for over a week. COVID patients have no place to put them. A situation may soon arise when they simply sit in the corridors of the hospital, since there will be no other option. The situation is catastrophic, the city is in the red zone. And unfortunately, instead of doing business and preparing a second - wave hospital for discovery, the Ministry of Health, the U.S.A. has done nothing to do with it throughout the year. Because we all understood, and the plans were prepared in advance, we needed to create, and the beds had to be built, we had to train the staff, we had to train them to work with the COVID. For example, there is a catastrophic shortage of infectionists, anesthesiologists, although there are beds. Instead, the sick, new patients coming from the Emylchin and Baran region, were transferred to other hospitals, even in another area. The Novograd Wallin Hospital is the only one 100 kilometers away in a 100-mile radius that accepts patients with COVID. And all the other people are being sent to another area, to other areas, which, you know, is totally uncomfortable, unacceptable to the sick, for their families, who are now being forced to, well, get out of what we have. I'm going to the Ministry of Health to get ready for a second-wave hospital, to open it up, instead of doing stupid things: looking for sports palaces, cultural houses, reorganizing them under the hospital -- you have to open the hospital itself. Hospitals are, they're just not prepared. Another problem is the lack of oxygen, it just doesn't exist. There's nowhere to buy it. Such rules are established that the hospital will run out of oxygen. And support hospitals, where many are sick, have to find their own way out of the problem. And local ODA does nothing to help. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-06-m0.u142	Thank you. I'd like to introduce you to Dmitri Black. Who? Constantine Kasai, please. He's giving him the word "Dmitry Black." Please, Mr. Constantine.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-06-m0.u143	Dear Ruslan Alexiyovich and Olena Konstantinovna! Constantine Kasai, 149 constituency. Colleagues, us and representatives of various factions and groups in the Supreme Council on November 4th, the first reading, adopted a bill by Ukraine to amend some of Ukraine's legislative acts to increase responsibility for illegal mining. I would like to stress the importance and necessity of adopting the bill in the first reading and after the revision in general. I want to argue why. I have complaints in the district (this is Poltava Region) from the heads of the OTG, the locals -- specifically the Chutov region, the village of Zelenkovka -- that a number of road-building companies in the construction of the road were setting up illegal careers on the lands of the OSG and extracting sand and other useful fossils, which are further used to build roads. Cases of uncontrolled mining have become catastrophic in Poland and, in fact, throughout Ukraine. Of course, we all realize that the rapid development of road construction and infrastructure has increased demand for sand and pouring materials. Part of the work used by sand and coal is not controlled by the state and is counted by hundreds of millions of dollars. These funds could be allocated to the development and support of OTG, in the social sphere, and in medicine. By their actions, they cause damage to the state, causing irreparable damage to the ecology of Poltavščina. These phenomena in the Poltava region are of a mass nature. At the same time, I want to point out that there are some of the issues that arise in the documentation and investigation of the facts of sand theft. According to an analysis of criminal conduct, most of them are closed, and those who have documented the criminal activity of the traffickers themselves are called to account by the hands of the President’s Office and the State Bureau of Investigation. Therefore, there is a real problem in establishing criminal responsibility for the illegal mining of useful fossils of local importance. In addition, work to attract damage and to present claims about the use of the nagrass is not sufficiently effective in practice. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-06-m0.u144	Thank you, Mr. Constantine. Paul Susko, faction of "The Servant of the People" is invited to the floor. Please, Mr. Paul.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-06-m0.u145	Good afternoon! I'd like to refer from the Supreme Council's rostrum to the Ministry of Social Policy and personally to Minister Lazebny for Order 586, which was adopted by Kabmin on your initiative. I had a briefing yesterday where I highlighted this issue and addressed you. My parents approached me as the last hope to defend their rights. I mean, the people chose us, and we hired you to work, so listen to the people. Your parents have brought your decision to court, and this is an assessment of your activity. On behalf of the parents of children with special educational needs as the head of the interfractional association "For the Rights of Children with Special Educational Needs" I appeal to you once again. I want you, the distinguished representatives of Minsoc, to hear how you have led to despair children with severe nosology. The requirements of Decree 586 required parents to go through a complex procedure of the commission and the collection of documents to obtain a permit for the admission of children to special education facilities 24 hours a day. Parents from various parts of Ukraine write extensively, a number of eerie examples. Mom's totally blind son, seventh grader, Oksani Sletbytsky, refused to let the kid go to school at the place of registration. She's gone to Harkov. She was also denied in Kharkiv because there is your Order 586. She drove back, and she again faced her superiority. She was told that she was being served a great service by making a decision to have her totally blind son attend a special school and be able to stay there 24 hours a day. Another incident struck a family from Rubizhny, Luhansk region. The mother of a totally blind son was given the opportunity to learn in Kharkiv, but only in the wake of the day. How can you drive your child home to Luhansk every week if even trains do not go every day? Instead, Minsoc sees no problem at all, but he persists in imposing the inclusion. But not all children with severe nosology will be able to adapt to it. With this in mind, my fellow MPs and I opposed this decision, and we held several meetings with the Prime Minister of Ukraine. It's good to be heard. I mean, just to be brief. Honorable representatives of Minsoc, solve people’s social problems, not interfere with their lives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-06-m0.u146	Thank you. Michael Volintz, the "Fatherland" faction, is invited to the floor. Please, Mr. Michael.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-06-m0.u147	Dear Ukrainians, I tried to sign up this morning for an hour of questions to the government. But when a few dozen of my colleagues press a button at the same time, the computer selects several people. So right now, I have the opportunity to speak up and announce those urgent issues that concern tens of thousands of people who live in mining cities and work in coal mines. Thus, the wages payable for today amount to $1 billion,400 million. People can't just buy their own food and the necessities themselves -- they can't buy their own medicine, because now, for example, in the Vujar of the Donetsk Region, it's a city that's referred to as the red zone. People can't pay for utility bills, not just in the town of Vujar, but also in the Luhansk region, in Lviv. In Selidové and the surrounding areas, electricity is cut off for it, and gas is cut off. Then, when a person receives part of his salary, he is forced to pay a fine to connect the electricity to the gas. It's bullying people who work very hard. And for example, debt on salary is 280 million on Celidevogil in the Donetsk region. Taxes are not paid in the local budgets, and no funds are included in the Pension Fund and social insurance funds, and no central budget is filled. And, colleagues, think about it, the High Council's budget committee could have solved this issue last week. And he should support the government's initiative and the government's determination to redistribute the funds, but that wasn't done. The miners were launched in a large circle through Bill 4119, for which they voted only in the first reading, and not in the next week, and only two weeks later, the law might be passed on the basis. Then he still has time to sign his speaker to Parliament, then the President, then they have to find the funds, make the distribution, then through the Treasury, release the money, and then they'll be held somewhere else in the regions, and they'll be rolled through banks. And this is all because of the common people who suffer, who are indignant not only by the authorities but by my colleagues. Ladies and gentlemen, with the few deputies we know this problem, I have tried to solve it. And please don't laugh at some people, don't laugh at them, but consider these problems of miners. And let's do everything we can to help people and not abuse them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-06-m0.u148	Thank you, Mr. Michael. George Mazurasu, the "Serve of the People" faction, is invited to the floor. Please, Mr. George.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-06-m0.u149	George Mazurashu, Servant of the People, Czerniewets region 203 district. I would like to speak now as a representative of the Youth and Sports Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on a loud situation that is taking place around the Olympic College of the Subdivision. In this context, a committee colleague, our star fighter, Jean Belenyuk, is accused of allegedly defending the interests of the current college leadership. Repeatedly speaking, I point out that we are speaking in the interests of the sports sphere, not in the direction of college, the present, the former, the future. We're not interested in names, we're interested in things. And as a representative of the field of physical education and sports, I say that the decision taken to reorganize the college by joining the National University of Physical Education and Sports is, in my opinion, the wrong decision of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. And that's why we're here to review. It was adopted, let's say, sublime, without discussion in the professional environment. And we think it's not for the benefit of the cause, it's against the interests of the sports sphere, it's against the interests of the business it's doing. The missions and functions that this college is performing. The charter stipulates that he is involved in the selection of talented young people, young people and girls from various parts of Ukraine, and the creation of conditions for them, to grow in sports, to achieve great success. And joining a university that has other tasks, education and science, can have negative consequences for college, for its direct functions. And so far, we hope that the Ministry of Education and Science of Ukraine will hear us. We asked to set up a working group to discuss this in the professional environment. Unfortunately, the task force has formed from another subject, let's say, and we're still waiting for them to hear us. In parallel, we have drafted a bill that can help resolve this issue through legislative changes. Well, time is running out, so I also want to support those colleagues who are calling attention to the need to be realistic in applications for treatment of people from COVID. We also have such problems when people hear from one screen and reality is completely different, they really don't have the opportunity to get help free to fight this subtle disease. I hope that the minister will be more responsible for his words, because even when he answered me, he said everything.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-06-m0.u150	Thank you. Alexy Kucherenko, the Motherland faction, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-06-m0.u151	Thank you. Alexy Kucherenko, Fatherland faction, head of the Ukrainian Housing Owners' Association. Honourable Ukrainians, honourable deputies, distinguished presidency! The topic of my speech is information from a group of 50 members of the Supreme Council from the Constitutional Court on the legality and constitutionality of the body, such as the National Energy and Utilities Commission. This submission was prepared long before the beginning of this crisis in the work of the Constitutional Court. We understand that this submission is not being considered in one day, but we hope that the Constitutional Court will perform its duty and answer to the community that it is the body of the National Commission for Energy and Utilities Regulation, on the basis of which it exists, on the basis of which such laws we hold with you on the basis of tariffs a huge body, which today, in fact, leads to a collapse of energy, the area of housing and utilities. Recently, I conducted an electoral campaign in Kiev. By the way, I'm still a valid city head candidate. There wasn't a meeting where I wasn't asked by the Chinese, which is about any city in Ukraine, the same question: please tell us, who is assigning us these tariffs? Please tell me where we can defend our rights. Please tell us why we're being exposed to freezing coefficients. Why are we being presented with some incomprehensible payments? Where do we complain if the bills don't fit the bill? Where do we complain when we can't get anywhere? Dear Ukrainians, this body is called the National Energy and Utilities Commission. A year ago, in his interview with the sports track, Mr. President made it clear to the whole country that the authorities knew how to lower the tariffs by a warm double, look at the quote. I want to find out: What is this organ? And who should be responsible for the fact that this President's promise has not been fulfilled? So what questions do we ask the Constitutional Court? First. Why the President’s decrees suddenly appointed seven members of the National Commission: the 4th President today, the 3rd President. The other one. On what basis does the President influence the rotation of this body and, in fact, influence its quality and quantity? And the third. On what basis did the temporary members of the commission receive the right, in fact, to do what they are doing today for six years? I think society will soon realize that this is an organ, and it will understand that this organ today is not legitimate, and we, MPs, together will have to quickly bring the laws in force into a constitutional way.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-06-m0.u152	Thank you. Dmitry Kisilevski is invited, the "Serial of the People" faction. Please, Mr. Dmitri.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-06-m0.u153	Dmitry Kisilevski, Dnipro. Dear colleagues! Respectable Ukrainian citizens! Can the state ensure an increase in wages and pensions without producing and living from loan to loan? Of course not, he can't. To increase the welfare of citizens and to ensure that local budgets have funding for new roads, schools, and parks, the country has to produce something, create added value, develop its own economy, and give work to its citizens in its own country. My Economic Committee colleagues and I have submitted a whole package of rights to the State Budget to create real incentives for the development of the Ukrainian economy and industry. Unfortunately, they were ignored by the government. For the second reading of the budget, there is still a chance to return to common sense and plan in the budget positions for economic and industrial development. One such position is to provide funding for the Export Credit Agency. This is an institution that is called upon to provide insurance and export credit to Ukrainian exporters. How does it work? When a Ukrainian shipbuilding plant wants to sell a ship produced in Ukraine, it comes to the customer and says: "Here's the ship. Buy it, please." And the customer needs to look for his own credit. And foreign competitors come to the customer along with their export credit agency and offer the customer and the ship and a favourable loan. And of course, the customer buys the ship not from our manufacturers, but from foreign competitors. Accordingly, the Ukrainian factory frees its employees, and the foreign company hires, including our Ukrainian citizens, who, because of their absence from work in their country, should seek employment abroad. An export credit agency is the way the state helps its exporters sell goods and foreign customers. It's a tool to support not any exports at all, but high-tech goods, above all machine-building. Today, the Ukrainian ESA is as close as possible to launch, but the government seems to be dreaming only of new loans, not industrial development. The budget for the Export Credit Agency was zero and offered 1.8 billion dollars. For comparison, Germany's Hermes Export Credit Agency has a capitalization of 5.2 billion euros. All developed countries have and are actively using such agencies, and we are even ashamed to say so. At the same time, the simulation of the full launch effect of ESA shows a great positive effect from its launch for the next 5 years. This is an additional 8 percent increase in GDP, an export of 67 percent, that is, exports of 10 percent per year will increase, investments of almost $18 billion, and the creation of some 60,000 new jobs. Starting ESA is a development of the real economy, it's stimulating high-tech exports, it's a job for Ukrainian citizens in our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-06-m0.u154	Thank you. Paul Melnik, faction of "The Servant of the People" is invited to the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-06-m0.u155	Dear presiding fellows, dear Ukrainians! I would like to draw your attention to the problem of not being fully covered by a T2 broadcast signal in the territory of Zaporez. The real coverage in the Zaporozhye region is now at 65 percent, in the Primorski region, for example, only 30 percent, and in the city of Tokmak and Primorsk, it is almost complete. This situation has a negative impact on the level of population information in these areas about the situation in the country and creates a lot of inconveniences, and also enables the aggressor country's television channels to speak in the territory of Zaporez Region, which directly borders the area of the United Forces Operation. With regard to the resolution of this problem since September 2019, I have directed a large number of parliamentary requests to the National Council of Ukraine for Television and Radio and to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. According to the responses received from the Ministry of Digital Transformation of Ukraine and the National Television and Radio Broadcasting Foundation, measures are under way to further develop the MX-7 state multiple, and eight powerful digital transmitters are being installed in the territory of the Zaporez region. I will point out that this issue has been discussed repeatedly by me at meetings in the Ministry of Digital Transformation of Ukraine and in the Ministry of Culture and Information Policy. The issue of the lack of full coverage of the T2 broadcast signal and the coding of Ukrainian television channels received the proper response of President Vladimir Zelensky of Ukraine. The president set clear deadlines for the broadcaster Zeonbud to take steps to expand digital television coverage in the country and facilitate people's access to television. But because of the Coronavirus epidemic, unfortunately, the project was suspended. I want to look at the national broadcaster Zeonbud to expand the broadcasting power at least twice that we estimate will allow for the expansion of the coverage and distribution of the T2 signal in the Zaporez region. I refer to the Ministry of Culture and Information Policy, to the Ministry of Digital Transformation of Ukraine and to the National Council on Television and Radio as soon as possible on the issue of low coverage with a T2 signal in Zaporozhi region, especially in the Primorski district of Zapori district and in the city of Tokmak and in Primorsk. This is an official address. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-06-m0.u156	Thank you. This is Kirill Nesterenko, the "Serve of the People" faction. He's refusing. Then comes the word to Mr. Michael Zimbaluk, faction of the Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-06-m0.u157	Honorable Presidium, distinguished national MPs, citizens of Ukraine! I want to focus on the government's work on three issues. First. A colleague of the faction, Mr. Wolintz, spoke of the debt owed to mining teams on wages, especially at Lvivwogilly, the debt owed to miners increased again to 300 million dollars. This government, like most previous ones, does not at all demonstrate programs for reforming the coal sector. The other one. Here the previous speakers spoke of the problem of government and local authorities in opposition to COVID-19. Today, Mrs. Condratuk, Vice Speaker, asked the Prime Minister a clear question about testing. The answer to me was unsavory, and we didn't hear it today, but how the government executes the ruling of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, which was voted here by the majority of the session hall, more than 300 votes, on 20 October of this year. The Prime Minister replied briefly, "This is a program in work." Sorry, we are now in areas, in areas where it is not easy for citizens to be treated, but to be tested or treated at a health care facility. I agree that we should first equip existing hospitals with extra beds, oxygen, and then start other treatment facilities for patients who are not fit to do so. Question three. Local elections took place, elected deputies to united territorial communities, newly formed district councils, and district councils. What legislation will the newly elected deputies of the circuit councils be guided by? This week, the Ministry of Regional Development succeeded in passing a bill that regulates some of the problems that have arisen. But there is this subject: To what balance will medical facilities, or health care, that cannot be financed by a united newly created community, be transferred? To what budget will cultural, sports, and other institutions be transferred? All these questions need to be answered in this room, and the initiative should be first of all by the Ministry of Regional Development. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-06-m0.u158	Thank you, Mr. Mikhail. And the last performance for today. Irina Borzov, "Serve of the People" faction, is invited. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-06-m0.u159	Good afternoon, dear Ukrainians! Irina Borzov, Winnitzkin. The situation with the spread of the Coronavirus is strained, and the number of patients is increasing rapidly. Daily there are new records in Ukraine. So it's very important that all levels of government combine efforts to provide additional beds in hospitals. You can't measure who's to blame right now and argue about authority. The price of a question is people's lives. Today, this is a shared responsibility both to local governments, to local administrations, and to government. At the beginning of October, 571 million dollars of subsidies were allocated to local budgets to provide oxygen to health facilities that provide medical care to patients with COVID-19. In the Winnitsk region, today the number of beds with COVID and suspected is 64 percent. But if this disease continues, it is now imperative to mobilize the cots, including at the expense of district hospitals, local hospitals, and district hospitals. Today, there is no way to talk about the opening of a hospital in the stadium. The government needs to analyse the availability of funds and provide cod bags for all hospitals that are added to the list. Today, there are additional needs from the areas to provide oxygen to the hospital. And, of course, the government has to fund the hedge fund, because local governments and local administrations can't handle it on their own. In Winnitsk district, 21 hospitals signed a contract with the National Health Service to provide treatment for patients with COVID. Patients should be provided with everything they need, since medical facilities directly receive funds from the National Health Service of Ukraine. Casualties include medical expenses and medical supplies for patients and medical staff. It is not unusual for a patient who has a severe illness to receive 45,000 dollars. I emphasize that treatment is free of charge for a patient. Therefore, patients should not write a list of medicines and send their relatives to a pharmacy. Coronavirus is the second front. It is important for all to unite in order to preserve people’s lives and protect our medics.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-06-m0.u160	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-06-m0.u161	Thank you, Your Honor. The plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed. Desires can take pictures, as they always do.
