ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-16-m0.u1	Good afternoon, dear fellows! Good morning, media officials! Please prepare to register. Is there a Vlasenko? None. I think you can tell him that registration takes place by pressing the green button, the first button on the left. Bondarev will hand it over, yes, I can see that. Dear colleagues, are you ready to register? Let's start the meetings, because we have speeches from the national deputies today. Please, let's register. [[10:08:53]] There are 212 Ukrainian national deputies registered in the hall. The plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Mikhailo Borisovich, come on, I'll show you the Rules, it's all there is, and there's a quorum. Thank you for your advice. Dear colleagues, in accordance with article 25 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Regulations, we have up to 30 minutes to speak from Ukraine’s national deputies on Wednesday. Please sign up. Salamaha Orest Igorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-16-m0.u2	Please give Arsena the Pushkin.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-16-m0.u3	Gunboat Arseniy Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-16-m0.u4	Dear Head, dear colleagues, dear Ukrainians! Today, from this rostrum, I want to tell you about the situation in the Gitomir region. In Zitomirsk today, the word "corruption" is associated with several names. One of these names is Bug. Sergey Jouk is the head of the Ecoinspectorate of the Polish District. It's a person who's not so recently been appointed, but all the schemes that could be restored, all that could be invented about corruption in the eco-inspection of the Polish District, this person did in a very short time. Today, my colleagues and I are with some of the people of the world, where we are not going to come to a community where we do not come to a community, with whom we do not communicate, whether it be the foresters, or the quarry, or other areas of economic activity related to ecology, we are going to have complaints, complaints, complaints. Today, this man has arranged for the healing of the forestlands. We now have 12 state - owned enterprises, where the foresters told us that they had already come for the wages. We're being approached by stones today. That's why I'm calling from this rostrum to Mr. Bug, retire! That's the first one. The other one. We have prepared and filed a statement of crime in law enforcement about the activities of this person. That's not why we came to power so that every Bug would organize corruption in ecology or in any other sphere, anywhere in Ukraine. And the third. Today is the birthday of the head of the Derjeko inspection of the Ukraine of Mr. Malovano. So from this rostrum, I want to welcome Andriy Mikolaiovich with his birthday, to wish him health and all the best, and to ask him from all of Zitomirsk, from the whole community, from the district council, from the people's deputies, from everyone who represents Zitomirsk and represents the community of Žitomirščina to give us a gift: get the Bug out of the area. He walks around the area and tells us that he needs to drive. He'll discredit you today, Mr. Jouk. I don't know if he's driving you or not, but the fact remains. So, Mr. Malovan, on your birthday, give a gift to Žitomirščina and to the entire community of the world -- get Bug out of the area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-16-m0.u5	Sharaskin Andrey Andriyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-16-m0.u6	Please, Inna Sowsun.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-16-m0.u7	Another Romanovna Sosun.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-16-m0.u8	Inna Sowsun, Voice faction. Dear colleagues, I have come out to you today to read the basics of this open-minded appeal of education and scientists to the appointment of the Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine, Sergey Scarlet. In a reference to science and education, it is recalled that the Committee on Ethics of the National Assembly on the Quality of Higher Education recognized plagiarism in four scientific works by Sergio Scarlet. Moreover, he proved that at Chernigiv National Technical University, headed by Mr. Scarlett, plagiarism was systemic. In response, Mr. Scarlett brought the matter before the National Authority and tried to disqualify him from his independent status. In addition, while working in the ministry, he tried to reverse the reform of the public service, delaying the introduction of a series of important draft regulations related to the reform of science and the system of judging scientific degrees. Instead, it excludes those in the community who are clearly in positions of protection for academic integrity. Moreover, the Ministry’s plans for reforming school education are constantly sounding to society. He says that what children will learn from the age of five is that we will return to the decade, that the UN must not be obliged to enter universities. In this regard, educators and scientists request that this person not be appointed minister of education and teaching in Ukraine. It is emphasized that such an assignment will signal to the international community that we are supported by plagiarism and not by virtue of virtue, and that there is a high threat to the collapse of reforms and the return to the past. You can read the full text of this reference on the Internet. This address has now been signed by about 300 people – educators and scientists. I can't name all the names, but the name of the few people who signed this address. Alexy Kolebug is the man who heads the scientific committee today. Sergey Sharapov is a famous physicist quoted by Nobel laureates. Yuri Halavka is a wonderful chemist who returned to Ukraine after several years of work in Germany. I know there's an alternative appeal signed by the rectors who have been leading universities in Ukraine for 30 years. They are people who drive very expensive cars and have millions of unexplained declarations. Of course, it's the right of the majority to choose whose position is more important to you. On my part, I can say exactly that the position of 300 people who signed this statement is more important to me. And I very much hope that most will listen to the opinions of the authoritative education and scientists in Ukraine in the appointment of the Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-16-m0.u9	Cimbaluk Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-16-m0.u10	Mikhailo Cimbaluk, Fatherland. Dear Mr. Head, Your Honor, the People's Deputies, the citizens of Ukraine! Yesterday, the Supreme Council of our State voted on the basic law — the budget for which the state will live in the next 2021. Is it ideal? Of course not. But with joint efforts, and we thank you for the budget committee's support for the proposals of our "Universal Union of Fatherland" faction, and we have created a separate COVID-19 special fund for the next year to finance population vaccination and medical supplementation. These are two important things. The next is about teachers. The government's decision to raise teachers' salaries could not be continued or initiated, but it was, as I can see, a historic thing when a young teacher, after graduating from a university as a young specialist, gets at least 9,000,600 dollars. We think it's also our shared participation in the promotion of the teacher's profession, and all the teachers in the other categories are going to get over 10,000 dollars. Next thing. Yesterday, we were able to stand firm for the maintenance of local budgets, leaving the excise on fuel at the disposal of local communities. Taxes paid by Ukrzaliznica remain at the disposal of united territorial communities. But this is the prospect for the next year. Life is still going on this year, and we can see that the government is funding only protected articles in the budget. What about those who have done jobs and are not being paid by the State today? There's another thing when miners, after a calendar year, have fulfilled their obligations to the state, to labor groups, and have won coal for which they are not paid, and today the state owes miners more than 2 billion dollars per salary. Only Lew Coal is 490, almost half a billion dollars. We're demanding.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-16-m0.u11	Sergey Vladislavovich was involved.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-16-m0.u12	Dear colleagues, in fact yesterday's Parliament's decision has enabled Parliament to plan the budgets of local councils as soon as the Budget Code and the Budget Act are signed. What was planned in the project was actually clearing local budgets and trying to make local budgets actually dependent on the central budget of the district, the district, and the budgets of the united communities. Yesterday an incredible event was made when, in fact, between a quarter and a half of the budget will now be formed on the basis of guaranteed revenues to local budgets. The Fatherland faction put this as a key requirement in the Budget Code, and the fact that we got this opportunity and gave this opportunity to the local budgets is actually the completion of budgetary decentralization and the ability to manage the funds directly on the spot, not the planning of these funds from the centre. Regrettably, yesterday's Code of Budget was a cynical norm when the so - called gambling license fee will remain only in the central budget. I want to remind you how game business apologists and casinos in this session hall have tried to enlist the support of mayors and local deputies, telling them that 10 percent of the casino and gaming revenues will remain in place. So yesterday they lied even in this, leaving it in the central budget. Local councils are left with drug addicts who will be stationed at casinos and casinos. Local budgets leave treatments dependent on this terrible disease. Local budgets are left to the crime scene, which will have to be stopped at the expense of local budgets. And so-called costs will be concentrated in the central budget. But that is not all. The so-called Game Business Association appealed to parliament to support a bill that frees the gambling business for four years from taxation. The hardest business in Ukraine! I'm going to see how Parliament will vote for this, those who have talked about billions of revenue in the budget. We won't let that happen! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-16-m0.u13	Rudik Sergey Jaroslavovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-16-m0.u14	Dear colleagues, while you and I had a lively discussion yesterday in this room about the draft State Budget, the changes to the Budget Code, there, right next door, behind the walls of our Council for a few days now, the FOPs -- small entrepreneurs who feed themselves, their families, a small number of hired workers, if they can, and, in fact, our state. Throughout the world, there are countries on their shoulders, but not in us. "What were they standing for?" – asked colleagues because not everyone had time to go out. The election was over. Why go out there? Do you think it's the break-up of Parliament? No, not yet. You think it's for the President's presidential election? No, not yet. They were willing to give them a level playing field, just like everyone else. They want simple things: if you're shutting everyone down, shut everyone down. But if you're closing down only small entrepreneurs, then you're going to have to force the country into a pen -- all you're going to achieve. What did they get instead? Did you see what was on Maidan yesterday? Tear gas, canes, and noise grenades instead of 8,000 from Zelensky. I've been in Maidan practically all night with them, and I've seen 100 so-called law enforcement officers heroically for two hours not let go of a generator that was supposed to heat up the water for the people who stand for their rights on Maidan. Is that what the police are supposed to be doing these days? What is more than heroism? Arsen Borisovich, did you and I stand on Maidan to get the police to beat up people? We don't have to just leave it like that. But there could be another big talk, and simple things could be done. There are two bills that are key to entrepreneurs: 3853-1 and 3853-2. Nothing prevents us from putting this session in order and voting for it in this room. There is Wednesday, Thursday, and Friday. I take it this is the last plenary week of this year. You don't want to be in this session, let's call it in. I have in my hands signed letters by the collective people's deputies who insist on holding this temporary session. But there are only 66 signatures, unfortunately. Let's get to 151 and get the majority to vote, although once again, there are servants. Because it's a national matter, it's a matter of supporting people.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-16-m0.u15	Thank you. George Mazurasu is invited to attend, please, the "Serve of the People" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-16-m0.u16	George Mazurasu, 203 District, Cherniewec Region, Committee on Youth and Sports. First of all, I would like to thank all the colleagues who supported Alexander the Pasic Amendment yesterday, which involved guaranteeing funding for culture and sport at least 4 percent of the corresponding budgets. Regrettably, there were not enough votes to allow these amendments to be approved, accepted, but thank you to those who understood the problem. What are we talking about? This is about me today, and my colleagues are coming from different regions of Ukraine with signals that, for example, sports schools are already being largely closed down, there is no financing in the normal size and scope of sports and health work. Why? Because unfortunately, we are not guaranteed either by legislation or at the level of Kabmin's decisions a proper minimum level of funding for sports and health work. In my proposals for the Government's Programme of Action, I focused on the need to guarantee this minimum level of funding for sports across the country, because we are all citizens of one country. And this important social standard should be provided throughout the country, regardless of the ability of budgets that are appropriate and independent of the will of local leaders and deputies. And that's the kind of addiction that we're in right now. And that's why we have the closing down of sports schools and the threat of serious job losses. It's very important. Because the better we work in the sports and health sphere, the less there will be work and problems in the medical field. And if you want to, and with this coronary challenge, that's exactly what our sphere is doing on the medical side: the stronger and healthier citizens, the easier they can resist this attack, the more they can resist it. In addition, I would like to draw attention to the problem, which, unfortunately, was of the funds that were provided for in the Chernobyl region to overcome the effects of a terrible summer flood. Out of over 460 million so far, less than half have arrived. Contractors do their work and do not receive funds, and they point out that they will not be able to continue their work without being paid for their work. Therefore, I ask the Prime Minister to do everything possible to fully finance these important costs of coping with the effects of the summer flood. That's not the problem that we can joke about and we'll still have even bigger problems if we do.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-16-m0.u17	Thank you. People’s deputies, Oksana Savichuk, are invited to attend. Please, Mrs. Oksana.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-16-m0.u18	Oxana Savchuk, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union, the city of Ivano-Frankivsk. You know, who would have thought that in the next 2021 there could be ghost schools, ghost hospitals, those on which the sign was written on the door, "because the legislator, excuse me, voted non-professional laws in parliament." Let's not take offense at each other, but let's be honest: in the new laws that we have adopted concerning decentralization, local self-government, there are a number of inaccuracies that are already coming out of the way today, after the local elections, to all those who are currently doing this. Why would we create district councils that actually can't handle the things that are on them right now? The basic income they're supposed to get is income from renting utilities, as well as income from renting property. What if there is no such thing in some areas? How should district hospitals and circuit schools be transferred to communities when communities are unable to maintain them? Let's go over it again. In order to take away the hospital, for example, the City Hospital or Lisecko Hospital, which is on Prikarpata, which I represent, the local community has to have the money to pay for the energy supply, the technical staff and to pay a few thousand dollars, hundreds to make easy repairs. You think some communities have the opportunity to do that? No, they don't have the money. Thus, such tablets at certain hospitals and schools are very likely to be passed on to communities by January 1. Instead, the new district councils that were created have nothing: they have no rooms, nor even a printer on which they should print their decisions. These are, you know, circuit boards that don't have any authority, but they, by law, have to hand over property, including hospitals and schools. Parents, children, workers, doctors, and doctors are behind this property. I am very much addressing each of you from all those people who are asking today: please settle these things at the legislative level. We acted irresponsibly when we created the areas and deliberately detonated the slow - motion bomb. If we don't do this today, what happened to the FOPs will prove to each of us a very easy option. It's going to get worse. Thank you. Let's make it right that it's not too late.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-16-m0.u19	Thank you. Andrew Osadchuk, Voice faction, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-16-m0.u20	Samantha Bobrowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-16-m0.u21	Samantha Bobrowski, please. Please, Mrs. Solomia.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-16-m0.u22	Samantha Bobrowski, the Voice faction. You know, I'd like to talk about what's the least going on in this room, and it's obviously about the security of the east and the line of disengagement. But today it is about information security. Did you know that most of you have not even heard of this, that, for example, on the day of the opening of a special checkpoint for entering Happiness, the so-called Republic of Three Letters decided to start and greet Ukrainian citizens and, in particular, our military, and to run in the city of Happiness on the line, at a frequency of 91.9 FM, where it is called the FM Army, a so-called radio called the Combat FM. What is more, they have left our frequency completely behind, and they are thus handing us greetings, promising to all to lift up the fighting spirit and soon expand their air into the Lugansk region. And you know, I was most impressed. I'm already silent on the teaching that volunteers, former military personnel are either deafening or retranslating to a lot more powerful. But I did this to the Prime Minister, and you have no idea what the answer was. So I'll give you a sound. The reason, of course, is that the fighters have a stronger transmitter. It turns out we have more powerful, it's not installed. To install it, you need to pass at least five rounds of hell. And they're like this: first the organization has to go to Nakrad, then the Nakrad has to adopt this call at the meeting, then the Nakrad goes to the Ukrainian National Radio Centre, then the organization has to go to this center, then it has to go through all the procedures and payment of services, and then it has to come together again to approve it. And along with that, the Minicifer has to go to the U.S.S. general headquarters to get a special technique involved. You can imagine how long it takes, what bureaucracy costs. And in general, I have a question: friends, and you're seriously, a respected government, and you really think that for the seventh year of war, you can write 5, 6, 7, 10 procedures in order to have, at a time when Ukrainian television companies are deaf on FM frequencies or on air, you have the right to sign off with these receipts? Then I have a question: where are your, in principle, state decisions? You know, I've gotten used to it in 11 border areas in the Odessa region, we'll find the RRT or the First Channel more easily than the Social, Plus, or the ICT or whatever. But, dear colleagues, let's think about which president we want to hear for the new year. And on Friday, I demand a government report on how Ukrainian television and radio frequencies are spoken of on our east line. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-16-m0.u23	Thank you. People's MP Skork, "The Opposition Platform for Life." Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-16-m0.u24	People's MP Skork, faction of the Opposition Platform for Life. Honorable Presidium, distinguished colleagues, respected citizens of Ukraine! I'd like to focus your attention and on the whole Ukrainian society on the three events that took place yesterday, which, as far as I'm concerned, demonstrate the full degree of hypocrisy, legal nihilism in our society. The first example is the example that took place yesterday in Zaporozhye, which is an example of how the authorities actually break the MP's hull through the knee, in fact, the governor of the area made an illegal takeover of power, the capture of power in the Zaporezsky District Council. We demand that our law enforcement agencies deal with this situation, we demand that we stop what is now happening in Zaporozhye. This is an example where you are said to have gained experience in Odessa and are implementing your plans in Zaporozhye. We're not going to allow unauthorized power grabbing, doing the totally illegal actions you did at the Zaporez County Council yesterday. The second question. I'd like to go to our constituency, the factions that supported the budget yesterday, except for the majority. I'd like to tell you, my dear colleagues, that you're going to share fully the responsibility for what's going on in the country with the majority. And if you have an illusion that it's not true, it's absolutely true. And the third question. I'd like to know how different the situation is when people were beaten in Midan yesterday, the police beat people in Midan and put tear gas on them from the November 13th situation? The November 13th situation you called the Dignity Revolution, and what do you call what happened yesterday, who will be responsible? We believe that the examples of what happened yesterday both in Zaporozhye and in Odessa illustrate very vividly how the authorities treat their people, how the authorities treat their colleagues, and how the authorities govern the country. What happened in Zaporozhye is that we have to stop because it can't be. What is happening in Odessa, other cities, is actually under the leadership of the President's administration that is usurping power. You called it the Dignity Revolution seven years ago, and you were fighting for some kind of right. How can it be that the governor in the closed office picks his head and calls it the head of the district council? How can that be? And you totally agree, and neither one of you has spoken against it. How can that be? I'm talking to the President. Mr. Zelensky, stop and stop your administration in their illegal activities. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-16-m0.u25	Galina Vasilchenko, the Voice faction, please. Andrew Osadchuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-16-m0.u26	Good afternoon! Andrew Osadchuk, Voice faction. Yesterday we took an extremely important step together -- we made decisions that actually allowed us to get out of the constitutional crisis, and more rightly, the anti-corruption crisis. We've made up our minds to be imperfect. But it is hard to expect perfect solutions from this room. But we gave NAZC the opportunity to continue its work fully and to work fully with the electronic declaration from January 1st the following year. And it's very important, and I thank everyone for that. At the same time, this Supreme Council has forgotten an equally important issue, namely the settlement of the status and activities of the NAB. I would like to remind you that on September 16, this year, the Constitutional Court of Ukraine declared the President's mandate as Director of the National Anti-Corruption Bureau of Ukraine unconstitutional. No one actually argued with this, because probably dozens of decisions of the Constitutional Court say that the President's mandate is exhaustive and there's no authority to appoint the Director of the NAB and the Director of the DBD, by the way, like it or not. Our common responsibility was and is to bring legislation into line with the Constitution, and this was required by the Constitutional Court, which gave us three months to carry out that task. Today, December 16, the term expires. Two months ago, the Golossian faction filed Bill 4211, which has been a successful member of the Anti-Corruption Policy Committee for two months, which has done nothing not only to review it but also to submit it to the Hall to meet the demands of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine. In fact, the anticorruption committee has contributed to a vast array of political forces and businesses in this country in order to continue to destroy the NAB. This cannot be allowed if we are really interested in strengthening anticorruption bodies. So I am asking the Head of the Supreme Council first of all with a strong request to give the task to the committee of profile to consider immediately Bill 4211, which we propose to bring fully into line with the current Constitution of Ukraine the procedure for the appointment of the heads of the NAB and the DBR. Not to initiate a discussion that the Minister of Justice of Ukraine has raised today in social networks where he proposes to rewrite the Constitution rather than to execute it in order to try to preserve these powers under Zelenski. I ask you very much to leave the Constitution alone, to do it, and to bring the activities of anti-corruption bodies into line with the Constitution, as the Voice suggests. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-16-m0.u27	Thank you, Your Honor, time for the performance is up. Look, there's two requests for a break with a replacement for the show, now six minutes of the show. And then we're going to vote for the day-to-day inclusion of the two drafts of the Medical Committee. And please invite the national deputies to the hall. Polakov Anton Eduardoovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-16-m0.u28	Anton Polyakov, MP Group for the Future, Montenegro. Dear colleagues, we were all talking to you yesterday about how we are dealing with the constitutional crisis that we are adopting the necessary legislation. But we have forgotten that the three - month term that the Constitutional Court of Ukraine has given us today is about to resolve all the issues regarding the illegal appointment of today’s executive director of the National Anti - Corruption Bureau of Artem Sitnik. Mr. Sitnik is losing his last legal legitimacy today. I say it's legal. Of course, I understand that Artem Sergiyovich doesn't care about the law, it's just a piece of paper for him, because the post on Twitter of the U.S. Embassy means a lot more to him. But social legitimacy is what our society, our Ukrainians think, is the people who committed to it six years ago, the obligation to fight corruption and fight for justice. What do we see? That 70 percent of Ukrainians do not trust NABU and its director. That's the worst indicator, that's worse than the police, the prosecutor's office and the court. What have we seen in six years? No results. In six years, for example, the same woman, the Romanian prosecutor, was able to put down top corruptionists, dozens of senators, relatives of the President, to bring 700 million euros back to prison. What did Sitnik do? And he didn't do anything: no top corruptioner, not even those in this room, is sitting behind bars, no million dollars is returned, and Sitnik himself has earned a sentence and he's officially become a corrupter. And the question is, why do we need such a director of the NAB? Will you trust the fight against drug abuse? Why, then, is the corrupter still in charge of the NAB? I'm not going to address Mr. Petty Officer, it's not going to work. I am now asking the President of Ukraine to review the "Serial of the People" series and to remember that the country is governed by not by the Great Seven and their ambassadors, but by the President of Ukraine, who is appointed by the people of Ukraine and to whom he will answer. But I'm turning to the overpowered faction, if you don't like the bills that we've put in place to solve the situation around the NABU, give your bill to finally appoint a person who will really fight corruption and who will be trusted by all Ukrainians. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-16-m0.u29	Thank you. Sophia Romanovna Fedina.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-16-m0.u30	I'm going to talk about values -- a concept that, unfortunately, for most of this room, remains unclear. General Marchenko, Marousia Zvirobius, Andrew Antonenko, Julia Kuzmenko, Jana Dougar, Tetjana Cnerovol, Vladimir Viatrović, Andri Parubius, Peter Poroshenko, Andrew Denisenko, Fish Dnipro, Maidan Museum, Gonchar Museum. And I can continue this list. These are people and environments that Vladimir Zelensky is actively struggling with, either on demand or through some personal lunch. But the question is, what unites the above-mentioned people is values. The values we went out with in the 13th year on Maidan. These are the values of freedom, respect for human rights, the right to peaceful protest, the value of democracy and the protection of the interests of the Ukrainian State. And so these values are in no way compatible with the Greens proclaimed: "What a Difference," "Love in Putin's Eyes" and "Glorification of the Soviet Union." That's what the authorities are fighting with with these values is the "enquedic" repressive methods of "three" and the steel settlement with the "uncomfortable," because all of these people, and at the same time all the veterans, the volunteers, the "Madanians", the active military, are strangers, are enemies to Zelensky. Now the question is, who are their own? They're left with the berkuts that shot people on the Midan, because in fact Greensky let them go free swimming, and now they're "breathing" off the victim. For Zelensky, they're "vagners" because they've been released. And today, the Supreme Council, my colleagues, I am addressing you, unable to create a TSC to investigate the situation with the "vagners", protecting the national security of the Ukrainian state, has proved to Greensky's "ministers of Janukovic," because the vast majority of them have turned out to be in the higher authorities, and their hand-held DBRs and GPUs are covering them and not even investigating them. They turned out to be corrupters, especially in the Supreme Council Hall, but that's why they're not allowed to move them. And "high on the cake": yesterday, Auntie Blackwall was served the indictment. Midshipmen! Well, most of all, it says that the Mayan and the Dignity Revolution are mass disturbances using violence. Do you have no objection or hindrance to the "ministers of the people"? You're all participants today, it turns out, in mass violence. That's why we have such communication with people of Greens, such as beatings, light - noise grenades, reprisals. But I remind you, at critical times, the Ukrainian people have always chosen the values of freedom and democracy. So yesterday's indictment against Auntie Blackwall is a judgment against Zelenski!
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-16-m0.u31	Thank you. Invite the national deputies before. [[B in m in s a l in]] Ready? Dear colleagues, we are invited to include in the agenda of the daily session a bill (registration number 4464) and to shorten the time limits for the submission of alternatives so that we can consider it on Friday. Is there no objection? I am voting on the proposal to include in the agenda of the draft Law on Amendments to Article 77 of the Basic Health Law of Ukraine (for benefits and higher pay for the work of professionals with higher non-medical education working in the health system) (Registration No. 4464). Ready to vote. Please support and vote. [[10:51:57]] For 308. Decision taken. I am voting on the proposal to declare the bill urgent and shorten half the deadlines for the introduction of alternative bills and to draw the Committee's conclusions on it, referring to draft registration number 4464. Please support and vote. [[10:52:32]] For 316 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, next question. I would like to vote on the proposal for the inclusion in the agenda of the Amendment Act to Chapter IV of the Final and Transitional Provisions Act of Ukraine "On State Financial Guarantees for Public Health Care" (as regards the suspension of the entry into force of Part Ten of Article 10) (Registration No. 4472). Please support and vote. [[10:53:22]] For 313 Decision taken. I would like to vote on the proposal to accept the bill as an urgent and shorter half-life of the introduction of alternative bills and to draw the Committee's conclusions on the bill (registration number 4472). Please support and vote. [[10:53:56]] For 308. Decision taken. Thank you. The next issue of the agenda is the draft Act amending the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine concerning the publication of decisions of the Supreme Council of Ukraine (Registration No. 4334). The chairman of the Committee on Rules, MPs and the organization of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Kalchenko Sergey Vitaliyovich, is invited to attend. Dear colleagues, will someone insist on the papers? The railroad? Nobody else? Which direction do you insist on? Two revisions?
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-16-m0.u32	2nd row.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-16-m0.u33	Nestor Ivanovich! Then let's go straight. Batenko. Don't insist. Railroad, 2nd row.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-16-m0.u34	Dear colleagues, this is a very important amendment. We're parliamentarians. We must ensure freedom, including freedom of choice. This amendment, first of all, about our personal freedom, so that we can register each morning not only with a green button but also with a yellow and red button. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, I understand we have a system like this now. But I want to say that there are other thoughts in the room. For example, perhaps our colleague, Dmitri Black, who represents the Yellow Water District, wants to vote with a yellow button. And maybe I know that for sure, Sergei Vlasenko and Arthur Gerasimov want to register with a red button, because red is love. And Andrew Motovlovec will continue to vote with the green button. So please vote and support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-16-m0.u35	Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-16-m0.u36	The position of the committee is that this proposal has been rejected, given that it relates to the provisions of the Rules, which were not considered in the first reading. Thus, according to the rules of part one of article 116, she could not fail to be rejected.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-16-m0.u37	Dear colleagues, the position of the committee: Amendment No. 2 of the Iron Man to be rejected. Please identify and vote. [[10:56:43]] For the 120th. The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. All right, let's get to the vote. Please invite the national deputies to the hall. Ready to vote? Ready? I am voting on the proposal to adopt a second reading and, in general, with the necessary technical and legal regulations, the draft Act amending the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules on the publication of decisions of the Supreme Council of Ukraine (Registration No. 4334). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[10:57:57:57]] For 246 The decision is adopted, the law is passed in general. Thank you, colleagues. The next issue of the agenda is the draft Act amending the National Service Act (Registration No. 4096). To the rostrum, the head of the Committee on Public Authority, Local Self - Government, Regional Development, and the construction of Kornienko Alexander Sergiyovich is invited to the rostrum. It's a second reading. Dear colleagues, will someone insist on the papers? I see, Eutusek, Cimbaluk, Scrum. Nobody insists anymore? Mikhail Mikhailovich, which papers will you insist on, please. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-16-m0.u38	44th and 45th.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-16-m0.u39	44th and 45th. Please turn on 2 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-16-m0.u40	Okay. Thank you. Mikhailo Cimbaluk, Fatherland. I would like to point out first of all that the bill amending the State Service Act on the elimination of age restrictions on public service work does not correspond to the fact that the bill does continue to be a service term, but is limited to 70 years of age. So either you have to change the name of this law, or it's something different, and you can't limit it to 70 years of age. My application relates to the payout. We believe that the initial assistance of a government official who has reached retirement age is paid once upon a time as he wishes to be released from public service. This may not necessarily be the age of 65. The following is the case in the case of a state service exemption in connection with the retirement or retirement of a public official 65-year-old, the leave aid shall be paid to a civil servant once for one of the reasons provided for in paragraph 7 of the first article, at his request. For this reason, I ask you to put these two amendments to the vote, more faithfully. In fact, as far as I am concerned, the law requires a second reading again, because the name itself does not match its essence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-16-m0.u41	Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-16-m0.u42	The position of the committee here is to reject both revisions. And we voted in the budget yesterday and supported it. And as for the name of the law, I think it's easier for you in the middle of the "Fatherland" faction, because the author of the law is your colleague, Mrs. Skrum. You'll get to know each other sooner, a good law or a bad one. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-16-m0.u43	Thank you. I'm betting on the vote on two Tsimballuk amendments: 44th and 45th. We vote in turn. 44th. The committee's dismissed. I'll bet you a vote. Please identify and vote. [[11:02:10]] For 111 The decision is not taken. 45 Amendment of the Cymbaluca. The committee is not supported. I'll put her to the vote. Please identify and vote. [[11:02:34]] For-100 The decision is not taken. Next item. The next one is Eutusek.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-16-m0.u44	Dmitri Alexanderovich, I'm asking for three right-handers, and one of them. Give me two minutes, please. And 71 revisions please put to the vote later, if possible.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-16-m0.u45	Give me two minutes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-16-m0.u46	Thank you very much. Sergey Eutuszek, Equinox, Fatherland. Dear colleagues, in the past, two good documents, reform papers, were drawn up under the chairmanship of the Committee of Sergei Vlasenek of the Committee on Public Service and Service. It's a service in the local government, which was dedicated, unfortunately, to the 19th year of Presentation Dustenk. And it was also conducted by Olena Skrum of the Fatherland faction, a reform of the State Service, which was also, in principle, dedicated to President Prashenko and amended. What did she predict? This reform on the public service predicted that all A officials would be assigned to their posts, and this is the heads of the district administrations, these are the heads of the district government administrations, according to the competitions. And we wouldn't even have the slightest precedent when, during the election campaign, all the heads of local government are turned into party officials, pressured through administrative resources, banning opposition political leaders from running, in principle, in budgetary institutions (such as educators, such as doctors) from participating in elections. So I think it would be very necessary right now to go back to these things, to assign these leaders to the positions of these leaders, entirely through competitions. And to return to the Service in Local Self-Government Act and allow all officials of local self-government to receive a salary. And we also have the possibility of being assigned to professional normal specialists, because we see that decentralization is going on and we see that this is an irreversible process. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-16-m0.u47	I'll bet you a vote. Committee position? Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-16-m0.u48	Yeah. First of all, we've got a negative on this. Secondly, I'll just briefly explain what you're suggesting. You're suggesting that we now resume the unknown number of people in positions where there are people now to create a bunch of courts now, a bunch of collapses because of that. We've erased it several times from different rights, from different laws, and we're going to delete it consistently. You can't do that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-16-m0.u49	Thank you. Let's go to the 71st vote. It's rejected by the committee. I'll take her into account. Please identify and vote. [[11:06:00]] For-50 The decision is not taken. Scram. What adjustments, Alona Ivanovna?
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-16-m0.u50	Thank you. I've got four changes and I'm asking you to give me your word. This is 77th, 78th, 79th, 80th.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-16-m0.u51	Give me two minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-16-m0.u52	No, I won't insist on everyone, but I have to speak up, explain to the Ukrainians what the issue of this law is, I apologize.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-16-m0.u53	Then each and every one of them.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-16-m0.u54	Yes, please. 77 law enforcement, colleagues, is very important to the service of local self - government. Yesterday, all of us in this Parliament, or not for the first time by a constitutional majority, defended the right of local self-government: we returned the excise fuel to them, we returned the other revenues to their budgets. Sadly, though, we do not have the full protection of local government officials. Today, they have an insane history of pensions, pension insurance, salary, payroll. This standard is consistent with the retirement age not only for the public service but for the service of local self - government authorities, since government officials will be able to stay at work for up to 70 years. The same should be true of officials of local self - government. Let's support local self-government again. Please vote in favour.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-16-m0.u55	Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-16-m0.u56	It's beautiful, Alona Ivanovna. But you don't know the rules any worse than I do. There was no 116-article use here -- that's a change to another law. That's why we can't formally support it, although, in fact, I support it, and in Bill 3491, which we're voting on by ourselves, there's this amendment, it's counted. So the very idea of increasing the age of service in local self-government is what we strongly support -- the question of old age is what it is called. Majors will all hear me right now, a lot of seniority at an important age, and they need to be able to do more work, because it's the experience of those who can run villages. That's why we're two hands behind it, but we can't formally support it here.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-16-m0.u57	I got it right that according to the committee's work, you did everything right because you couldn't count, but the hall can make a decision on its own and in principle, do you think this amendment is correct? Dear colleagues, prepare for the vote, please. Please invite the national deputies, prepare for the vote. Ready to vote? I'm betting on the vote number 77. 77th, right? 77th Amendment of the People's Chamber of Scrum. The committee has rejected it, but in principle the committee against it does not deny how much I have understood from the speech of my colleagues. Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[11:09:36]] For 290 Decision taken. Edit included. Next amendment, Alan Ivanovna, 78th?
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-16-m0.u58	Yeah, 78-a. Thank you very much, colleagues, we have once again supported local self-government in Parliament. I know that local self - government and local self - government officials see this. And 78th and 79th, so I won't take up time, I'll take one minute for two amendments, and I won't insist on voting them, but I'll explain them. In fact, there are no competitive appointments for the public service to date. You know that appointments to the public service happen under the table: through selection, through interviews, no one meets either the criteria of experience or the criteria of knowledge of Ukrainian language or the criteria of education is an absolutely shameful story. But to resume the contests, we also have the right one. Today, 15,000 government officials are appointed without a competition, just in manual mode. Half of the "A" State Service Corps is assigned without a competition. With these amendments, I demand that the highest category "A" be held for two months, and that would be correct, but I don't insist on voting.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-16-m0.u59	Next item. Turn on the Scrum microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-16-m0.u60	Thank you. Alona's splinter, Fatherland faction. This is my last amendment, which I ask you to support, amendment 80, colleague. What's going on today? We may exist and exist state bodies in a country that is fully quarantined, and all appointments in all government bodies take place without competition, without any manual procedures. What's more, quarantine can last another six months, a year, a few months, we don't know. And organs like, for example, the Economic Security Bureau will also obviously be created during quarantine, and all the officials in these bodies will be appointed by hand without a competition. And my amendment says it's impossible that those organs that were created during quarantine have to be assigned to a competition, and otherwise these organs are just illegal. So I'm asking you to support this amendment of 80 and allow new bodies to gain trust both in the Supreme Council and in society and to recruit people professionally. Please support the 80. I don't insist on any more amendments, that's the last one. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-16-m0.u61	Thank you. Next item. She doesn't insist on voting. Right? Is that what you're insisting on? Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-16-m0.u62	Colleagues, in 15 minutes, we're going to be looking at a law in which it's systematically arranged so that we don't create a situation like yesterday when we have two standards competing. Now let's rule out, and we'll just keep that law simple. I'm talking about 3491, he's next.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-16-m0.u63	Dear colleagues, it's number 80. Right? The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[11:12:49]] For 256 Decision taken. Edit included. All right, no one's insisting on the papers anymore? Let's move on to voting for the law as a whole. Ready to vote? I am voting on the proposal to adopt a second reading and the whole draft Act amending the State Service Act on the elimination of age restrictions on public service work (registration No. 4096). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[11:13:48]] For-300 The decision is adopted, the law is passed in general. Congratulations, colleagues. Let's see the factions. The next issue of the agenda is the draft Decision on the permanent suspension of the powers of the Ukrainian national deputy Trebushkin Ruslan Valeriyovich. Can we vote without talking? Ruslan Valeriyovich, no discussion. Let's give Trebushkin two minutes to get to the vote. Is there no objection? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-16-m0.u64	Good afternoon, fellow MPs! In the next election, I was chosen as head, so please support this decision. I want to thank you all for your work. And I'd like to invite you to my community, to my guest in town. For me, it'll be a third cadence, so I'll be glad to see you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-16-m0.u65	Thank you, Ruslan Valeriovich. I am voting on the proposal for the adoption of the entire draft Ordinance on the permanent suspension of the powers of the Ukrainian national deputy Trebushkin Ruslan Valeriyovich. Ready to vote? Registration number 4446. Ready? Please support and vote. [[11:15:45.]] For 327 Decision taken. Thank you. Hello! Good luck with your new job. Dear colleagues, the next question is the draft Decision on the resignation of Bessarab Sergey Borisovich from the post of Minister for Ukrainian Veterans (registration number 4498). It is suggested that this issue be considered in a simplified manner. Please support and vote. [[11:16:37]] For 272 The chairman of the Committee on Social Policy and Veterans’ Rights, Trelyakov Galina Mikolayevna, is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-16-m0.u66	Dear Chairman, distinguished national MPs! As instructed by the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the Committee met this morning to consider the Minister's statement on the matters of veterans of Ukraine, Mr. Bessarab Sergey Borisovich, on discharge at his own request. The Committee proposes to the Supreme Council, recommends that the Supreme Council accept this resignation, which is linked to the state of the minister’s health. At the same time, we would like to say thanks to Minister Bessarab Sergei. Because he was head of the Ministry during the establishment of the Ministry, while cooperation with local authorities was being established. You know that the participants in the fighting, their social protection, are cared for not only by the state authorities, but also by the local authorities. Minister Bessarab established fruitful cooperation with the Committee on Social Policy and the Protection of the Rights of Veterans. And for the initiative of the head of our committee of Mr. Anatoly Ostapenko and the ministry, a number of bills were presented. I'll count them. This is Bill 3839 on Amendments to the Tax Code on Tax Taxation of Importation Transactions to the Customs Territory of Ukraine for Transport Means to Fighters. These are numbers 4261, 4363 — about the members of the Dignity Revolution and the family of the Heroes of Heaven. 4388, 4389 and other bills that we're going to need to consider. During this time, the Ministry has granted the status of participants in hostilities, including volunteers, for whom we, by calling upon the Supreme Council, have adopted a bill. There are many other problems in the ministry. The new minister in charge of this ministry will face the problems that exist today. I want to remind you of another 4225 bill, it's registered and envisions the creation of a National Military Memorial Cemetery to bury the military and the fighters for Ukraine's independence. Thank you, Mr. Sergei.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-16-m0.u67	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please sign up: two for, two for, and two for, the factions. Oddzuk Andri Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-16-m0.u68	Please pass the word to Kostenku.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-16-m0.u69	Kostenko Roman Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-16-m0.u70	Dear colleagues, the whole country no longer understands personnel politics at all. Yes, we already have a cadre marathon going on as ministers: every six months we have a new minister for the Department of Veterans. What have we had? We had a civil minister, we had a deputy secretary general of the U.S.S.S.A., we now have a general of the Ministry of Defense. The next thing I know, it's already in the candidates, again, General BSS. I understand that we're just running out of candidatures, and we're already basically going to say, "Slow down, slime down, I'm ordering you to be a minister." And orders, as we know, are not discussed. Are these the most important issues that we need to discuss today when the State Defense Orders are broken down, strategic defence planning, when our military is banned from opening fire in response? Shouldn't we be here right now to consider resigning the Secretary of Defense? Because what is currently happening in the Ministry of Defence is only working on the hand of our enemy, and by no means of the people of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-16-m0.u71	Nina Petrovn Yuzanin. Jonah? Jon’s Maria Mikolayevna
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-16-m0.u72	Good afternoon! You know, really, where's the minister? Where's his report? Where is his strategy, perhaps? What's going on? Is he there or is he quietly here, quietly gone? A minister is a responsibility. Please let him come and report on what is being done in Parliament. Why was the budget cut that you voted on yesterday? If you compare the first minister, Irina Fries, and this minister, at least a ministry was created from scratch, a register of veterans was created, a ceremony was created and a ceremony was arranged for the burial of military officers. And this ministry was not even able to implement this ceremony. I mean, what is it? Where is the rehabilitation strategy? Why is the budget reduced by both prosthetics and rehabilitation? Veterans are on trial. We've seen this minister at least once? Does anyone really remember what he looks like? It's Zelensky's responsibility. And let his ministers come and report on what they'll do in almost a year. He was assigned almost a year ago. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-16-m0.u73	Lubinet Dmitry Valeriovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-16-m0.u74	Honorable Predestination! Dear National Deputies! Dear citizens of Ukraine! Ladies and gentlemen, I welcome you all. You are the statisticians. We vote again and again for someone without seeing this minister. We don't know what he was doing, we don't see his report. We just have to do our statistical work again -- press the green button. If that works for you, it doesn't work for the MP's Party for the Future. We are constantly insisting that before Parliament should vote in favour of the release of a minister, an official, we should consider here the report on what he was doing. Besides, I can say, as head of the Human Rights Committee, it's also our profile, we've never seen a minister before at a committee meeting, while we've been looking at bills and programs aimed at veterans. So this approach should not be set up by the Ukrainian Parliament, we should not just insist here, we should show practice when parliamentary control is not just some rule in some law just written down and it should be. And until that is done, honourable national MPs, the entire Ukrainian society will be perfectly right to count what Parliament is responsible for in this state. Because we don't require anything from anyone, we just assign, we just resign, and we don't even have the ability to ask at least one question to such a minister. So let's take the next one, at least today, let's show the example of the parliamentary-presidential republic, press yellow or red buttons. Let the minister come here, report, answer the question, and then resign. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-16-m0.u75	Nestor Ivanovich Šufrich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-16-m0.u76	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman! Dear colleagues, someone has forgotten the mask in the rostrum! Of course, it's a fundamental question of resigning a minister, but in this case we have to deal with this process more humanly. Indeed, the minister is sick, he is of old age, and we desire his health, and he will be supported by our faction. But we would like to see not only the minister, but also the individual governors who are busy in the regions. In the Odessa region of Sergey Greenewecki, I have a beautiful history of relations with him, respected him, but what he did in the Odessa Archaeology is a battle, a destruction of the sessional council. For what? So that, without registering our fellow local councillors on the "For the Future" list, we can have an interlocutor in Odessa. There must also be responsibility for not adorning the grey head of Sergey Greeneweck. And I'm talking to Sergei: don't put your name under this "green" incompetence in union with Truhanov. What happened in Zaporozhye yesterday? They ran out of the session room so that someone such as Vitalia Boden would appoint him as the head of the hoax. If you have voices, if you have legitimate reasons, why don't you work in a sessional hall? They fled, in some conference room, under the cover of all the incomprehensible people in the world, and they shut up from their fellow MPs of the local council, and they chose the head of the fraud. We will demand that all those involved in this act be brought to criminal responsibility in 109th and 341st, 351 articles of the Criminal Code of Ukraine. If you are a national, work in a transparent way, not in the toilets. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-16-m0.u77	All those who wish to speak? Sobolev, after that, let's go to the vote. Please invite the national deputies to the hall. Sergey Vladislavovich was involved.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-16-m0.u78	Sobolje, Fatherland. "Paternality" will not vote without the minister's presence in favour of resignation, whichever family or whatever circumstances may be. The minister should come to the session room, tell him if there was any pressure on him, or if it was his voluntary decision, he should come forward, because we heard a statement from the committee. Yes, perhaps you should reward a person rather than resign? It's about the Zaporozhye District Council. Don't interrupt the council's work, representatives of the Opposition Platform for Life, on the eve of the Zaporozhye budget. The election was lost, there's a majority who chose the right head, let's work. It's not going to work out what you did in January 14th, when you were sitting in the district board with the aunts, and then you were throwing a rally on the street. We won't give it to you. You lose, you sit down and vote! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-16-m0.u79	Please prepare for the vote. Ready to vote? I am voting for a motion for adoption in the entire draft Decision on the resignation of Bessarab Sergey Borisovich from the post of Minister for Veterans of Ukraine (registration number 4498). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[11:29:24]] For 251 Decision taken. Orders adopted in general. Thank you. Let's see the factions. Dear colleagues, we had a few more questions in the agenda about the application for the resignation of the Minister of Ecology. A professional committee asked for more time to study the matter and to conduct all necessary procedures to prepare it for consideration in the hall. So there is an offer today to remove it from the order of the day. Is there no objection? None. There's an official letter from the committee. Thank you. Let's move on to the next question of order of the day. You have been invited to consider the draft Act amending the National Service Act on the candidate reserve with proposals by the President of Ukraine from 24.07.2020 (worked) (registration number 3491). At the rostrum is invited the head of the Committee on Public Authority, Local Self - Government, Regional Development, and the construction of Kornienko Alexander Sergiyovich. Who's going to insist? Oh, I'm sorry, we don't have a right here.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-16-m0.u80	There's no right here. Dear colleagues, this is a workup after the veto. The Committee on the Organization of State Authorities, Local Self-Government, Regional Development and Urbanization, commissioned by the Supreme Council, reviewed at its meetings on 30 September and 2 December of this year the Ukrainian Act on Amendments to the Law on the State Service on the Candidate Reserve and recommended, in accordance with part eight of article 135 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, that it should be accepted as a whole. In the event of the re-admission of the law to entrust the committee in preparing the text for signature to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to undertake its technical and legal work in conjunction with the Chief Legal Authority of the Supreme Council. Let me remind you that this was from the beginning a bill on the so-called candidate reserve to simplify access to the public service. It then set out a number of standards regarding the renewal of public service competitions that have already been discussed today, and it was vetoed on how to implement them. There are currently three important positions in this law. The first is to re-establish public service competitions for category "A" in six months from the date of recruitment, category "B", category "B" in one year from the date of recruitment. Here's Mrs. Alushina, unfortunately we can't give the word, Head of NADA, National Service Agency. She can comment on why these terms are, because really faster it's impossible to do this, really 15,000 officials have already been assigned outside the quarantine competition, since March. We also cancel article 87 of the prime. 1 The Ukrainian State Service Act on so-called political liberation where it was possible to release public servants without any particular motive. We return to a classical action that requires special conditions or a breach of an oath, a reprimand, disciplined conduct, or an official goes on his own. Can we move on, please? And here are the 65-year-old rules that we've been voting for the second day in different laws in a row, and they're added here on a case-by-case basis. And the service in the local government -- 65 years old too -- is taken into account. In principle, there was a committee twice in preparation. We worked very closely and with all the steakholders, with the European partners, with the National Service Agency as the main performer of this. And in principle, when we vote positive and sign this law, we can even observe with you this year the announcement of competitions for certain public service posts. In principle, we've all been waiting a long time for this. The procedure, I don't know what, the Head of the Supreme Council will tell us how to proceed.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-16-m0.u81	I'm voting on a proposal for acceptance. Please invite the people's deputies to the hall. A proposal for acceptance as a whole. There are no speeches, colleagues. Ukraine's Law on Amendments to Ukraine's State Service Act on Candidate Reserve with Proposals by the President of Ukraine since 24.07.2020 (worked) (registration number 3491). Ready to vote? Ready? Please support and vote. [[11:34:44]] For 224 The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, the law is rejected. The next question is the Ukrainian Law on Electronic Communications with Proposals. Who do we have? Who doesn't have the money? Who's whistling in here? Poorest people's MP. Please, the Ukrainian Law on Electronic Communications, with the proposals of the President of Ukraine from 28.10.2020 (worked). Fedienko Aleksandar Pavlovich, deputy head of the Digital Transformation Committee, is invited to the rostrum. Two minutes for the show and then we go to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-16-m0.u82	Good afternoon, dear fellows! On September 30th of this year, the Ukrainian Law on Electronic Communications was passed. However, the President of Ukraine has returned to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the Law on Electronic Communications and has proposed to work with the aim of bringing its provisions into line with the basic laws of the State and eliminating existing gaps and shortcomings. The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Digital Transformation dealt with all the proposals made by the President of Ukraine to the law and found them to be valid. Members of the committee have worked and submitted 66 rights, which fully reflect all the President's proposals. Some of them are essentially editorial, and some of them change the wording of some articles according to the President's proposals. At its meeting on 8 December 2020, the Committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the adoption of the Ukrainian Electronic Communications Act with the proposals of the President of Ukraine (registration No. 3014), which has been finalized for re-entry into the Supreme Council of Ukraine as a whole. I want to remind you, colleagues, that this is one of those laws that the European Union is looking for. The Act, which confirms Ukraine’s intention to join the European Union and which is necessary for the implementation of the Association Agreement between Ukraine and the European Union. Colleagues, please support and accept as a whole with the necessary technical and legal rights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-16-m0.u83	There are no performances during the second. No, with motive, and with procedure, no. Six rights, they're all about voting, respectable colleagues, six rights. You can't put your edits on. I'm going to tell you that there are six rights, there's going to be a vote on each of them, and then there's going to be a vote in favour of the law. It's the President's proposal. It's not your rights. How will you put them? You're not the President yet. The representative of the committee is going to put the two amendments that you're talking about to confirm the three amendments, and then we're going to vote for the law as a whole. Is there no objection? Alexander, you're a representative of the committee, you're now sounding three petitions that colleagues insist on, and we're voting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-16-m0.u84	Colleagues! Colleagues from the EC faction insist that three rights be confirmed: 54, 55, 57. Yes, Mr. Volodymyr? Yes, thank you. So 54, 55 and 57 are the adjustments that need to be made for confirmation. Committee position: they were taken into account and supported. Let's be clear.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-16-m0.u85	54th Amendment, she was supported by the committee and counted. Please prepare for the vote. Ready to vote? It's counted by the committee. 54th Amendment, I'll put it on confirmation. Please support and vote. [[11:41:55]] For 229 The decision is taken, the amendment is taken into account. Next item.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-16-m0.u86	The next one is 55th.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-16-m0.u87	55th Amendment, Committee. Yegor Volodymyrovich, don't distract me, please. Is the 55th committee counted?
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-16-m0.u88	The 55th Committee is on the table.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-16-m0.u89	I'm betting on her confirmation. No. 55. The committee is accounted for. Please support and vote. [[11:42:54]] For 221 The decision is not taken. Edit rejected. And 57 revisions, right?
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-16-m0.u90	Yes, 57 of the committee is supported.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-16-m0.u91	Number 57 is counted by the committee. I'll put her to the vote for confirmation. Please support and vote. [[11:43:25]] For 212 The decision is not taken. Edit rejected. Dear colleagues, we are now going to vote in favour of the law as a whole. We need to.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-16-m0.u92	From this law of 56th? Committee position, 56 revisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-16-m0.u93	Fifty-six lashes. The position of the committee is taken into account. And as I recall, we had no further comments on it, since we discussed it with other factions yesterday.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-16-m0.u94	Let's put 56 to the vote. The committee took her into account. I'm betting on her confirmation. Please support and vote. [[11:44:33]] For 217 The decision is not taken. Edit rejected. Are you willing to vote for the law as a whole? Dear colleagues, listen, please. Dear reporter, listen, please. I'm putting him to the vote now, this bill 3014. It takes 226 votes for him to become the law. If he doesn't get 226 votes, he's considered rejected, we won't send him to the committee. There's no procedure. [[B in m in s a l in]] We've already voted number 54. The decision was, you saw it. If not, you can look at the transcript. I am voting on the proposal for adoption in general with technical and legal remedies of the Ukrainian Law on Electronic Communications, with proposals by the President of Ukraine dated 28.10.2020 (worked) (registration No. 3014). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[11:46:26]] For 228 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. [[Applause]] Hello! Let's see the factions. "People's Servant" – 222, "The Opposition Platform for Life" – 0, "European Solidarity" – 0, "Fatherhood" – 0, "The Future Party" – 0, "The Voice" – 0, "The Trust" – 2, "the Non-Factional" – 4. You are invited to consider the draft Law amending certain legislative acts to ensure the phased implementation of the Single Court Information and Telecommunications System (registration number 3985). It is suggested that this issue be considered in a simplified manner. Please support and vote. [[11:47:42]] For 227 Decision taken. The chairman of the committee’s committee on legal policy, Baby Roman Veacheslavovich, is invited to attend. Please enable 3 minutes from the authors and from the committee. Dear colleagues, let us be able to vote on the law for a recess, if you don't mind.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-16-m0.u95	Dear colleagues, your opinion is proposed by the draft Act amending certain legislative acts, which deals with procedural codes to ensure the phased implementation of the Single Court Information and Telecommunications System (3985). This system, in short it's all called the EUITS, I think everyone knows that it's essentially a system that should digitize the activities of the courts, make it convenient and modern access to justice for the participants in the trial. The EUSITS is a complex system, it covers many different trials in the courts and includes about 15 subsystems that can work relatively autonomously. Under current legislation, the EU’s legislation is to work and become mandatory in all courts only if all subsystems are ready to work without exception. Taking into account the complexity of this system, its full readiness to operate is, at best, a few (not one, but more) years, and it is only for the availability of sufficient funding. In some lands similar systems have been developed and improved for decades. The essence of the bill is simple and is to allow parts of the EU to be introduced by the EU, allowing its individual subsystems to be put into service. The point is that the EU ETS subsystems are now at different stages of readiness: some are almost ready to enter into operation, some are ready to start, some only at the technical task stage. If we wait for all the modules to be ready right away, in our reality, it will probably take tens of years. The EU’s phased launch will soon allow for the introduction of separate EU ETS subsystems into the mandatory operation of the courts. According to information provided by the National Court of Justice, they are almost ready to launch, including such subsystems as updated, a more convenient and fast register of court decisions, as well as an electronic cabinet. These are just two examples, actually about eight of these subsystems. Launching, for example, the electronic cabinet will make communication between the trial and the court more convenient, allowing a significant reduction in court paper circulation, saving the cost of using envelopes and stamps that are particularly relevant in our reality. Also, the relevance of digitization and remote or non-contact, let's call it that justice in pandemic and quarantine conditions is particularly relevant. I would like to point out that not all of the cases are being transferred simultaneously to an electronic format, and these trials are taking place gradually, to the extent of readiness and systems, and the courts to these trials. The concept was considered and supported by a working group on the digitization of the judiciary. The Supreme Council Committee on Legal Policy recommends to the Supreme Council that the draft law be adopted as a basis for consideration in the first reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-16-m0.u96	Please sign up: two for, two for, one for, one for, two for, two for factions. Zinkevich Jan Vadimovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-16-m0.u97	Please give the word to Ruslan Knazevitch.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-16-m0.u98	Knyazevich Ruslan Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-16-m0.u99	Thank you very much, Mr. Head. Dear colleagues, I won't be long to tell you the whole story, I'm just going to tell you that last year, when Law 1008 of the President of Ukraine was passed, it was suggested that many people had forgotten about it, the Head of the State Judicial Administration and his deputies to point out that it had been inadvertently put into operation by the EU. Then things got a little cold, and they started to figure out that there was no blame for the administration of the State Court because they were systematically underfunded for several years, and the state-owned enterprise, which was supposed to deal directly with this issue, did not get the right opportunities to buy technical complexes in time, as was provided for by appropriate changes to the procedural codes. After that, it seemed that something was coming up with a solution, and it could be solved in the medium term. Yet things began to be created that were not understandable to us. That enterprise that was profiled and was supposed to do all the work in time, it was actually destroyed. The management, which had only been working for three months before that, was relieved of its work for intended reasons: the head of the company, its deputies, and the heads of the professional departments involved. Instead, all the assets and capabilities of the enterprise were transferred to another clone-enterprise that was created by the DPA, which accordingly came up with the idea of dismembering this system into many subsystems, creating a series of small state-owned enterprises. And in fact, from our point of view, as we see it, these are not very clean stories, not very clean schemes. Therefore, we will certainly not be involved in them, even though the idea may be right. But unfortunately, it seems to us that its implementation will delay the process, freeze the system as a whole and, unfortunately, delay it indefinitely. In view of these circumstances, the faction cannot vote in favour of the bill in its first reading. Yet.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-16-m0.u100	Sukhov Alexander Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-16-m0.u101	Please report to the High Commissioner.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-16-m0.u102	The great Sergey Anatolyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-16-m0.u103	Good afternoon, dear fellows! Sergey the Great, Luganskina, the Trust Group. There are some shortcomings in this bill. But for a time, there was a very powerful working group working on this bill, there are some developments, there are some prospects. But we need to take a step towards finally having an electronic system that has to guarantee proper access to justice, protect all information from cyber attacks, send procedural documents and notify participants of the process. I would like to draw your attention, fellow honourable colleagues, to the fact that this draft development of the electronic system is planned to be submitted to the Supreme Council of Justice, which will soon be responsible for organizing a competition for the Supreme Qualification Commission of Judges of Ukraine, and to ensure that the courts work properly. And I'd like to add that we're finally going to be developing some documentation systems in the Ukrainian IMF system, so that the leaders will still hear the citizens and respond properly to the message. I think the system and the Ministry of Internal Affairs will make a decision on Luhansk and will make some personnel decision on the future work of this "leader" (in paws) in office. The whole "Trust" group will support this bill in the first reading, and we'll add it to the second. Thank you for your attention. Sergey the Great, Luganskina, the Trust Group.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-16-m0.u104	Thank you. Nestor Schufrich, Opposition Platform for Life, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-16-m0.u105	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. Our faction won't support this bill. We believe that it creates conditions for falsifying evidence, including criminal conduct. And when the prosecution's control was actually destroyed, the destroyed crime control system against the property of the Ukrainian State is very inappropriate. But I can't help but respond to the challenge that was made by representatives of another political force regarding "losed--be quiet." I would like to mention to the honorary colleague that the Opposition Platform for Life has won Odessa, Herson, Mikolayevsky, Zaporziski, Donetsk and Lugansk. In Odessa and Zaporezki, I repeat, in 3 areas we took 2 seats, and in Kiev our candidate took 2 seats. Well, "pants on cakes" is our victory in Bloody Rose. So talk.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-16-m0.u106	Nestor Ivanovich, let's actually, with all due respect, we don't have a political show.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-16-m0.u107	Because saying we lost something, so you know, it's better to lose than you won in that same town. What are you doing now? You dance to the authorities, in the regions and in this room, voting for a shameful budget, voting for an anti-national budget. So tell me, how much did you sell your heart for -- 33 or more? So it is better to chew at times than to talk. And we really won these elections, and we respect the results of our opponents, including the "For the Future" faction in the Odessa Arch. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-16-m0.u108	Sergey Vladislavovich was involved in motive. And Taras Tarasenko with motive. Then we go to the vote. Dear colleagues, if we could take a break, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-16-m0.u109	Our faction will not vote for this bill. We discussed it in detail on the committee. And those warnings that were made on the committee are unfortunately not taken into account. It's about winning. Victory is when you've won, when there's a majority. And since you haven't been able to make most of your hard-core allies or your hard-core opponents, you've lost. The governors expressed support for those who received the majority, and the majority of them chose their heads yesterday. And with regard to who lost and who won, I think the best are the results published on the Central Electoral Commission site, where in fact we today clearly understand that the absolute majority of the local councils are represented by the Fatherland faction. It's very nice to meet you. And I welcome our colleagues all over Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-16-m0.u110	Taras Petrovich Tarasenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-16-m0.u111	I welcome everyone. Regrettably, no faction that opposes has read the bill, and it speaks exclusively of its victories. But once again, no one thinks of judicial authority. This bill will save half a billion dollars on postal expenses, on paper. So clearly we need to vote, we need to think about the judiciary, about its independence, about ensuring citizens' right to access justice, not their own ambitions. Please vote in favour of the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-16-m0.u112	Let us proceed to the vote, please take your seats, prepare for the vote, so that we may be able to vote for a recess. I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Law amending certain legislative acts to ensure the phased implementation of the Single Court Information and Telecommunications System (Registration No. 3985). Ready to vote? Ready? Please support and vote. [[12:01:01]] For the 250. Decision taken. Thank you. There's a break until 12:30.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-16-m0.u113	Please invite the people's deputies into the hall. Dear colleagues, let's get back to work. Please prepare for the vote. You have been invited to consider the draft Law amending the Code of Administrative Offences on Increasing Responsibility for Violations of Natural Ecosystems against Fire (Registration No. 3755). It is suggested that this issue be considered in a simplified manner. Is there no objection? Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[12:40:02]] For a hundred and Decision taken. The National Deputy of Ukraine, Bondarenko Oleg Volodymyrovich, is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-16-m0.u114	Good afternoon, dear fellows! Today we are considering a bill amending the Ukrainian Code of Administrative Offences to increase responsibility for violations of legislation in the field of protection of natural ecosystems against fire. This bill is submitted to supplement the draft Law (3526) on amending certain Ukrainian legislation on forest protection, forest fire prevention, water funds, peatland and other categories of land. According to the State Emergency Service, the number of fires in natural ecosystems increased by almost 50 percent in 2020 due to a number of natural factors and human irresponsibility and negligence. In the state forest fund, the area of fires has increased more than 40 times. This year, in total, some 30,000 fires occurred and covered an area of more than 100,000 hectares. The aim of the bill is to strengthen environmental protection, prevent fires in natural ecosystems, improve governance and control in this area, increase administrative responsibility for violations of fire safety rules. The bill amends the Ukrainian Code of Administrative Offences. In particular, it is proposed to extend the mandate of the central executive authority, which organizes state policy on the issue of surveillance and control over compliance with legislation on fire and technology security, railway transport, fishing and increased fines. By the way, most of the rules that provide responsibility for these administrative offences have not changed since 1997. At this time, the size of the sanctions is disproportionate to the damage caused by the fires. Please accept the law in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-16-m0.u115	Thank you. The chairman of the committee’s committee on law enforcement is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-16-m0.u116	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues! The Committee on Law Protection considered, at its meeting, a draft of the Ukrainian Law on Amendments to the Code of Administrative Offences on Strengthening Responsibility for Violations of Legislation in the Field of Protection of Natural Ecosystems against Fires (imposed by Ukraine’s National Deputy Bondarenko and other Ukrainian National Deputies). The purpose of the bill is to increase administrative responsibility for violations of the rules of fire safety. The proposed amendments to the Ukrainian Code on Administrative Offences, which increase the administrative burden in the form of a fine for administrative offences provided for in article 95. 1, article 120, article 175, paragraph 175. 2,188. 16, 188 p.m. 20. Articles 223, 224, 240, 255 of the Ukrainian Code on Administrative Offences, aimed at extending the powers of individual officials of the public authorities, as well as improving the efficiency of administration and control in the above areas, are also being amended. This bill is thematically related to the draft Ukrainian Law on Amendments to certain Ukrainian legislative acts on strengthening forest protection, preventing fires on forest and water foundations, peatland and other categories adopted by Parliament on 1 September 2020 on the first reading. The draft Law 3755 is supported by the Ministry of Finance of Ukraine, the Ministry of Environment and Natural Resources Protection of Ukraine, the National Police of Ukraine. The Committee recommends that the Supreme Council of Ukraine be accepted as a basis for consideration in the first reading. Please be supportive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-16-m0.u117	Thank you. Please sign up from the MP factions and groups: two in, two in, and two in, against. Savrasov Maksim Vitaliovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-16-m0.u118	Please pass the word to the Prince.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-16-m0.u119	Princess Mikola Leonidovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-16-m0.u120	Thank you. Dear colleagues, one day we have so much going on that we take so many projects that in principle create pressure on business, create opportunities for corruption risks, create opportunities for bribes even where they are needed. What do we have to say about this bill? First of all, even his name does not fully fit the point. Because the text of the bill is about violating the requirements of legislation and regulations on the technical operation of power stations and power grids, fire safety rules on transport, and not the direct violation of environmental legislation. Individual proposed fines for such violations are disproportionate to the violations themselves, and this is highlighted by the Chief Executive Officer of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Individual organs are given unusual powers. For example, just think about what it sounds like: "Fishers' organs have the right to deal with administrative offences related to violations of the rules of fire safety." It's kind of absurd. The immeasurability of responsibility under environmental protection can have, as I said at the beginning, and the great corruption risks, the pressure on small businesses instead of achieving the desired result. Despite understanding the importance and necessity of adopting this bill, "European Solidarity" will support it in the first reading. But we insist on working on the serious law for the second reading, and we will work on it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-16-m0.u121	Thank you. Aresonkov Volodymyr, "Trust" group. Please, Mr. Volodymyr.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-16-m0.u122	Aresonkov Volodymir, Deputy Group "Trust", Žitomirščina. To all who criticize both the bill and the fact that in recent times the Committee on Law Enforcement has been considering enough bills to increase responsibility for the commission of crimes or other offences. So I want to remind all the advocates of freedom and human rights. Last week, there was a joint meeting of the Committee on Ecology, Environment and Law Protection in Žitomirščina, in places where in March last year there was a massive fire that took over five areas of Ukraine, which turned around the Chernobyl nuclear station, and the result of which was half of Ukraine's territory, because the tail from burning these materials went to Kiev and further towards East and North Ukraine. So the question is that today those institutions, organizations, those officials who are supposed to be responsible for the implementation of the entire set of fire - safety measures and the creation of conditions to prevent such phenomena, certainly have tools, but they have to respond to modern realities. And it's not 170 bracelets for similar offences, it's much harder and more resources, and it's all about what needs to be done. So today, through this bill, we are also addressing the central authorities of the executive branch responsible for this work and all of us.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-16-m0.u123	Shufrich Nestor Ivanovich, "The Opposition Platform for Life", please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-16-m0.u124	Thank you, Madam Chairman. The question that we are considering right now is that of bringing this Hall together. Because when we actually lost 6 million hectares of forests in our years of independence, watching them burn quietly is irresponsible and not stately. I understand that we need to take control of the individual directions of entrepreneurship that can trigger the right kind of fires. But in my own experience as Minister of Emergency Situations, I can tell you, first of all, for forest safety and firefighting, it's not the MNP, it's the State Committee on Forestry, it's their responsibility. And the forces of the Emergency Service today are coming to their aid. Unfortunately, during the investigation of the causes of forest fires, one of the main causes, including the crusade, is the fire in Herson in 2007, which was set on fire in places where illegal deforestation was discovered. So today, in support of this law in the first reading, we need to understand that in the absolute majority of the causes of large-scale forest fires are the coverage of illegal logging. And if we recognize the power to bring responsibility to those who first cut down the forest and then burn the traces of crime, then we can say that we are responsible and understanding, and professionally, competent to deal with this problem. And so far, it's just an attempt. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-16-m0.u125	Thank you. Taras Batenko, please, Party for the Future. Please, Mr. Taras.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-16-m0.u126	Thank you. Please give the floor to the national MP, Anton Polakov.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-16-m0.u127	Anton Polakov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-16-m0.u128	Dear colleagues, today we have a very critical situation where there is no legendary national deputy, Oleg Valeriovich Ljasko, in Parliament for the second year. As a result, for the second year in a row, we do not buy millions of dollars for hundreds of millions of dollars in fire trucks. We miss them. But seriously, the fires went up, the damage went up, the human losses went up, and the fines stayed at 97. Of course, our parliamentary group will support this bill. But we want to point out that the second reading needs to be followed up on all the comments made by our colleagues. But what we want to say is that in itself the increase in fines and sanctions does not lead to the irreparability of this, let's say, a liability. So all of this needs to be corrected for a second reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-16-m0.u129	Thank you. Who else wants to speak? I see one, two. Please, from the Servant of the People, the Shepherd. Please give me your word. From where I'm standing, I understand. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-16-m0.u130	Good afternoon, dear fellows! I would like to point out that global change is actively affecting the entire planet, and Ukraine is not an exception. In the last decade alone, the world has seen 4 million square miles of fire, which is 6.5 square miles [6.5 sq km] of our country. And the fires will increase. I will say that we took a very decisive step in September: we supported the forest fire prevention bill. And during this period, strategic steps have been taken correctly, faithfully with the adoption of the concept of a national forest strategy, then a national group working on fire warnings in Ukraine, and the main ones are further steps that protect the Carpathian forests at the level of legal acts. We need to support this bill. It increases administrative responsibility, it gives us the maximum opportunity to move forward, to warn and treat these ecosystem wounds that are in our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-16-m0.u131	Thank you. Samantha Bobrowski, please, the Voice faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-16-m0.u132	Good afternoon, dear fellows! The Voice faction will support this bill in the first reading. But in fact, apart from the forests, the rudders that we have on a regular basis, it's already routine to blur out all the roads and roads and cause a lot of traffic on the roads and not just, and here we talk about human life, and it's especially worth paying attention to the suffering of all the living things that we burn during all these preparations for the field work. But there is still another point here – an article that speaks of violations established by the legislation of fire safety requirements. And here is a lot of attention to be paid especially to the district and city DSSs, which so often close their eyes or take bribes for prescriptions and so-called fire safety, requirements, compliance with the requirements of fire safety in schools, gardens, colleges and so on and so forth. And here I'm going to remind Odessa, particularly the Victoria Camp and the Victoria Camp, which led to the loss of life. And in fact, there's only one administrator here that's just increasing in price policy. It's not really a panacea. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-16-m0.u133	Thank you. Have All Those Desiring Expressed? I understand it's everyone. Then we need to prepare ourselves for the vote, your esteemed colleagues. Please invite everyone to the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-16-m0.u134	Prepare for the vote, please invite the national deputies to the hall. Ready? I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Law amending the Code of Administrative Offences on Increasing Responsibility for Violations of Natural Ecosystems Protection against Fire (registration No. 3755). Ready to vote? Ready? Please support and vote. [[12:56:31]] For 324 Decision taken. Thank you, Your Honor. Next question of the agenda. There is an offer to vote them out without discussion. It's a draft of the Jubilee Dates Ordinance. [[B in m in s a l in]] Okay. I heard. Maxim Arkadyovich, I have good hearing, you know. You are invited to consider the draft Order on Commemorative Dates and Jubilee in 2021 (Registration No. 4478). It is suggested that this issue be considered in a simplified manner. Please support and vote. [[12:57:34]] For 235 Decision taken. The first deputy head of the Committee on Humanities and Information Policy, Irina Miroslavovna, is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-16-m0.u135	Ladies and gentlemen, may I have your attention for a moment, and I call for a prompt and effective hearing of this matter. So the Committee on Humanities and Information Policy prepared a draft Order on Commemorative Dates and Jubilee in the 21st year. In addition to the draft decision, there are lists of memorial dates and Jubilee that are proposed to be celebrated in the 21st year. In the preparation of the appendix, the proposals came to the committee of Ukrainian national deputies, executive authorities, local governments, institutions, and organizations. As a result of its consideration of December 2, 20th, Protocol No48 of the Committee on Humanities and Information Policy recommends that the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopt a draft Order on the Marking of Memorial Dates and Jubilee in 2021 on the basis and as a whole. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to support a decision that has taken into account all the compromising thoughts. And in particular, if you look at the text of the decree, we propose that we celebrate and preserve the national memory at the national level by observing the memorial dates and the Jubilee and/or memorial arrangements. So we've found a unified compromise formulation. The appendix offers wedding dates, figures, and dates of global significance. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-16-m0.u136	Thank you. Please sign up: Two for, two for, one for, one for, one for, one for, two for, two for, one for, two for, two for, one for, two for, two for, one for, two for, two for, two Bakumov Alexander Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-16-m0.u137	Please pass the word to Bujanski.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-16-m0.u138	Bujansky, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-16-m0.u139	Maxime Bujan People's Deputy, "Serve of the People." Dear colleagues, I ask you, I ask each of you not to support this determination, enough of us to legalize the SS. There's this character, for example, Perfetsky, he's there as an artist, and he's in the SS division Galician, he's sworn by the Third Reich Führer Adolf Hitler. Who are you going to honor? Who?Oh, my God! It will be a disgrace and a shame. I'm asking you, personally of everyone, not to support this decision, it's a shame and a shame. Enough of the legalization of the Nazis. Enough with the legalization of collaborators. Enough legalization of the SS. We don't vote in favour of this red one, colleagues, I personally ask you, each of you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-16-m0.u140	Stepan Kube "European Solidarity", please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-16-m0.u141	Madam Chairman, I ask that you pass on to Vátrovitch Volodymyr.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-16-m0.u142	Vladimir Vjatrović, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-16-m0.u143	I'm very glad that we're looking at this issue because I'm sure that a shared vision of the past is a very important element in the formation of national identity. And a calendar of solemn dates is one of the tools for shaping this national identity and national memory. I am very glad that the dates we will celebrate the next 2021 are when we honor the memory and soldiers of the Ukrainian rebel army and the soldiers of the Red Army, both the Cossacks and the Ukrainian princes. I am very glad that there are key Ukrainian events: such as the battle under Hotin, such as the creation of the Ukrainian Greek-Catholic Church, the 100th anniversary of the creation of the Ukrainian Autocal Orthodox Church. I am very glad that these are the events and figures that will connect Ukraine. And I'd like to talk to a previous colleague, considering his supposedly historic education. It's probably time to grow out of "pioneer shorts," and it's time to get away from the book "The Short Course of History of VCP(b)" and try to look at Ukrainian history with Ukrainian eyes. I call on my colleagues to vote for this very important decision that shapes their own Ukrainian view of the Ukrainian past. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-16-m0.u144	Clemensa Julia Leonidivna.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-16-m0.u145	Bobrowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-16-m0.u146	Bobrovska Solomija Anatoliyevna
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-16-m0.u147	Dear colleagues! You can sit in front of me, please, colleague. A great request from the Voice faction to support this determination and finally to unify the truly enormous work that the humanitarian committee has done, and in fact, it has brought to the attention of the Supreme Council the very right dates that actually unite and teach, and the small Ukrainians and adults and those who are still far from Ukraine, the right things and the right historical dates. Of course, as a native of Volini, I cannot help but thank you for the undeniably memorable memory of the Forest of Ukraine, the Dmitry of Klyckivski, the Klima Saurus, which is certainly one of the most outstanding figures, the commander of the UPA-North, and, of course, the eugen Konovaltz, who so muffled the eyes of my colleagues from the faction of majority, because he was the ideologist of Ukrainian nationalism. I would be grateful if the Supreme Council would support and finally mark all those who make our history. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-16-m0.u148	Suffritch Nestor Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-16-m0.u149	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. I watched closely the discussion in the hall during the consideration of this bill, the draft decree, and the positions of various factions. It is obvious that, unfortunately, this decree does not exactly unite today when voting for the bill. I am sorry that there is absolutely no mention, unfortunately, of the anniversary of the Great Homeland War. Yes, it is the Great One and it is the Motherland, and it began on June 22, 1941. The 35th anniversary of the Chernobyl tragedy is also overlooked by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. It's unacceptable to me. I respect the views of all of our colleagues, but I believe that in preparing this draft decision, it has been ignored by a series of events that have had a historic role in the life of our country, Ukrainians, regardless of which Ukraine they were working in, whether Soviet or independent. So our faction will abstain from this vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-16-m0.u150	Thank you. Krulko Ivan, Fatherland, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-16-m0.u151	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. It would seem that the bill is sufficiently clear and simple — the marking of memorable dates. But look how determined he is. This bill in the Ukrainian independent state shows very clearly who represents the patriotic part of the Ukrainian Parliament and who represents the fifth column, which does not see the Ukrainian state as independent. That's exactly what this bill is about. So if we want to have a Ukrainian state, and next year we celebrate the 30th anniversary of the restoration of Ukraine's national independence, we have to remember our history, we have to restore our national memory. And all those working against the Ukrainian State today, even by such decrees, we have to show the whole country, and so that Ukrainians can draw conclusions as to who is standing and in what positions. "Paternality" will vote in favour.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-16-m0.u152	Igor Gus, Future Group, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-16-m0.u153	Dear friends! I urge everyone in this room to support this decision, especially a colleague from the "Serve of the People." This is a compromise decision that the committee was working on, and it's actually balanced by different dates. But the key is very simple: we are in favour of Ukraine or we are in favour of Ukraine. As a historical memory, we are for historical justice, we are to mention all those behind Ukraine, all those who shed blood for Ukraine, all those who fought for an independent Ukraine. So I ask everyone today and now to unite in this decision, to support our colleagues in the profile committee, they have actually done a great deal of serious work, deep work, including, in fact, experts and experts. And I'm convinced that the pro-Ukrainian majority exists in this room and votes in favour. We vote yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-16-m0.u154	I'll bet you a vote. Please prepare for the vote. I am voting on the proposal for adoption in the entire draft Order on Commemorative Dates and Jubilee in 2021 (Registration No. 4478). [[B in m in s a l in]] Excuse me! Are you ready to vote? Irina Miroslavna, you don't have one minute. I'm sorry, there's a rule. Please prepare for the vote. Everybody ready? Please support and vote. [[13:08:11]] For 238. Decision taken, thank you. Let's see the factions. The next issue of the agenda is the draft Ordinance establishing the Provisional Investigation Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to investigate the causes of damage to coal and industrial enterprises (registration number 2528). There's an offer of two minutes to make a statement. [[B in m in s a l in]] Discussing? We had a different deal. No discussion. [[B in m in s a l in]] Look, my colleagues told me there would be no discussion. Are we going to talk about this? I would like to vote on the draft Resolution on the short procedure for the establishment of the Provisional Investigation Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the investigation of the causes of the damage to coal and industrial enterprises (registration number 2528). Please support and vote. [[13:09:45]] For 217 The National Deputy of Ukraine, Kamelchuk Yuri Aleksandrovich, is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-16-m0.u155	Good afternoon, dear fellows! So, to the point of fact, what does a temporary commission of inquiry need? The interim commission of inquiry is aimed at investigating the causes of the damage to coal and industrial enterprises, to which we channel billions of dollars of support each year. Part of this support is not really needed, since it can be optimized by a lot of processes, and it also applies to coal mining and the deterioration in the quality of coal production, and the debt of coal - based enterprises for electricity, because it creates other connections that they then purchase electricity at higher rates. There are other reasons. TSK will first investigate enterprises: Lviv coal, Volinwogilla, Lviv coal company, Hope Checkout, No. 10 Novolinska Mine Frontier. And I'll add a few facts to that. Over 100 million dollars a year has been going to maintain more than 30 years of the underbuilt Novovolinska Hope mine, which is being built near Novovolinska. In fact, the blocked work of the Hope mine because of the debt of electricity, it happened for a variety of reasons. The main reasons are the wrong management and thefts that were recorded by the Minenergo audit. The audit and the Ukrainian Security Service also revealed over 200 million dollars this year in fact in a robbery in the Lviv coal company. The production and use of straw in coal - mixing equipment brings about between 1 billion and 2 billion dollars a year for its organizers. Lung Coal DP provides private companies that owe them the same amount of coal, and it continues to supply the same coal that they use to mix. We're taking coal out of the mines under cover of rock, actually. A car is loading.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-16-m0.u156	Thank you. The chairman of the Committee on Rules, MPs and the organization of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Kalchenko Sergey Vitaliyovich, is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-16-m0.u157	Honorable Presidium, distinguished national MPs! At its meeting, the Regulatory Committee considered the draft Decree (Registration No. 2528) on the establishment of the Provisional Investigation Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the investigation of the causes of the damage to coal and industrial enterprises. As stated in the explanatory note, the purpose of this commission is to exercise parliamentary control over the causes of the damage to coal and industrial enterprises and to conduct an impartial and transparent investigation into the circumstances and causes of the critical position of debt on the wages of coal workers. According to parliamentary factions' proposals, the parliamentary groups are proposed to select representatives from the faction of the Party "Serve of the People", the Party "Oppositional Platform for Life" and the MP group "Trust". From other parliamentary factions, parliamentary groups of proposals to the Commission’s personnel were not available. Thus, in summary, the Regulatory Committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council that it consider the draft decree and take a decision in accordance with part three of article 138 of the Supreme Council’s Rules. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-16-m0.u158	Thank you. Please sign up: two in, two in, two in factions. Kamelchuk Yuri Alexanderovich
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-16-m0.u159	Once again, I ask everyone to support the draft of this Interim Investigation Commission Ordinance, for six months, we will be investigating the actions of specific managers, specific enterprises. In doing so, I would like to point out that the scope of the TSK investigation is not limited to the enterprises I have mentioned, and it is distributed to all coal enterprises in Ukraine regardless of their forms of ownership. Thank you and please support.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-16-m0.u160	Eugene Nina Petrovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-16-m0.u161	Please pass the word to Michael Bondar.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-16-m0.u162	Bondar Mikhailo Leontijovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-16-m0.u163	Dear colleagues, we have literally half an hour ago with colleagues Wolinz and Frost just had a briefing on the issue of mining debt. And that's pretty clear why these businesses are corrupt. Let us begin with the beginning of the work of this House of the Ninth Call. The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of Fuel Energy and the ZCG have brought about an amendment that has been allowed to import electricity from the Russian Federation and Belarus. What did this give us? This led to the beginning of production in coal factories, which had no possibility of being realized. Then the people of Cologne through Centrenergo began to import coal from the Russian Federation and from the temporarily occupied territories. Again, the coal production of our companies remained in warehouses, that is, they had no opportunity to implement this product and to pay their miners their wages accordingly. So they went to the budget, to the state to cover this difference in the cost of coal production from the state budget. What do we have? So far, a few months, more than five to six, this debt doesn't go out, people strike, they don't get coal, they don't have anything to sell to the state, and they don't have anything to get money to get a salary. And that's why these businesses are a waste. So, colleagues, I'm going to ask you not to vote in favour of this ruling, you'd better support the creation of the TSC by "vagners" and by Sheremet. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-16-m0.u164	Mother Grigory Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-16-m0.u165	Please pass the word to Coltunovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-16-m0.u166	Coltunovich Alexander Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-16-m0.u167	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. Dear colleagues, the question, indeed, in modernizing and solving coal issues needs to be solved, because today there are 30, more specifically, 33 mines, 70,000 workers, almost 2 billion dollars in debt. These are the things that have to be solved. But you and I voted two weeks ago to cover 1.4 billion for miners, but we don't see that. To this day, these funds have not been counted. This time. One second. We're wondering if you're already creating a TSC to investigate the fact that we're not supporting the country mines, we're importing coal. Look, we imported coal from abroad for 10 months this year, including 30 percent from the United States, from Pennsylvania, the famous coal. We support Russian coal, the United States, and other countries rather than supporting the country’s 70,000 miners. We need to protect national interests. This is the first moment. And the second moment is, of course, we have coal production going down, minus almost 16 percent this year. These are large figures, and they show that the issue of national or national policies in the coal sector does not correspond to national interests. And the last. Our faction for solving these issues, but we will not support the creation of this TSC, because we understand that it aims to compete with two financial industrial groups. We're not going to take part in this, and we're calling on the Ministry of Profile and Profile Committee to decide on urgent issues. There's a question for the miners: decide. There's a question of mine. Because these are budgeting industries, these are budgeting mines in many areas of Donetsk and Lugansk. These issues need a comprehensive and global solution. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-16-m0.u168	Abdulin Alexander Rafkatovich. Kucherenko Aleksei Yuriovich
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-16-m0.u169	Thank you. Alexy Kucherenko, faction of Fatherland. Dear friends, dear colleagues! Respectful miners, whom we certainly feel for because of the enormous problems we face year after year! Ladies and gentlemen, please ask me a simple question. I'm looking at the composition of this commission of potential initiators, there's a vast majority, 90 percent, of MPs from the People's Service. Tell me, my friends, what is it that you don't need in a year and a year and a half without every commission of inquiry to finally figure it out, and what's going on in the coal sector? Why don't you introduce us to the minister? Friends, we live with one responsibility for nine months, and we live with another. Tomorrow you will present the third. Please tell me, Your Honor, and you don't understand that there's a problem here not only in the coal sector, but also in the fact that there are still schemes that were there for both of you and your peers? The same lookers put the same coal. Please tell me, don't you understand that you have to figure out why the whole energy sector became a waste in a year and a half? Do you realize there are 45 billion debt in the energy market today? And why did Centrenerego become the government's bankrupt company that was profitable to you, which is supposed to account for this coal with these mines? Why did you become a corrupt Energoat? Why did you become a loser, Ukrennergo? Guys, I'm begging you, you don't need to be a parody. Look at this. We recently asked you to create an NAC on Naftogazu. You wouldn't let us do that, but then Derjaudit found 75 billion unpaid money there. You want to do real research, let's do it together professionally. But for starters, appoint a minister, and let him answer us what he will do with Ukraine's energy. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-16-m0.u170	I see. Speedboat and Shahov. Anna Constantine's speedboat. Then there's Shahov. And let's go to the vote. Please invite the national deputies to the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-16-m0.u171	Dear colleagues, we can point out that the interim commission of inquiry is composed of representatives of the Energy Committee and the PIC. Maybe we just need to get the committee to work properly, because as a committee, we can really do all the tests, understand the damage that everybody understands. But nobody wants to do anything about it. Dear colleagues, I don't understand why it's just a matter of coal mines in the Western region. Why is there no question about Donbas mines that are equally harmful? Why is the question not raised that the DTEK company had taken non-profit mines and compensated hundreds of millions of dollars for breaking those contracts? Who's responsible for this, please? I don't think it's necessary to create a TSC. We just need the committee to do its job. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-16-m0.u172	Shahov Sergei Volodymyrovich. Then we vote. Invite the national deputies to the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-16-m0.u173	Sergey Shahov, Luhanščina, Deputy Group "Trust". Fellow dignitaries, what are these privileges? We let one mine handle and the other mine don't work? Please tell us why some miners are second - rated. Has 1 billion been stolen? Hundreds of billions of dollars have been stolen. I'm very grateful to my colleagues today who want to make this temporary commission of inquiry, but the Trust Group demands that we put the entire coal sector under review today and make a full audit of the entire period of time where hundreds of billions of dollars went. Who Is Smuggling From Africa Today? Who today have brought dignitaries from those territories, and today have left people living in poverty without pay for six months? Why should people today suffer and no one be punished? According to article 175 of the Criminal Code, those who do not pay their wages must be held accountable. Why do mothers today stand before our receptions? So, honorary colleagues, add all the mines to this TSC, add all the investigations, then our group will support the entire draft of the Order.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-16-m0.u174	Thank you. All those who wish to speak? Ironman, Voice. Then we vote. Yes, Jaroslav Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-16-m0.u175	Give the word to Geo Leros.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-16-m0.u176	Geo Bagravitch Leros.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-16-m0.u177	Ladies and gentlemen, here I sit, watching one TSC, another TSC. But when the Attorney General's Office, along with the President's Office, is "save" Mr. Ahmedov from his "Rotterdam Plus," who has incurred 39 billion dollars in damages to Ukraine, why no one wants to create a TSC. Let's take this TSC completely into account: both Rotterdam Plus and other machines that have been created for 10 years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-16-m0.u178	Let's go to the vote. I am voting on the proposal for adoption in the whole of the draft Ordinance on the Establishment of a Temporary Investigation Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the Investigations into the Causes of Damage from Coal and Industrial Enterprises (Registration No. 2528). Please support and vote. [[13:25:09]] For 181 Decision taken. You are invited to consider the draft Law on Amendments to Article 183 of the Criminal Procedure Code of Ukraine on the Rights of an Investigative Judge, not to determine the size of the mortgage in criminal conduct (registration number 3915), which is the second reading. To the rostrum is invited the head of the committee’s committee of law enforcement work, Jácik Yulia Grigorovna. Is anyone going to insist on the readouts? No, it's not. We can vote. Please prepare for the vote. I am voting on the proposal to adopt a second reading and, in general, with the necessary technical and legal rights, the draft Law amending article 183 of the Ukrainian Criminal Procedure Code on the right of the investigating judge, does not determine the size of the mortgage in criminal proceedings (registration number 3915). Ready to vote? Ready? Please support and vote. [[13:26:31]] For 263 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. The next question is the draft Act amending certain legislation on the protection of the housing rights of orphans and children deprived of parental care, persons of their number (registration number 3577). Is anyone going to insist on the papers? Then the chairman of the Committee’s Subcommittee on Humanities and Information Policy, Ryabukh Tetjan Vasilovna, is invited to the rostrum. The Cymbal and the Queen? How many bars? Mikhail Mikhailovich, how many lines do you have? One right? Please turn on Michael Mikhailovich's microphone. Just give me the correct number, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-16-m0.u179	Thank you. Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs! In fact, the bill on the protection of the housing rights of orphans and children deprived of parental care is extremely important, and the faction of "The Fatherland" will vote in the second reading and in general. But Julia Timoshenko and I introduced a number of rights that applied to the expansion of the categories of children by which this law would protect their rights to housing. And it's too bad they didn't count. But we think there's one more thing where the Cabinet of Ministers can by means of regulations protect even though the fraudulent actions of those who will betray children or those who are subject to this law will be compensated for their unreceivable housing. I'm asking you not to do the editing.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-16-m0.u180	Thank you. Natalia Yuriovna, what are the adjustments? Please tell me the license numbers.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-16-m0.u181	Dear colleagues, there are four papers. Amendments: 8, 15, 23 and 34. Two minutes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-16-m0.u182	Give me two minutes, please, Natalie Yuriovni.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-16-m0.u183	Dear colleagues, the honourable present, in general, is a good bill. But unfortunately, we've been drafting this bill to decide, we think, is a very topical and very problematic issue today. Because this bill provides for housing for orphans, children who are deprived of parental care, and also for those who are not internally displaced, but who are from the populations on the collision line in the Donbas military conflict zone. And the project itself envisaged that only children who lived in the temporarily occupied area of Donetsk and Luhansk regions of the Republic of Crimea and the city of Sevastopol should be counted. So we still suggested that children living on the line of collision and suffering, unfortunately, daily from military action, should also have the right to do so. And I want to thank the committee that these proposals have been taken into account. And we hope that this bill will not be intended and declared once again, but that the government will fulfill all of these conditions, and we will really be able to enable children not only to stand on the books but also to get housing today. Regrettably, the 15 we also proposed was rejected. Because 50 percent of the pay for using housing within the limits of the rules provided for in the current legislation, we suggested that. And there are also a number of socially significant benefits and guarantees for people, families who have suffered, unfortunately, this has been rejected. So I'm asking you to put amendment number 15 on confirmation, and all the other adjustments are accounted for. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-16-m0.u184	No, Natalia Juryevna, since you've raised the question on the four issues, they'll all be asking questions. Three of them were counted by the committee, and now they're going to be confirmed, and then they're going to be taken into account. I'm betting on the vote number 8, she's supported by the committee, but the author insists on her confirmation. Please vote, number eight. [[13:31:25]] For 296 Edit is confirmed. Next item 15. The author, I take it, is against what I'm doing. Oh, no, 15 revisions, it's rejected. The committee didn't support her. Ready to vote? Amendment number 15. Please identify and vote. [[13:31:59]] For-82 The decision is not taken. No, Natalia Yuriovna, she doesn't insist, she doesn't work. Author against his amendment. I'll bet you number 25. It's counted. 25 revisions the author takes against her. I put her on the stand. Why do this, Natalia? Please support and vote. [[13:33:12]] For 305 Edit is confirmed. It's number 34. The author again opposes his amendment. I don't understand, it's the children's law, and the author's against it and against it. Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-16-m0.u185	Edit 34 is counted by the committee. Because the author insists on disregarding this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-16-m0.u186	To be confirmed, and the author against it. Please identify and vote. [[B in m in s a l in]] [[13:34:03]] For 216 Edit is not supported. I'm willing to vote in favour of the law as a whole. Natalia, can I talk to you for a second? Dear colleagues, I am addressing all the national MPs, let's not play with law enforcement and let's not win plus one, two, three, five minutes. Because if then the law takes off, it's bad for everyone: both for the opposition and for the power. Especially when it comes to orphans. Please prepare for the vote. I'm putting the bill on the vote, the bill, I'm sorry. I put to the vote a bill on adoption in second reading and in general with the necessary technical and legal regulations, a bill amending certain legislation on the protection of the housing rights of orphans and children deprived of parental care (registration number 3577). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[13:39:45]] For 330. Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Dear colleagues! Gerasim, the procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-16-m0.u187	Dear Dmitri Alexanderovich, dear colleagues! Today, we have many laws on changing the boundaries of cities, as well as several ratifications of the Committee on European Integration. Dear colleagues, I ask you not to discuss voting and adopting these important bills today, because I understand that all factions must support them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-16-m0.u188	Dear colleagues, we have several ratifications and a change of borders. [[B in m in s a l in]] Vote? [[B in m in s a l in]] What we vote for, I'll tell you about it. You're begging, except for me. 0083 is a ratification. Not all of them? Then let's ratify now, come here, please. I am voting on the proposal to adopt the entire draft Law on Ukraine’s accession to the Extended Part Agreement on Sport (registration No. 0054). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[13:41:59]] For 325 Decision taken. The next issue of the agenda is ratification (registration number 0057). I would like to vote on the proposal for the adoption of the Protocol between the Government of Ukraine and the Government of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland amending the Agreement between the Government of Ukraine and the Government of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland on International Road Transport (Registration No. 0057). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[13:42:49]] For 329 Decision taken. I would like to vote on the proposal to adopt, as a whole, a draft law on the ratification of the Protocol between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland amending the Memorandum of Understanding between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland on the exchange and mutual protection of information with limited access in the field of defence (Registration No. 0069). Please support and vote. [[13:43:32]] For 317 Decision taken. I would like to vote on the proposal for the adoption of the Protocol on the Ratification of the Protocol to the Convention between the Government of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Austria on the avoidance of double taxation and the prevention of tax evasion on income and property taxes (Registration No. 0073). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[13:44:11]] For the 320. Decision taken. Dear colleagues, the next question is the ratification of 0053 with Britain. They insist on discussing it. I suggest we discuss it now, and until, Mr. Bezgin, come along, please, and we'll talk about a change of boundaries. You are invited to consider the draft Law on the Ratification of the Agreement on Political Cooperation, Free Trade and Strategic Partnership between Ukraine and the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland (Registration No. 0083). It is suggested that this issue be considered in a simplified manner. Please support and vote. [[13:45:02]] For 256 Decision taken. Please invite the Minister of Foreign Affairs of Kuleb Dmitry Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-16-m0.u189	Good afternoon, Reverend Dmitri Alexanderovich. Dear National Deputies! Today I have the honour to present to you, without exaggeration, the historic document - the Agreement on Political Cooperation, Free Trade and Strategic Partnership between Ukraine and the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland. By ratifying this agreement, we will have relations with Britain, our trusted friend and partner, on a qualitatively new level. The best conditions for free trade between our countries will be created. This will facilitate the exit of Ukrainian companies and their goods to the UK market. Moreover, this treaty will strengthen our political partnership and transform it into a strategic partnership with Britain against Russian aggression against our nation. We will introduce a new format of relations that will ensure regular exchange and reconciliation of key international positions between London and Kiev. Importantly, I also wanted to point out that the agreement envisions the development of a migration dialogue between Britain and Ukraine, which will simplify the conditions for Ukrainian citizens to travel to Britain. I ask you to support the bill on the ratification of this agreement. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-16-m0.u190	Thank you. The chairman of the Committee on Foreign Policy and International Cooperation is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-16-m0.u191	Dear colleagues, indeed, this treaty is a historic event in life and in Ukraine’s foreign policy. The Committee on Foreign Policy and Inter-Parliamentary Cooperation, at its meeting on 15 December 2020, reviewed the draft Law on Ratification of the Agreement on Political Cooperation, Free Trade and Strategic Partnership between Ukraine and the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, and approved the decision to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the ratification of the said agreement. The agreement consolidates the objectives of strategic political dialogue and cooperation in the field of foreign and security policy, which meet the priorities of Ukraine’s foreign policy today, as well as the principles of cooperation in the field of justice, freedom and security. So, honourable colleagues, please support the committee's decision and ratify the Agreement on Political Cooperation, Free Trade and Strategic Partnership between Ukraine and the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-16-m0.u192	Please sign up: two for, two for, two for, one for the factions. Krulko Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-16-m0.u193	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. Please pass the word to my colleague Nemira.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-16-m0.u194	Who? Nemira Grigory Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-16-m0.u195	Dear colleagues, the "Fatherland" faction supports ratification, but I would like to draw attention to this example of systemic problems associated with the very shortcoming, unprofessional preparation of such legislative acts to be considered in Parliament. There's only one comparison. Our colleagues in the British Parliament received all the necessary documents for work on November 6th, a month after the agreement was maintained. Do you know when Ukrainian parliamentarians got this to consider? Yesterday, December 14th and the Parliamentary Committee was forced into a fire-fighting, totally unprepared issue, without the necessary information to consider just because, in principle, none of the members of the committee had been set up against, the committee expressed its support. But I point out that if these systemic problems are not removed and these acts are so poorly prepared in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, in the Office of the President of Ukraine, this will invalidate Parliament's authority as such. There can't be one in the next. And I would also like to point out to Mr. Minister that he will take a close look at the validity of the translation of certain articles of the agreement. Despite these shortcomings, I was only referring to the issue of the process, in fact, the "Paternity" faction supports ratification. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-16-m0.u196	Klimpush-Cincadze Ivanna Orestovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-16-m0.u197	Please pass the word to Arthur Gerasimov.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-16-m0.u198	Arthur Volodymyrovich Gerasimov.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-16-m0.u199	Dear colleagues, I would like to remind you that thanks to our international partners, thanks to the support of our strategic international partners, we are still holding a sanctions front against the aggressor country, regardless of all the power of the green power. And that is why the strategic partnership between Ukraine and the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland is extremely important. I would urge the entire Parliament to support this decision and vote in favour of it to make this bill a law. But I would also like to draw your attention, your honorary colleagues, Your Honorable Dmitry Alexanderovich, and the distinguished representatives of the government, we still have a very large number of regulations and bills on mutual access to the labour markets of our diplomats' families. This is overwhelming. And I don't understand why the Greens team is blocking these decisions and not allowing members of our diplomats' families to work in countries where they are with their husbands and women. According to my information, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has repeatedly submitted these draft bills to the Supreme Council, but unfortunately they are not accepted. So once again, I refer not only to the leadership of the Supreme Council but also to the parliamentary committee in order to ensure that this is put to the floor and voted as soon as possible. As for this strategic partnership, let us unite, vote, and support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-16-m0.u200	Murmich Anatoly Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-16-m0.u201	Please pass the Coltunovich word.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-16-m0.u202	Coltunovich Alexander Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-16-m0.u203	Thank you. Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues! Of course, the issue of external economic activity deserves the attention of Parliament. And this is one of the two important prerequisites that shape the economic environment in Ukraine and the country's overall well-being. But what we see as a phenomenal victory, as a major trading and economic partner, as a strategy, and so on, it actually looks completely primitive. Because 1.3 percent of Ukraine’s total exports go to Britain. With one percent of exports, it's not a strategic partner, it's mildly secondary. The same situation in imports is two. One more moment. Britain and I, on the other hand, have a negative foreign trade surplus. This is an important point that needs to be levelled, including by various economic instruments within the country. Third. Why do we have an uncomfortable area of free trade and all kinds of things with a stronger competitor? Because they're essentially going to squeeze us into the internal consumer market, we've been doing this in the area of free trade with the European Union. On the other hand, markets have been more developed, and they have made protective barriers to domestic production. Think of the same area of free trade from the EU and 36 quotas for agricultural exports from Ukraine. Therefore, the signing of such documents and their further implementation into domestic practice are needed. One: moving to foreign technical regulations and standards, and so that Ukrainian products and producers can compete with British, European and any other trading partners, or more specifically competitors. So from this point of view, we need: (a) the explanatory note shows the specific impact calculations and the budget costs needed to move forward and be more competitive, and what will result from the external economic situation of Ukraine. And the last is investment. Let's see if they do. I doubt it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-16-m0.u204	Thank you. Bobrovska Solomija Anatoliyevna
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-16-m0.u205	Boris Johnson described Ukraine’s relationship with Britain as two flanks of Europe. And I'm absolutely right. And Britain, for us, is certainly like Northern Ireland, a strategic partner and ally in Western Europe that supports all our strengths and struggles, including the aggressor. Moreover, to the previous skeptics, I would like to remind you that in 2020, traffic between Britain and Ukraine amounted to about $1 billion, half of which was exports of Ukrainian goods. And of course, it's a historic event -- signing such a bilateral agreement. But here I would like to support my colleague on a profile committee, and as a representative of a profile committee, I would like to urge us here to approach such historical fundamental events very carefully, properly, with our minds, analysis and see how better it is, particularly, for Parliament to set up a dialogue and work in support of the government. I'd like us to really prepare for this much deeper and more fundamental. Of course, the Voice faction will support the pro, but my warning to the MFZ is to prepare for such events. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-16-m0.u206	Thank you. All those who wish to speak? Let's go to the vote. Please prepare for the vote. I am voting on the proposal to adopt the whole draft Law on the Ratification of the Agreement on Political Cooperation, Free Trade and Strategic Partnership between Ukraine and the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland (registration No. 0083). Ready to vote? Ready? Please support and vote. [[13:57:54]] For 303 Decision taken. Thank you, Your Honor. Cornienne from the procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-16-m0.u207	I ask you to continue for 15 minutes and look at the antimonopoly 3132, there's a second reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-16-m0.u208	Dear colleagues, my colleague Kornienko is asking me to continue the meeting. I continue for 15 minutes. We are now voting on Law 3132 and establishing a city boundary. You are invited to consider draft Law 3132. Is there anyone here who's gonna insist on editing? We can vote. I am voting on the proposal for a re-adopted second reading and, in general, with the necessary technical and legal regulations, the bill amending the Ukrainian Antimonopoly Committee Act and some other legislative acts of Ukraine to improve the system of Antimonopoly Committee bodies (registration No. 3132). Ready to vote? Ready? Please support and vote. [[13:59:41]] For 224 The decision is not taken. I'll bet you a vote. Don't shout. I'll bet you a vote on the motion to refer to the committee. You can guide, you know that. To prepare for re-reading the draft Law (Registration No. 3132) amending the Law on the Antimonopoly Committee of Ukraine and some other legislative acts of Ukraine to improve the system of the Antimonopoly Committee. Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[14:00:55]] For 236 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, I'm putting the draft regulations to the vote. I would like to vote on the proposal to adopt the entire draft Order amending and establishing the boundaries of the city of Koryukowka in the Chernigiv region (registration number 3653). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[14:01:35]] For 303 Decision taken. I would like to vote on the proposal for the adoption of an entire draft Order amending and establishing the boundaries of the city of Radehova in the region of Lviv. (Registration No. 4081). Please support and vote. [[14:02:08]] For 307 Decision taken. I would like to vote on the proposal for the adoption of the entire draft Order amending and establishing the boundaries of the city of the Great Bridges of the region of Lviv (registration number 4267). Please support and vote. [[2:02:39]] For 308. Decision taken, thank you. I would like to vote on the proposal for the adoption of an entire draft Order amending and establishing the boundaries of the city of Rubi Sevirerodonetské district of Lugansk (Registration No. 4268). Please support and vote. [[14:03:13]] For 311 Decision taken. I bet the vote on the proposal for adoption of the entire draft Order amending and establishing the boundaries of the city of Split Zwenigrad district of Cherkas region (register number 4269). Please support and vote. [[14:03:45]] For 308. Decision taken. I would like to vote on the proposal for the adoption of a draft regulation on the amendment and establishment of the boundaries of the city of Hmelnicka district of the Hmelnicka district (registration number 4270). Please support and vote. [[14:04:18]] For 310 Decision taken. I would like to vote on the proposal for the adoption of the entire draft Order amending and establishing the boundaries of the city of Arciza of the Balgrad district of Odessa (registration number 4271). Please support and vote. [[14:04:51]] For 312 Decision taken. I am voting on the proposal for the adoption of the entire draft Decision establishing the boundaries of the city of Rogatina of Ivano-Frankiv district of Ivano-Frankiv district (registration number 4272). Please support and vote. [[14:05:28]] For 310 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, there are three other decisions, but they were wronged by the government, so we need to hear the conclusion of the committee. Decree number 4273, Vitaly Yuriovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-16-m0.u209	Project Decree 4273 on the establishment of the border of the town of Ovruka Corostene region. The committee determines that the project envisions an increase in the territory of the city of Ovruč, at the expense of the territory of four rural councils, three of which have already ceased their mandate. In view of this, the Supreme Council Committee recommends that the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopt a draft decree amending and establishing borders in general and taking into account the Committee's next proposals. Paragraph 1 and 2 of the draft decree should be drafted as follows: to change the boundaries of the town of Ovruč in the region of Žitomir, by increasing the territory of the city by 105.67 hectares of land, including 93.19 hectares of land of the Ovrutsk City Council, 12.49 hectares of land of the Gladkow Rural Council of the Corstene Region, while removing 6.42 hectares of land within the city of Ovruča, by passing 5.11 hectares of land to the Ovrutsk City Council, 1.31 hectares of land to the Gladkov Rural Council of the Corstene Region. The other one. Set the boundaries of the city of Ovruč of Corosten district of Žitomir district according to the draft land scheme for the change of the administrative and territorial unit of the city of Ovruč in the region of Žitomir district. Copies of the cadastral map are added.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-16-m0.u210	I would like to vote on the proposal for the adoption of the entire draft Order amending and establishing the boundaries of the city of Ovróch in the District of Žitomir (Registration No. 4273). Please support and vote. [[14:07:37]] For 302 Decision taken. I'll bet you a vote. Oh, 3652. Also, the position of the committee, the conclusion.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-16-m0.u211	The Committee recommends that the Supreme Council adopt a draft Decision amending and establishing the city of Lozov (registration number 3652) as a whole, taking into account the following suggestions made by the Committee. In the name and in the text of the draft decree, replace the words "city of Lozov and region of Kharkiv" with the words "city of Lozov district of Kharkiv region". In paragraph 1 of the draft decision to delete the words “the territory of the Lozov region totalling 139 thousand 688.54 hectares of land”.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-16-m0.u212	I am betting on the vote on the proposal for adoption in general, taking into account the committee’s proposals, the draft Ordinance on the Change and Set the Borders of the City of Lozov and the district of Kharkiv (Registration No. 3652). Please support and vote. [[14:09:01]] For 299 Decision taken. Next draft Decision (3654). Vitaly Yuriovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-16-m0.u213	Thank you. The Committee recommends that the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopt a draft Order amending and establishing the boundaries of the city of Nizhina as a whole, taking into account the following suggestions made by the Committee. In the name and in the text of the draft, replace the word "city of Nizhin and the Lowland region of Chernigiv" with the word "city of Nizhin of the region of Chernigiv". In paragraph 1 of the draft decision to delete the words "the territory of the Lowlands area of 150,672 and 618 hectares of land."
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-16-m0.u214	I am betting on the vote on the proposal for adoption in general, taking into account the Committee’s proposals, the draft Ordinance on the Change and Set the Limits of the City of Nizhin and the Lowland Region of Chernigiv Region (3654). Please support and vote. [[14:10:19]] For 302 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, I declare the plenary session closed. Thank you all for your work.
