ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-06-m0.u1	Good morning, dear fellows! Good morning, distinguished journalists, distinguished guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine! Please prepare for registration. Dear colleagues, ready to register? Please register. The registration takes place with the green pros button. Green, green. [[10:14:52]] There are 257 Ukrainian national deputies registered in the hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear colleagues, today in our four fellow national deputies' birthday is Olena Volodymyrovna Mošenec, Alexander Vasilovich Aliksiyczuk, Oleg Andryovich Dunda and Yuri Ivanovich Zaslavski. [[Applause]] I welcome you, wish you health, success, family comfort, harmony, and well - being. Dear colleagues, let's get to work. The first question of the agenda is the question of "hours of questions to the government." The Prime Minister of Ukraine, Denis Anatoliyovich Schmigal, and members of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, participate in the meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. On the Conciliation Council, it was determined that members of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine today would answer questions about the state of implementation of local self - government reform and the decentralization of power in Ukraine. As we agreed, the procedure for dealing with this issue is 10 minutes for the reporter, 35 minutes for answers and questions according to a specific question, and the question was determined by the Conciliation Council, and then another 15 minutes for the speech and question of the Prime Minister of Ukraine. We have had an unusual situation when we, at the time, the Deputy Prime Minister, the Minister for the Development of the Communities and Territories of Ukraine, Denis Anatoliyovich Schmigal, today is also the Prime Minister of Ukraine. So, Denise Anatolyovich, it's actually your hour. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-06-m0.u2	Good afternoon, dear Mr. Head, distinguished national deputies, respected Ukrainians! If you don't mind, I'll be very brief. In up to three minutes, let me report on the reform of local self-government -- this is a decentralization reform that is recognized as one of the most successful, we talked about it, 70 percent know and understand, and expect positive changes from this reform. Five tasks: the formation of capable territorial communities, the creation of a new system of administrative and territorial arrangements, the distribution of powers between local authorities and executive authorities, the review of the powers of local government authorities, taking into account the new powers of local authorities and the promotion of the development of forms and instruments of local democracy. So it's on purpose. There's a presentation. I'll do my own words. I'm asking you to include slides so that they move about 15 to 20 seconds each. Forming can be done by territorial communities. We plan to capture them all over Ukraine. To date, nearly 1,000,45 united communities of 1,000,400 have been formed, or 350 communities have not yet been formed, and elections have not yet been held, and they will be held in accordance with the CWC’s October 25th elections, which will be held in the 1 000,400 communities. By the end of March, we are planning to cover 100 percent of Ukraine with promising plans. Today in just three regions, it's Sumska, Dnipropetrovska district not covered by promising plans, we're working on next week, and the Autonomous Republic of Crimea is located, it's an occupied area that's also not covered by a forward-looking plan. The other areas of the outlook were approved, submitted, and accepted by the Cabinet of Ministers. One hundred percent of the regional communities of Ukraine are formed with optimal social infrastructure networks. This is the next plan, there are 806 CNAPs for today, there are 1,000 400 in the project, each united territorial community has to have an administrative service center. The key question is accessibility, a defined methodology. Key things are the number of children, the number of people and the ability, the financial capacity of communities. The availability of CNAPs should be no more than 30 minutes, and there should be access to each particular educational facility, safety centers, sports, medicine, and so on. So there's an appropriate government method. Today, there is an electronic map with 26 networks, 100 layers of geodata, and 150,000 objects of appropriate infrastructure to ensure that citizens have access to the convenient administrative services and social services provided by the State. The formation of a new system of administrative and sub-regional systems and units for today's sub-regional level, I've already said, I repeat this figure, 1 thousand 400 communities, also more than 100 districts or districts. This is a question that is debated today, and we have a big debate that we have started, and the national MPs have also participated in discussions with the district representatives, and are actively participating in discussions at the Kiev expert level, as well as the discussions and discussions that are being held today in the regions, they are practically completed this week. From the next, we move on to the big expert discussion here in Kiev. The distribution of powers is goal number 3, between local self-government and executive authorities. The most discussed issue today is the adoption of two laws on local government administrations and local self-government in Ukraine. A review of the powers of local government authorities, taking into account the new powers of local self - government and central authorities, the adoption of the Law on State Local Administrations, on Prefects, or we can call them government officials, and in the discussion we will define the proper name and authority of this office. Key things discussed, I'm not going to repeat them from this rostrum. Promoting the development of the forms of the tools of local democracy. It is about amending legislation on local elections, as well as legislative regulation of the obligation to adopt rural, rural, urban, and community councils in the territorial communities, and the introduction of effective forms of participation of residents of the territorial communities. The main question that is now on the table is the adoption of changes to the Constitution. We have initiated and held a major social discussion in Ukraine. She's been through all the regions. Today remains to be held in Kramatorska once again with the participation of fascists – mediators, as we call them, with the participation of experts, with the participation of local leaders of thought and communities. Next week, we're going to talk here in Kiev, with associations, with experts, with the direct participation of parliamentarians and the Cabinet of Ministers. We're going to prepare a few options that we're going to raise from the bottom of people, from public organizations, from associations to make the debate meaningful here in Parliament, and we have no doubt that the proposals that we're considering are raised by people and communities. In general, with regard to decentralization, perhaps everything is ready to begin with. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-06-m0.u3	Thank you, Mr. Prime Minister. Please sign up for questions from MPs and groups. Stephanie Olga Anatolyevna. Clemensa Julia Leonidivna.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-06-m0.u4	Good afternoon, Mr. Prime Minister. We had a fruitful discussion with you on the air yesterday. We talked to you about water in Crimea. At first you said that the water in Crimea would be supplied, and then you decided that the water would not be supplied in Crimea. Please tell us to put a dot in this discussion. Will water be supplied in Crimea? That's my question. For the Russians, yes, for the occupied Crimea. And the second. Or it will. How much does it cost to maintain occupied areas for the current Ukrainian budget for both Donbas and Crimea? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-06-m0.u5	Thank you for asking. I made a very clear statement yesterday about water supply in Crimea, Ukraine. We will not supply water for industrial and military objects. A exclamation point. And that's where we put the dot. We will provide water to Ukrainians for household needs, for drinking if necessary or humanitarian threats are to be made. Although the tanks, though the canisters, are supposed to provide this, it is our duty to our Ukrainians. That's why it's important. [[B in m in s a l in]] That's exactly what I said yesterday. We are not talking about the restoration of industrial water supply; we are talking about our obligation to the Ukrainians in Crimea. That was clearly said yesterday. So the request is not to politicize these things, not to pick up or manipulate them. And thank you for your question. It's about the second part of the question. Let's get an answer ready. In writing, we gave answers to questions asked by MPs and factions. Today, if you want specific numbers and details, you have to choose them and count them. We certainly don't have direct budget spending on occupied areas. But they're focused on doing the right things, and they need to be generalized. There's a question from you: we'll prepare the information and give it to you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-06-m0.u6	Coltunovich Alexander Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-06-m0.u7	Thank you, Mr. Head. Mr. Prime Minister. Coltunovich, "The Opposition Platform for Life." I wanted to ask you this question about budgetary decentralization. We all know that given the devaluation of the national monetary unit, the nominal income of the local budgets has increased. But if we take a fraction of the income of local budgets and inter-budget transfers in the consolidated budget, this share has not changed since 2013. If we take 2020 to the 19th, the volume of inter-budget transfers is reduced by local budgets, this is set in the budget for the 20th year. In this regard, we know that there is now an exclusive funding for local wages and utility bills. How are you going to finance development programmes with budget failures, taking into account the decline in the amount of inter-budget transfers, and even overcoming the regional differentiation that exists today in a number of regions of Ukraine? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-06-m0.u8	Thank you for asking. We are now really on the path of reform and fiscal decentralization, including. On Wednesday, in Kabmin, we will consider re-enlisting the budget to 67 more elected communities to allow them to move into direct inter-budget relations with the Cabinet of Ministers. So the total number of communities, the 1045 that you're talking about, are going to be translated according to the third quarter into a direct inter-budget relationship. And this will give them adequate autonomy and guidance over the resources they manage. With regard to the implementation of the capital expenditure programmes that are planned, it's the cost of the special funds, and we're going to do it. For the first time in the history of Ukraine, we are opening up a large building. Since March 1, the State Fund for Regional Development has been approved, accepted, and open to regional funding. We've opened up all the capital costs, including road repairs not on September 1st, as usual, but already today, it's open funds, and they're being funded today, construction is already under way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-06-m0.u9	Thank you. Black Dmitry Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-06-m0.u10	Dear Mr. Prime Minister. Dmitry Black, the "Serial of the People" faction at one of the meetings with the former Prime Minister, and with the Mayors, we were invited to take a personal look at the distance between socially important objects in our districts, namely CNAP, hospital, schools. And I'd like to hear from you today how in today's situation, which is today, you can get through this distance, when 30 minutes, it's just somewhere. These are unrealistic numbers, because it takes a few hours. I want to hear from you how to be in this situation, whether the state will help the cities.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-06-m0.u11	Thank you for asking. You're absolutely right, today the situation that exists in Ukraine is a large number of damaged local roads, on which it is virtually impossible or very difficult to comply with the standard that we want to achieve. So we, I've already said before, we're starting a big construction, we're building this year, and we're going to spend over 70 billion dollars on repairing roads, including local roads. The Kravtodor has developed a plan with the district government. The priorities of the plan under the mandate of the President and the Cabinet of Ministers were the following: C.N.A.P., schools, hospitals. National MPs have joined most areas in the development of road censuses. I'm sure the majors are aware of what roads will be repaired in most areas today, and the local communities are also involved. In a number of areas, we are conducting an experiment with OTG, allowing community leaders to determine the priorities of road repair. So we are deeply aware of this problem and approach it, in fact, the priority problem, the accessibility of the objects that we talked about today in conditions of decentralization. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-06-m0.u12	Thank you. Chigoz Ahtem Zeitullajovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-06-m0.u13	Heratchenka, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-06-m0.u14	Irina Volodymyrna's character.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-06-m0.u15	Dear colleagues, full responsibility for the humanitarian situation in the occupied areas, according to the Geneva Conventions, is borne by the occupying country. And as President Zelensky urged, we need to have the heart and mind of the Ukrainian government, realizing that giving water to the occupation regime is to delay the return of Crimea and Donbas, the return of Ukrainian hostages. I hope that Ukrainian hearts and Ukrainian minds will appear in the Ukrainian government. Now for the questions. And so far, there are no key ministers in the government -- economics, industry, education, culture and the APC. When are you going to run for office? And what's going on with the economy? Are you prepared to make changes to the budget so that the next meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine will take place immediately, and the indexation of 11 million pensioners will take place? What happens to protected articles in the budget? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-06-m0.u16	Thank you for asking. I repeat, I fully support you in saying that you are supplying water for the technological and military needs of the occupied Crimea. We're not doing this. The other one. [[B in m in s a l in]] I can't hear you. The other one. It's about forming a government. I am currently conducting interviews, and the government will be formed as soon as the right, quality and responsible candidates are selected. Third. With regard to budget review, we are working today, we are working tomorrow, we are looking at budget possibilities, and, of course, as soon as we are ready, we will bring this up for consideration and we will propose changes in the budget in order to meet social commitments. Thank you for asking.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-06-m0.u17	Keith Andrey Bogdanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-06-m0.u18	Please pass the word to Kulinich Oleg Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-06-m0.u19	Kulinich Oleg Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-06-m0.u20	Good afternoon, dear colleagues, Mr. Prime Minister! Oleg Kulinich, trust MP. First question about the changes to the Constitution on decentralization. It is known that the previous bill was withdrawn because it did not take into account the opinion of local self - government. What principles of difference will be found in the new bill, which is your opinion? And will local self - government really be heard?
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-06-m0.u21	I don't hear any questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-06-m0.u22	And the second question, the second question about medicine, about funding a secondary chain. As we know, on April 1, a secondary line is going into a direct budget relationship with the National Health Service. Is it possible to make a transition period and postpone it? Because we, as senior MPs in the group, are constantly approached by people, by medical workers. Well, clearly a non-negative secondary link to a direct relationship, because a transitional period is needed. How do you feel about that? And decentralization, the first question was. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-06-m0.u23	Unfortunately, I didn't hear the first part. I'm sorry. After decentralization reports, well, we're going to work and work with these communities, and there's about 300 left to reconcile all the issues, to remove the tension points. And you, as a major deputy and major MP, understand and know exactly where and what points of tension are, where there are really situations where we need to negotiate and discuss with the communities. Appropriately, we will be working on decentralization, and we have about one more month to find out all the discussion issues. It's about the second part. Medical reform. We're not talking about this the first day. Yesterday, I said, we've come a long way towards medical reform. According to subjective estimates, up to 80 percent of the journey has been made, turning back today means destroying the health system. So we're going to move forward in reform, there's no other way. But, as the minister said yesterday, and not only yesterday, the minister of health, we today will pay great attention to the two pillars for which this medical reform is being done. It's a medic and it's a patient, a patient and a medic -- two people that we're going to be guided by today's ongoing medical reform. And of course, we have to make peace, and we don't have to shut down any medical facilities. None. We're not going to release any doctors, so these are the priorities that we're going to move on to medical reform. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-06-m0.u24	Goose Igor Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-06-m0.u25	Igor Gus, MP for the Future. Denis Anatolyovich, you have good advice. You're the third day of the Prime Minister, please, while you're still on the air talking about something, please think ahead, because there are people in the room who are responsible for your appointment, and the treatment of your words should be clear. Now essentially. Please, I wish we didn't bother with those questions that you know about. The first is to end the question of joining those areas that are not united in OTG, you know. The second is districts, whether it's neighborhoods, yes, and the question has to be resolved. For example, the question of creating a fourth district on Volina is painful, so we are. Then there's the support hospitals. That's a very painful question. Winnie, Volin, a number of other regions, very unfairly distributed these questions, would like you to intervene immediately. So the request is very simple. Speed up this process, do not delay.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-06-m0.u26	Thank you for your advice and thank you for asking. So it's about decentralization reform. I've already said that today, I'll say again, we're working in the regions today, we're working with local self-government, that is, with associations, with those who already have experience, with experts, with local communities. We're taking all the expertise from them, including the equality of government and the local self-government system -- two or three levels -- of what you're talking about. We agree on the names, we agree on the format of the administration, and in the Parliamentary Hall we will make appropriate proposals that will come, that will be raised from below, that will be worked out by experts who agree with the Venice Commission, and that will be a completely positive constructive discussion here in the Parliamentary Chamber after the committee discussion. Regarding the network of emergency hospitals. It's defined, it's defined according to the parameters of a developed government methodology. I repeat, we are not going to discriminate or close any medical facility. Resilience hospitals are determined by their availability, availability, and quality of medical care. That is why we are paying attention to it today. Once again, since the medical community is concerned, the minister of health deals with this issue directly every day. Thank you for asking.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-06-m0.u27	Thank you. Belkova Olga Valentinovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-06-m0.u28	Thank you. Mr. Prime Minister, as the former Vice Prime Minister, you obviously realize that the only basic condition for the development of the regions is to fill them with local taxes. Taxes do not come from Kiev locally; they come from small, medium and large businesses from industry. Oops, and here's the problem. In all regions, without exception, there is a decline in all sectors of industry today. Our workers -- tailors, pharmacists, metallurgists and so on, builders don't need our political discussions here, and they need concrete steps with or without ministers. Please tell me, as Prime Minister, what specific three steps are you initiating in the near future to protect the entire industry of Ukraine, to lift it from its knees and to provide it with such protection that we are all proud of these three steps? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-06-m0.u29	Thank you for asking. It is absolutely true, lying in the plane as always, communicating with those for whom these three steps need to be taken. Step one. This is an answer from our industries, small, medium-sized businesses -- and what do they need? And that's actually a hundred steps that need to be taken by the government, the parliament to make the business feel at home. He was able to do his job, create jobs, and pay taxes. So the first step is to have an open conversation with business. Because we agreed that we're not doing anything -- either reform or the first steps without who we're doing it for. Next. It's a job on the outside markets to develop our export potential. Today, Ukraine is not the only country in the world that has not so far done lobbying for our industrialists and agrarians in international markets. They were looking for themselves, and we're probably the only ones in the world who didn't lobby their manufacturers, agrarians and industrialists. And the third. This is, of course, creating the right conditions from the point of view of taxes and employment for business. These are general phrases, of course, today, but this is the third condition, it's coming out of the first. What we're going to hear from industry, entrepreneurs, we're going to work to create these conditions. It'll be urgent, it won't take long. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-06-m0.u30	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we still have time. Please sign up for questions from factions during the time remaining. We have 18 minutes left, so don't be offended. Constanceevich Irina Miroslavovna
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-06-m0.u31	Mr. Prime Minister! Irina Konstankovic, Future Group, Volin. Mr. Prime Minister, I would like to hear your opinion on the development of cultural institutions under decentralization. Unfortunately, we have major problems with the closure of both the cultural buildings and the libraries, and all the cultural infrastructure has been destroyed lately. I'm asking you to intervene in this situation and tell me your vision of cultural infrastructure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-06-m0.u32	So far, it's a general phrase, but it's important. Culture should be at an appropriate level of attention in Ukraine, a proper level of funding, and we should be proud of our cultural and cultural institutions. With the appointment of the respective minister, I will give specific answers and directions to our program. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-06-m0.u33	Papiev Mikhailo Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-06-m0.u34	Thank you. May I give the floor to the People's Deputy Kacny?
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-06-m0.u35	Duck Alexander Stalinoenovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-06-m0.u36	Dear colleagues, good afternoon! I have a question to ask the foreign minister if he can answer that question. The fact is, recently, the Ambassador of Ukraine to Montenegro has allowed himself to experience hurtful events at the side of our Metropolitan Onufria, who is the head of the Ukrainian Orthodox Church. Moreover, she said that it was impossible to call him the head of the Ukrainian Orthodox Church but only the head of the Russian Orthodox Church. She stated that it was necessary to take the property to the Ukrainian Orthodox Church and give it to the PTC. Do you think a diplomat has the right to say that? And don't you think she needs to be released immediately? It falls under the Ukrainian Penal Code on the subject.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-06-m0.u37	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-06-m0.u38	Thank you for asking. In Ukraine, the Church is known to be separate from the State. I'm going to take an extra look at the situation you just described. And I'm ready to come directly back to you with an answer that's more substantive and detailed.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-06-m0.u39	The great Sergey Anatolyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-06-m0.u40	Sergey the Great, Lugansk. I give the word to Sergey Shahov.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-06-m0.u41	Shahov Sergei Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-06-m0.u42	Sergey Shahov, Luhanščina, Deputy Group "Trust". Dear Mr. Prime Minister, please note that the rest of the hospitals today are within 100 kilometers of each other. And when you're on the roads of Luhansk, the pits and the coats of arms, I'd say, like graves that leave the "fast" just the "horns to the legs". We need to pay attention. Well, it's all over the country. Second, consider gas tariffs. They didn't go down. Because there's transit. There are some coefficients. NCRECRIP replied that this is illegal and that people do not know about it. Please explain to the entire population why this happened. Consider, too, once again the wages of miners of 1 billion 650 million dollars. The president said he gave up 650 million, only a billion left. But please consider the entire energy sector and put order there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-06-m0.u43	Thank you for asking. We talked about road conditions and the priority of road repair today. I repeat: The priority is to repair roads to social facilities, including hospitals, including intensive hospitals. With regard to coal miners in the field of energy, we will carry out government debt commitments to coal miners who have been raised and maintained for today. And of course, we're going to give particular attention to the coal sector just as much as the energy in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-06-m0.u44	Eugene Nina Petrovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-06-m0.u45	Mr. Prime Minister, I'll have questions on the customs. You know that customs, customs, customs, and customs are the worst result in the last, perhaps, months in the history of a five - year - old. The history of Ukraine. I have a question. It's very important for you to say right now, do you know what the situation is with stationary scanners and mobile scanners right now? I've been trying for a long time to figure out and I've got the answer that there are currently 11 mobile scanners 8 are not working, and stationary scanners are actually "implemented" because there are actually no right-wing acts on how to use them, four of them are not working, because there can be no power failure because of violations of the standards for installing these scanners and so on. Please tell me, what are the customs rates now? What are you going to do with the customs office? And do you think it's the creation of a single legal person?
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-06-m0.u46	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-06-m0.u47	A large meeting with the financial unit, including the customs director, is scheduled for tomorrow. All the information you're asking, if you've been using official sources, we'll duplicate, see, we'll send you all the questions you've been asked with clear numbers. [[B in m in s a l in]] My colleague can answer. I'd like to give you my word.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-06-m0.u48	As far as temperature screening is concerned, we all have, all of us, all of us, border crossings, that's more than 200, and on February 26, they're fixing the temperature through the temperature screening. We've purchased 450 temperature scans, and every day there's information about how many people have been scanned, and they've been fever-enhanced. To date, those who have arrived at high temperatures have not been identified.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-06-m0.u49	Customs scanners, not temperatures.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-06-m0.u50	It's bad to hear, I'm sorry, in the hall, so let's prepare the information and send out a clear list.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-06-m0.u51	That's the problem with our sound in the room, you know that, too, so let's put it mildly, it's not always audible, it's true. Come on, guys, let's just calm down. Alona Ivanovna Shkrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-06-m0.u52	Alona's splinter, Fatherland faction. Mr. Prime Minister, I have two short questions for you. First. You know, you're going to have to correct a lot of mistakes from the previous government. A completely dissolved government, in my opinion, and a completely ruined trust in institutions. And in this part of the discussion in all the regions of Ukraine where Fatherland took part, people are very afraid that even so-called prefects, whatever we call them, will become, not prefects, but viewers, without trust from the community, from just Mr. President to centralization. So today, the Law on Prefects and the concept of the law are under three locks. Can you show this law before changes to the Constitution are made? It's important. And the second short question. Decentralization, you know it well as Vice Prime Minister, impossible without finances, finances, finances. The previous government did not hear the community at all, took a stake in them, and took the excise tax away from them, depriving them of 8 billion dollars. They only returned it temporarily. Are you prepared to return money to the community and restore trust? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-06-m0.u53	Thank you for asking. Excise taxes have been left in the community thanks to MPs, so communities use them. It's about finance. The structure after the local elections, the structure of community funding will be approved according to current legislation, and it will be sufficient for the development and existence of capable communities, corresponding to the structure of subsidies to communities that are unable to do so. So all these things are prescribed by law. With regard to prefects and laws on prefects and their powers, making changes to the Constitution. There is no law under locks. I repeat, and I emphasize, we are having a major social debate on what changes should be made to the legislation that the Prefect's mandate should be, and how should the levels of administration of local self-government and government authorities be divided by what is called a two- or three-level system. We also approach the prefect's name democratically, having a discussion that should be called, just as we should be authorized. Hence, there is no law under seven castles. This is the subject of national discussion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-06-m0.u54	Rušin Jaroslav Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-06-m0.u55	Please pass the word to Galina Vasilchenko. Galini Vasilchenko, please pass on the word.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-06-m0.u56	Again, who's the word, excuse me?
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-06-m0.u57	Galina Vasilchenko, 118th District, Lvivščina Mr. Dennis, you probably know exactly what's going on with the communities in Lviv, especially what's going on with Obrosinsk, Sokolnick, Murovan communities, when they're just not allowed to be created. I know you've been informed that 80 percent of the falcons want to go to Lviv, but that's not really true. And here are the 4,000 signatures of the people who actually want to be a separate community. My question. But what about Sokołnicka, Obrazinska, Murovan communities? And the second question is no less important. The medical reform that is currently going on is the only right path for Ukraine. And it has to continue. Is it true that you want to cancel the National Health Service? I.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-06-m0.u58	All communities in Ukraine will be formed according to the applicable Ukrainian legislation, according to a methodology approved by legislation. The formation of communities has left order of 350. There are, by 100 communities, discussions. I've talked about it. For part of the communities, the discussions are totally well - founded, constructive, and need a solution. There are popular discussions in part of the community. We also have a dialogue and a discussion, and we will also address this issue through a constructive dialogue with the communities in order not to reflect on reform and on the results of this reform. As far as NZU is concerned. That's not true and that's manipulation. Period. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-06-m0.u59	Gevko.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-06-m0.u60	Good morning, everyone. Please pass the word to Bardini Marina.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-06-m0.u61	Bardina Marina Olegnowna.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-06-m0.u62	Good afternoon, colleagues. Good afternoon, Prime Minister. Actually, I want to show you, there's a "Not in my Parliament" action in Parliament today. It is dedicated to International Women's Rights Day and is supported by the European Council of Europe. Actually, my question to you is as follows. You're like the Prime Minister of the country who's already made a number of progress in the conduct of equality. Will you support this policy? Will you be supporting Mr. Kuleb's former government official and now new to another position, the Biarric Partnership strategy? Is there a willingness to adopt a policy of equality? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-06-m0.u63	Thank you for asking. It is, indeed, important, especially in the context of accusations and accusations of inequality. He personally participated in more than one project, working in the Lviv region, with regard to equality, gender, and cooperation with international organizations. Therefore, of course, the government has supported and will support this direction, and cooperate with the Council of Europe in the continuation of those projects and reforms that have already been initiated and regarding equality policies, including unconditionally and unequivocally. Thank you for asking. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-06-m0.u64	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we have five minutes left. That's two more questions. Sign up for factions, but we'll only have two questions. Duck Alexander Stalinoenovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-06-m0.u65	Please give Koltunovich a word. Coltunovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-06-m0.u66	Koltunović Alexander Sergijovich
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-06-m0.u67	Coltunovich, "The Opposition Platform for Life." Dear Mr. Prime Minister! I'd like to look back, but we talked to you about funding there and budget programs, and in general, reducing the share of local budgets and inter-budget transfers. But I wanted to talk to you, and I wanted to draw your attention, so that you can take into account further in your work, overcoming regional disparities in the inequality of individual regions in these three important positions. The first is tariff policy. Local authorities in some areas of Ukraine, for example, determine heat tariffs that are much smaller than in Kiev. But if we take data from the Ukrainian State Statistics Service, we have an official salary in Kiev, and in a number of regions, it's almost a half-time different. And the tariff, for example, for heating is higher in that region. And this regional differentiation, even in the Government Programme as the previous government, was such an important moment in overcoming this inequality. What will you do next? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-06-m0.u68	Thank you for asking. Indeed, the issue of heat tariffs and gas prices has been raised today. Heat tariffs were reduced in January and February. There's all the analytics, there's infographics, we can give it to the MPs if we need it, it's been given. In 143 locations between 5 and 31 percent of the population, tariffs were reduced during January and February to supply the heat generated by burning natural gas. Indeed, today the authority to set tariffs is in the hands of local authorities. That's why we work with local authorities. A corresponding Order of the Cabinet of Ministers was adopted, which allowed local authorities to lower and regulate the tariff on heat, depending on the reduction in the price of natural gas. Someone took advantage of it, someone didn't take advantage of it. But as a result of this decision and the work of the local government of the price for the supply of heat in these 143 locations, they were balanced. And the price gap, first of all, went down, I've already said 5 to 31 percent, second of all, prices are almost flat. So two or more times between prices for heat, it's gone down and it's become practically minimal. So let's say the lines haven't yet reached the same tariffs, they depend on the state of the network, the state of the equipment itself, but to the extreme extent this differentiation has become more balanced because of the actions that have been used both by the government and the local self-government in places. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-06-m0.u69	Thank you. Bobrovska Solomija Anatoliyevna
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-06-m0.u70	Thank you. Finally, our attention is tied to the Crimea. Hopefully, there will be attention to the Black Sea, and we know how we lose control of the Black Sea. That's actually why I have a question. When will a ban be imposed on the navigation of civilian and military ships in the inner waters of the occupied Crimea, as Georgia did at the time? We are completely without responsibility for the people and the vessels that can enter us in peace today, and we will be honest. In fact, the occupied sea of Azov, which became a lake in the interior of the Russian Federation, as well as the Crimea and the inland waters of the state of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-06-m0.u71	Thank you for asking. This is a matter of national defence security that relates to the competence of the National Security and Defence Council. So I'm going to re-address it, and we're going to prepare an answer for you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-06-m0.u72	Larissa Mikolayevna.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-06-m0.u73	Good afternoon, fellow Prime Minister! Larissa Bilozer, Winnitz district, 15th constituency. I have a question. You said support hospitals were designed according to the methodology. I want to let you know that there is no methodology that takes into account accessibility, efficiency, capacity, there is just one hour of arrival that is not being done in the districts. I want to tell you that the persisting desire of the MlH not to take decentralization reform into account has led to the manual selection of support hospitals in artificial mode. I very much ask you to suspend the decree, order the Cabinet of Ministers from January 15th and review, and increase the number of resilient hospitals. Because there are 600 hospitals in Poland, twice the size of a smaller area, we have artificially taken away 212, which will lead to the deaths of many Ukrainians, because it's impossible to get to those resistant hospitals not in an hour, but in two, in three. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-06-m0.u74	Thank you for asking. As you know, this year, at the President's direction, we started in the framework of a large building in Ukraine to repair and bring to one standard 220 reception units in hospitals. This is going to be the standard that corresponds to the world's best level, and it's going to be structured aid in reception rooms with appropriate equipment, with an appropriate level of repair of these compartments. Regarding your advice on continuing to reform decentralization, as well as inventory requirements for hospitals, let's say intensive treatment, of course, we're doing it now, and that's what the Minister of Health is doing today, he's looking at and looking at moments that will require attention, change or improvement in the process of implementing our medical reform. Thank you for asking.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-06-m0.u75	Dear colleagues, time for questioning is up. I would like to thank Mr. Prime Minister, the government. I hope that the future work of Parliament and the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine will be as fruitful. Thank you, Dennis Anatolyovich. Let's move on to the questions. In accordance with article 25 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s regulations on Friday, we have 30 minutes to announce our requests. The word is given to the Deputy Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Condtradjuk Oleni Konstantinovni.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-06-m0.u76	Thank you. Dear colleagues, before I go to the polls, I would like to inform you of the information campaigns that are now in the World Women's Day World Summit. And the "Equal Opportunities" inter-fractional merger has prepared, along with the United Nations Development Programme, an information brochure that speaks of equality, respect and cooperation and speaks of the true essence of the International Women's Day, as well as the reality of the situation in which the women of Ukraine are now. In addition, we have allowed ourselves to prepare a card where we would ask you to get to know it, and the true essence as well as the holiday, and the day that speaks of our equality, and the ability of women to make decisions. I'd like you all to read it, because it's, in principle, kind of like a recipe for how you can properly greet women with such a powerful and beautiful day. In addition, we have already said today that in the spheres of Parliament, together with the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, the action "Not in my Parliament" is taking place. It is also dedicated to the rights of dignity, equality between women and men, as well as the possibility of women participating actively in politics, in the economy, in business. And most importantly, it wants to get all the parliamentarians' attention to sexist behavior as well as bulling. This kind of action has taken place in almost all European parliaments, and you can all join it in the towers of the Supreme Council. Photographers work specially, yes, and men do. Because, first of all, it's meant to understand men's role as women in Ukrainian parliamentaryism. All those who can take pictures will also be on the website of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe and on the site of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Thank you. Do not forget to take part in such powerful actions as are now available. And we'd also like to take a special speech from the heads of the interfractional grouping "Equal Opportunities" before the question "Variance." And now we're going to read and question. I want to remind you that we have questions, and in the name of the President, we're going to need a vote. Thus, 251 parliamentary inquiries were made during the plenary week. Of them, to the President of Ukraine, 4, to the Supreme Council, 3, to the Cabinet of Ministers, 107. To the heads of other public authorities and local self-government bodies – 118, to the managers of enterprises, institutions, organizations located in Ukraine irrespective of their subordination and forms of ownership – 19. Unfortunately, 118 MPs have remained unannounced since last plenary week. A total of 366 parliamentary inquiries have now been received. Dear colleagues, therefore, we are moving on to enquiries with the President of Ukraine. From Natalia Royal and Yuri Solod to the President of Ukraine on the implementation of the decisions of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine that reinstate citizens' rights in the area of social protection. Please vote. We need to get 150 votes for a preliminary confirmation of this request. Please turn the program on. [[11:05:58]] For-123 The request did not get the required number of votes. Next request from Olga Vasilevska-Smagluk to the President of Ukraine for the destruction of the State Financial Control Fund in Ukraine. Please vote. We need to get 150, I think, in advance. [[11:06:27]] For 184 Please show by factions. And it is now up to the vote to decide to refer the previously supported request to the President of Ukraine. Here we have to get 226 votes. Please vote. [[11:06:57]] For 197 Sadly, I did not ask for the support I needed. Please show by factions. Thank you. Next request from Irina Borzov to the President of Ukraine for the preservation of the Kyiv City Clinical Ophthalmological Hospital "Centre of Microsurgery of the Eye" for the provision of highly specialized ophthalmological assistance to the third level of the closed cycle in Kiev, which will serve the needs of the Chinese and residents of other areas of Ukraine. Let's put it to a vote. [[11:07:48]] For 234 So, colleagues are voting on the decision to send a pre-supported parliamentary request to the President of Ukraine. Please vote. [[11:08:11]] For 242 Decision taken. Please show by factions. Thank you. And a final request for the name of the President of Ukraine from a group of national deputies (Truchina, Gekuk, and others). A total of 18 deputies) to the President of Ukraine for the return of Ukrainian women and their underage children from the Syrian Arab Republic to the Fatherland. Please vote. [[11:08:49]] For 243 Thus, it is up to the president of Ukraine to vote on the decision to send a pre-supported parliamentary request to the President of Ukraine. Please vote. [[11:09:11]] For 240 Decision taken. Please show by factions. Thank you. So let's move on to the question-reading. I'm going to ask you a little quieter because there's a lot of noise in the room. Please listen to your questions, for then you come and ask if there was or not. Irina Konstankevich to the Minister of Culture, Youth and Sports of Ukraine, the first deputy head of the National Council of Ukraine on TV and radio coverage of the digital television signal in the areas of the Volin region. Paul Frolov to the Ukrainian minister of health regarding a situation with a pathological tendency to gamble on separate levels of the Ukrainian population and possible measures to counter the spread of mania. Alexander Kachura to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the provision of specific indicators for the implementation of the Program of Activities of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, approved by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine Order of 29.09.2019, number 849. Dmitry Kostuk to the head of yesterday’s united rural community in the Ruzyn district of Žitomir district for the removal of the land for the conduct of a private farm for the fighting party of Olkin V.V. Groups of National Deputies (Galaduhi, Borzov and others) Only 6 deputies) to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Culture, Youth and Sports of Ukraine, Minister of Finance of Ukraine for the full pay of teachers of higher sports schools for the implementation of the Ukrainian Cabinet Decision of 14.08.2019 No. 755 "Some questions about the wages of children's sports schools." Taras Batenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Health of Ukraine, is temporarily acting as Head of the National Health Service of Ukraine to ensure adequate conditions for the provision of medical care to residents of the Premyslán district of Lviv. Tarasa Batenka to the Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine, Head of the Lviv District Public Administration for the proper use of education subsidies in 2020 and the participation of supporting educational institutions in the government program "A win-winning school for better results". Alexia Zmerenecki to the Attorney General on the verification of the legality of criminal conduct. Alexia Zmerenecki to the Ministry of Interior's Chief Service Centre for the Monopolization of the Market Services, assessing the conformity of the vehicle with the equipment. Alexander Tkachenka and John Shinkarenk to the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on National Health, Health Care and Health Insurance, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the Ministry of Health of Ukraine, the Odessa District State Administration, regarding the non-closure of the medical facilities. Alexander Tkachenka and John Shinkarenk to the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, the State Bureau of Investigation, the Attorney General's Office, the National Police of Ukraine for the improper conduct of criminal investigations. Igor Guza to the Minister of Health of Ukraine, Prime Minister of Ukraine, on the need to allocate additional funding from the State budget for KNP "Ivančivska Central District Hospital" (Volinsk Region). Igor Guza to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the need for immediate approval. Groups of National Deputies (Doughnuts, Tucks, and others) Only 12 deputies) to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the cessation of abuses with the property of the State Enterprise "National Cinematography of Ukraine" and the State Enterprise "Ukrainian Studies of Chronic and Documentary Films". Anastasia Lashenko to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine regarding the sale without prescription of drugs, psychotropic substances, and (or) precursors in the pharmacies of Lubna Poltava region. Valery Christmas to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine, Minister of Health of Ukraine, on the dangerous situation surrounding the system of training qualified medical personnel and on the urgent need to regulate the interaction of health institutions with higher (postgraduate) medical education institutions and scientific institutions. Veacheslava Rublov to the head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Budget, Prime Minister of Ukraine, on the need to finance socio-economic development measures envisaged by Order No. 500 of 10.07.2019 in accordance with existing outstanding financial commitments. Jegora Chernev to the Secretary of the National Security and Defence Council of Ukraine regarding the provision of information on the credentials of Alexia Seminy to be a signatory to the plan "Twelve Steps to Enhance Security in Ukraine and the Euro-Atlantic Region". Anastasia Lashenko to the head of the State Service of Ukraine from medical devices and drug control regarding the illegal implementation of drugs, psychotropic substances, and (or) precursors in the pharmacies of Lubna Poltava. Ruslan Stefanchuk to serve as Head of the Government of the Ukrainian Railway Association on the provision of information on the size of the salaries of members of the government and members of the Supervisory Board of AT "Ukrzaliznica". Ruslan Stefanchuk to the Director General of the Ucrobornprom State Concert about providing information on the size of the pay for the management of the Ucroborinprom DC. Ruslan Stefanchuk, head of the government of the National Shareholders Association of Naftogaz Ukraine, to provide information on the size of the pay-per-view of Naftogaz Ukraine. Mr. Ruslan Stefanchuk to the Director-General of the Public Shareholders' Association for the provision of information on the size of the salary of the Director-General, his deputies and members of the Supervisory Board of At Skrušta. Sergija Larina to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the appeal of the Kirovograd Regional Association of Employers' Organisations regarding the non-compliance with the Bologna Standards of the Bologna Process for the definition of the "dule form of education" in the current legislation of Ukraine. Alexia Kucherenka to the head of the Supervisory Board of the National Stock Exchange Company Naftogaz Ukraine for failure to perform basic tasks and expected indicators set for the Supervisory Board of AT "NAK Naftogaz Ukraine". Stepan Kuba to the Minister of Infrastructure of Ukraine on the need to ensure an uninterrupted process of issuing permits for international car carriers. Mikhail Kryack, acting as Director of the National Bureau of Investigation, Attorney-General, Director of the National Anti-Corruption Bureau of Ukraine, Head of the Anti-Monopoly Committee of Ukraine, Head of the National Police of Ukraine, Head of the National Police of Ukraine, Head of the Financial Control Office, Head of the State Treasury Service of Ukraine, Head of the National Agency for the Prevention of Corruption on the Verification of Information on the Infringement of Offences by the First Deputy Head of the Federal District Administration, Fedorov Ivan. Igora Kolyhayeva to the Minister of Culture, Youth and Sports of Ukraine, head of the Herson District State Administration for the Conservation of Libraries. Groups of National Deputies (Boblya, Nalotova and others) A total of 7 deputies) to the Ukrainian Minister of Health on the need for all-inclusive assistance in the treatment of Patenk D.V., who was born in 2001. Vladimir Timothychuk to the Attorney General for the improper conduct of pretrial investigations, for the annulment of the order for the closure of criminal conduct, and for the prosecution of those responsible. Alexia Honcharenko to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for a copy of the contract made on 30 December 2019 between NAC Naftogaz Ukraine and Pat Gazprom for the organization of transporting gas from the Russian Federation through Ukraine. Alexia Honcharenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for demanding that an official answer be given to the existence or absence of an intention to admit a mistake and to cancel the State strategy for the development of the anti-tubular health care system for the population, which was approved by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on 27 November 2019, as well as to ensure that the reduction of both the network of anti-tubular health facilities and the number of Phthiatricians working in them is prevented without delay. Zinovija Andrivović to the Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister for the Development of the Communities and Territories of Ukraine, on the provision of quality drinking water for the inhabitants of Ukraine. Outside, Johno-Frankov district, and surrounding villages. Jegora Chernev to the Minister of Energy and Environmental Protection of Ukraine regarding the provision of information on environmental impact assessments during 2019. Valery Gnatenka to the Ministry of Economic Development, Trade and Agriculture of Ukraine, Acting Head of the Government of the Ukrainian Railway Association for the maintenance of its own manufacture of railway fastening and non-closure of the PRAT "Friendly Metal Production Plant". Valery Gnatenka to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on the preservation of the production of its own rail fastening and the non-closure of the PRAT "Friendly metal production plant". Alexander Kunicki to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine for the provision of statistical information on the number of administrative orders issued since the beginning of the 20th year, drivers who are law enforcement officials, co-workers of the Ministry of Internal Affairs system, prosecutors or judges who managed vehicles while in the state of alcohol, narcotics or other drunkenness, and/or refused a proper examination. Vladimir Aresonkova to the Minister of Energy and Environmental Protection of Ukraine for the amendment of the Natural Gas Methodology to standard conditions in the absence of temperature and gas pressure instruments. Jury Pavlenko to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on dissatisfaction with the Ministry of Social Policy's response to the parliamentary request for urgent measures to decentralize power in part of the protection, observance and protection of the rights of the child by local executive authorities of the united territorial communities. Jury Pavlenko to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on dissatisfaction with the response of the Ministry of Social Policy to the parliamentary request "The difference between the Donetsk Region and other regions of Ukraine in the ratio of adoption of children by citizens of Ukraine and foreigners and the reasons for the overwhelming adoption of children by foreigners". Group of People's Deputies (Savchuk, Andryovič, Mokan) to head the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Budget, Minister of Youth Culture and Sport of Ukraine, Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Finance for Predicting Expenditure on Financing V of the International Art Festival "The Carpathian Space" in 2020. Dear colleagues, it's really hard for me to read. If it is important, we can participate in information companies today.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-06-m0.u77	Dear colleagues, there is a request, please secure silence in the House of Parliament, because all these matters are being read. Please. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-06-m0.u78	Thank you. Oksana Savchuk to Ukraine’s finance minister, Ukraine’s Infrastructure Minister, for providing information on the construction and reconstruction of bridge infrastructure. Groups of National Deputies (Geraschenko, Knajicko, Ionova) to the Minister of Culture, Youth and Sports of Ukraine, Prime Minister of Ukraine for the use by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine of urgent measures to protect the interests of the State in the field of information security. Groups of National Deputies (Geraschenko, Knieżicko, Ionova) to the First Deputy Head of the National Council of Ukraine for Television and Radio Education on the use of urgent measures to protect the interests of the State in the field of information security. Dmitra Nalotova to the Attorney General on the illegal acquisition of property rights to land in the captivity of Dragobrat. Dmitry Nalotova to the executive duty of the head of the Poltava City Council to provide documents for the reconstruction of the fountain on the Maidana of Independence in Poltava. Michael Zimbaluka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the critical situation of underfunding for palliative medical care. Dmitry Black to Yellowwater City Head for not allowing the elimination of preschool schools (jassel gardens) in the city of Yellow Water. Vladimir Ariev to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for a comprehensive explanation of a number of issues that have become socially resonant with the authorities involved in the evacuation of Ukrainian citizens from China. Sergia Dunayeva to the head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the Organization of State Authorities, Local Self-Government, Regional Development and Urban Development, Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, Head of the National Police of Ukraine on speeding up the investigation of the illegal activities of the Securonational City Election Commission and on the involvement of the responsible officials. Sergia Dunayeva to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, head of the National Police of Ukraine, on speeding up the investigation of cases involving electoral bribery, pressure and obstruction of the activities of the legally elected members of the Lysican City Council. Sergia Litvinenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Head of the National Commission for State Regulations in the Field of Energy and Municipal Services, acting as Head of the Government of the Ukrainian Railway Association for the Review, unreasonably elevated water tariffs for the inhabitants of the region of Sarna Rivena and the transfer to the balance of the city of water farms. Sergey Minka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the unwarranted extension of the approval of the list of types of work that are included in the technical maintenance of indoor gas supply systems in residential buildings. Sergia Minka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the absence of a mechanism for registration and removal of tractors, self-propelled chassis, self-propelled agricultural, road-building and meliority machines, agricultural equipment, other mechanisms in the absence of an identification number. Sergia Vlasenka to the Chief of the Office of the President of Ukraine for information on the results of the European Court of Human Rights competition from Ukraine. Alexander Fedienka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for amendments to the Ukrainian Cabinet of Ministers decision of March 5, 2009, No. 270. Alexander Fedienka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the inclusion of Radio Concerto, Radio and Television in the list of property rights that are not subject to privatization. Groups of National Deputies (Road, Vasiliev and others) A total of 11 deputies) to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the calculation of gas transport prices to the population. Ivanni Klimpush-Cincadze to Vice Prime Minister - Minister of Digital Transformation of Ukraine for the proper protection of the personal data of users of the mobile plugin "Dia". Ivanni Klimpush-Cincadze to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Energy and Environmental Protection of Ukraine, Head of the Government of the Public Shareholders Association of the Naftogaz National Shareholder Company for providing information on the results of the gas transit negotiations conducted through the Ukrainian gas transport system (Requirement, in connection with the provision of Naftogaz Ukraine). Igora Vasiliev to Deputy Attorney General of Ukraine, Head of the Specialised Anticorruption Prosecutor’s Office, Director of the National Anticorruption Bureau of Ukraine, is temporarily acting as Director of the State Bureau of Investigation for the use of response measures aimed at the return of deleted documents. Paul Melnik to the Minister of Infrastructure of Ukraine, head of the State Agency of Roads of Ukraine for the repair of the area of the road of state value N-30 from the city of Vasilyvka to the city of Berdjansk, a total of one hundred and forty-three kilometers, as well as T 08-18 from the cities of Vasilivka to the station of Mikhailivka, a total length of 26.5 km. Paul Melnik to the interim duty of the head of the State Fiscal Service of Ukraine to appeal to the head of the Mikhail District State Administration of the Zaporozhye Region regarding the absence of administrative services to individuals, organizations, and businesses in the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine. Paul Melnik to the minister of foreign affairs of Ukraine for the protection of the rights and fundamental freedoms held in the Azova Sea of Ukrainian fishermen, for their speedy return, and for the consular protection of their legitimate rights. Paul Melnik to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for not allowing a reduction in the financing of sport in the Zaporozhye region in the 20th year, and for the preservation of Ukraine's most-titled ZTR handball club, as well as the ZTR Children's Youth Sports School and the specialized classes working in the children's youth boarding school. Paul Melnik to the Minister of Culture, Youth and Sports of Ukraine, the President of the Ukrainian Federation of Tradeball, for an open letter from Ukraine's most-titled ZTR handball club regarding the discontinuation of funding from Pat's Security Transformer, which led to the end of the club's existence. Paul Melnik to the head of the Zaporozhye District State Administration on the absence of effective response measures regarding the environmental situation in the Yakimiv district of Zaporozhye, which resulted from the dumping of mined water into a evaporator pond located in the territory of the Kirilian village of the united territorial community, within the Utlujujka liman of the Azov Sea. Mary Mezentsevsky to the minister in veterans, temporarily occupied territories and internally displaced persons of Ukraine regarding the state of implementation of sub-projects introduced in communities affected by armed conflict to address their socio-economic needs. Tettina Placzkowa, head of the Ukrainian State Service on geodesy, cartography and cadastre, heads of the National Police of Ukraine on the need to end violations guaranteed by the Ukrainian Constitution of the rights of citizens to land. Tatyana Placzkowa, who is temporarily acting as head of the National Environmental Inspectorate of Ukraine, is the head of the National Police in the Odessa Region, the head of the Odessa District State Administration, on the need to stop violating the requirements of legislation regarding the protection and use of coastal protection lanes and the use of a beach zone within the Black Sea Coastal Protection Strip in the Odessa region. Olga Vasilevsky-Smagluk to the head of the Supervisory Board of the National Shareholder Company Naftogaz Ukraine on providing information on the activities of the NAC Supervisory Board "Naftogaz Ukraine". Dmitry Kisilevski to Minister of Infrastructure of Ukraine, acting as Head of Government of the Ukrainian Railway Association, on the transfer to the municipal property of the territorial community of Dnipro objects and networks that are on the balance sheet of DP "The Transnistrian Railway" Groups of National Deputies (Novinsky, Greeb, and others) A total of 5 deputies) to the minister of foreign affairs of Ukraine regarding the cessation of involvement in church affairs, a personal participation in a campaign to discredit the religious organizations of the Canonic Ukrainian Orthodox Church. Oleg Kulinić to Prime Minister of Ukraine, head of the Ukrainian Pension Fund for the recalculation and retirement of Borsz Svetlani Fedorovni, residents of the village of Dikańka Poltava County. Oleg Kulinić to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Head of the National Commission for Energy and Municipal Services, on the application of measures to reduce tariffs for the delivery/distribution of natural gas, which is based on the principle of the required power, the immediate response to the collective appeal of residents of the village of Kibinzi Poltaw region for the clarification of decision No. 3037 of 24 December 2019; and the response to the request of the Regional Civil Society of Ukraine for the annulment of decision No. 2080 of the NCREKP of 7 October 2019. Helen Condratuk to the First Deputy Head of the National Council of Ukraine for Television and Radio on the need for urgent measures aimed at restricting the free access of Ukrainian television subscribers to Russian propaganda channels. Paul Froll to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the need to define the term "effective private owner" in legislation. Romana Kaptielov to the Minister for Economic Development, Trade and Agriculture of Ukraine, Minister of Finance of Ukraine, Head of the State Space Agency of Ukraine, Head of the Financial Control Office for the conduct of the verification of the State Enterprise "Science and Production Union of the Pavlograd Chemical Plant" for the efficient use of budgetary resources and the reduction of staff. July Klimenko to the Minister for Economic, Trade and Agriculture Development of Ukraine on the formation and implementation of State import policy and the functioning of the State Register of Importation and Cooperation in the Defence and Industrial Complex. Michael Kryachka and Roman Soha to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, the Attorney General, temporarily acting as Director of the State Bureau of Investigation for the state of pretrial investigation concerning officials of the Melitopol City Council, PP "ABZ" and KP "Vodokanal". Michael Kryachka and Roman Soha to the Minister of Interior of Ukraine, the Attorney General, temporarily acting as Director of the State Bureau of Investigation on the status and outcome of the investigation of corruption crimes committed by officials of the Melitopol City Council and PP "ABZ", as well as on the existence of criminal schemes in the territory of Zaporozhye. Julius Yatzik until he was temporarily acting president of the National Atomic Energy Company Energoate for information and action. Groups of National Deputies (Davidenka, Alien and others) A total of 13 deputies) to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on measures to prevent the distribution of coronavirus in Ukraine. July Klimenko to Minister for Economic, Trade and Agriculture Development of Ukraine, Minister of Culture, Youth and Sports of Ukraine, Minister for Veterans, Temporaryly Occupied Territories and Internally Moved Persons of Ukraine, Secretary of the National Security and Defence Council of Ukraine, Head of the Office of the President of Ukraine, Head of the Ukrainian Security Service for Personal Special Economic and Other Restrictive Measures (Sanctions) Ukraine Against Armed Aggression of the Russian Federation during the 2014-2020 ’ s
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-06-m0.u79	Thank you. Dear colleagues, now we're going back to work. Dear colleagues, we have not voted in favour of Natalia Juryovna Kraljevska, a few positions. I'm betting on the 2183 vote. Please identify and vote. [[11:32:15.]] For-48 The decision is not taken. 3193. Please identify and vote. [[11:32:33]] For-56 The decision is not taken. 3198. Please identify and vote. [[11:32:50]] For-54 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. And 3208. Please identify and vote. [[11:33:12]] For-55 The decision is not taken. 3209, Zagradni.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-06-m0.u80	Thank you, Dmitri Alexanderovich. Yuri Zagradny, "The Opposition Platform for Life." I propose article 13, paragraph 3, of the Ukrainian Law on State Registering of Real Estate Rights, as follows: "Other property rights and subjects of these rights, as well as the price (value) of such property rights or the size of payment for the use of foreign immovable property." And please put this amendment to the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-06-m0.u81	Thank you. I'll bet you a vote. Please identify and vote, 3209. [[11:34:06]] For-65 The decision is not taken. 3210, Puzanov.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-06-m0.u82	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. Dear colleagues, the law that is proposed is rather of a technical nature. It foresees that it should be noted in the corresponding edition that information on the value of immovable property should be recorded only in respect of the land area, i.e. in the proposed original edition, it is about the settlement of an item that does not apply to the operation of the bill. As you recall, only 13 percent of Ukrainian citizens, according to recent sociological surveys, support the opening of the agricultural land market in the way most now propose to settle it. 73 percent of Ukrainian citizens strongly oppose this and insist that it do so after a proper Ukrainian referendum. The position of our faction coincides with that of the majority of the three-fourths of the population of Ukraine, and we also demand a referendum on this issue. Please put an order to the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-06-m0.u83	I'll bet you a vote. Please identify and vote. 3210. [[11:35:34]] For-66 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. Ducky. 3211.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-06-m0.u84	Alexander Kaczyny, "The Opposition Platform for Life." Dear colleagues, our faction still hoped that with the arrival of the new Cabinet of Ministers, the policy on land would change. Unfortunately, we've heard that both the Prime Minister and the Vice Prime Minister are planning to introduce the land market today, and the People's Servants are supporting them. The Ukrainian people express their position and say what we must do to ensure that this does not happen. And the support of "The Opposition Platform for Life" is growing in this direction. So I want to read out my amendment 3211: in paragraph 3 of section 3 of article 13 of the Ukrainian Law on State registration of immovable property rights and their burdens, the word "price" should be deleted. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-06-m0.u85	I'm betting on a vote of 3211. Please identify and vote. [[11:36:55]] For-64 The decision is not taken. We can also put the next amendment to the vote, right? I'm betting on a vote of 3212. I'd like to make a statement. Are you going to perform? Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-06-m0.u86	Dear colleagues, why is the word "price" excluded? Because our land is priceless. And I would like to bring us all back to the Constitution of Ukraine, which says that this is our treasure, our wealth of all the Ukrainian people. We can't compare it to an apartment or a car, as our deputies do today from the "Serves of the People" faction. I would like you all to pay attention to the fact that this land is given to us by the Lord God, and we ask you all today to understand that if foreigners come and buy it, and this is what it will be, and this is what is being prepared for today's market, not under those farmers today who have no money to buy at least a few hectares for today. You know, it's almost all soggy today, and practically today the work in the country stopped because people don't know what's going to happen to this land tomorrow. Therefore, my amendment 3212: "In paragraph 3 of part three of article 13 of the Ukrainian Law on State Registration of Things."..
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-06-m0.u87	I'm betting on a vote of 3212. Please identify and vote. [[11:38:33]] Z-62 The decision is not taken. Caltz.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-06-m0.u88	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Unfortunately, there's no way for the deputies to make their proposals, because we've passed 3,000 lines, but only one has been accepted, and that's an amendment from the "Serve of the People" party. So this is a very wrong solution to the question of when other political forces cannot discuss and express their proposals. Therefore, we have nothing left to offer, to draw your attention to the dangers of those parts of the law that are meant to worsen the situation in the market for the circulation of the earth. Most of the countries that introduced the land market were nation-oriented and created a state-owned land bank, and this is very and very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-06-m0.u89	Thank you. I'm betting on a vote of 3213. Please identify and vote. Please identify and vote. [[11:40:04]] For-60 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. Double.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-06-m0.u90	I would like to reiterate, Mr. People's Honourable People, once again, that the faction of "The Fatherland" is against this bill on the sale of our Ukrainian land, our nation, and 73 percent of the people of Ukraine who have given their trust to the majority and the President of Ukraine. Yesterday, the new prime minister said that there was a discussion in the room and that the discussion would determine what the model of market circulation would be. I would like to point out to the Ukrainians that there is no discussion. This law is written outside the hall and probably outside of Ukraine. And every correction, as you can see, our distinguished voters, fail, fail and fail. As far as the readjustment is concerned. It is proposed that the price of the goods be set according to his expert assessment, which I think is entirely appropriate to avoid either exaggeration or underestimation, and it was objective and economically justified by experts. Put it to the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-06-m0.u91	I'm betting on a vote of 3214. Please identify and vote. [[11:41:36]] For-65 The decision is not taken. Yes, 3216, Gnutenko. Don't insist. Burmich, 3217.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-06-m0.u92	3217. Thank you. Anatoly Burmich, "The Opposition Platform for Life." I, like our faction, and the entire Ukrainian people hope for the final amendment, which will probably be soon, on the days that the monarchy and leadership of the Supreme Council, and the country will listen to the efforts that the Ukrainian people want to hear, namely, to listen to it, to listen to it, to its wishes, to the workers on earth, to the agrarians, to the farmers. We hope so, and we will vote. put to the vote every turn. Maybe we'll get what the Ukrainian people want. Thank you. Please put an order to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-06-m0.u93	I'm betting on a vote of 3217. Please identify and vote. [[11:43:06]] For-60 The decision is not taken. 3218, Pavlovenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-06-m0.u94	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished colleagues, distinguished Ukrainian people! My amendment confirms the position of the Opposition Platform for Life that this bill cannot be approved. And we are consistent in protecting the rights of Ukrainian citizens to own their own land. Unfortunately, we have not heard from the new government today, and when will the order in the State Department be stated? And is this government able to prepare a state if, God forbid, this law is approved? People call us all the time and write these days with danger. They see the danger that if this law is passed, just the land will be sold out, people's rights will be violated, people will lose their legal right to have pie. And the price, in the case of this sale that's being offered.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-06-m0.u95	Thank you. I'm betting on a vote of 3218. Please identify and vote. [[11:44:36]] For-61 The decision is not taken. Volosin, 3219.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-06-m0.u96	Dear Dmitre Alexanderovich, dear colleagues! We're actually hoping that those tectonic shifts that have been happening lately in the management system can finally motivate most people to listen to the voice of the mind and stop listening to the pressures of certain global circles and so-called so-called so-called so-called so-called so-called so-called so-called so-called so-called so-called land market. By the way, last night there was this notion that the term "salt" was really annoying, and it's probably against the background of the absolute unity with which "salts" and these comrades came upon President Zelensky together and the smart part of the "Salver of the People" party for yesterday's vote on Rybosapka, I think it's time to update, because "salts" and "salts" together are the word "salt." And that's why I think we should call them all pigs because what they've done in the last six years in the country is pure pork. And we very much encourage normal people not to join the growth in this activity, they all hate you equally and they dream of getting rid of everyone. Thank you. Now, if you'll excuse me.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-06-m0.u97	I'm betting on a vote of 3219. Please identify and vote. [[11:46:08]] For-54 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. 3232, Shufrich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-06-m0.u98	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. I understand that all those who heard my colleague Oleg Volosin responded with red cards, that is, they were identified. Thank you. You know, I was very interested to hear the Prime Minister say he's ready to discuss this law, the prospects for its adoption. And yesterday I called on you, I think, as a minimum, in terms of working hours during the discussion of my number line. But I can see that the Prime Minister has not yet been heard. I don't know if they heard him in the "Serve of the People" faction, or if they don't want to hear him at all. But without discussion, not only in this room, but with society and primarily with the Ukrainian people, it is unlikely that this law will be adopted, and the prospect of its adoption is very, very questionable in terms of the consequences. Correction concerning the case.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-06-m0.u99	Thank you, Nestor Ivanovich. What you can't argue with is that you have a number of rights. That's true, yes. I'm betting on a 3232 vote on one of the number of rights. Please identify and vote. [[11:47:53]] For-56 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. Shufrich 3233 is next amended.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-06-m0.u100	Thank you. Thank you, Your Honor Chairman, Your Honor. I think it's coming at a time when it's time to finally agree that only after the U.K. referendum has been held, and I want to point out that this is the main requirement of almost every amendment we make that applies to different articles, different laws, and in the main 130 articles of the law that we are considering, it insists that any innovation, any change, be made only after the results of the U.K. referendum have been established, which is to be determined on the basis of the adoption of this bill. This is our principle position, and I am absolutely convinced that in our principled view of this law we are supported by society. And I thank you for again paying attention to our persistence, half-Ukraine according to the latter.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-06-m0.u101	I'm betting on a vote of 3233. Please identify and vote. [[11:49:28]] For-63 The decision is not taken. 3235.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-06-m0.u102	The President-in-Office, the following amendments relate to the amendment of articles 12 and 13 of the Ukrainian Law on State Registration of Real Estate Rights and Their Burdens. And I'm asking for the following revisions, including 3342. Excuse me, 3344, unify me and give me a chance to perform for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-06-m0.u103	Instead of just a few lines, I just didn't hear it.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-06-m0.u104	There's about 10 right-handers.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-06-m0.u105	Five minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-06-m0.u106	Okay. 6.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-06-m0.u107	Five.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-06-m0.u108	Thank you. I'm asking for six minutes. I respect you, Mr. Head. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-06-m0.u109	Please turn on Nestor Ivanovich for 5 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-06-m0.u110	Thank you. Dmitri Alexanderovich! And the word of the merchant?
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-06-m0.u111	You've had a moment.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-06-m0.u112	Dmitry Alexanderovich and my colleague, Alexander Koltunović, conducted a thorough analysis of the value of the land with social standards, with the income levels of our neighbours' countries, namely Romania, Hungary, Poland, France, Germany. And unfortunately, we've seen a very sad pattern about our country. That is, today the expected cost of land, which is proposed to be implemented as real after the market introduction of land in the thousands of dollars, is said to be from $700 per hectare to $1,200. So we compared, we compared the minimum wage, the minimum pension, the average pension and the average salary of our Southwestern neighbours, and they have these standards 5-7 times higher than we have. And the cost of the land on average is 6 times higher than we have. We moved on. They checked the corresponding figures in Germany. There are social standards 10-14 times higher than in Ukraine. 10-14 times. And the cost of land is 25-32 times higher than in Ukraine. That's a fact. This has already happened to them. Of course, we now realize that we still have a little work to do in Germany. But Poland, Hungary, Romania is not only far away, as they say, from a distance, but mentally. And we have the opportunity today to align economic and social indicators with these countries. And this will be an incentive for our employees, our citizens, our earners to come back to raise our country's domestic gross product, not to raise Poland's domestic gross product by 1 percent. That is why we insist that we now postpone the adoption of this law. To concentrate our titaniumic efforts, which both sides are now concentrating, on the one hand, to push this law, on the other hand, to block this law. Once again, we are supported by half of the Ukrainians. What are you pushing for? I'm sorry to bother you. You want a Latin American or African agricultural system to work in Ukraine, which is central to Europe. There's no indication of farming here. None. I pay the utmost respect to Latin American countries, African countries. But still, we have completely different traditions, different mentality. And if we're dominated by farms everywhere, I don't understand why we want to make Ukrainians fortifications on their own land that will smell like agribusiness and corporations. We want about 5 million of our citizens and their families to return to the land, work on it, develop infrastructure, and make modern Ukraine, own their land, not hired workers. So we can feel dignity for our farmers and for our country, not work for that motherfucker from across the ocean. That's why we insist on this position. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-06-m0.u113	Thank you, Nestor Ivanovich, for the meaningfully structured report. We can. Next item. One, yes, the last? There's three orders, right? Three, yeah? 3242, 43, 44, right? Yeah. I'll bet 3243. Please identify and vote. [[11:56:32]] For-63 The decision is not taken. 3243, Nestor Ivanovich, your turn. Please identify and vote. [[11:56:50]] For-58 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. And 3244. Please identify and vote. [[11:57:10]] For-58 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. 3245, Frost.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-06-m0.u114	Thank you. Dear Chairman, dear Ukrainians! Moroz Volodymir, 59th Donetschin constituency. We've gone through a lot of lines today, and yet people today are on the line of division in the line of action, and this is 59 counties virtually all of it, from Krasnogorovka to Mariupol, and people today are waiting for answers and what will happen to their pies. With those pies that are now behind the line of separation, with those pies that are being replaced today, with those pies that they don't have the acts left in that area today. And so I would like to draw attention to these people who today are unable to participate in the land market. Thank you. And please vote for my amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-06-m0.u115	I'm putting 3245 on the vote. Please identify and vote. [[11:58:42]] For-55
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-06-m0.u116	The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. Dear colleagues, I understand that after the "Variance," perhaps not everyone will stay in this room, something seems to me, so if you don't mind, I'll take a minute from the speech. I wanted to welcome all our beautiful, smart, wise people and, excuse me, the best, best part of this room, with the holiday coming. [[Applause]] I want you to be happy. I want you to be successful. I want you to achieve everything that you've planned, that you will always have the strength to make sure that your character always helps you realize all of your beginnings. And stay as you are. We appreciate you very much. And let there be more warm sunny days in your life. With the coming festival! [[B in m in s a l in]] Vote? Are we voting on the earth as a whole? I don't think so. Once again with the coming celebration. Break to 12:30 is announced.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-06-m0.u117	Dear colleagues, we are continuing our meeting. Order 3246 of the People's Deputy of Moroz. None. Next 3247, National Deputy Burmić. None. 3249, Black People's Deputy. Don't insist. 3252, National Deputy Gnatenko. Don't insist. 3254, People's Deputy Dubyl. Is there a double?
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-06-m0.u118	Yes, it is.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-06-m0.u119	Please, People's Deputy Dubyl.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-06-m0.u120	Dear colleagues, dear Ukrainian people! Our "Fatherland" faction, like 73 percent of the people of Ukraine, is clearly against this bill on the sale of Ukrainian land. I want you to listen to the Ukrainian people, to the district councils that held the sessions, to ask us to withdraw this bill from the consideration, to the sessions of the communities that were held, and also to ask us to take this bill off the table, and to consider it only after a nationwide referendum. With regard to the law, it is suggested that the price, the value of the property, according to its expert assessment, be not overpriced or underestimated, which, in my view, was objectively and economically justified by experts. Please put to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-06-m0.u121	Thank you. I'm betting on a vote of 3,254 people's MP Dubella. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[12:34:49]] For-34 The decision is not taken. Next order, is there a national MP, Lukashev? Don't insist. Next issue is 3258, Puzijchuk People's Deputy. Don't insist. Next line 3262, National Deputy of Zagradnoy Yuri Ivanovich. Is he a suburban? Don't insist. 3263, Puzanov. Don't insist. 3264, Ducky. Don't insist. 3265, Kaltsov. Don't insist. 3267, Dubyl.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-06-m0.u122	Dear colleagues! Dear Ukrainian people! The Fatherland faction, like 73 percent of the people of Ukraine, has consistently said that we do not explicitly support this bill on the sale of Ukrainian land, on the sale of our state. Yesterday, the new prime minister spoke of a dialogue in the hall, and the result will be a model of the Ukrainian Land Sales Act. But I want to ask you, our Ukrainian people, our voters, that I don't think there's a dialogue in the room, because every correction just falls apart and falls apart. So once again, I want to look at the majority and say that this law needs to be considered only after agreement with the Ukrainian people after the whole Ukrainian referendum. As far as the readjustment is concerned. It's proposed that the price of the property right be set "according to an expert assessment", which I think is quite appropriate. Please put to the vote
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-06-m0.u123	Thank you. I'll bet you 3267 people's MP Dubyl's vote. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[12:37:02]] For-48 The decision is not taken. Next issue is 3268. People's deputy Kacny. Don't insist. Next 3269. National MP Kristenko. Don't insist. Next 3270. National MP Pavlovenko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-06-m0.u124	Dear Chairman! Dear colleagues! Yuri Pavlenko, "The Opposition Platform for Life." "The opposition platform for life" is firmly opposed to the adoption of this law. We are consistent in protecting the rights of Ukrainian citizens to own, manage, and own their own land. People come to us all the time. And what's worrying and what Ukrainian citizens are afraid of today when this law is passed, and unfortunately we haven't heard those answers today, either from the Prime Minister or the government. So people say that as soon as this law is approved, the government will let all the state land out of the hammer, and everyone will lose. The state will lose control of its strategic natural resource, and citizens will lose the opportunity to obtain their legally guaranteed pie. The population will not receive the promised land and, unfortunately, even in the decentralization program, it is not clear how decentralization will take place.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-06-m0.u125	Thank you. I put it to a vote, I put it to a vote of 3,270 people's deputies. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[12:38:48]] For-53 The decision is not taken. Next issue is 3271, National Deputy Kaczyny. Don't insist. Next line 3272, national deputy Lukashev. Don't insist. Next issue is 3273, National Deputy Burmić. Please, National Deputy Burmich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-06-m0.u126	Dear Chairman, I have 3 papers -- 73, 74, 75, please unite them and give me 2 minutes, then vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-06-m0.u127	Please give me two minutes. I agree, yes, thank you, thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-06-m0.u128	These amendments apply to the referendum. I want to say that I'm very excited and I'm very interested in looking at the majority, at their fearlessness, at their determination. They're not afraid of anything, guys. On the other hand, I think, maybe they know something we don't know, let them share why they don't want to listen to the demands of the people. Maybe they know that 10,000 hectares are actually 3 colonos, where 6-7 villages. Maybe they know they have a program that will give everyone a job, provide for kindergartens, hospitals. Perhaps they know that the one who receives the land, the alien who passes through the bets, the stakes, will also provide them with work, all those who live on these 10,000 hectares. Maybe they know and they don't tell us. That's bad. And I think maybe they don't care what happens to them, what happens to the village, how it's guaranteed. The important thing is to push. I think it's very wrong. It's very wrong to look at it that way, because you can't do it because there are no guarantees, no thoughts about what's going to happen to these villages, with these areas. So, like the faction, I urge you to postpone this law, to talk, to think, to explain to everyone, and to make decisions that will ensure both work and growth.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-06-m0.u129	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I'm putting to the vote a total of 3273 people's deputies, Burmić. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[12:41:49]] For-57 The decision is not taken. Next, 3274, I'll put it to the vote, the people's deputy, Burmić. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[12:42:10]] For-57 The decision is not taken. And the next issue is 3275 of the people's deputy, Burmić. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[12:42:29]] For-57 The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, before we go to the next amendment, a brief report, because a lot is about the Referendum Act. I want to address the citizens of Ukraine, all who want to participate actively in the drafting of the Law on the All-Ukrainian Referendum. You know that a group of the Supreme Council of Ukraine worked with the involvement of better experts. And the result of our work is published today on the site of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And by March 18, any citizen of Ukraine or anyone who wants to improve this bill, make their proposals, you can do so by sending specific proposals to the e-mail that is mentioned in the report. Please, I would be most grateful if you could join me. Because the issue of the U.S. referendum is really very important. And it's time for us in 28 years to do a normal mechanism, the first stage of the nation's government. So please join me in this. Next issue is 3276, Kiwa People's Deputy. Don't insist. Oh, I'm sorry, Coltunovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-06-m0.u130	Thank you, Your Honor. Just the two of us: my colleague, the co-author, goes first and I go later.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-06-m0.u131	I figured you two out.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-06-m0.u132	No, well, that makes sense. But I'm just saying that you've moved on to your next co-authors. I'd like to point out that we're the first and most important thing we've started talking about today, and today we're starting with the question of decentralization. I have repeatedly paid attention to the issue of budgetary decentralization. But even when we're talking about decentralization, about welcoming the establishment of agricultural land, it certainly controls and directly affects this issue, because we have land in state ownership, and they're planning to be gutted, and they're going to be able to be managed by the OTG by the people on the spot, and we've already talked about it today, and you've also passed on your own draft referendum law. On the spot, people demand that agricultural land circulation be carried out after the referendum. And the amendments that we were making, they were actually meant to hold the referendum first, and then the secondary question was what happened.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-06-m0.u133	Dear colleagues, I am voting for a total of 3,276 people's deputies, Kiwa and Koltunović. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[12:45:13]] For-56 Dear colleagues, it's 56. The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, the following number 3277, the national deputies Kiva and Koltunović. Please, Coltunovich. Is that what I'm saying? Alexander Sergiyovich, you'll report to everyone, won't you? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-06-m0.u134	Of course. As many as there are, each one separately. I wanted to say that the subject of the referendum continued. We also have a group of lawyers in factions who prepared, under the leadership of Vasil Ivanovich Germany, their own draft Law on Referendum. And it's already been submitted, and we also have the right designs, and it's on the Web site of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. So I would advise our fellow Members of Parliament to consolidate these efforts in order to make sure that our draft law is submitted, that yours is given, and that we get a quality intellectual product and get it in the future, have the opportunity to hold appropriate referendums and take into account the position of Ukrainian citizens when making decisions. I'm also going to put this motion to a vote, but I also urge you to listen to our position, because we also have serious lawyers who have something to say. Thank you. And I'd like you to consider it.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-06-m0.u135	Thank you. I was just yesterday, talking to everyone, and I called on all the factions to join in the drafting of this bill. I'll say more, I even signed letters to all the factions yesterday to participate 18 numbers in the national discussion of this bill. Please make your suggestions. Difference in What? I'd like it not to be a narrow-party project. I'd like that. [[B in m in s a l in]] Once again, this project is being done by all civil society. That's not the subject of this bill that we're talking about. That's why I'm charging 3277 people's deputies Kiwa and Koltunović. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[12:47:34]] For-55 The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, with your permission, I'd like to ask you to pay attention to the balcony. Today, we have teachers, future officers, better students of the National Academy of Foreign Service of Ukraine named Bogdan Hmelnick. This is the future of the State Foreign Service. Please welcome them. [[Applause]] Thank you. Let us move on to less interesting questions. Order 3278, National Deputy Koltunović. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-06-m0.u136	Dear Ruslan Alexiyovich, to close this subject, I have just found out to our colleagues that they have already registered the draft Law on the All-Ukrainian Referendum, even after 14 days to submit alternative draft laws. So it's been on the site a long time, and for us to go to your draft law, we need to look at the one that my colleagues have prepared and move in with us. What I'm saying is that the question of the referendum is, of course, relevant. But let's first take the appropriate legislative basis for the referendum, it doesn't matter to you, our draft law, and then we'll run and run the land, for example, when you plan there, if people support that position. And as for working groups and so on, of course, this is a work process and we only support it so that ultimately Ukrainian citizens have the opportunity, like the citizens of France, as in Switzerland, we know that referendums are constantly held from one or the other, even local and minor issues. Thank you and please support.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-06-m0.u137	Thank you. Alexander Sergiyovich, for the future only, I very much ask you to follow the Rules in part of what you have to report on the right hand, not because you have a hard time right now. Okay? Okay. I'm voting 3278, the People's Deputy of Kiva and Koltunović. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[12:49:48]] For-54 The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, 3279, the same authors. I'm asking Alexander Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-06-m0.u138	Thank you. The Honourable Chairman, the Honorable People's Deputies, the Honourable Voters, the Opposition Platform for Life, and I've already talked about it, and I want to tell our colleagues again why our position is in the referendum. Because we certainly take into account the opinions of our constituents, we take into account the opinion of Ukrainian citizens in the formation of national economic policies. And when we introduce or record the issue of the All-Ukrainian referendum in our revisions, but I want to say that we're thousands of times, there's a reference to the referendum in our amendments, and so when we generalize them, we're talking about all sorts of things, manipulations on the ground, concentration, land circulation and so on, and so on, all of them can only be done after the U.S. referendum. Sociology for our benefit: 72 percent, 68 percent, more than 70 percent, any sociological survey suggests that people demand a referendum, people versus the earth. Please support my amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-06-m0.u139	Humans Against the Earth? Interestingly done. Okay. Dear colleagues, 3279 revisions. I'll bet you a vote. Please identify and vote. [[12:51:21]] For-51 The decision is not taken. Alexander Sergiyovich, you still have a little bit of a right. Maybe somehow we'll take a rational approach to what's called Ratio Decidendi, a reasonable decision, right? Alexander Sergiyovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-06-m0.u140	Mr. Chairman, Ruslan Alexiyovich, I want to say that I support a rational approach, and you know, I always approach pragmatically. I don't speak political slogans, I always bring numbers and facts. In some of my amendments, there is certainly a constructive argument with numbers. And I'm going to do a little bit of sounding now, and then we're going to look at what we can generalize and put them to a vote from this point of view. I'm asking you now also to allow this amendment to continue.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-06-m0.u141	Keep going. This is Amendment 3280.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-06-m0.u142	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. Turning to the National Deputies, and in the course of the previous amendment, I talked about those data from sociological research. But I also want to pay attention to the economic effects that we've discussed with your colleagues on several occasions. The increase in gross domestic product as a result of the introduction of agricultural land circulation is 0.2 percent. So we have an increase in GDP by 3 percent in the 19th year, plus-minus there at the statistical error rate, as a result of the circulation of land is just going to be plus 0.2 plus. From an economic point of view, the effect is zero.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-06-m0.u143	Thank you. Dear Alexander Sergiyyovich, I am putting to the vote 3280 of the People's Deputy of Kiwa, Koltunović. Please identify and vote. [[12:53:05]] For-52 The decision is not taken. The next one is 3281, National Deputy Koltunović.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-06-m0.u144	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. Honourable National MPs, honourable voters, have sometimes also appealed to us by representatives of the former Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine about the considerable investment attractiveness of the national economy as a result of the introduction of the land rounding of the agricultural assignment. But it also proved to be a lie. Because at a time when the land was properly decayed in 2001, after the adoption of the Earth Code, when citizens were given the right to own the land, and at that time we had a plot of whole land. As a result of this dispersion, many lands have lost a complete property complex, a state. And they have a lower investment attraction today. So if we want this investment attractiveness to be, we only have to get it for those lands that have a whole land array. So I insist on what's in the previous amendment, and in this we're not going to get any investment boom or a significant increase in gross domestic product. Thank you. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-06-m0.u145	Thank you. I'm betting on the 3281 listed authors. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[12:54:34]] For-53 The decision is not taken. 3282. Alexander Sergiyovich, your beneficiary.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-06-m0.u146	The following four revisions please be submitted for confirmation in turn. Not for confirmation, I'm sorry, they're not taken into account by the committee, they're put to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-06-m0.u147	I'll bet you a vote of 3282. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[12:55:06]] For-53 The decision is not taken. Thirty-two-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[12:55:24]] For-56 The decision is not taken. The next item is 3284. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[12:55:43]] For-55 The decision is not taken. Next issue is 3285. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please be sure to vote. [[12:56:02]] For-53 The decision is not taken. 3286. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[12:56:24]] For-57 The decision is not taken. 3287. The committee proposes to reject, please identify and vote. [[12:56:44]] For-54 The decision is not taken. 3288. Please, Alexander Sergiyovich. Is there a vote? Voting too, right? Would you say two words? Please. One minute, more faithfully, please. Alexander Sergiyovich Koltunovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-06-m0.u148	Dear Ruslan Alexiyovich, distinguished national MPs, distinguished voters! Given that this is my last amendment to this block, it is obvious that we will no longer reach it today. I'd like to welcome all our women with our colleagues on March 8th. We love you very much. We have the best of you, and we are very proud of you. And I ask you to vote on my amendment. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-06-m0.u149	And instead, you ask me to vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-06-m0.u150	On the positive.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-06-m0.u151	Thank you. Amendment 3288 shall apply. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[12:57:42]] For-50 The decision is not taken. 3289, Royal Natalia Yuriovna. Don't insist. 3290, Volosin. Do Not Urge 3298, Shufrich. Nestor Ivanovich, your amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-06-m0.u152	Dear Chairman, I'm on my way.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-06-m0.u153	I'm listening.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-06-m0.u154	Of course, the good will of the people is too fundamental for us, and I will speak frankly, especially in the feminine part of our country. If our beloved women were to say that we are willing to sell the land, we support it, especially on the day before March 8. But given that our women are our shores, they love us, they care, they hurt for their children. So we say, let's save the land for our children and grandchildren and let them sell it when they're alone.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-06-m0.u155	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-06-m0.u156	Nestor Ivanovich, let's talk about the beloved women at home. Okay? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-06-m0.u157	Nestor Ivanovich, may I ask you three amendments, let's make women a holiday and put them in order and finish for 3,000 300 corrections. Do you mind? Thank you. I'm putting to the vote 3298 People's Deputy Shufrich Nestor Ivanovich. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[13:00:01]] For-59 The decision is not taken. Next amendment 3299. I'll bet you a vote. I'd like to make a statement. Oh, no, you mean? Nestor Ivanovich, you will not be able to say, but we will still be able to vote. Give the girls a holiday. You mean? Then say next Sunday. And I'm announcing the transition to the Vulnerable. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-06-m0.u158	Dear colleagues, we would now like to make a statement from the interfractional merger of "Equal Opportunities" from all the connoisseurs who join all the factions of Parliament. Please, Inna Sussoon, come in. We've got three minutes of the show. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-06-m0.u159	Turn on three minutes for the "Equal Opportunities" interfractional merger.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-06-m0.u160	Dear colleagues, dear Ukrainians! In two days we'll be celebrating March 8th. This is a celebration that began to be determined first in the United States and Germany and then on an international level. Since the 75th of March, March 8th is celebrated at UN level to form a global community where every woman and girl has the right and the ability to fully realize their potential, to create her life as she wants and dreams, not as others suggest. March 8th is the reason to mention what today's world is like for women and girls, for us to be with you people's deputies, for your daughters, for your wives, for the honourable people's deputies, for all women and girls in Ukraine. And this world today is unfair to girls and women. The girls cannot be sure that they can safely walk through the street, get into an elevator, get in a taxi. For many women, even their own home is not safe, at least a third of Ukrainian women indicate that they have experienced psychological, physical, or sexual violence from their husbands or partners. Women earn 25 percent less than men. Among the Ukrainian voters, 51 percent were women and only 21 percent were national deputies. For all these women, it is important that those who truly understand their problems and protect their rights be in authority. It is important for girls to see that a woman can not only become a wife and a mother, that she can become a deputy, that she can lead a ministry or even an entire country, that she can become a scientist and go to the South Pole, like Biology Maria Pavlovska, or even enter the Presidency of the National Academy of Sciences of Ukraine, where there is now only one woman, but a super-professional Ella Lebanon, that she can become a successful professional, create a successful business, such as the founding of Terrasoft Caterina Kostereva or the founding of Kacharovska atelier Alina Oceretian. The Ukrainian Parliament has already done much for girls and women. We have party gender quotas and a stricter responsibility for alimony failure, there's the Law on Equality of Rights and Opportunities for Men and Women, which has finally been sanctioned for gender-based violence. A separate Act on Prevention and Opposition to Domestic Violence has been passed. But we still have a lot of work to do. Specific vacations for men should not just be an exotic exception but a norm. We need to put in place an effective mechanism to prevent persecution for women, children and other vulnerable groups. We need to open new kindergartens that are now catastrophically lacking, and women are often unable to continue their careers. Our task with you is to create a world in which the dreams of all our fellow citizens and fellow citizens will be realized. And they'll be able to implement them here. Our task is not to limit it, but to help it, not to point it out, but to support it, but to talk about it on March 8 and every day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-06-m0.u161	Dear colleagues, there's an offer to move on to the Vulnerable. So I will ask the national deputies who are willing to take part in this fine Friday session to sign up. Dear colleagues, I invite you to the floor of National Deputy Samantha Anatolyevna Bobrowski, the faction of the political party "The Voice".
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-06-m0.u162	Dear colleagues! Dear Ukrainians! Still, we cannot stop talking about Crimea and water to Crimea today. And if Mr. Schmigal wants to provide water for Crimea, he's offering to do it with tanks, I've got a big offer for him. We now have a stable offer to Mr. Arahamaia, leader of the majority faction: you can take the tanks, your young and old government team, your fellow Parliamentary, and carry the water to the Crimea. That's the first one. The other one. The willingness to make such arrangements and compromises is not just a failure under the Russian Federation, it's a national betrayal and surrender. So I have a question, in principle, before Mr. Smigal can embrace the position of Prime Minister today, at a time when we are facing the gates of difficult decisions regarding the East of our country. In addition, we know that, according to the Fourth Geneva Convention, the occupying State is still obliged to provide occupied territory: (a) water; (b) food; and (c) medicines. So we know very well what the volume goes for the civilian population, and this is 100 million cubic meters of water a year, and what is the volume of water needed for military bases and industry, and this is more than 1 billion cubic meters. In particular, about the military bases that we're talking about, especially in recent times. So, I'm going back to January 2015, when the Crimea formed a territorial body of the Ministry of Defense of the Russian Federation, whose main purpose is to probably restore the nuclear potential of Crimea. In addition, in any expert discussion, you'll hear about the mass of potential nuclear weapons that can be found (and planes, including aviation) on our peninsula. So when we talk about water in Crimea, we're talking about, first of all, not the population, but how we're going to fund the Russian Federation's military bases with water. In addition, we all understand that right now the Russian Federation has entered and Crimea has entered the drought phase, which means that we have finally got real weights of influence. We are well aware that the Russian Federation has long pondered the idea of water supply from the Russian Federation, not Ukraine. And for them today, water has actually become gold. So instead of talking about providing Crimea, dealing with the invaders, I have questions and requests, because it's actually the Ministry of Infrastructure's responsibility to ban civilians and military ships from entering the internal waters of Crimea, at last.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-06-m0.u163	Thank you. I would like to invite you to the floor of the People’s Deputy Davidenko. Shah's Sergy, MP's "Trust."
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-06-m0.u164	Sergey Shahov, Luhanščina MP group "Trust". Dear women from all over our country! On the eve of March 8th, the "Trust" MP wants to welcome the whole country and the whole world, women with the upcoming 8th of March. Women in history have always experienced and been second in line, as they say today, tossing women on the other side, but today women are the ones who give life every day on the entire planet to us. Women also invented a vest that protects men, and the Wi-Fi that everyone uses, and the Internet. Even the courtyards on the car also made up women to get us home safely and safely. Therefore, I welcome the celebration and wish that your goals would continue to be realized by men themselves. With the upcoming March 8th festival! Thank you. Sergey Shahov, Luhanščina, Deputy Group "Trust".
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-06-m0.u165	Thank you. I invite National Deputy Olga Vasilovna Belkov, faction of the political party "The All-Ukrainian Union of the Fatherland".
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-06-m0.u166	Dear colleagues, the presiding lord, I am very positive, and I have no hope that by means of the soft force of conviction I will be able to give my important arguments on the earth’s market. A few days ago, a comparison of Abraham Lincoln’s figure and the question of the abolition of slavery in the history of the United States were made in this room. I've studied this story a lot, and I can advise you to read a book that is unique, about the character of this great president of the United States. It's called "the Adversary Command or the political genius of Abraham Lincoln." The book’s special feature is one political moment. The point is that Abraham Lincoln began a reform of the separation of slavery in very difficult times for America -- society was divided, and when he went through the elections, he took a very unsustainable step -- he chose his former opponents and appointed members of his team. He was the one who appointed the Attorney General from among his opposers. It's a good idea, by the way, given that there are definitely several candidates in the opposition. He appointed Minfin's head, he appointed the Secretary-General at the time. Why am I telling you this? Because this moment of consideration of rights today allows our leadership to finally gather and realize that only a reform that can be supported by all political factions or at least most of these factions will be supported by society. Sadly, Abraham Lincoln had to see for himself how difficult it was for society to accept even positive ideas. There was a civil war in America. I wouldn't want that for my Ukraine. Mr. Chairman, what if I invite you to a friendly dinner for all the faction leaders? Gather and try again for Ukraine's sake, so that every MP in this room can support one consensus version of land reform for Ukraine. This is the most important reform in all the years of an independent Ukraine. But if it's supported by just one faction and some groups, not a situational one, but a non-strategic one, it's going to be a huge mistake. I want this reform to be very important, successful and progressive for Ukraine. Consider this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-06-m0.u167	Thank you. I invite you to the words of Rudik Sergey Jaroslavovich, who is non-factional.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-06-m0.u168	Good afternoon, dear Ukrainians! It is a miracle and a miracle today, not that the March 8 day is approaching, but that for the first time in four months and three days, my clicking on the green button has produced a positive effect. And I, wonder, repeat, have been given the word from the great rostrum of the Supreme Council. What I'd like to say to you, dear Ukrainians. I'd like to tell you that in a week you're going to get a result that no one in our country has expected for literally three months. You're going to get a bill that's probably going to trigger a huge storm of resistance under the walls of the Supreme Council. You will get a decision that will be discussed in Ukrainian society for years, and the names of the people who will be involved in the effective voting for this bill will be discussed in various controversial versions in cities and villages. I'm talking about the Earth Act right now. Because we've reached 3,300 revisions today. And something like that tells me that next week, maybe Thursday, it'll be X time. To be honest, I am pessimistic about accepting it or not accepting it. I think there's a very high probability that they'll accept it. I wouldn't want that. And that's why I'm addressing the colleagues who are still in this room from the "Serve of the People," and it's up to you to be responsible for the adoption or non-admission of this bill. Yesterday's vote on the Attorney General, the vote on the government has shown that you don't have that clear, and you don't have a percentage position on a very important issue for the state. I ask you first of all to hold your own position if it's different from your faction's leadership, because you live with it. Today, three national deputies elected to Cherkaszczina, Mr. Arsenyuk, Skekko, and Stryharski were included in the session of the Cerkas District Council. I have not asked this question, I am not involved in this issue at all, but it shows the attitude of the voters of the largest agrarian country in Ukraine on this issue. Don't behave, think about it, and then you'll be free to come to Ukrainian villages, look people in the eye, and don't worry about the curses that would be a disgraceful vote. Think, gentlemen!
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-06-m0.u169	I invite you to the words of the People's Deputy Pusharenko, "Serve of the People." Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-06-m0.u170	Thank you. The head, respected colleagues, respected Ukrainians, today from this high rostrum, I would like to talk about the situation that took place in the Zitomirsk district with support hospitals in Olewsk, Malin. The hospital district council under the leadership of Mr. Suslik, who heads the district’s health department, is trying to deprive these two hospitals of their support status. It's a hospital in northern Juvie. North of Juvie, you all know, seriously suffered from the Chernobyl disaster. There are still no roads in the north of Zitomirsk today, since no one has built them for 30 years. And the construction that Ukrawtodor started today, led by Kubrakov, is just starting to build roads there. In fact, the decision in Olewsk, Malin, not to do resistance hospitals is a crime against humanity, a crime committed by officials of the Provincial District Administration. I have repeatedly addressed my colleagues both in public and in government and in government, and in the leadership of ODA, to the head of the ODA of Mr. Bunek to correct this mistake, this shameful mistake, this crime against humanity, because they will not bring people from the north to Zitomir with a stroke. In front of me, when I visited the hospital in Oleuvo two weeks ago, a man was actually rescued, and he was still on his way to Zitomir. Children with a temperature of 40 will not be transported from the farthest part of Olevské OTG to Korosten. So we're actually going to have real victims of our citizens because there's no roads and no logistics, and the 60-mile limit isn't working out for 60 minutes. Mr. Bunecko promised to include Malin, Olewsk in the support list at a hospital meeting with all the representatives a week ago. The hospital council took place, and this promise was broken. I'm calling on the new government today to respond to the call of the national MPs, to respond to yesterday's call from the district council to include the Olevsky, the Malinian hospital in the list of supporters and to secure their funding. It's about the lives of our citizens, the lives of our children, the lives of our pensioners. We have no right to commit this crime. So I hope that the new government will hear the national MPs, hear the community, hear the district council and correct this error. People are determined to cover international routes today, and only on my honest word today is this not happening. But if the new government does not correct this error, the international route will soon be blocked. Thank you and I hope you heard me.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-06-m0.u171	Thank you. I'd like to invite National Deputy Wood Volodymyrovna Vasilenko, the faction of the political party "The Voice". Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-06-m0.u172	Lesya Vasilko, the Voice faction. Dear colleagues, citizens, Ukrainians introduced us this week to a new government, a new old government that started its work with unpleasant surprises. And I'm not even talking about the ministers of the government of Yanukovic who were presented to us as a government for the people, I'm talking about the Prime Minister's proposal and his position on issues that are key to the security of Ukraine, which are key to the survival of our state. Yesterday on live television, Mr. Schmigal said he intended to supply water to the Crimea. It is clear to everyone that this cannot be done. Water supply is the recognition of the occupation regime, it undermines our position in the international arena and it is an absolute contradiction to international humanitarian law. These are basic things that Mr. Prime Minister should know. And if he didn’t know them, he would have to admit his mistake today. But no. Our Prime Minister in Parliament today has continued to insist on unhealthy fantasies about how he will carry water buckets and bags personally to every Ukrainian in Crimea. Since Mr. Prime Minister has not deviated from his words, I have a few more questions to ask the Prime Minister and every member of his government before they sit down to write a program of government and present it to Parliament and the people of Ukraine. The questions are very short and very simple. And they demand the same simple and short answers. The answers that will determine the spirit of the government program and the course of our country. First of all, the government programme should start with the definition of who is the strategic enemy for Ukraine, which country is making aggression against Ukraine, and what its President is called. That's question number two. Will the government finally count the damage and damage that Russia is causing to Ukraine in its sixth year of aggression and annexation to the Crimea? That's question number three. Is this system of work finally going to start at least in this government? Next question. Will Mr. Schmigal's government support the position of the Ukrainian President's Office to consolidate the special status of Donbas and other areas of Ukraine in the Ukrainian Constitution? Or was it worth considering a special status for the occupied territories? How does the government even see the strategy of the country’s depopulation? Because the government has a deputy prime minister on the reintegration of temporarily occupied territories. How are we going to integrate these territories into Russian tanks and tolls? I don't see it. This is a question that every Ukrainian has the right to receive an answer as soon as possible before the government program is presented. We're waiting, Mr. Prime Minister. And I thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-06-m0.u173	I invite you to the floor of National Deputy Roman Vasilovich Kostenko, faction of the political party "Golos".
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-06-m0.u174	Honorable national MPs, honourable citizens, two days ago the Supreme Council approved a new government structure. Approved the list and no discussion. I am sure that for most of the deputies in this room, the policy direction of the new government remains a complete mystery. That is why I want to draw my colleagues and the public's attention to the important issue: to ensure the sustainability of the security and defence sectors in the face of constant systemic change. In particular, I expect the new government to complete its military security strategies and state development programmes as soon as possible. It is unacceptable for us to reduce our pace or move away from the process of introducing modern military standards. Equally important is the development and modernization of domestic security services. Today, the draft intelligence bill is being prepared for the second reading. Once adopted, it is necessary to immediately approach the organization of an effective intelligence society. And in his work, the divorcees have to rely on government support. I want to take a separate look at the reform of the Ukrainian Security Service. It is important to strengthen the capacity of State security agencies to deal with counter-intelligence, national security, security of the state and the fight against terrorism and cybercrime by eliminating inequity for special services. I emphasize that it is unacceptable for the State to maintain a huge service during the war, which is parallel to the search for cigarettes and coats on customs and conducts constant searches at businesses. In addition, our faction recently presented its strategy of "cold depopulation" -- a plan to protect our sovereignty and liberate occupied territories. This can only be achieved if we do not waste time with effective diplomacy and effectively reform and modernize the security sector. Not only is our faction involved in constructive work in this direction, but it will keep a close eye on the development of the security and defence sectors and will not allow for processes that can reduce the security of our nation. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-06-m0.u175	Thank you. I invite National Deputy Natalia Romanovna Pippa, Political Couple's faction Voice."..
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-06-m0.u176	Natalia Pippa, 115th District. Dear Ukrainians! The first thing I want to say is I believe in education. No matter who will be the Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine, the "New Ukrainian School" will not stop, the reform will not stop. And everyone who has common sense in this country, and everyone who understands how important education is, will work in this direction. I'm sure there will be motivated teachers among us who will. I am sure that we, as parliamentarians who want to make these changes, will support this. I know exactly that in Lviv, in everything, and not just in 115 districts, there are a lot of people who believe in this education. In my time, and I quote my teaching at the Ukrainian Catholic University, namely, the Institute of Leadership and Administration of Eugene Glybowitz, that if you want changes in the country, start with education. Finland and Poland, which has made a bet on education in its own time, has increased funding and approaches to what the graduate should be at the exit, has changed its position in the world, has changed its GDP, economy, culture and relations within the country. Thus, we are faced with difficult times. I don't expect this minister of education who will be better than the previous one. My prognosis is the opposite. But I believe in the civil society that I came out of. These changes that have already begun, which have been created by the Ukrainian Catholic University, which has long been created by the Magilian woman, will be permanent, and we will get the country that we want. "New Ukrainian School" is to be a new Ukrainian graduate who will be competitive in the global work world. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-06-m0.u177	I invite you to the words of the People's Deputy Papiev, the faction of "The Opposition Platform for Life."
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-06-m0.u178	Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine, honourable citizens of Ukraine! This week was marked by events. And, you know, I'm glad that the political will came first of all to the President of Ukraine and to the "Serve of the People" faction, and that impeccable government, which, thank God, ruled the smallest period of time in Ukraine, was retired. I'm looking at Facebook right now, the former ministers of the eyes who were sent to resign, they're starting to brag about some of their gains. I have a simple question for them. Dear cosmonauts, can you actually imagine the problems that people are interested in today? I am the person who reported from this rostrum in November 2003 the Ukrainian Act on National Compulsory Pension Insurance, and I can say that for the first time in the history of independence, the government did not index pensions, which according to part two of article 42, he was obliged to do. So he didn't even protect our pensioners from inflation. I have another question. Why is it in this government that there is such a strong difference between a minimum pension of 1 thousand 889 dollars and the actual amount of living minimum for disabled persons, which amounts to 3,000 208 dollars? One and a half thousand dollars per pensioner in Ukraine does not pay that government. And, dear friends, I appeal to the newly appointed government. Please pay attention to Ukrainian citizens, their social problems, and pay them more than 3 billion dollars in wages, and pay attention to tariffs. And in general, work on the government's programme of activities, depending on what you can do to make the Ukrainian economy competitive. If we continue to go beyond the IMF requirement, where one task is to raise energy prices and make Ukraine's export-oriented economy uncompetitive, we have to go backwards today: how do we make the economy work to fill Ukraine's national budget, because that's how people get higher wages, pensions, other social benefits, that is to say, back to Ukraine's economy. It is necessary today to listen less to these representatives of transnational corporations and all others who are financed by foreign funds and are actually foreign agents and whose tasks are to destroy Ukraine and make Ukraine a country of consumption. We need to restore Ukraine as a whole country as an economically powerful and socially protected state.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-06-m0.u179	Thank you. The word is given to July's national deputy Leonidni Klimenko, the faction of the political party "The Voice". Who's it gonna be? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-06-m0.u180	Dear colleagues, the question of water supply to Crimea, which was again violated yesterday by the Prime Minister and Minister of Foreign Affairs, can indeed be a tool for the depopulation of Crimea and a demonstration that the state, first of all, has a clear understanding of the occupation, secondly, cares for its citizens. The question is, How can we control the supply of water to our citizens but not to military objects of the occupying forces? The following can be suggested: first, to carry out appropriate reconstruction work on the North Caribbean Canal; second, to take all water channel objects into the Crimea area and to secure them with the security of the Ukrainian Navy; third, to conduct an audit of the status of the Cremoccanal Communications; 100 per cent to secure Ukrainian management and Cremoccanal Enterprises; to conclude contracts for water supply to our citizens in Crimea; to create conditions for payment of water in bracelets, thus returning Ukraine's national currency to Ukraine's Crimea; to reinstate the work of the Ukrainian State banks; and to transfer this experience to electricity supplies in a similar way; and, in parallel, to restore the work of the Ukrainian authorities in the Autonomous Republic of Crimea and the city of Sevastoppoli. If the Prime Minister and other government officials or politicians have such a hybrid mechanism for the depopulation of Crimea under water, then we can work on it in detail. What we're talking about after six years of the occupation of Crimea is the humanitarian importance of water supply in the peninsula is, of course, our citizens, our land. However, this should not appear to be a capitulation before Russia and recognition that Ukrainian officials and politicians are not ready to fight for the restoration of Ukraine’s sovereignty and territorial integrity. At the same time, it must be made clear that the national interests of Ukraine, the restoration of sovereignty and the territorial integrity of our nation must be clearly balanced with humanitarian policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-06-m0.u181	Thank you. I invite you to the floor of National Deputy Sergei Anatoliyovich the High Commissioner, the "Trust" MP. Sergei Shahov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-06-m0.u182	Sergey Shahov, Luganshina, Trust Group. Dear colleagues, six months ago this hall was full, everyone was chasing the crazy paces, today, I see, there's no one to hear people's problems. Everyone started shopping for roses, tulips, flowers for women, for daughters, for grandmothers before the festival. That's very good. But there are problems in our country regarding every woman, man, and child living in Ukraine. We've already said a lot that the coronavirus has enveloped the brains of officials who have become ill with the crown virus and don't think about people at all. Parliamentarians chosen by the people would like to pay attention to people in places, in districts, in areas. We came from a district where we had a lot of institutions and we were talking to an average citizen, people who chose us. And many questions were raised about the problems that must be solved in Ukraine today. These are tariffs for which so much has been said. I'd like to hear from the ministers how they're going to solve the issue, I've already spoken today, transit and transit prices for gas. The pipes that turned into corpses, they built people, the modernization didn't happen, they didn't even paint that iron, they're all rusty, but they're taking transit from people. People who do not use gas but who pass through the house are also forced to pay for this fare. Also, the odds that today are robbing a simple average pensioner's citizen and filling the pockets of an oligarch. Who is behind the gas spills, who is behind the purchase of gas? Just the oligarchs. Ukrainians are also being robbed today. And the third. The fact that Ukrainian television has been blocked and has to buy 2,000 bracelets of transformers that will block people and not show Ukrainian television is a crime. Every month a person has to pay 63 bracelets, 85 bracelets for Ukrainian television? Why do Russian television channels show for free and Ukrainian television shows not? And the fourth.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-06-m0.u183	Thank you. National MP Mikhailo Mihailovich Zimbaluk, faction of the political party of the All-Ukrainian Union of Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-06-m0.u184	Dear Chairman! Dear National Deputies! Dear voters! Mikhailo Cimbaluk, Fatherland. Today I want to draw attention to the problems of decentralization. When we say that united territorial communities are created on the basis of volunteerism, we now find that in some areas of our nation, things are not so clear. I went to the Prime Minister today, to the Minister for the Development of Areas, to be able to stabilize the situation and to listen to the voice of the people where, according to the community, decentralization takes place in a forced order and is not always economically justified. Last week and this week, residents of the surrounding villages of Lviv are protesting under Lviv’s ODA. They do not understand the reasons why they want to join the Lviv united territorial community and fear that they will lose their own identity. They need to be handled by the authorities. Also from the Sokal region of Belska, a united territorial community says that they are unable to maintain a hospital that they want to transfer from April to finance this newly formed united territorial community. The Non - Juicy OTG of the Stry district also protestes the forced integration of the newly formed united territorial community into the Strysk OTG, which will be created in the fall. The people of the Sokal region also came and demanded clarification from the authorities. This is a testimony that we need to be mindful of the problems that exist today in this reform that are really needed. And the Fatherland faction generally supports the decentralization process. Last week, I received a telephone call from Ivano-Frankishchi, my native village of Pasicny, where a united territorial community was formed, but there is a question of whether it would be economically viable. This indicates that the government of the newly elected, the territorial development minister needs to be commissioned by the authorities, who, together with the district and district councils, would meet with representatives of the community and thoughtfully, by way of discussions, but on the basis of economic calculations, would make the final decision how and which communities of the fall would go to the elections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-06-m0.u185	Thank you. I would like to invite you to the statement of National Deputy Alexiyovich Honcharenko, the faction of the political party "European Solidarity".
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-06-m0.u186	Alexei Hotcharenko, European Solidarity, Clothing. First of all, there really aren't very many of us left here. That's how everyone wanted to work as a national deputy, and we can see how many, about tens of two national deputies. And I would, I'm sorry that the camera can't show the Supreme Council right now, how many of the great workers have been telling us so much. But, come on, it's not about that. That, I think, is obvious to everyone. There's an event today. I think it's important. And this morning I started under the D.B.I. because there was another call for questioning by Ukraine’s fifth president, Peter Poroshenko. By the way, on the day of your son's birth, which is probably what those who do this think is nice to call a person on the day of his son's birth for questioning -- it's kind of a hello and their kind of, you know, a kind of moral character you have to have to do things like that. Well, unfortunately, they have it, well, and on the other hand, they show themselves to the fullest extent. But I'd like to draw your attention to something else. What, then, is the purpose of the pollination? Of course, the fifth president, the leader of European Solidarity, but there must be a reason. The reasons, there's a few things, and one thing's more absurd than the other. And here's a particularly absurd thing about the fact that Dustenko is guilty of sending Ukrainian sailors as the Supreme Commander of Ukraine from the Ukrainian port of Odessa, my hometown, to the Ukrainian port of Mariupol. Well, then you know what happened -- in the Kerchen Strait, these ships were attacked by Russia, our sailors were wounded, captured, the ships captured. So that's what they're blaming Dusty for today. The absurdity of this matter is understood by everyone, because if we say it's right, then whose Crimea? If we cannot carry our ships through the Kerchen Strait, whose Crimea? It's clearly Putin's best dream, that kind of thing. I would like to remind you again of the United Nations Maritime Tribunal in Hamburg, which admitted that Ukraine was 100 percent entitled to the situation, and Russia was 100 percent wrong. And it is because of this decision that our sailors are at home today. Because Russia could no longer keep them, for there would continue to be sanctions and no more Russian ships to international ports. And that's all understandable things. But on the background of what's happening here in the Supreme Council. The new Prime Minister says something unclear about water in Crimea. Well, I had a personal relationship with him, and he assured me that it wasn't about water supply, it wasn't about the channel, and it wasn't about selling water to Russia. But other national MPs continue, from "Serve of the People," the head of the "Serve of the People" faction said that a week ago. Other national MPs are now saying that water supply in Crimea is the only way to occupy it. Friends, this is a national betrayal. And because they want to do things like this, that's why they're going after opposition today. Because the only thing that stands in their way is the Ukrainian opposition and the Ukrainian people. But you will not intimidate us, we will not be afraid, and we will surely win. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-06-m0.u187	Alexiyyovich, I just want to tell you and everyone else. We have a good tradition, we always get together on Friday, and everyone who stays is photographed. We were indeed very few on Friday. And believe me, there aren't even those who keep coming out of the rostrum and saying there aren't many of us. I invite you to join this photograph today. Because you weren't in the previous photos. We're taking pictures right now. Dear colleagues, let's move on. I'd like to invite National Deputy Oxana Vasilovna Savichuk, a non-factional one. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-06-m0.u188	Hello, everyone! Friday, end of work week The city of Ivano-Frankivsk, Oksana Savchuk, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. I'm the Mayor who represents the city of Ivano-Frankiv. And a lot of the questions that we're talking about here, we're asking on the "hour of questions to the government," we're writing parliamentary questions, these are really questions that maybe have a little bit of other addresses, maybe they apply to a little bit of other communities, but they're essentially the same. They relate to global problems. First of all, it's an education issue. It's a question of medicine, it's a question of formation of OTH, it's a question of roads. And anyway, we're also perfectly aware right now that while we're working in Parliament, we don't have any clear rules that are unique to all so that we can get clear answers and guarantees on the questions that we ask you. I'm not going to talk anymore about the parliamentary requests that we're making at the sessions of the Supreme Council and that are actually returning to the district administrations as a reference to our requests, actually sending us back to our electoral assignments with the problems that we came from. And I would very much like to see that there are no such things in the future, because the institution of Parliament and the MP, as one who stands up for their community, is being levelled by will. And if we, the MPs, will be watching this quietly, then the next time we talk to the MPs, they'll just write us off: if that's what you're worried about, please do it yourself, which is not really going to happen, because there's both the legislative authority and the executive. Today I'd like to say a little bit about the subjects that concern me, I think, not just me as a Marjorie MP, they relate to the distribution of funds and the roads, the distribution of funds for the construction of schools, gardens, medical institutions, the socioeconomic development that is planned or not planned for, because no one can give a clear answer. And very often things that go into funding are not. They are difficult to explain according to the priority stage. Let me give you an example. This all begins even at the level of district administrations. In the city of Ivano-Frankivsk, a bridge is now being built – a bridge across the Pasicna River, the Pasic region on Galician Street. You know, we didn't wait until we got the money from the government. Nearly 70 percent of the funds for this city have already been funded from the community budget. All that remains of the state is to help to finance and open this facility. Instead, the funds are allocated to the project-based documentation of completely new bridges that are not even started to be built. To our question: Why so? – we're told that.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-06-m0.u189	Thank you. I'd like to invite you to the floor of National Deputy Dmitry Sergiyovich Black, the faction of the political party "Slut of the People".
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-06-m0.u190	Dmitri Black, 34 constituency, Dniproperty. I would like to invite all of you to the III International Economic Forum DEF-2020, which will be held for the initiative of the head of the Dnipropetrov Observatories Alexander Bondarenko in Dniper on March 19 and 20. The forum expects more than 700 entrepreneurs interested in developing their own businesses, participants from 20 countries around the world, space companies and IT companies internationally, two days of performances, a presentation of successful companies' cases, communication of power and business, exchange of experience. One of the main themes of the forum will be the space and IT branch. And it's not an accident, because the scientific sphere is unabatedly fundamental and fundamental in the world of modern science. It's a sector of the future, a sector of tomorrow, that's the sacral sphere that works ahead of its time, and to some extent it's a time machine that's moving the world's progress tomorrow. It's very symbolic that this is going to take place in the city of Dnipro, a city whose pride is giants such as the South and the South. I will note that our nation has always taken the most active part in the development of space technologies and world-wide IT engineering. Let me remind you that it is Ukraine that has given the world the world's most outstanding scientists of the world, including Kings, Sikorsky, Patton, and dozens of other outstanding scientists. In addition, for today, in the field of IT technology, almost everyone else is Ukrainian, and this is a lactic paper that defines the extremely powerful potential of Ukrainians in the field of technology of the future. So it's obvious that our nation has to work in this direction and choose it as its primary and priority. We need to understand that the development of modern science is the foundation, the foundation and the foundation of a truly strong economy, and then a strong state. This is primarily the stability, predictability and prospects of economic processes in both regions and states as a whole. In addition, the development of space and IT is a development and a ticket to a leadership club and a powerful platform for the development of the public and private sectors. And that's the kind of trend that internal government policy should be oriented towards. Friends, all of us today need to cultivate and multiply our gains. I believe that by working together we will be able to give wings to Ukrainian missiles, Ukrainian innovations, and Ukrainian businesses. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-06-m0.u191	Thank you. I invite you to the words of Krulk Ivan Ivanovich. There's no Krulke. Of course not. Only those who are recorded have the right to transmit. Thank you. I give the word then to Alexander Sergiyovich Bakumov, the faction of the political party "Slut of the People". The word is given to Paul Suško.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-06-m0.u192	Your Honourable Chairman, Your Honor, may I have your attention? In my face, thousands of parents with heavy nosology want to talk to you. Today, those whose lives are burdened with visual disturbances, hearing disorders, resistance disorders, mental disorders, want to be deprived of the legal right to free choice of forms of learning. This is provided by the National Strategy for Reforming the Institutional Care and Raising System for 2017-2026, approved by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. The document likens special schools for children with severe nosology (seeing, hearing, mental and physical development) to boarding-houses, bringing them together in the definition of "institutional care and child rearing" and aims to terminate by 2026 all institutions with more than 15 educators. Today, six special schools for visually impaired children — Kyiv, Lviv, Odessa, Kharkiv, Mukachevo, and Slaviansk — are at risk of closure in Ukraine. Children from isolated cities live in school and go home for vacations. Thus, each of these schools has more than 15 schoolchildren. This is the sign that these schools should cease their activities for six years. The same is true of special schools for children with other types of violations. In this case, the inclusion will be the only form of learning for them. What are the risks? In the absence of experience in teaching children with special educational needs in public schools, there is a very high risk that these children will not be able to adapt, and then there will be only one form of education left for them: home. I propose a separate strategy for reforming special educational institutions that train children with severe nosology. It is important to introduce the inclusion gradually. Schools and special schools have to work in parallel. And only after an inclusive form of education has been properly implemented will it be possible to talk about quitting special schools. Together, we'll protect the special schools. We're definitely moving in that direction. One of the first achievements is to take into account the profile committee of our proposals to modify the reform strategy item, which envisions the end of 2026 of all institutions with more than 15 educators, complementing this paragraph with the words: "Except for special schools for children with visual and hearing impairments, rehabilitation centres for children with complex combined violations." This is an important step. The next step is to take them into account by the government. I call for the protection of parents' right to choose the form of education for their children, and children's right to associate with their peers and to study in schools rather than in the four walls at home. Thank you all for your attention. Hopefully, the problem will also be heard at the appropriate level of government.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-06-m0.u193	Thank you. I invite National Deputy Irina Volodymyr's Heratschenko, the faction of the political party "European Solidarity". Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-06-m0.u194	Dear Ukrainians, you know, we heard from the new faces all the time that there was an empty session hall here on Friday under the previous authority. Please take a look at the halls now and ask them where they are on business day. But I'm going to talk about other double standards today. As you know, this week, the ruling party held two consecutive sessions of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to change one Green government to the second Green government, and one percent Green Rieboscope to another Green Rieboscope as the Attorney General. But when the opposition, the three political forces, the European Solidarity, the Voice and the Fatherland, proposed to hold the next meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to consider the statements of the sixth anniversary of the Crimea annexation, to declare the sixth anniversary of the Maydan shooting, and to put into order the day-to-day issue of amending the budget to index pensions to 11 million Ukrainians and Ukraines, as well as to put forth those bills that would help to reverse the defective norms of legislation that destroys today and destroys small and medium-sized businesses, such as FOPs. We submitted these proposals to the Supreme Council's apparatus on Tuesday morning. And you know when we got our signed letters last night. Although we asked to hold this meeting today. I would like to thank all 91 members of the Supreme Council of Ukraine who have signed these signatures to hold an extraordinary meeting. Not human, where some, you know, have already shown themselves, "servants" change to other "ministers" to each other. Even though it won't do any good for the country. Let's talk about the fate of the people. Among these signatures are the "Fatherland" faction, the "Voice" faction, the "European Solidarity" faction and the first signature here by Petra Poshenko. I also want to thank "Trust," the Group "For the Future" and those 15 brave servants who have also found courage and courage to put their voices here. But it's actually obvious that this is all, you know, the games of these young and young deputies who think they understand that you can just give us signed letters at 6:00 p.m. so we can't get those signatures together. I want to turn to the voters. These two days in Parliament show that the previous year was simply a disgraceful lie. They were deceiving those who are called "new faces." And they brought in the old intrigues, the old solitude, the old unemployment. Look where they're all -- they're already celebrating some festivals there and they've run away from Parliament. There are no new faces, there are no new principles, there are only lies, the lie of the Green Age.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-06-m0.u195	Thank you. The only way I understand it is that your approach, you also realize that "The Difference" is exhausted, and you have to think about how to make changes to the Rules so that we can work, not just pass on, but what. I'm not commenting on you, I'm just talking about what you're talking about. No, I'm just commenting on you from European Solidarity. Thank you. And I would like to give you the word "Constankevitch" to Irina Miroslavni, the parliamentary group "For the Future."
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-06-m0.u196	Shahov Sergei Volodymyrovich. It's a binoculars. The miller.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-06-m0.u197	I wonder where Shahov is? He just coached everyone in the hall 15 minutes ago, and he's not in the hall, you know?
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-06-m0.u198	Dear presiding, distinguished colleagues, respected citizens of Ukraine! I'd like to draw your attention to the absence of a T2 broadcast signal in the locations of the Zaporozhye region. I'm constantly being approached by my constituents, and I want to point out that, especially in Tokmak County and Primorsk City, the T2 broadcast signal is not complete. Regarding the solution to the problem since September 2019, I have been addressing four parliamentary questions that were announced at the plenary meetings of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the National Television and Radio Broadcasting Board, and the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. I would like to add that on February 28, 2020, the issue of the absence of a T2 broadcast signal and the coding of Ukrainian television channels, which also concerned Ukrainians, received the proper response of President Vladimir Zelenski of Ukraine. The president suggested that the broadcaster Zeonbud should take the necessary measures to extend the coverage of digital television in the territory of the State and make it easier for the population to have access to television and, by 1 May 2020, to have digital transmitters installed in 47 Ukrainian locations. I would like to draw attention once again to the relevance of this issue, including the Ukrainian National Television and Radio Broadcasting Foundation, because this limits Ukrainian citizens' access to television, and socially vulnerable people have unfortunately not been able to pay for cable television. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-06-m0.u199	Thank you. The trip of Dmitri Sergiyovich. Nesterenko Kirill Alexanderovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-06-m0.u200	Good afternoon, dear fellows! Ukraine, in its direct understanding, is sinking into the garbage. We're definitely going in the direction of the ecological disaster, or in other words, towards the "battle pit." Instead, there are not enough landfill sites in our country today. In addition, garbage dumps are largely natural, which in no way meet the environmental standards and requirements that usually cause irreparable damage to our country’s environmental balance. At present, about 35 billion tons of waste is stored at the waste dumps of Ukraine, which destroy our ecology every second. First of all, soil and especially water are affected. Is there a way out of this? Yes, there is. As the experience of the world’s leading countries shows, we need to put in place an immediate system of modern environmental storage, sorting, processing, and disposal of household and industrial waste. That is what is essential to the country’s environmental security and environmental stability. As an example, a country like Switzerland has successfully processed nearly 99 percent of waste for many years, using it to heat up housing, electricity, and household products, as well as the technology used to convert waste into a mixture that produces high - quality road cover. Moreover, Switzerland has recently begun exporting waste from other countries, since it is no longer sufficient for processing. So I want to tell you that the 2207-1 bill is very much needed by our country. The trash needs to be converted into energy, business. I believe our country is ready, and we will succeed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-06-m0.u201	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I think that every Friday we really spend an hour instead of working here, I cannot disagree with my colleagues. So it's a good suggestion for Ruslan Alexiyovich to cancel "Rizzne" in the format in which it is today, it's just a waste of time, and we'd better adopt laws. So I think in the new edition of the Rules this will have to be reflected. But thank you all. Nice.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-06-m0.u202	Dear colleagues, three more announcements. Interfractional MPs have been created by Urbanists. The heads of the National Deputies are Gorenjuk Alexander Alexander Alexanderovich and Bondar Hanna Veyacheslavna. An interfractional National Communities MP team has been formed. Lubinz Dmitry Valeriovich was elected chief. And the final announcement. There's an interfractional MP union called Anti-Corruption Attack. The heads of the National Deputies of Kachuru Alexander Anatoliyovich, Kisiel Yuri Grigorovich, and Pavlish Pavel Vasilovich were elected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-06-m0.u203	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed.
