ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-03-m0.u1	Good morning, dear fellows! Good morning, media officials, distinguished guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine! Please take your seats, prepare for registration. Dear colleagues, please take your seats. Are you ready to register? Please register. I'm reminded that registration takes place by clicking on the green pros button. [[10:05:18]] There are 304 Ukrainian national deputies registered in the hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. In accordance with article 25 of the Rules on Tuesday, we have up to 30 minutes to deliver statements by authorized representatives of the MPs and groups with proposals, announcements, statements, and messages. Please sign up for the factions. Papiev Mikhailo Mikolaiovich, "The Opposition Platform -- For life." Boyko Yuri Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-03-m0.u2	Dear Mr. Speaker, distinguished national MPs! In order for the country to avoid panic from a possible epidemic, concrete actions are needed, not loud statements by government officials. And the main thing is to find out if there is, in fact, this threat. And to do that, you have to have tests on the same coronavirus that they say so much about. From my own association with doctors, they don't know if they're in or out of the country. And if this is a conscious position of government, a so - called lie for good, it could turn into a very great tragedy for the country. We need to know justice. And the same headquarters to fight the coronavirus that was organized and annotated by the government a month ago, he has to report what he did, especially what he's going to do to ensure peace in the country. Our Parliament, within its competence, must make several decisions to support civil society. First of all, we have to stop the coronavirus in the economy and put the whole government out of business on Wednesday, because it's clear to everyone that it can't handle the economic situation in the country and the problems, or even solve the problems facing the country. We have to stop the so-called second stage of medical reform, because it actually means the ultimate destruction of domestic medicine. If, God forbid, TB dispensers, psychological institutions, hospitals at all will be shut down, it will be a disaster in the country. That's why our faction "The Opposition Platform for Life" introduced the Supreme Council's decision not to allow this shameful medical reform to take place, and we insist that it be voted on Wednesday to halt the destruction of domestic medicine. And the third. I think we should support our doctors, because if, God forbid, an epidemic comes, they, as soldiers on the front line, will protect both the Ukrainian people and us with you. And to do that, we need to make changes to the budget in order to increase the financing of medicine, we need to increase their pay because they get it today by one and a half times less than they do by industry. And when they hear that society cares about us fighting for them, they will fight for us. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-03-m0.u3	Thank you. The word is given to the national deputy of Raducci Mikhail Borisovich. Raducci Mikhailo Borisovich. Come on, please. It is, isn't it? Please, Mikhailo Borisovich. Well, your button's pressed. Please report this to the General Investigation Office.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-03-m0.u4	Dear colleagues, there have been so many political and not only political statements in recent times concerning the situation with the coronavirus in the world and in Ukraine alike. First of all, I'd like to say. Today, more than 90,000 people are registered in the world. Unfortunately, today the consumption center is moving closer to our borders, and there is virtually a disease in countries that have a direct border with Ukraine. Today, two and a half thousand specialized chambers are being prepared to combat the possibility of infection in Ukraine and will be hospitalized if the virus is detected. Designed and trained by special training doctors of family medicine, epidemiologists for fighting when confirmed cases arise in Ukraine. There were no confirmed cases in the morning, but tests are ongoing. And we need to be ready for what the virus might be for us. Today, we only have to know one thing that the statistics of the Coronavirus in the world are not very different from that of influenza A. The only difference between the Coronavirus A and flu A is the vaccine, and the Coronavirus doesn't. Several countries have stated that they are ready, and in the near future, there will be a vaccine. The government reported this morning that everything required by the National Security and Headquarters Council's mandate, the operational headquarters to combat the distribution of the Coronavirus, has been prepared. And a request for all deputies, no matter what faction. We have to do everything we can to ensure that there is no panic in the country, and we have to help today, regardless of the political preferences, we have to be alone in fighting the coronavirus and all of us go out on the same front of this fight.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-03-m0.u5	Thank you, Mikhailo Borisovich. The word is given to Sergei Vladislavovich Sobolev, faction of the political party "The Fatherland". Dear colleagues of all factions, I ask you to step away from the central passage.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-03-m0.u6	Dear friends, honourable citizens of Ukraine, I think that March 1st and then April 1st will not only be the beginning of the next spring months, and this will be the most serious situation that has arisen with the financial system of Ukraine. Unfortunately, 11 million pensioners did not receive a pension index on March 1st, according to the law. April 1st begins the next phase of medical reform. It is difficult to say whether the budget has been set up, since even key budget programmes are at risk. 23 percent of budget failures in just these two months. What this means for a country that needs priority measures in both the social sphere and the defence sphere, and in the management sphere, can understand anyone. Tomorrow's a great day. It's not important because someone's preparing some personnel changes. If tomorrow's conversation with the government takes place only after the change of surnames, in fact, the country will not stop in a terrible situation where we have been in a quarter of this and the previous year. In my opinion and in the view of our "Fatherland" faction, tomorrow Parliament needs a very serious discussion with the Prime Minister's report, not about a hundred victories, but about what the government is going to do to correct the budget situation immediately. Tomorrow, we would have to consider two dozen bills that relate to the tax system, the removal of so-called "plums" after shipping goods to Ukraine, which are actually ruining the situation with Ukraine's budget. Unfortunately, we don't even see such decisions in the project. Yes, the next session is necessary. We need to consider urgent decisions that will address the country's economic and social strategy. Unfortunately, tomorrow we will be confined to individual, perhaps important, questions. So I wanted the issue of dealing with the government to be the question of developing a country's strategy in economic terms. Otherwise, what we leave as a parliament, we're all together, and here no one is going to divide us, our offspring -- it's a ruined economy, we wouldn't want that. So our position is clear.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-03-m0.u7	Thank you. Ustinova, but she's handing it to Vakarczuk. Sveslav Ivanovich, please, the faction of the Voice Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-03-m0.u8	Good morning, dear fellows! Two presidents have already won and one has lost the election in promises to return peace to Ukraine and return the occupied territories. But in the sixth year of the Ukrainian-Russian war, more and more people realize that it's a process that's long, fragile and rid of illusions. The Minsk Accords do not answer the question of how to return territory and bring peace under Ukrainian conditions. Why? The Minsk Accords are killing. In time, more people died after they were signed than before. The Minsk Accords create illusions because they formally place the site in negotiations where nothing happens. The Minsk Accords eat up Ukrainian sovereignty because they prescribe that if Ukraine executes them, it may lose the state as such. They were signed to stop the hot phase of war and perform their function in part by suspending it. But five years from the date of the signing show that, in fact, Minsk is a dead end. This is understood by experts, this is understood by a large number of diplomats, and most importantly, the Ukrainians understand that. Even Angela Merkel in Paris said that the Minsk Accords should become flexible, and this is a very loud statement in diplomacy. Few believe in their execution, but no one offers an alternative. The former authorities, who now have become opposition, probably because they have been signed and are not willing to acknowledge the harmfulness of the strategy today. Today’s authorities have reason to believe that someone can be viewed under these conditions. You can talk as much as you want to talk about there's no alternative. But it will not appear if it is not believed by a national leader, unless it is presented for high summits, if not by diplomats and if it is not supported by the majority of the Ukrainian people. That's why the Voice party is proposing a plan. It's a plan for a cold buy-in that's a start for discussion. We realize that it can change in detail. But that's the plan. And most importantly, its foundation is to preserve the lives of Ukrainian citizens. That's what the president is talking about. This is what our Western allies and partners are for. And most of all, most of it is the Ukrainian people. We called this plan "Cold Depravation Plan," because it's a plan without bullets. But it means that we all have to put our hands together and make peace on Ukrainian terms and bring back Ukrainian territory. We invite both the President and the Supreme Council and the government to join the discussion of this plan. We're ready.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-03-m0.u9	Thank you. The word is given to the national deputy Heratchenko Irina Volodymyrni. Gerasimov Arthur Volodymyrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-03-m0.u10	Dear Ukrainians, should Ukrainian pensioners be promoted? Ukrainians – for, "European solidarity" – for, Zelenski – against. Do we need to break the shameful laws that kill small and medium - size businesses? Entrepreneurs – for, "European solidarity" – for, Zelenski – against. Should ATR’s Crimson Channel be supported? Ukrainians – for, "European solidarity" – for, Zelenski – against. That is why none of these questions have been put into the agenda of the special session convened by Zelenski. What's Zelensky doing in Parliament? And to shift responsibility for failure in almost all directions to someone else. Perhaps he forgot that soon a year was under control. Perhaps he also forgot that he had placed almost absolute authority in his hands. Even if the formal Prime Minister changes every month, it will still be the government of Zelensky. For example, look at this room, because it has 250 green ones. For that reason, he is personally responsible, in his own personal capacity as Zelensky. Let me remind you that in almost a year, Zelensky demonstrated his complete incompetence and inability to manage the country, every crisis has demonstrated this. They're shooting down a Ukrainian plane with a Russian missile, and it's lost in Oman. The Russians start the march on February 18th, and for him, it's just provocation. The Coronavirus has not yet come, and the economy has already collapsed. See how the Ukrainian industry goes down. Why did the budget come down sharply? Why do you refuse to automatically index pensions? Why are you killing a Ukrainian exporter? Why turn statistics to the right indicators, as if the apherists are sweeping the subdometer? When the predecessors, you say, stole, the execution was complete, and the economy showed steady growth. As soon as the "honest" came in and stopped stealing, the money ran out, and the economy went down. So you either steal from the turbines, or you lie with the same acceleration. "European Solidarity" requires the convening of an extraordinary meeting to address, among others, the issue of pension indexation, the issue of repealing anti-phobic and anti-business laws and the financing of the ATR Crimeskatar channel. Mr. Chairman, declare this truly necessary meeting of the Ukrainian community, or issue the signed letters immediately for its convening. Society sees that Zelensky’s authorities are unable to implement any of their pre-election promises. Green is not a country; instead, he is engaged in political persecution of opposition, patriots, and volunteers. The facts of political persecution in Ukraine are widely discussed in the Western press, especially in recent New York Times, American journalists compared Zelensky with Yanukovic. We all remember Victor Fedorovich’s conclusion. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-03-m0.u11	Thank you. Bacunec Pavel Andryovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-03-m0.u12	Paul Bakunets, Jovkovsky, Yavorovsk oblasts, Deputy Group "Trust". Dear Mr. Head, distinguished colleagues, distinguished Ukrainian people! Our Trust MP group consists exclusively of majors, and we work regularly in communities in our districts. And that's why we know firsthand about these problems that concern the people who live in these areas, and we know especially about the problems that concern the people who run these areas in local self-government. And today they are concerned about the changes to the Constitution on decentralization. That's how they've been declared nationalized, that's the right thing to do, but it's got to be the right thing to do. Therefore, I emphasize that changing the Constitution, especially the authority of local self - government authorities, is possible only after the thinking of those working in local self - government is taken into account. Because it is by these rules that they live in these communities, and it is by these rules that they should develop these communities. As we examine the latest developments, we can conclude that the Ministry of Health is unable to properly inform citizens of its plans and actions. So we are concerned about the second stage of medical reform, which should begin in April of this year. The National Health Service of Ukraine will pay for the services that have been entered into the medical guarantees program. But not all the services provided by a hospital will be financed, but only those approved by the health service. And if the U.S. Health Service does not sign a contract with a particular hospital for a particular type of service, then the hospital will have to either seek funds in the local budgets for a particular type of service or, worse still, shut down one or another hospital station in the area. All of this is of great concern to our inhabitants. All of this worries me, too. All of this concerns my colleagues from the "Trust" MP group, which is made up of representatives from all regions: from Lviv, Zakarpatija and to Poltavščina and Luhanščina. And that's why we suggest that we talk to the citizens better, that we work with the local self-government authorities at the time of change. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-03-m0.u13	Taras Ivanovich Batenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-03-m0.u14	Deputies for the Future. We want to say, dear friends, dear colleagues, that our group has high hopes for tomorrow's extraordinary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, among which we need to listen to the forces and most importantly, to consider human resources issues about the government. As you know, my friends, we see a decline in industrial production in Ukraine every month. We didn't count a few tens of billions of dollars in the U.S. government budget. We don't have the ability to say today that tomorrow will be with macroeconomic forecast and the government today varies in its indicators: Ministry of Finance with the Ministry of Economics. We cannot continue to observe peacefully the incompetence and incompetence of today's government, which cannot meet today's challenges facing Ukraine in the context of the globalisation crisis. And I think we should say to ourselves today that today's government needs a major reboot. I'm more than convinced that as a result of today's decline in industry, the decline in production, we should immediately consider resigning the government and seriously ask future government officials how they are going to get out of today's socio-economic collapse. As long as the minister of health, as you know, is resting in the New Sanjar sanatorium in his semispace suit, we should also give an answer to the people in what way our Ukrainian citizens are today protected from the coronavirus, and that we cannot even simply provide people with protective equipment. We want to check the information, we're going to the Ukrainian Security Service, about a bunch of security assets worth over 28 million grand and I'm going to resell them for China. Someone's making money on these things. And we want to listen to this information as part of a report that will be heard by the head of the Ukrainian Security Service tomorrow. Medical Reform, April 1. Our parliamentary group "For the Future" requires that this stage, the second stage of medical reform, be re-examined and prepared for it more carefully. Because in this matter, we need to hear all the medics who are shrinking today, who are going abroad today, who can't survive this miserable job and pay, and who are going to protect our Ukrainian citizens tomorrow. We are more than convinced that local communities will not be able to finance medical facilities that can actually be themselves today with many of the medical problems that arise. We believe that the results of today's socio-economic indicators and socio-economic studies do not allow the government to deal with its responsibilities, and we are convinced that the extraordinary session of the Supreme Council along with the urgent bills should address the issue of the resignation of the government and the Prime Minister of Ukraine, in particular. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-03-m0.u15	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the time for performances is up. Let's go to. Let's go back to the right. Edit 1507, Kiwa. Don't you insist? 08. Coltunovich, 1508.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-03-m0.u16	Thank you, Mr. Head. Now my co-author of the amendments, Illa Volodymyrovich Kiva, will be fine. Now I want to start right now with what we've come up with in this consideration of draft laws. I've already had the opportunity to formulate some of my rights and arguments about these positions. That's what I want to pay attention to. And with regard to the introduction of land circulation as an agricultural destination, why is the government seen as an unalternative economic step towards restoring the economy and an important component of the policy they are proposing. Because today we have those proposals that we have, they don't give the real economic effect that is ready to ensure real GDP growth, people's income and well-being in the country. Clearly, then, these steps are not the ones that are to be implemented. We do propose that we look at completely different priority economic drafts of laws in order not to sell land, but to develop a real sector of the economy. That was the argument of the amendment. Please put to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-03-m0.u17	Thank you. Do you insist on voting? Don't you insist? Next. 1510, Coltunovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-03-m0.u18	Dear Dmitri Alexanderovich, I ask you to put every amendment I make to the vote I make. After all, I will insist on their vote. Once we've missed the last amendment, I'll get back to the next one. I would like to refer to the argument that the market is economically appropriate or more precisely around agricultural land. I want to pay attention to what global and important economic problem we solve. Maybe we're deciding from overcoming the raw export structure of the economy, where 6.4 percent is just ready-made food, everything else. Maybe we want to increase the country's GDP share of more than 10 percent that is today? Or maybe we want to provide rural development drivers with new water supply infrastructure and so on and so forth. I want to say that none of these problems solves the introduction of land circulation for agricultural purposes. And so our faction insists on rejecting this bill and taking into account our proposals for a referendum. Thank you. Please vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-03-m0.u19	I'll bet you a vote. Please identify and vote. [[10:31:46]] For-75 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. 1520.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-03-m0.u20	Thank you, Your Honor, Dmitri Alexanderovich. Now let's move on to the specifics. These were, as they say, economic moments. It is now said that in paragraph 2 (b) of section X, paragraph 15, of the Land Transition Code of Ukraine, it is stated that the purchase-sale or other way of alienating land and land plots (pails) defined in paragraphs "a" and "b" of this paragraph is introduced under the conditions of validity of the Agricultural Land Circumstance Act, but not earlier than 1 January 2020. You and I know that time or time, more precisely, is over after the moratorium, so we understand the need for you to adopt this law. And actually, the main goal, in our view, is to give permission to sell land. Although I would like to point out that it will not guarantee the constitutional right of Ukrainian citizens to own and sell freely and buy land, as I will tell you in my subsequent amendments. Please vote on this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-03-m0.u21	I'll put it to a vote of 1520. Please identify and vote. [[10:33:11]] For-81 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. 1526.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-03-m0.u22	The second important point is that this draft of Law 2178-10 is contrary to the key principles of land legislation as set out in article 5 of the Ukrainian Code of Land, namely: the integration of land as a territorial base, natural resource and basic means of production; the equality of ownership to the land of citizens, legal persons, territorial communities and state; the non-interference of the State in the exercise of its rights to land by citizens, legal persons and territorial communities, in addition to cases provided for by law; and the guarantee of rights to land. And we see that the conclusion is that if we look at 2178-10, which is proposed, it's in conflict with current legislation and it's contrary to the Earth code that we have today. I'm asking you to put an order to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-03-m0.u23	I'll bet you a vote. Please identify and vote. [[10:34:30.]] For-74. The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. 1537.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-03-m0.u24	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to point out that the important option that was discussed in the preparation of the draft law between the first and second readings is the question of buying and selling land to foreigners. I would like to point out that the drafting of Law 2178-10 is also in conflict with Article 2, paragraph 5, of Chapter V of the Ukrainian Code of Land. I quote that "land of agricultural purposes cannot be passed on to foreigners, to persons without citizenship, to foreign legal persons and to foreign states." Instead, the text contains de facto standards that go around the above-mentioned legislators, which means the draft law cannot be adopted because it is already a matter of national, economic and food security. Thank you and please support the amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-03-m0.u25	I'm betting on a vote of 1537. Please identify and vote. [[10:35:42]] Z-77 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. 1539.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-03-m0.u26	Dear Mr. Head, I would like to point out that "The Opposition Platform for Life" highlights the need to first provide people with land and property rights to land. Article 25 of the Ukrainian Land Code defines, as part of the privatization of the lands of state and municipal agricultural enterprises, institutions and organizations, as well as the institutional basis or legal principles for the despoiling of the rest of agricultural land, we have repeatedly said that in this case Ukrainian citizens must first obtain all the relevant land and, secondly, obtain or not obtain the right to obtain, on the basis of a nationwide referendum on the sale of agricultural land. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-03-m0.u27	I'm betting on the 1539 vote. Please identify and vote. [[10:36:53]] For-81 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. 1550.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-03-m0.u28	In the course of the previous amendment, I'm pointing out that, and I'm specifying it in figures that we have an area of land owned by the state of 10.4 million hectares, that's about 24.5 percent of the total land area of agricultural destination in the country as a whole. In view of the fact that in its time the land of agriculture had already been scattered among 7.5 million Ukrainian citizens, 24.5 remaining areas. We also believe that our party should be scattered among citizens who have not yet received land and, above all, between people with low incomes, and the main thing with great work experience. They have made their contribution to this country and have the right to receive a suitable land first. Thank you. And I'm asking you to back me up.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-03-m0.u29	I'll put it to a vote of 1550. Please identify and vote. [[10:38:08]] For-83 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. 1556.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-03-m0.u30	Thank you, Mr. Head. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to point out that the academic community and, in fact, there are a number of studies that have prepared a range of studies, such as the Institute of Agricultural Economics, the Institute of Irrigated Agriculture, the Institute of Water Problems and Meliorization, the Institute of Economics, Environmental Management and Permanent Development, and a number of other research institutes that have prepared a set of studies that show significant risks as a result of the introduction of a round of agricultural land in Ukraine, on the one hand, and on the other hand that today they will address the problems that I have been talking about, the problems that some of us have been going on for 28 years, for the 28 years of independence of Ukraine. So from this point of view, we're also doing our work, and our proposals are based on the scientific reports that have been prepared by the relevant institutions. And we ask you to take some of our adjustments into account. Thank you. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-03-m0.u31	I'll put it to a vote of 1556. Please identify and vote. [[10:39:34]] For-75 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. 1559.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-03-m0.u32	I want two further amendments, and I want to point out that according to the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations, the agricultural potential of Ukraine allows for production in the ranges that provide food for between 400 and 500 million people. Today, it is estimated that not more than a third of these possibilities are being used. On the other hand, the insufficient use of available agri-resource potential is limited by a number of factors, the main of which are the unoptimal conditions of natural water supply for more than half of Ukraine’s territory, which are gradually deteriorating due to climate change. And in this context, I point out that the question of the circulation of agricultural land, it comes out, crystallizes, puts the issue of irrigation in our particularly southern regions at the forefront and the question of modernizing the appropriate water-meliority infrastructure. We could lose entire complexes there, so it's a very important problem. It should also be taken into account. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-03-m0.u33	I'll put it to a vote of 1559. Please identify and vote. [[10:41:04]] For-78 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. 1567, Kiwa. Coltunovich. Turn the coltunovich on, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-03-m0.u34	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to point out in the course of the previous topic that there are risks of degradation of water-melioration systems in drying and irrigation areas as a result of the introduction of the agricultural land circle. Today there are 5.5 million acres [5.5 million ha] of land in Ukraine. In particular: 2.2 million hectares, irrigated and 3.3 million hectares, of drying land with appropriate meliorative infrastructure. From this point of view, I'm just pointing out that the proper modernisation of the infrastructure requires considerable financial resources and when, after the introduction of agricultural land, we know that there are land dispersion processes, we may lose our water-milior infrastructure. In view of the fact that meliorative agriculture is not fully used at the level of the available power of the engineering infrastructure, Ukraine may have a serious water shortage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-03-m0.u35	I'll put it to a vote of 1567. Please make up your mind and vote. [[10:42:39]] For-78 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. 1576.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-03-m0.u36	I ask you to convey the word to the co-author of the amendment of Kiwi Illy Volodymirovich. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-03-m0.u37	Kiwa Ilya Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-03-m0.u38	Good afternoon. People's Deputy Ilya Kiwa, faction of "The Opposition Platform for Life." Dmitri Volodymyrovich, maybe we can do that. You'll give me a chance to speak and we'll take three minutes. And then.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-03-m0.u39	Instead of how many rights?
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-03-m0.u40	Come on. Oh, it's starting. Okay. You're in charge, so I'd like to hear your proposal.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-03-m0.u41	Give me five minutes instead of the right, okay?
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-03-m0.u42	Very good. Thank you for your understanding. You really are a wise man.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-03-m0.u43	Thank you. Five minutes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-03-m0.u44	Five minutes, please. People's Deputy Ilya Kiwa, faction of "The Opposition Platform for Life." We're talking about opening up the land market. However, there is no market here. This is the moment of raiding and looting that will cover the country and destroy the Ukrainian village. There's no bank of land. There is no accounting for the earth. There is no population census. There are no civil protection tools to resist raiding, either. The ship's system doesn't work. Who Can Sell Land? I don't know. But we do know that none of the common people can buy it. The rent law is being violated all the time. What will change when the market opens? Cadastre numbers are not available for scattered areas. Due to the necessary leases and court decisions, raiders register land leases in the State Register. And what's more, most of the pie owners are citizens between the ages of 50 and 60. They're defenseless from the manipulation of apherists. Until we have settled this issue, there can be no market for the earth. Otherwise, the people will remain naked, bossy, penniless, and foreign. First of all, the issue of the registration of all land should be addressed and the protection of property should be ensured. Eliminate the schemes that exist today. The moratorium on land sales was a shield for many farmers. He did not allow the raiders to seize the land quickly and resell it. The sale of land under the conditions of lawlessness and corruption is the creation of a land mafia, it's the destruction of the village. There will be no villages in Ukraine, there will be transnational corporations. All the talk about a referendum is a lie. Only this law will be signed by the President, no referendum will be required. Because of the well - founded people, children’s companies and shadow schemes, foreigners will buy up the land. Farmers await destruction. We will fight for the preservation of Ukrainian land. "The Opposition Platform for Life" proposed, registered the draft Law on the All-Ukrainian and Local Referendums for the National Initiative (number 1123 of 29.08.2019). First the referendum, first we ask the owners of the land, in the Ukrainian people -- only then we adopt the law. Our priorities are to protect Ukrainian agriculture, the land rights of Ukrainian citizens. We will not allow the looting of the Ukrainian land fund. People are desperate. On February 26, Alexander Burbakov of the village of Novoselovka, Sumsk, set himself on fire under the Office of the President across the country. The local authorities destroyed the documents, making it impossible for people to obtain the land belonging to them. Such incidents are thousands of times. The independent land was not given to former staff members of the council, social workers, rural workers, and atoniks. The authorities continue to adopt the law on the sale of land, permanently depriving people of their right to land, to pie. The peasants and farmers of my native Poltava region are calling for a change and not to sell out the only thing left — the land. Farmers go to extremes. They've covered the Kiev-Hark route three times, in the Long Island region of Big Bagachka. If the sale of land starts now, chaos will start in our country, the rights of millions of citizens who have not received their allowances will be violated. Not ready legislation. There will be a wild divide in the land market. Earth is the future of our children and grandchildren. Can we trade our future? We, the opposition, are "The Opposition Platform for Life" against the sale of Ukrainian land!
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-03-m0.u45	Thank you. 1658, Coltunovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-03-m0.u46	Thank you, Mr. Head. I'm also going to ask you to put everyone to the vote, the ones that I'm talking about, so that the room can actually decide on the relevant, important issues. A very important point that I'd like to pay attention to, and I'd like to talk about the next part of the amendments about the economic aspects, namely that the value of the land that will be after the opening of the land market will be about $700 - $1,000, at best $2,000, in the Polisi area it'll be about $600. Why are these low figures, because when there's a lot of supply on the land market, they're market laws, economic laws, they're going to overwhelm the price. But what is it? The point is that 60 percent of Ukrainian citizens who find themselves outside the poverty line are de facto and de jure, and they're not physically able to become owners and buy the right kind of land. In the next two subsequent amendments, I will also reveal the essence of the proposals. Please support this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-03-m0.u47	I'll put her to the vote. Please identify and vote. [[10:49:39]] For-75 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. 1692.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-03-m0.u48	Thank you, Mr. Head. Next, according to the Institute for Agricultural Economics of the National Academy of Sciences of Ukraine in the first half of 19th year, the highest cost of leased land was recorded in the Kirovograd region – 8 000 400 dollars per hectare. The average rent in Ukraine for the land of government property has already reached 120 euros per hectare. If we're taking in the region section, in the Hmelnicki region, it's 278 euros, in Winnicki, 255, in Poltavska, 237. This is about state property land, and in terms of private land, in Cherkaskie it is 250 euros per hectare. In our view, given these figures, it is still necessary to develop a land lease institution, not to sell land. Because those numbers that I called in the previous question are certainly more convenient. And to Ukrainian citizens, it's not in their interest to sell land. In the next item on purchasing power. Please support this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-03-m0.u49	I'll bet you a vote. Please identify and vote. [[10:50:57]] Z-70. The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. 1712.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-03-m0.u50	Thank you, Mr. Head. And now the next two amendments are very important. They say that our citizens of Ukraine are unable to buy land rations. What are we talking about? According to the State, the average monthly wage in agriculture was 8,000,542 bracelets, while the country as a whole total of 10,727. The payment of agricultural wages per employee amounts to 18,000 803 or 219 percent of the average wage. As we see, given these economic preconditions, buying land is obviously not going to be able to buy in rural areas, it's actually a minimum. And that's why I want to point out that this is a manipulation when they tell Ukrainian citizens that they can buy land freely. Thank you. Please support this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-03-m0.u51	I'm betting on the vote of 1712. Please identify and vote. [[10:52:16]] For-75 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. 1721. Coltunovich. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-03-m0.u52	According to the Ukrainian National Statistics Service, 60 percent of Ukrainian citizens have an average income of up to 5,000, or 60 percent of the citizens receive up to $200. Do you remember the price of the pie? Obviously, they will not be able to buy these lands. 85.7 percent of citizens receive incomes of up to 7,000 dollars, which means that virtually all of Ukraine's population will not participate in land-sales issues in terms of buying land. And how many months may it take even years for an average person to buy even one hectare of land? So please support the amendment so that these manipulative standards are still excluded. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-03-m0.u53	I'll put her to the vote. Please identify and vote. [[10:53:48]] For-79 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. 1922, Kristenko. Don't insist. 1923, Grivko. 1925, Mazurashu. Are you insisting? No, it's not. Bondarev, 1926 Don't insist. Guzenko, 1927. Don't insist. Will the bracelet insist on its work? Nadajchenko, 1932. Are you insisting?
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-03-m0.u54	Nadajchenko, faction of the Fatherland. I insist on that. And I'd like you to consider the position of the Fatherland faction, which is constant and persistent. We convince everyone that we have to hold a national referendum first. To be honest, people have to say that the cost of a hectare of Ukrainian land is now tens of tens, if not hundreds of times, more than we are trying to impose on the majority. Who cares, explain to the Ukrainian citizens why in a European country, across the border, the cost of the hectare is between 30 and 50,000 euros, and we, Ukrainian citizens, are forced to sell for a thousand dollars, and everything will be fine. That's not true, that's not fair. And we don't want to see unfair laws in our parliament. So I insist and I ask you to vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-03-m0.u55	I'll put it to a vote in 1932. Please identify and vote. [[10:55:52]] For-80 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. 1933, Nastajchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-03-m0.u56	Nadajchenko, faction of the Fatherland. By continuing to make arguments, the Fatherland faction will once again emphasize that under the existing Earth Code, Ukrainian citizens are now entitled to land plots, land pails. But at the same time, we insist that a fair rent be paid from Carpathians to Zaporozhye, a fair rent on land. And it is for the citizens of Ukraine to receive it. The other one. I've already spoken in this room, and I don't see any reaction from the law enforcement agencies. Those who push this bill into this room have huge, if not more, corrupt interests in the land. They are equipped with enterprises that have already transformed thousands of hectares of state land, state property. We need to put order in place, cover up this corrupt scheme, and bring these lands back to the united territorial communities. I insist on that.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-03-m0.u57	I'll put her to a vote, please identify and vote. [[10:57:24]] For-79 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. 1934, Nastajchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-03-m0.u58	Nadajchenko, faction of the Fatherland. I insist on this right, since it is by this right that we insist that the order of the landowner or the pie be determined, the right to ransom the land by a united territorial community. All the united territorial communities that are now listening to us: we are fighting for your right. Guys, you don't just have to get the land. You have the right to manage it and decide that our home land will be built and who will build it, who will pay you taxes, who will pay you for the use of land, water dance, forests that are and are to be owned by you -- people who live on earth. That's why I insist on that. And the position of the Fatherland faction, which is people first, and then all the equipment that you're trying to attach to us in this room. There must be land in possession of the real property of the Ukrainians. Please vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-03-m0.u59	I'm betting on the vote in 1934. Please identify and vote. [[10:58:50]] For-93 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. 1934. 35, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-03-m0.u60	1935. Nadajchenko, faction of the Fatherland. I insist on this right, because this right determines the rightful share of land purchased by the territorial community and/or by the state of land. The territorial community or state will be obliged to rent them within 30 working days of the date of the State’s registration of ownership of such land. Now why is this so important? Because I accept, like our entire faction, hundreds of citizens, we have in every area, in every district, the reception of citizens. So I'm going to tell you, MPs, that people and united territorial communities are primarily concerned that the best lands in their territory are still under state control and are working for this united territorial community. This is the kind of popular approach that is needed in this room. That's why I'm asking you to back me up.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-03-m0.u61	Thank you. It is the vote of 1935 of the People's Deputy of the Republic of Nastavajchenka. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[11:00:24]] Z-85 The decision is not taken. Next issue, 1936, Puzijchuk People’s Deputy. There's no folk. Pussy, isn't it? 1937, Puziychuk. None. 1938, Puziychuk. None. Please, 1939, Nadvajchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-03-m0.u62	Nadajchenko, faction of the Fatherland. I insist on this amendment, and I ask for your support, since it determines the period of redemption by the State of land, land, or rations, not more than 60 working days from the date of submission of the application or concern. The order of the ransom as such, we believe, can only appear after, right now, the government, you, this authority, have in every area and in every area of the united territorial community to show what land and who owns it, manages it, or rents it. One. And the second. The profits of the millions that you hide in Holland, Switzerland, as a foreign agroholding companies, you have to return and pay to the real owners of the land, or Ukrainian citizens. To do that, you need such a bill so that you don't pay, that you can make money and profit. Will you leave the people to what is slavery on earth? No, it's not. We don't mind.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-03-m0.u63	I'm betting on the 1939 vote. Please identify and vote. [[11:02:11]] For-80 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. Belkova's next revision, 1940. Are you insisting?
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-03-m0.u64	Dear Mr. Golovo, honourable colleagues, the whole range of my rights has been devoted to one particular topic: creating special conditions for obtaining land and buying land for those people who are farmers today or working alone in rural areas. I honestly believe that today this is the only category of people who will be widely supported by all society, all factions. In this particular direction, Kabminu’s right, which was actually described by the party of power, was removed in order to check the limits there in the order where there were 200,000 hectares. I insist on voting. And once again, I reaffirm my basic position. Only farmers, only natural persons today, have broad political, social support, such as potential landowners. Unfortunately, the party of power has not yet heard, but I hope you will. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-03-m0.u65	I'm betting on the 1940 vote of Belkovy. Please identify and vote. [[11:03:46]] For-86 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. He doesn't insist. Is he insisting? He insists, yes. 1941.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-03-m0.u66	Thank you, Mr. Head. I'm just going to read my paper: "The country's agricultural assignment, which is owned by a citizen, can be alienated exclusively from the state. The State is obliged to buy land for an agricultural assignment to a Ukrainian citizen who wants to alienate it at a market price. A land plot owned by the State may be leased to a Ukrainian citizen who has rented it and wants to rent it for purpose until it is transferred to the State. Such an agreement may be made between the State and the tenant for a term of up to 25 years. The land area of the agricultural assignment transferred by the State to the lease cannot be transferred by the renter in the sub-land." This is the ideaology of Fatherland after Ukrainian citizens in the referendum support the sale of agricultural land. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-03-m0.u67	Thank you. I'm betting on the 1941 vote. Please identify and vote. [[11:05:17]] For-92 The decision is not taken. 1942, Zagradni.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-03-m0.u68	Thank you, Dmitri Alexanderovich. Edit the following content: "A tenant who may own a leased land if otherwise not provided by law has the right to purchase it in the event of sale of the land, provided that he pays the price at which it is sold and, if auctioned, if it is the largest bidders' offer." Please put the amendment to the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-03-m0.u69	I'm betting on the 1942 vote. Please identify and vote. [[11:06:09]] Z-77 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. Heroshenko, 1943. Don't insist. 1944. Ah, Sumar. 1943, Sumar.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-03-m0.u70	Dear colleagues, it is obvious that this bill raises so many questions because it is primarily framed. He does not answer the basic questions that concern people the most. Now we've moved on to such a rippled right view, as I understand, we're missing a part, and we're just reading a part. I'm still asking the committee head to give an answer. This right applies to the protection of the rights of tenants that they have the primary right to ransom their land. Obviously, this is a super - topical issue today for people who are working on the earth and who have the right results. Please tell me, Mikolo Tarasovich, answer the simple question: How will we protect the rights of those farmers who are already working on the ground today? In this law, what do you propose by the committee, particularly if you don't support these rights? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-03-m0.u71	Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-03-m0.u72	Mrs. Victoria, according to current legislation, the dominant right may be in lease contracts that have been signed for a long time in Ukraine. I think 99 percent of the contracts have a majority right in contracts. And that's consistent with existing legislation. A similar rule is proposed, confirmed in bill 2178-10 by the committee. Moreover, in 2194, the bill that we adopted in the first reading has a whole chapter that develops and sets procedures, including what to do with notary to control the exercise of the dominant right, the term of the tenant's response, and so on. Thank you. This edit is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-03-m0.u73	I'm betting on the 1943 vote. Please identify and vote. [[11:08:31]] For a hundred and The decision is not taken. Amendment 1944. So is Sumar. Victoria Petrovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-03-m0.u74	This amendment is the same thing, we talked to you about it, it sets the formula for determining the price of land. And this is also a very topical question, because a person will feel protected if that price is set at the level of the law. She will be convinced that she will not be forced to sell her land for unintelligible money. Because people and villages today have such fear. Obviously, you said you were going to offer some formula. We've proposed our formula here. There's still a rule in our direction regarding the change of purpose -- the ban on the change of purpose. Because we understand that now agricultural lands in certain areas will simply go under construction, under construction, and we will lose a very large number of fertile lands. So I have a question back to the committee head. How do you figure out the minimum price and the price formula? And yet for a purpose: why do we give up such a moratorium for at least a few years? Because it's basically logical.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-03-m0.u75	Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-03-m0.u76	Mrs. Victoria, as you pointed out, we were really discussing this formula. The committee accepted another editorial: this is in "Transitional positions," that the price cannot be lower than the NGO. And in the view of the committee and my personal, it has to be regulated by the market. What's more, the ability to experience and also, from court practice, from appeals to the committee, it's hard for me to remember, except for rare isolated cases, forced sales. This is totally accepted by the owner. And when we talk about criminal crimes, if we come, sorry, with a machine, no formula will save either in this country or in Switzerland and so on. By changing the target. Indeed, there is no need to ban the change of destination because this is one of the two points of the moratorium. The first is alienation, the second is a moratorium on the change of purpose. Repeated meetings with local communities confirmed that they wanted to have the right to change their goal. Thank you. Edit rejected.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-03-m0.u77	I'm betting on a vote in 1944. Please identify and vote. [[11:11:09]] For 101 The decision is not taken. 1945, Nikolainka.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-03-m0.u78	Thank you. Nicolanca, Fatherland. I want to remind the factions of the majority that the Ukrainian land is not a subject of speculation, and as a result of the adoption of this law it should not be. Because the earth market and the earth in general have to do other than economic and social functions. And you can't confuse land with housing. So what I'm drafting is to put in place reliable mechanisms to prevent speculative land operations. This is a direct ban on the purchase of agricultural land for the purpose of reselling, as well as the responsibility for violating this standard. This is the introduction of a new paragraph of the relevant part of the law. Therefore, according to international practice, I propose to send the congregation concerned and also to the Pension Fund. I'm asking you to back me up. This is a position that will definitely protect Ukrainian citizens who are on the ground and who want to work there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-03-m0.u79	I'm betting on the 1945 vote of Nikolainka. Please identify and vote. [[11:12:40]] For-92 The decision is not taken. 1947, Papiev. He insists.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-03-m0.u80	Dear Mr. Head, the distinguished national deputies of Ukraine! Again, I am first of all addressing Ukrainian citizens. Because the way this law is dealt with, it is totally not in line with the Supreme Council of Ukraine. That is, there is an article discussion and an article vote in the Rules, and you go back to the amendments. But most of all, we can't force you to comply with the Constitution of Ukraine today. The property of the Ukrainian people cannot be sold without the consent of the owner of the Ukrainian people. And the owner's consent can only be obtained through a U.S. referendum. And I insist that we go back to voting and set three parameters. The sale of land after the decision of the All-U.S. referendum and when Ukrainian citizens agree. The second question. That you can't give more than 500 acres in one hand. And the third question. We need to protect people socially, doctors.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-03-m0.u81	I'll put it to a vote in 1947. Please identify and vote. [[11:14:18]] For-78 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. 1948. Papiev.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-03-m0.u82	Thank you. Dear Mr. Head, I insist, and I will keep talking about it, because it is a pillar of the Ukrainian Constitution in general, article 13, which clearly says, "the property of the Ukrainian people." It has to be done clearly and clearly, dear fellows, we cannot today, believe me, there have been many powers who thought they were forever. Once again, the Constitutional Court will ask you what authority you had to violate the Constitution of Ukraine. Each of the Ukrainian national deputies took an oath of allegiance to the Ukrainian people and made a commitment to uphold the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine. To say that you weren't aware that there was a violation of the Constitution in this law you wouldn't be able to, because I'm going to show my transcript where I called you to comply with the Constitution of Ukraine. Ladies and gentlemen, don't break your oath. The time will come when they will ask. I ask you to put it to a vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-03-m0.u83	I'm betting on the 1948 vote. Please identify and vote. [[11:15:49]] For-80 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. Savichuk, 1949.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-03-m0.u84	Oksana Savchuk, The All-Ukrainian Freedom Union, the city of Ivano-Frankivsk. My bill relates to the fact that we primarily give agricultural land rations to Ukrainian citizens, and they are also inherited as an inheritance and are not sold. That is, state agricultural rations can only be passed on to an inheritance, or citizens have the right to sell them to a state. So I have a question for the head of the agrarian committee, and I'm going to ask you to put the amendment in place. Or do you think that Ukrainian land should first belong to its citizens, to its population, and should not be sold in any way? Your answer, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-03-m0.u85	I'll put it to a vote in 1949. Please identify and vote. [[11:17:02]] For-88 The decision is not taken. Savichuk, 50th Amendment, 1950.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-03-m0.u86	Oxana Savchuk, the city of Ivano-Frankivsk, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. So I'm asking you to give me an answer in this direction. And my law clearly applies to the fact that agricultural land can be used for long-term ownership of Ukrainian citizens. Since we now know very well what the situation is that not all citizens can buy Ukrainian land on an equal footing in connection with a difficult material situation, we ask, and this is very important, it is for the land to be leased exclusively and leased only to Ukrainian citizens. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-03-m0.u87	I'm betting on the 1950s vote. Please identify and vote. [[11:18:10]] Z-87 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. 1951.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-03-m0.u88	Oksana Savchuk, Ivano-Frankivsk. I want to focus once again on what has already been said here by the MPs and what the whole country is talking about. This amendment refers to the right of Ukrainian citizens only to agricultural land rations. And in no way should it be passed on to citizens of other states, or foreigners. Yet, there are still myths that because land banks that will lend land to purchase land will in the end not become its owners. So this, this right over here, will definitely protect Ukrainian land from being unable to be bought by foreigners. Please put to the vote and support.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-03-m0.u89	I'm betting on the 1951 vote. Please identify and vote. [[11:19:28]] For-89 The decision is not taken. 1952, Savichuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-03-m0.u90	Oxana Savchuk, city of Ivano-Frankivsk, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. In this direction, we're proposing a mechanism for how we can now get out of the market situation, actually, of the land. First of all, we're proposing to create a state-owned land bank, where all the people who actually have a difficult situation right now are not able to process land so that they can sell their land rations exclusively to the State in the person of the state land bank. It's actually the creation of this bank that will show us the real situation of whether Ukrainian citizens really want to sell their land, because the state of all the latest sociological research shows that Ukrainian citizens don't want to sell their land, they're afraid of this land market as you know, as a major plague. So let's vote for this amendment and let's not let people in Ukraine actually protest against what we want to do in this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-03-m0.u91	I'll put it to a vote in 1952. Please identify and vote. [[11:20:53]] For-90 The decision is not taken. 1954, Coltunovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-03-m0.u92	Thank you, Reverend Dmitri Alexanderovich. I'm continuing with the amendments that have already been made today, and I want to pay attention to the low purchasing power and the inability of citizens to buy land. I've already said that we have 60 percent of Ukrainian citizens had incomes of less than 5,000 dollars in 2019, and 85.7 percent of citizens had incomes of less than 7,000 dollars. If we're talking about another target category, which is 11.3 million pensioners, 88.4 percent of pensioners received pensions up to 5,000 dollars. Imagine 200 dollars is 88.4 percent of the population. Who can buy a few thousand dollars worth of pies with such low incomes? So I insist that the issue of purchasing capacity and population payability should be taken into account when purchasing land. And in the next amendment, let's talk about the banking system. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-03-m0.u93	I'm betting on the 1954 vote. Please identify and vote. [[11:22:25]] For-74. The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. 1955, Coltunovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-03-m0.u94	Thank you, Mr. Head. Now, with regard to land mortgages, the possibility of lending to individuals and legal persons for the purpose of obtaining long and cheap money. I note that Ukraine’s current account rate has been reduced, but it still stands at 11 percent. For example, in our neighbours in the Russian Federation, the accounting rate for the Central Bank of Russia is 6 percent, Belarus is 8.75 percent, Moldova is 8.05 percent on credit. Credit rates also work in the credit system, including consumer credit. If we're talking about our European colleagues, the European Central Bank's loan rate is 0-0.25 percent. In such circumstances, it is clear that the Ukrainians will not be able to buy land, even to borrow from it. And the mechanism of the so-called land mortgage will not work. Thank you. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-03-m0.u95	I'll put it to a vote in 1955. Please identify and vote. [[11:23:45]] For-79 The decision is not taken. 1957, Lukashev. Please turn on Lukashev's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-03-m0.u96	Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Head. Dear colleagues, dear Ukrainians! In Luhansk, soldiers are again killed. A terrible war continues. And at this time, when our patriots are protecting Ukraine, protecting the country's homeland, the government of rodents and the committee of profile are trying to sell in a criminal way, violating the Constitution and regulations of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, selling Ukrainian land. At the same time, the right to land rations and 2 hectares of private agriculture is not being realized. Mr. Solski, please respond to the hundreds of appeals of Ukrainians when the law is implemented.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-03-m0.u97	I'll put it to a vote in 1957. Please identify and vote. [[11:25:23]] For-73 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-03-m0.u98	Next issue, 1958, People's Deputy Frost.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-03-m0.u99	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman, for giving me the floor. I'm asking you to support my work. Once again, I would like to emphasize that today the very dangerous issue of the land market is in this area. Because today there's a military situation in our territory again, plus people have seen the self-inflicted person who went to the President's Office, and today they're calling and talking about what we need is a referendum and we need to do it, and then we need to go to the sale and market of the land. Thank you for your word. And I'd like you to support my work.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-03-m0.u100	It's about the 1958 vote of the People's Deputy of the Frost. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[11:26:55]] For-73 The decision is not taken. Next issue, 1959. People's Deputy Frost.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-03-m0.u101	Amendment 1959. Moroz Volodymir, 59 constituency, Donetskina. Part of the first article 140 should be supplemented by the following point: “(e) acquisition of a land plot of agricultural destination in violation of article 130, section 2, of the Earth Code.” I want to talk to you about "The Opposition Platform for Life" against selling land. Thank you. Please vote in favour of my amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-03-m0.u102	Thank you. It's about the 1959 vote of the People's Deputy of the Frost. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[11:28:01]] For-80 The decision is not taken. Next issue, 1960. People's Deputy Frost.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-03-m0.u103	Moroz Volodymir, 59 constituency, Donetskina. Paragraph “e” of the first article 140 reads as follows: “e) the non-alienization of land by foreigners, persons without citizenship, foreign legal persons, legal persons with foreign investment, legal persons formed under Ukrainian law, the founder of which is foreign or foreign legal persons, and foreign states in the established time frame in cases defined by the Code.” Thank you, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-03-m0.u104	I'm betting on the 1960 vote. Please identify and vote. [[11:29:14]] For-74. The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. 1961.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-03-m0.u105	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. To be completed by article 134-1 of the following sentence: "Article 134-1. The termination of land rights for agricultural purposes by persons who are not entitled to property under the law. Individuals who have acquired ownership of agricultural land may, however, not have such land in their possession within one year of the date of acquisition of ownership. At the same time, such persons are obliged to place purchased agricultural land for trading (register as lotes for electronic land trade) within two months of the date of acquisition of ownership. The one - year period set out in the first article is not to be extended. In the case of persons mentioned in part one of this article."..
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-03-m0.u106	Do you insist on voting? I'll put it to a vote in 1961. Please identify and vote. [[11:30:47.]] For-75 The decision is not taken. 1962, Volosin. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-03-m0.u107	Thank you, Reverend Dmitri Alexanderovich. I'm asking you to put my 1962 draft to a vote. Its essence is, like most of the rights that are presented by the Opposition Platform for Life faction, to the need to open up the land market solely on the basis of the U.S. referendum. And you see, we're trying hard to reach out to our colleagues in that sense. And you remember, Dmitri Alexanderovich, how you liked to joke over and over again about who wants to work in this room and who doesn't. So you know, there are usually important bills that have been passed during this time in the turbines. But if we're talking about a very unbalanced tax reform, a very unbalanced one, to be subject to a powerful criticism of external partners, judicial reform, a very unbalanced reform of the prosecutor's office, now it's a market for land, canceling the list of enterprises that are not allowed to privatize, it's not a job, it's a pest. Sometimes it is better to do nothing than engage in harmful practices. So I'm asking you now to put this amendment to the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-03-m0.u108	I'll put it to a vote in 1962. Please identify and vote. [[11:32:12]] For-74. The decision is not taken. 1963.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-03-m0.u109	Dear Dmitri Alexanderovich, I ask you to replace the next twelve of my rights for three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-03-m0.u110	It's a deal. Please turn on Oleg Anatoliovich for 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-03-m0.u111	Thank you. Dear colleagues, on many airs, we had discussions with the majority about whether the land market was mentioned in the election program of Vladimir Alexandrovich Zelenski. Of course, yes, Mr. Zelensky's pre-election program had a phrase about creating an effective market for the earth. But the first point that stood in the electoral program, and which really distinguished Zelensky's candidate significantly from many others, was in the government directly because of the introduction of an effective referendum mechanism. So, in principle, I think that any voter who deliberately made his choice, he was thinking that all of the following elements of the program, including the creation of an effective market for land, would only be applied after the first and the main points, i.e. the introduction of referendum mechanisms. Since this has not happened, I think it is quite clear that even the launch of the earth’s market, especially one that does not have the support of most of our citizens, should not take place without a survey of Ukrainians. So that's what we insist on. We just want it as much as we want it to be about peace as it is about punishing corrupters of former power, just as it is with many. tariff cuts and everything else, we are nothing more than opposition to Mr. President and his team as to the fulfillment of our own electoral promises. Then I really hope that we're finally going to get to the end of all the rights. Because, of course, this process, you know, everyone has to play their part in this tragedy, but conscience, I think, is already telling many that what's going on right now is unfaithful. And in this sense, we welcome the initiative of the honourable Mr. First Vice-Speaker on rapid deployment. The introduction to the Supreme Council of a bill, which is actually about an all-U.S. referendum. But the legislator’s logic required that we do this in reverse. First, create legislation on referendums, hold a referendum, and then implement sensitive things and important things like the market of the earth. You know, the situation surrounding the government, and the situation surrounding the law enforcement agencies, shows that unfortunately, the authorities in power are very fond of looting. We're sorry because I and, I'm sure, the vast majority of our voters in the second round of presidential elections supported President Zelenski himself. So we're essentially looking at his mistakes, his calculations, his underdevelopment as part of the consequences of what we thought was the best choice for our country. We thought we were opening a new page in Ukraine, and as a result, we discovered a new set of problems that we would have to solve together. And then I really hope in that sense that we still have about 2,000 amendments, enough time for the steering team to think about their approach and eventually stop this shameful review of the law.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-03-m0.u112	Thank you. 1975, Schofrich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-03-m0.u113	Thank you. Dear Chairman, dear colleagues! It is a fundamental question for us, as it is for the people of Ukraine, to solve the very possibility and fate of the land market, the right to sell the land itself in conditions of impoverishment of our citizens when the price of land is at a low level, so that the people of Ukraine will still decide in a nationwide referendum. And this for our political power, "The Opposition Platform for Life" is a fundamental question. You can see that we are making adjustments to various articles, to different paragraphs. But our main requirement is to hold an all-U.S. referendum to establish whether people want to sell land today or not. And you see, the last of the polls, they say to you, no, the Ukrainians are not ready for it.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-03-m0.u114	Do you insist on voting? I'm betting on the 1975 vote. Please identify and vote. [[11:37:07]] For-73 No decision taken, no correction counted. 1976. Nestor Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-03-m0.u115	Yes, I have an appeal to the head of the committee. Spring's here. You can sit down. I think in 12 hours my amendments will be considered. So I suggest you sit in your workplace. Please. Please. As far as the substance of the correction is concerned. The amendment sets out the principle of the implementation of property rights, other instruments on the possibility of changing property rights other than sales, but what works under today's code is certainly to remain. And all the other innovations can only be made after the U.S. referendum. And this is the principle position of our political power. We're with the people today. You know, we didn't take the nerve to call ourselves servants of the people and.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-03-m0.u116	Thank you. I'll bet you 76 votes. Please identify and vote. [[11:38:42]] For-75 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. Seventy-seven, Shufrich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-03-m0.u117	Thank you. The honourable chairman, the next four revisions, are identical. They refer to 131 articles of the Act, and they regulate various aspects of the right to exercise property rights on pies, including issues relating to the denial of ownership of land by nonresidents of Ukraine. I don't think today you can say no to those who order the land market in Ukraine. Unfortunately, these people are far away. And they're already called "sorts" in the people. And on the demand of "sorts," you're pushing, "you're pushing" as he said, the light of his memory, the late John Stepanovich Plush. But the truth is, she'll come out. And the people of Ukraine are already telling you during the latest polls "no" sales.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-03-m0.u118	Are you insisting? Turn on the Shufrych microphone again.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-03-m0.u119	I'm asking you to give me one more minute. And then I'll have four amendments in a row.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-03-m0.u120	Let's just vote. Okay. One more minute, please, Nestor Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-03-m0.u121	Of course, when we adopted the Codex Earth, we accepted it under extreme circumstances. What you're doing right now is just a resort for you. Because while we were fighting for the right of our citizens to realize their property rights to land, this hall was demolished. We had no opportunity to vote in the workplace. But we understood that by empowering our citizens to realize their property rights to the earth, we had to protect them from speculation. And in conditions where we have the lowest pension, when people get 75 percent in a year, almost 80 percent of our pensioners, on average 20,000 dollars, I think in these conditions.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-03-m0.u122	Thank you. Nestor Ivanovich, can we put it to a vote? How many rights are four? I'll bet you 77 votes. Please identify and vote. [[11:41:37]] For-75 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. 1978. Please identify and vote. [[11:41:55]] For-74. The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. 1979. Please identify and vote. [[11:42:12]] For-73 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. 1980. Can we vote? I'll bet you a vote. Please identify and vote. [[11:42:33]] For-74. The decision is not taken. 1981.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-03-m0.u123	I'm talking. Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. I'll read the wording in which we propose to make a change to 131 articles. "The acquisition of ownership of land on the basis of other civil law agreements. Item 1. The residents of Ukraine can acquire private property and the territorial communities and state ownership of land, based on mines, rents, donations, inheritances and other civil law agreements. The non-residents of Ukraine do not have the right to own land. " And all of these questions, I'm stressing once again on our most basic position, cannot be implemented before the U.S. referendum. The very right to sell land in conditions where people today are unable to really appreciate the value of their property is irresponsible.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-03-m0.u124	Thank you, Nestor Ivanovich. We can vote, right? Maybe a few rights, too? 1981. Please identify and vote. [[11:44:10]] For-78 The decision is not taken. 1982. Can we vote? I'll bet you a vote. Oh, no? Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-03-m0.u125	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. The amendment, once again, points out that we must not ignore the will of our citizens. And if we do, you have the declared principle of the peoples of the country, the issue of the land market can only be solved after a nationwide referendum. Thank you for your attention. Please vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-03-m0.u126	I'll put her to the vote. Please identify and vote. [[11:45:02]] For-75 The decision is not taken. Nestor Ivanovich, are we voting next? I'm betting on the 1983 vote. Please identify and vote. [[11:45:22]] For-74. The decision is not taken. 1984. Please identify and vote. What about the word? Yes, please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-03-m0.u127	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. I cannot help but draw your personal attention, my colleagues, to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, and to remind you of your principles. You said that the first thing you'd start with was giving the people of Ukraine a chance of direct government. This may be due exclusively to the adoption of the modern Law on Referendum. I'm sorry to say today that the referendum laws that were proposed by opposition parties were removed from the order of the day by insolent vote, which was like a knife in our heart, because we didn't think that the debate on the referendum issue would be rejected by a majority that voted at the beginning of the session a corresponding draft decision that had, unfortunately, become valid. But I want to remind you that we do have the Referendum Act, well, it's still working, let's say, since the 91st.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-03-m0.u128	Nestor Ivanovich, if you don't mind, I'll use yours. Your turn. You may have heard from the Conciliation Council about what Ruslan Alexiyovich Stefanchuk said that the law was actually ready, and he will soon appear in the hall. If we go back to past traditions, I think that many of the people's deputies in this room have had the opportunity to submit and even adopt the Referendum Act. So let us not mention the past but rather look to the future. Thank you. Let's go to the vote. 1984. Please identify and vote. [[11:47:32]] For-79 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. 1975, Schofrich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-03-m0.u129	Dmitri Alexanderovich, I'll be honest with you, I'm already a little tired of voting on the referendum laws as well as on the commission investigators' laws. Well, eventually, the commission's investigators settled. I'm happy to take Mr. Stefanchuk's initiative on perhaps one day we'll consider the referendum law, I've actually heard about it, but in this Supreme Council I've heard a lot. But why do you deprive us of initiating our drafts, why they're being removed from the agenda, I honestly don't understand. That's why we think that today's review of the Land Act is directly related to the Referendum Act, because, by declaring the principle of the peoples of the world, unfortunately, I have to say that you have not done anything for this moment so far in order for this law to be passed.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-03-m0.u130	Thank you. Nestor Ivanovich, I am grateful that you are so supportive of the initiatives of the majority and of the Law on Temporary Inquiry Commissions, which were adopted in this call to parliament. Thank you. Let's go to the vote. 1985. Please identify and vote. [[11:49:10]] For-80 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. 1986, Shufrich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-03-m0.u131	Thank you. The following is amended as follows: "To supplement 131 articles of the Ukrainian Code of Land with provisions, namely: 'It is forbidden to introduce the right to land (pai) to statutory capitals of agricultural societies before carrying out and establishing the results of the U.S. referendum on the purchase and sale of land for agricultural purposes." Now, about what's being done and what's being planned. Dear colleagues, we all remember on January 17th when the Prime Minister in this room said that he had written a statement on his release on behalf of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and handed it to the President, and yesterday he probably had amnesia because he said that he had not written a statement about his resignation yesterday morning. So he lied to us on January 17th. And I think that's the situation.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-03-m0.u132	Nestor Ivanovich, I don't think this is what you just said. 1986, I'm voting. Please identify and vote. [[11:50:46]] For-80 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. The ultimate right of Nestor Ivanovich Šufrich 1987.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-03-m0.u133	Thank you, Dmitri Alexanderovich. I would like once again to express our principle position on the bill, which is being initiated and considered today in the Chamber by the authority of Ukraine, precisely by the authority. Now, I'm not going to distinguish the majority from the Cabinet of Ministers, from the President of Ukraine -- all of this is power. And we think that this is an overly principled question that cannot be addressed without the holding of an all-U.S. referendum. And it is this principle, the principle of direct government itself, that you may have declared, by referring to the Constitution, which defined the Ukrainian people as the bearer of power. That is why we demand that you treat the people of Ukraine with the utmost respect. And to adopt this law after the referendum. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-03-m0.u134	Thank you. I'm betting on the 1987 vote. Please identify and vote. [[11:52:17]] For-83 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. 1988, Burmich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-03-m0.u135	Dear Head! Deputy Anatoly Burmich, Opposition Platform for Life. Dear Head, I have 88th and 2000th. I'm asking you to give me five minutes and put 2,000 votes to the vote, if you don't mind.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-03-m0.u136	Excuse me again, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-03-m0.u137	I've got axles from the 88s to the 2000s, 12-13s.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-03-m0.u138	Five minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-03-m0.u139	Five minutes. And put 2000 to the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-03-m0.u140	Okay. Could you spare some time, please? Five minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-03-m0.u141	Dear colleagues, I don't understand why in today's conditions, when we have an internal and external crisis, an economic crisis, a lot of misunderstandings, we're being pushed in the faith, in the language, in the place where we live, in our views and in our heroes, why in these circumstances of conflict do we pay no attention to the thoughts of our people? And the idea is simple: more than 70-75 percent of people want to figure out, they want to tell themselves if they want this market and what market they want. Why do we ignore these people? Do we really think that they have completely turned into cattle and have no idea? These are our people, the people, not just, the people are hardworking and intelligent, talented. This nation gave birth to Hmelnicki, Sikorsky, King, the genius designer Antonov, Yangel the nuclearian, father and son of Patton, physicians of Shalimov, Amos, Alexander Long, Leonid Bikov, Bogdan Stupk, the great teacher and teacher of Vasil Sukhmlinsky. And I could count this list by tonight. Our people need respect for themselves. Our people must say their word, which market they want, whether they want it or not. And I think we should respect him. And you, Dmitri Alexanderovich, have always said that you want to consolidate society and people, to introduce laws that unite rather than disunite. The Law on Referendum, namely, the amendment to the Law on the Earth Market, could bring people together; it would restore trust in human authority. And if people would say which and when they want this market, please, no one would deny it, but you can't ignore it. Because, I'm afraid, when we go through 4,000 rights and we don't take a referendum on the land market, these people, the agrarians, our people can hold without us and without law a referendum here, under the walls of the Supreme Council. That's why I'm talking to you. Please, as you always say, "vote and support," it's so simple to say two words -- and all questions will be removed. Thank you very much and ask for a referendum on the land market for the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-03-m0.u142	We must put 2000 to the vote. Please identify and vote. [[11:56:51]] For-80 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. 2001, Ponomarov.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-03-m0.u143	Thank you. National Deputy Alexander Ponomaryov, 78 constituency, Zaporezki district. I reiterate that the faction of the Opposition Platform for Life has consistently opposed the opening of the Ukrainian market without holding an all-Ukrainian referendum. Both me and my colleagues talk a lot about it, but the rest of us can't hear. And if we have to consider this project, we suggest that it be amended as follows: "Article 131 of the Ukrainian Code of Land should be supplemented by a new part of the three following content: "The responsibility for the conformity and consequences of the agreements in question shall be determined by the relevant rules of the law in force." Please put to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-03-m0.u144	Yes, it is. 2001 I bet on the vote. Please identify and vote. [[11:58:12]] For-76 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. Alexander Sergiyovich, you have four papers. Are we going to get together to get to the break? Two minutes and we're voting, right? Okay. Two minutes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-03-m0.u145	Let's go one at a time.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-03-m0.u146	Let's do two. Two minutes, please turn on Alexander Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-03-m0.u147	My fellow Members, once again, I speak of what we have the right to accept. We have no right to make such a decision without consulting directly the owner of Ukrainian land, the people of Ukraine. Every survey in the country shows that most Ukrainians feel the same way and want to express their views on this issue through a referendum. I therefore propose, after the second part of article 131 of the Ukrainian Code of Land, that the following new paragraph be added: "The forces set forth in this article are carried out taking into account the holding of an all-Ukrainian referendum on the purchase and sale of agricultural land." Now we can put it to a vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-03-m0.u148	Let's put it to a vote. Please identify and vote in 2002. [[11:59:41]] Z-77 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. Dear colleagues, there's a break at 12:30. Please don't be late.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-03-m0.u149	2003, Ponomarov. Don't insist. 2004, Ponomarov. Don't insist. 2005, Ponomarov. Don't insist. 2006, Skorek. He insists. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-03-m0.u150	Deputy Skorik, "The Opposition Platform for Life." In article 131 of the Ukrainian Code of Land, the first part of the text reads: "Citizens and legal persons whose documents provide for agricultural production, as well as territorial communities have the right to acquire land based on mines, rents, donations, inheritances and other civil law contracts." Complement article 130 of the Earth Code with the following paragraph: "Prohibited buying-in or other way of alienating land and changing the target destination (use) of land owned by citizens and legal persons for commercial agricultural production until the outcome of the nationwide referendum on the sale of agricultural land is carried out and established." Please put an order to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-03-m0.u151	I'll bet you a vote. Please identify and vote. 2006 Amendment. [[12:33:17]] For-44 The decision is not taken. 2007, Skorek.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-03-m0.u152	Skork, "The Opposition Platform for Life." Dear colleagues from most of the world, I'd like to address you. We were asked very often why we gave so many rights. We said very clearly that in order for this document to become, on the one hand, more qualitative, on the other hand, so that there would be time for such constructive deputies, on the other hand, to realize that it is totally wrong and harmful for the country and its citizens. I think the last sociological polls have clearly demonstrated that. And it seems to me that now is a very convenient moment when you can get rid of the negative Prime Minister and the negative Kabmin on Wednesday and give up this harmful bill, and say that it's just him, this poor Prime Minister, that he taught you to take this bill badly. And in fact, you're really "ministers of the people" and you don't want to accept such a disgraceful bill for the country. Please think about it and show it by voting for the amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-03-m0.u153	Thank you. Please identify and vote. 2007 [[12:34:37]] For-55 The decision is not taken. 2008, Skorik.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-03-m0.u154	Dear Mr. Solsky, I'm very sorry, this is not the first amendment I'm reporting, I'm very sorry that on any of the issues that I've asked you in previous blocks, and on the fair growth of gross domestic product, and on the lack of a credit market, a ruined banking system, and on your refusal to address, it's a major question, to the citizens through a referendum, it's a shame that we didn't have that much of an expert discussion, but no discussion. I still want to, and I really hope that you will turn to traditional Ukrainian values, and you will by no means vote in favour of this bill. And I ask you to support and vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-03-m0.u155	I'm betting on the 2008 vote. Please identify and vote. [[12:35:45.]] For-65 No decision taken, no correction counted. Black, are you insisting on the paper?
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-03-m0.u156	Yeah, I'm insisting on the paper. Dear Mr. Head, I have eight rights. I suggest you give me three minutes to make a statement and vote on these eight rights.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-03-m0.u157	It's a deal. Please turn on 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-03-m0.u158	Dear colleagues, dear Ukrainian people! I want to redefine the position of our party, the political party "The Opposition Platform for Life" on this bill that we are currently looking at in this room. It's probably wrong to say that we're looking at it. Because no one even listens to the rights and votes, I don't even understand, people walk around the hall and no one listens to the even normal rights that are offered to accept them. I'm worried like a Ukrainian citizen, one question that I still can't find the answer to. Perhaps Mr. Dmitri Alexanderovich will help me answer that question. Dmitri Alexanderovich, that is to say that we, the Ukrainian people, and I am now speaking from that Ukrainian people who did not receive these pies in 1994 or 1995. I don't know what to say to myself, why I, a man born in a village, a man whose parents were born in a village, my grandparents were born in a village, I didn't get land because I graduated from military school and went to protect my country. So why today, according to this bill, if I want to, and I want to have land, why should I buy it from myself? Why do I have to buy it myself, pay $2,000 for it, or how much will it cost there? Dmitry Alexanderovich, how do they say, as an artist, I want to ask you, do you have land?
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-03-m0.u159	First of all, I don't have land. The other one. I'm drawing it that way, so the artist won't come in here either. And if we're talking about buying from myself, I somehow lost the logic of the question. Because if you don't have one, you can't buy one either. I think a more competent committee head will be able to answer that question. If you don't mind. And on the ground, I hope I answered. Mikola Tarasovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-03-m0.u160	My dear colleague, the bill provides for the lifting of the moratorium and the circulation of land of those already issued to Ukrainian citizens in the 1990s. Norms for free privatization, including if you want to get land, are not overturned. They have been in operation since 2001. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-03-m0.u161	Thank you. Please tell me which revisions you insist on voting. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-03-m0.u162	Please put it down, because I haven't finished my three minutes anyway, I'm asking you to put all eight rights to the vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-03-m0.u163	Okay. I bet. 2009 Please identify and vote. [[12:39:24]] For-65 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. 2010 Please identify and vote. [[12:39:42]] For-66 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. 2011. Please identify and vote. [[12:39:58]] For-66 The decision is not taken. 2012. Black. Please identify and vote. [[12:40:14]] For-65 The decision is not taken. 2013 Please identify and vote. [[12:40:30.]] For-68 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. This Decision Please identify and vote. [[12:40:46]] For-67 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. This Decision Please identify and vote. [[12:41:02]] For-66 The decision is not taken. I, 2016. Please vote and determine. [[12:41:20]] For-69 The decision is not taken. 2017. This crying.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-03-m0.u164	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the Constitution of Ukraine foresees a form of will as an all-U.S. referendum. But there's only the phrase "referendum" in the bill. I don't know what that means, maybe it's a local referendum. I'm asking you to decipher, please, how and in what referendum you're going to ask questions and what questions about this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-03-m0.u165	Thank you. I'm betting on the vote of 2017. It's not supported by the committee. Please identify and vote. I feel that these questions have already been answered. Thank you. [[12:42:16]] Z-70. The decision is not taken. 2021.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-03-m0.u166	Dear colleagues, once again, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that this is not just a bill on the sale of land owned by Ukrainian citizens. The bill provides for the sale of state and municipal property. And yet I have a question: If it is allowed to sell land owned by the State, what will Ukrainian citizens who today have the right to their 2 hectares of land receive? I also ask you to answer that very question.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-03-m0.u167	The committee’s answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-03-m0.u168	Mrs. Tetjano, procedures related to the characteristics of the alienation of state and municipal land are bill 2194. It's not this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-03-m0.u169	I'll bet you 2021. Please identify and vote. [[12:43:28]] Z-71 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. 2023.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-03-m0.u170	Thank you. Nevertheless, these bills would have to be considered together in order for us to understand at all what is meant by this land reform, as you call it. But my amendment now relates to the fact that such a form of land secession as the introduction of land rights to statutory capitals of farm societies actually converts land rights to corporate law. Please, you know very well that corporate relations are even worse than land relations in Ukraine. Therefore, it is not possible to allow the actual corporateization of land relations today. I ask you to put this amendment to the vote and support it.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-03-m0.u171	I'll bet you vote 2023. Please identify and vote. [[12:44:37]] For-73 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. 2024.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-03-m0.u172	Thank you. Dear colleagues, of course, the decision regarding the sale of land can be decided only after the outcome of the U.K. referendum has been held and established, but any law, and more important law for Ukraine, must contribute to real competition in every community, in every area, in every area. What do we have instead? In fact, this bill provides for the creation of such excessively large latifunds within one united territorial community. We can create a situation where there's only one landowner in one territorial community. So I'm asking you to put my bill to the vote and support it.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-03-m0.u173	I'll put her to a vote and ask you to determine. 2024. [[12:45:46]] Z-71 The decision is not taken. 2028.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-03-m0.u174	Dear colleagues, in preparing for the second reading, this bill completely lost any safety nets that were in the original document and applied to the concentration of land in the hands of one person within one OTG. We are now, however, stressing that we are creating a situation where future united territorial communities will have only one landowner. Think about it! What do we do when we introduce decentralization today, but the future OTG will actually be in the hands of only one landowner? So what decentralization are we going to?
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-03-m0.u175	I'll bet you a vote. Please identify and vote. [[12:46:52]] For-67 Unfortunately, no decision is made. 2030, Crybaby, yeah.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-03-m0.u176	Thank you. I would like to remind you once again that the oldest body in Europe for inter-parliamentary cooperation calls on Member States to improve the system of representative democracy by balancing the responsibility of state authorities and the role of citizens in the adoption of decisions. In the absence of such a balance, it will be impossible to prevent a lack of confidence in the representative authority. So, ladies and gentlemen, let's stop, let's listen to the recommendations and the parjets and our Ukrainian citizens who demand, first of all, a referendum and then a vote for this bill, not even for this one, but for an improved bill on the real market. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-03-m0.u177	Amendment 2030, I put it to a vote. Please identify and vote. [[12:48:01]] For-75 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. 2032, Kiwa. Coltunovich. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-03-m0.u178	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs, distinguished voters! Coltunovich, "The Opposition Platform for Life." Our political party, when it went to the elections, I quote, said in its programme that "preservation of land in the possession of Ukrainian peasants and the opening of the agricultural land market is possible only as a result of a nationwide referendum." We've seen data from sociological research that confirms that two thirds of the population of Ukraine, whether surveyed in one way or another, opposes both the introduction of the market circulation of agricultural land and the willingness to say no in the entire Ukrainian referendum. In our view, those amendments that we have made today that meet the demands of society have the right to be taken into account, at least in the Transitional or Final Positions, which have determined, for example, the start of the draft law based on the holding of the U.S. referendum. And we urge, our party, to support this proposal so that we can incorporate this standard into the End of Positions. Thank you and please support.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-03-m0.u179	Thank you. I'm betting on the 2032 vote of Koltunović. Please identify and vote. [[12:49:32]] Z-77 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. 2035, Coltunovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-03-m0.u180	Thank you. Dear Mr. Head, distinguished voters and distinguished national MPs! Why am I drawing your attention to the referendum and to the sociological research? I would like to focus on two of them in the next two amendments. First. This is a sociological study by the Kyiv International Institute of Sociology, which shows that 62 percent of Ukrainian citizens would vote against the referendum on the circulation of agricultural land in February 2020, 15 would vote in favour, 18 would not take part. What I'm saying is that the number of supporters of the referendum and in order to vote "against" increased to 66 percent from November to February. On the other hand, the number of supporters of land circulation declined from 22 percent to 15 percent. This indicates that the processes that are taking place in the committee today, in Parliament, are unhealthy. So our proposal is to take the opinion of Ukrainian citizens into account. Please vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-03-m0.u181	Thank you for voting 2035. Please identify and vote. [[12:51:02]] Z-77 The decision is not taken. 2039.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-03-m0.u182	Please give the word to the author of the amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-03-m0.u183	Kiwa Ilya Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-03-m0.u184	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues! I want to ask a very important question right now. We're fighting in the country right now. Fighting. And tell me, who's going to put money where there's no order, no law, where there's chaos? And that's a very important question. The people of Donbas will buy what land and what land? Minefields to buy, and where? And I want to remind you, here in the plenary room on November 13th last year, the tract "15 arguments for the free market of the land." They were all in the workplace. And there was a point in those tracts: Western partners help and support us against. To protect Ukraine. They will start only when they have their capital and their assets in Ukraine. It's unacceptable. Only Ukrainian citizens and those who work on earth can own the land. I demand once again the referendum that we must hold and give people the opportunity to do.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-03-m0.u185	Thank you. I'll bet you 2039. Please identify and vote. [[12:52:31]] For-79 The decision is not taken. 2042. Coltunovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-03-m0.u186	Thank you, Mr. Head. Ladies and gentlemen, as we continue with the update on the question of the holding of the U.S. referendum, I will bring back data from another sociological study of the social group "Rating", which was conducted at the end of last year, in November-December months. According to this data, 19 percent of respondents support the introduction of agricultural land, while 73 percent oppose, 8 percent do not. 74 percent of Ukrainian citizens and surveyed people actually favour this sociological group for a U.S. referendum. These are actual figures, these are the data that independent sociological services have been running. And I think that the Ukrainian Parliament should take account of the opinion of Ukrainian citizens. As to whether or not to be conducted, I would like to say that in countries such as the Netherlands, Switzerland, France, is exactly the right of the people to defend their thinking and decent living standards. Thank you. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-03-m0.u187	I'll bet you 2042. Please identify and vote. [[12:54:00]] For-81 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. 2044. Kiva or Coltunovich? Coltunovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-03-m0.u188	Dear Mr. Head, honourable national deputies, I also point out that only 5 percent of Ukrainian citizens see no risk of launching a free land market in Ukraine. While the vast majority of Ukrainian citizens see a number of risks, such as the owners of the pies, may be deceived by the sale of land, that the land may be purchased by foreigners, there are still a number of factors that may have a negative impact on the sale of land by means of imperfect current legislation. And there's another very important point: taking down a moratorium on selling land will also allow the oligarchs to buy. I've been arguing today about the purchasing power of Ukrainian citizens, and more specifically, the lack of capacity to pay the population when there are pensions and salaries of $150-200, 70-80 percent of the citizens have, obviously, that such people will never buy these land rations in their lives. This means that the lands we have, including land owned by the State, are at risk. Thank you and please support.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-03-m0.u189	I'll bet you 2044. Please identify and vote. [[12:55:30]] Z-85 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. Royal Natalia Yuriovna. Do you insist on what you do?
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-03-m0.u190	Dear colleagues, I insist on all forms.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-03-m0.u191	2045, yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-03-m0.u192	Thank you. Dear colleagues, "The Opposition Platform for Life," as you know, is definitely against the sale of Ukrainian land, and we stand firm for the holding of the U.S. referendum. I asked people, and in the last few weeks we've had a lot of meetings, and people have asked us to read to you the questions that they unfortunately cannot ask their national MPs, because many of the deputies from most don't come to the villages or communicate with the electorate, and they don't hear the real positions of the people today regarding the sale of Ukrainian land. So the first question. "What will Ukraine get from selling land?'"Anatoli Dobrogorski of Dnipra asks. "Why don't they hold a referendum on the sale of land?“ – Ludmila Koval. Please give me an answer, Mr. Solski.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-03-m0.u193	Thank you. It's a 2045-seat vote of the Royal People's Deputy. The answer can only be given within the limits of the revision, not just the subject. 2045 shall be voted on. Please support and vote. Identify yourself. [[12:57:03]] For-76 The decision is not taken. Next item 2046. It's a royal one.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-03-m0.u194	Dear colleagues, I continue to ask the questions that people have asked us. And if you don't want to answer them, at least listen to the people, hear the questions that concern people today when this is under consideration, the propane review of the land bill. People are asking. "Why doesn't Ukraine want to develop its agriculture and village?" - This is Larissa Denisenko from Kharkiv. "Don't sell land to foreigners and foreign companies, definitely not. Create a state bank for the land. To ban land from being mortgaged." That's Lena Boyko's question. Next question. "When will they accept the referendum?" – asks Mikola Smyrnov of Mariupol. Your Honor, give people answers. It's not a matter of politics, it's a question of ordinary people in our country. I insist that the amendments be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-03-m0.u195	Thank you. Allow me to answer Mr. Mikola Smyrnov for the bill on the All-U.S. referendum, and he will be posted tomorrow for discussion on the site of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And Mr. Mikola Smyrnov can join his discussion. And I'm putting to the vote number 2046 of the Royal People's Deputies. [[12:58:45]] For-89 Unfortunately, the decision is not taken. Amendment 2047.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-03-m0.u196	Dear colleagues, I continue to ask people questions. People who can't reach you. You refuse to hold a referendum. And that's why I'm asking the question of Eugene Tobacco of Odessa. "The earth and the navel belong to the people. And sell them. The next question they ask is power. The government has sold both gas and energy and industry. What did the people who owned these values gain? It's a bubbly. We insist on a referendum." People. "The factories are working. The land is for peasants. We have everything in our hands: land, gas, light, water -- everything in our private hands. Where, then, is the belongings of the people? Don't sell the land." This raises the question of Svetlan Kumov. Please give people an answer to their questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-03-m0.u197	Thank you. This is the vote of the Royal People's Deputy. Please identify and vote. [[13:00:09]] For-86 The decision is not made, unfortunately. Next issue, 2050, Royal People's Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-03-m0.u198	I keep asking you questions that people are asking. Those questions that people have written for you, for the Ukrainian national MPs who want to take responsibility and replace instead of a referendum, by their vote to make the country's decision. The first question, asked by Helen Ozoryanska, the city of Kharkiv, was: "In school we studied the novel of Olga Kobilian Earth. At that time, for a small piece of earth, people were willing to give up everything. Now what is the earth to us?".. People insist on holding an all-U.S. referendum. "The government should be able to calculate the impact of the sale of land," insists Anatoly Dobrogorski, Dnipro. Because people are worried that you're going to sell the land, and it's going to be the same thing, two more oligarchs are going to be in the country, and unfortunately, people aren't going to get anything and insist on an all-U.S. referendum. I'd like you to confirm my amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-03-m0.u199	Thank you. It's the 2050 vote of the Royal People's Deputy. The committee proposes to reject it. Please identify and vote. [[13:01:41]] For-80 The decision is not taken. Next line 2051, National Deputy Royal.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-03-m0.u200	Dear colleagues, I continue to ask you the questions that people are asking. And the question from Eugene Miroshnick, the city of Dnipro. "What does the Ukrainian get from selling land and paying utility bills? What will remain of his children and grandchildren?" This question is asked by almost every Ukrainian. "Who gave you the right to manage the national acquisition of the country? Why do 250 people solve such a vital issue, ignoring the opinion of the people?" Tamara Stefanenko, Zaporozhye Dear colleagues, and we join in the questions that people are asking. We also insist that there be a comprehensive discussion of this issue and a nationwide referendum is held. We insist that our amendment be put to the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-03-m0.u201	I'll put her to the vote. Please identify and vote. [[13:03:06]] For-74. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. 2055.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-03-m0.u202	2052, Mr. Speaker.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-03-m0.u203	Sorry, 2052.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-03-m0.u204	Please, yes. I continue to ask you the questions that people have sent. A question from Auntie Grief. "I'm still a referendum on the ground. The land must be divided into all Ukrainian citizens. And everyone will decide what to do with it." Dear colleagues, "The Opposition Platform for Life" also insists that the earth's crumbs be completed. As you know, only 7 million pilgrims got their pies. All other people in our country had no opportunity to exercise their constitutional right and to gain their God - given land. That's why we insist that you lead the procession and hold an all-U.S. referendum before deciding on Ukraine's future fate. Please confirm.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-03-m0.u205	I'll bet you 2052. Please identify and vote. [[13:04:32]] For-83 The decision is not taken. 2053.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-03-m0.u206	Dear colleagues, I continue to ask you the questions that people have sent. The issue of the earth today concerns every Ukrainian. And there's no man from Lviv to Lugansk, from Donetskina to Harkov, who doesn't care today. That's why we insist, "The Opposition Platform for Life," that we can only deal with land issues after the U.S. referendum. And Olga Sergienko of the city of Kharkiv asks you this question. "The sale of land is contrary to the Constitution of Ukraine, where it is determined that the land and its navel belong to the people of Ukraine. Every nation survives only because it has its territory. It was her people who protected her without compromising her life. Our ancestors succeeded in making the earth his own. There's nothing other than a robbery that actually doesn't bring us this standard. Then, when we see destroyed and scattered on metal factories, an unwarranted robbery of the budget.".. Please place this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-03-m0.u207	I'll bet you 2053. Please identify and vote. [[13:06:02]] For-78 The decision is not taken. 2054, Royal.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-03-m0.u208	I want to continue with Mrs. Olga Sergienko of the city of Kharkiv. "The sale of land is contrary to the Constitution of Ukraine, where it is determined that the land, its nadra, belongs to the people of Ukraine. Every nation survives only because it has its territory and its people have protected it without harming its life. Our ancestors have achieved that the earth belongs to everyone, nothing but the plundering of the difference in fact does not bring us this standard. Then, when we see destroyed and scattered on metal factories, the unconscionable plunder of the budget, the fig leaf banning the sale of land to foreigners will not save us because there are legitimate persons. Thus, the sale of land means merely the continuation of the plundering of the Ukrainian people, in general and of each of us individually. A state that can't manage its established businesses doesn't need land." Ladies and gentlemen, this is people, people smarter than you, please don't do this.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-03-m0.u209	I'll bet you 2054. Please identify and vote. [[13:07:31]] For-78 The decision is not taken. 2055.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-03-m0.u210	Dear colleagues, I continue to ask you questions that concern every Ukrainian today. These are the questions people are asking, people are asking the MPs. Unfortunately, we can see that you're ignoring these answers. Not only are you not meeting the voters, you are not only refusing to hold an all-U.S. referendum, but you are also refusing to simply answer the simple questions of Ukrainian citizens who, like "The Opposition Platform for Life," are clearly opposed to selling Ukrainian land. And I'm asking you the question of Vadim Janitsky of Kharkiv. Question: "Why didn't the referendum take place? And will he be voting again?" Mr. Chairman of the Committee, why don't you give people an answer, why didn't you hold a referendum before the re-voting? What's the problem? Thank you. Please confirm.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-03-m0.u211	I'll bet you 2055. Please identify and vote. [[13:08:58]] For-81 The decision is not taken. 2056.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-03-m0.u212	Dear colleagues, I continue to ask you people questions, and if you don't want to answer them, at least listen to them. Perhaps each of you will return home, communicate with his family, and realize that you do not have the right to make that decision. The delegation, it will end so quickly, and you will remain citizens of Ukraine. And for that you will have to answer for the rest of your life. And people ask very simple questions. Galina Zorin asks you: "Those Ukrainians who have not received the land allocated in accordance with the Constitution of Ukraine, I demand compensation for money." People are very concerned today, why are you ignoring the right of people to have a pie of land today? What are you now able to sell their land for? Stop, please. Let's go to the U.K. referendum. If you'd like to confirm this, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-03-m0.u213	I bet 2056. Please identify and vote. [[13:10:22]] Z-77 The decision is not taken. 2057.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-03-m0.u214	My dear colleagues, unfortunately, have never heard your answer. But we're going to ask everyone, and we're going to ask you all the questions that people are asking us today about "ministers of the people." And here's the question of Natalie Gasenko, Zaporozhye city: "This Council is working against the interests of Ukraine. This is more than ever clear in considering amendments under the Law on the Earth. Plus this new Labour Code, a medical reform that they might cancel, but they don't want to cancel. They're not "ministers of the people," they're U.S. servants." This is a question asked by the commoner of our country, Zaporozhye Mrs. Natala Gasenko. Give an answer to what you are now imitating this bill, not making a decision, not going to an all-U.S. referendum, and not canceling the medi-reform. What's the problem? What can people ask you to do to help? Please place this amendment on confirmation.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-03-m0.u215	2057. Please identify and vote. [[13:11:50]] Z-77 The decision is not taken. 2058, Gnutenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-03-m0.u216	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman, for the opportunity to express your amendments. 49 constituency, Donetsk district, Gnatenko. I ask you to complete article 131 of the Ukrainian Code of Land, add a second part to the following wording: "Earthly areas of agricultural destination have the right to acquire ownership on the basis of other civil and legal agreements solely of Ukrainian citizens and legal persons, in accordance with the requirements of part one of article 130 of this Code, as well as of the territorial communities and the state." Please put this amendment to the vote and support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-03-m0.u217	I'll put it to a vote of 2058. Please identify and vote. [[13:12:58]] For-80 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. 2059, Gnutenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-03-m0.u218	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. I reiterate that "The Opposition Platform for Life" which once again insists on the adoption of this law only through a referendum. It is not clear that this law is adopted in such a way that it is anti-national and looting. Our country is oriented and always says that we go to Europe and are oriented towards European values. We keep saying that, but in Europe, for example, in Switzerland, the question of referendum is a simple step. Each year they hold three or four referendums on various issues. Thus, all the people of that State take collective decisions and responsibilities. Please put 2059 to the vote, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-03-m0.u219	I'll bet you 2059. Please identify and vote. [[13:14:14]] For-73 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. 2061.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-03-m0.u220	Yes, I'm going to continue with the question of the referendum, and it's important in our country if you're going to support this issue in a consistent manner. Edit 2060, if people take part in this process themselves, in the referendum process, this question will be collectively accepted. It will be the most democratic, and there will never be any complaints about Parliament in 10 or 20 years. So once again, we stress that only a referendum has the right to solve this issue. And I'm asking for the 2060, 2061, and 2062 to be put to the vote on the list.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-03-m0.u221	I'll bet you 2060 votes. Please identify and vote. [[13:15:20]] Z-77 The decision is not taken. 2061. Please identify and vote. [[13:15:37]] For-74. The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. 2062. Please identify and vote. [[13:15:55]] For-73 The decision is not taken. And 2063. Please identify and vote. [[13:16:12]] For-75 The decision is not taken. Chess. Don't insist. Yvchenko, 2070.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-03-m0.u222	Vadim Yvchenko, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear colleagues, I'd like you to take another look at this law. Once again, I want to draw attention to the words that the main points that will be constantly manipulated in this law are state land. Colleagues, two years ago, performing the minister's duties made an underestimated standard-of-money estimate of 20 percent. And it's with this understatement that we're going to go to auctions on the best country in Ukraine -- the Academy of Sciences, the State Enterprises and so on. This, colleagues, means that it will be the theft of these lands to Ukrainian citizens. Few, most of these lands will be plundered and also stolen through various corruption schemes. Because you've failed Niklaenka's ban on reselling. Colleagues, note the complex problems in the field of land. And let's see what adjustments we can still support. That's what we keep telling you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-03-m0.u223	I'm betting on the vote number 2070. Please identify and vote. [[13:17:51]] For-82 The decision is not taken. 2071, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-03-m0.u224	Vadim Yvchenko, "The Fatherland" faction. Colleagues, you're going around the regions. We had a job in the regions, each in our own district. On Facebook, one of the MPs was taken out of the hall, another carried, and the third shouted, "Damn" at different times. Whether it's a medical reform, whether it's a promising plan, or whether it's a land reform. Colleagues, is there a Parliament to sit down with you and find common points that are needed today in our context of the Land Market Act of Ukrainian Agriculture, Ukrainian Farmer, Ukrainian Farmer? How to protect them and make a real law one that will give them both the dominant right and the opportunities for development, and certainly there will be no decline in rural areas. We've made our amendments and we've shown in a comprehensive way what the reform of the Fatherland supports. Colleagues, let's understand, not just click "for" or "against" buttons. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-03-m0.u225	I'll bet you 2071. Please identify and vote. [[13:19:18]] For-89 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. 2072, Frolov. Don't insist. Dubnov, 2073. Krulko, 2074. Don't you insist? He insists.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-03-m0.u226	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. The Fatherland faction points out that any manipulation that is being done today is trying to do with Ukrainian land, not in favour of Ukraine's national interests. And as Fatherland and Julia Timoshenko have repeatedly stated that any sale of Ukrainian land is possible only through the results of the Ukrainian referendum to be held, and that would be fair to the people. At the same time, in order to protect Ukraine's national interests and Ukraine's land, with this amendment of 2074, I propose to supplement the paragraph so that Ukrainian citizens and legal persons from Ukraine alone have the opportunity to acquire Ukrainian land and thus not allow foreigners to claim to dismember Ukrainian land. Please support this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-03-m0.u227	I'm betting on a vote of 2074. Please identify and vote. [[13:20:53]] For-88 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. Slavic, 2076.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-03-m0.u228	Good afternoon! Slavic Antonina. "The opposition platform for life" first of all wants to highlight the constant position of our faction, which is that we are against the sale of agricultural land. We insist on holding an all-U.S. referendum on these issues. My proposal relates to the amendments to article 131 of the Ukrainian Code of Land. It contains such a technical nature. At the same time, I would like to highlight the imperfections of the committee’s editorial work. In particular, in the second section of Article 131 of the Code of Land, the Committee's editorial opinion is that land sales are made with respect to the vast right to purchase land. This institution is not revealed in the code, but some of the changes proposed by the project fall within the scope of its regulation, which will lead to the deregulation of the social relations concerned and indicate that the principle of the definition of the legal draft law is incorrect. I insist on voting.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-03-m0.u229	I'm betting on a vote of 2076, Slavicka. Please identify and vote. [[13:22:22]] For-84 The decision is not taken. 2077, Bondarev.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-03-m0.u230	The Fatherland faction, Constantine Bondarev. The Fatherland Party does not support any transformation of the land into a product. And the proposal to enter the land market looks very bad, because at this time, the war in Ukraine is actually the reality of our lives. We cannot sell land today, and we insist. And my proposal, and today we're looking at this amendment of mine, it really wants to show whether the Ukrainian people, whether it's really the voters, whether it's the deputies, the honest deputies working for the Ukrainian people, are against selling the land to the foreign oligarchs, whether they want the Ukrainian land to remain Ukrainian. Please support mine.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-03-m0.u231	I'll bet you 2077. Please identify and vote. [[13:23:53]] For-86 The decision is not taken. Vasiliev, 2078. Don't insist. Sphinx, 2079. Don't insist. Dunda. Don't insist. Petty Officer, 2081. Don't insist. Puzichuk, 2082.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-03-m0.u232	Good afternoon, Reverend Head, distinguished colleagues. The "Fatherland" faction insists that this bill be removed from consideration and against the market that is planned to be opened with this law. My amendment concerns the protection of the Ukrainian farmer. Mikola Tarasovich, please explain to you firsthand why you reject my amendment, which provides for the acquisition of land, to prohibit the acquisition of ownership of land to persons who have dual citizenship in order to avoid the concentration of land in the property of foreigners? Tell me, how does this bill protect the Ukrainian farmer? Guys, you have all the social media. Notice, the Twitter of the President of the United States of America, who says that the United States will provide assistance to its farmers. And how we help, protect, and protect this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-03-m0.u233	Thank you. I'm betting on a vote of 2082. Please identify and vote. [[13:25:41]] For-84 The decision is not taken. 2083.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-03-m0.u234	Dear citizens, note, the 2083 amendment. Not one amendment was accepted by a majority. If you look objectively, more than half of the members of the various factions, including members of the People's Party, have made amendments, but in principle no amendment is accepted. Dear citizens, have you not heard any constructive suggestions? In fact, all the proposals made by all factions to the MPs are aimed at protecting the Ukrainian land. They are aimed at protecting Ukrainian farmers. They're meant to prohibit access, any access to land. We also insist on holding an all-U.S. referendum. Mikola Tarasovich, give an argument. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-03-m0.u235	Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-03-m0.u236	Mr. Andrew, it's interesting that you mentioned the President of the United States Twitter, but you didn't get any further information on what this support was for. This support relates to trade wars in soybeans and corns with additional import duties from China and has no bearing on the ground. This is the first moment. The other one. Your rights as to what you've said have no bearing either, and as for dual citizenship, they don't have one either. These were other adjustments. Edits are rejected.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-03-m0.u237	Thank you. I'll put her to the vote. It's 2083. Please identify and vote. [[13:27:46]] For-80 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. 2084, Timothychuk. Don't insist. 2085, Cymbaluk. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-03-m0.u238	Mikhailo Cimbaluk, Fatherland. Dear Mr. Head, Your Honor, colleagues, the Fatherland faction has consistently stood up for its position that this bill should be removed from consideration. And the issue of the sale of Ukrainian agricultural land is to be determined by the Ukrainian people in a nationwide referendum. My amendment relates, and we discussed it with the committee head at the committee meeting, regarding the presentation of article 131 as follows: "The acquisition of ownership of land on the basis of other civil law agreements. And citizens, farmers and legal persons defined under article 130 of this Law, territorial communities and states have the right to acquire land on the basis of mines, rents, donations, inheritances." Please put this amendment to the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-03-m0.u239	Okay. I'll bet you 2085. Please identify and vote. [[13.29:19]] Z-85 The decision is not taken. Belkova, 2087.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-03-m0.u240	Dear colleagues, dear Mr. Solski! Twitter Trump and I read with Mr. Andrey. And I am very grateful that you explained the context of that tweet. But I disagree with you that this tweet has nothing to do with our discussion. The whole president of the world’s largest and most influential country had to respond to the problem of farmers. That's why our faction struggles so hard in its amendments to separate this category and at the first stage of the reform to remove other possible, important, land market players, but they have to come later. That's why President Trump didn't write about the general legal entities that we're trying to remove here, he wrote about a farmer who is the foundation of life in America in rural areas. And today, Ukrainian society is just as supportive of you as it is about farmers.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-03-m0.u241	Thank you. I'm putting this bill to a vote, 2087, Belkovy. Please identify and vote. [[13:30:51]] For-96 The decision is not taken. Vlasenko, 2080.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-03-m0.u242	Thank you, Mr. Head. And I want to point out, as we've talked about over and over and over and over and over and over and over and over again, the appearance of the bill of banks and legal persons, it's not even a stove, it's an open door, so we don't know who's actually controlling Ukrainian land. We are offered a substitute in the discussion. We're being talked about ownership of a legal person right now. But in terms of corporate governance, it's not always important. Much more important is who has a real impact on making decisions and who really makes decisions independent of who owns them. Sometimes this is the case, the owner and the one who makes the decision, but very often, it doesn't match. So the appearance in this bill of legal persons, as well as banks in other articles, not in this article, but in other articles, means that we will never know who really controls Ukrainian land, either Ukrainian or foreign. There will be a Ukrainian in the register, and a foreigner will be in control. So I'm going to ask you to support this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-03-m0.u243	I'll put 2088 to the vote. Please identify and vote. [[13:32:25]] Z-87 The decision is not taken. Heroshenko, 2090. Please turn on the microphone. Victoria Petrovna Sumar.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-03-m0.u244	Here many of my colleagues have already talked about the fact that in the course of our discussion, the number of people who would actually become adherents to this law, I'm not talking about the land market here, but this law, it's getting smaller and smaller, and that's clear sociology. And it's obvious that this is primarily caused by the fact that, in fact, the framework law does not provide key answers to the question of how rights and peasants and farmers and, above all, Ukrainians will be protected, of course. Our law applies to the right to acquire land on the basis of mines, rents, donations, inheritance of rights for the State, territorial communities and Ukrainian citizens in accordance with the requirements laid down in article 130 of the Code and the law. I can't understand one thing and I'd like to ask the committee head. And you've actually taken these changes partially into account, why don't you define that they're partially accounted for, and you're clearly writing that they're rejected? Is it such a political position to ignore any changes in this room?
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-03-m0.u245	I'm betting on the 2090 vote. Please identify and vote. [[13:34:06]] For-103 The decision is not taken. It's 2091, Puzanov. Don't insist. Papiev, 92. Don't insist. No, he's not here. Next up, Saucuk, 94. Don't insist. Hotcharyenko, 2095, Pottery Alexiyovich
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-03-m0.u246	He insists. Alexei Hotcharenko, faction of European Solidarity, north of Odščina. Dear friends, we accept, and the Servant of the People, and Zelensky promotes the Latin American Latino Latino model of the market, the so-called market of the land. In fact, it's a land market where Ukrainian peasants can only do one thing -- sell the last thing they have, their own land pie. I passed only five rights, only five, which predict that there would be a European model in Ukraine, an Eastern European model. It's a 500-acre limit in one hand, it's a restriction on selling to those who live in the community or in the community. The goal of these rights is to have a powerful middle class formed in Ukraine in the countryside, as is the case in European countries that feed themselves and the whole country, and to export. Instead, we're being driven by a terrible model in which people in the village will be completely redundant. I'm asking you to support my work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-03-m0.u247	I'll put her to a vote of 2095. Please identify and vote. [[13:35:55]] For-100 The decision is not taken. Cymbaluk, 2096.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-03-m0.u248	Mikhailo Cimbaluk, Fatherland. The honourable chairman, the honourable chairman of the committee, the ruling under 2096 refers precisely to the presentation of article 131 as follows: "Citizens of Ukraine, small (family) and medium-sized farms – the merger of owners with a view to agricultural production and processing, as well as the territorial communities and the state in the State Land Agency have the right to acquire ownership of land on the basis of mines, rents, donations, inheritances." We were just talking at a committee meeting about what is needed in the state of establishment of a national state agency that would have the right to buy land, land rations in all those who want to do so. It would allow the state to own and then rent. Please place my order.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-03-m0.u249	Thank you. I'll bet you 2096. Please identify and vote. [[13:37:27]] For-90 No decision taken, no correction counted. 2097, Ducky.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-03-m0.u250	Good afternoon, dear colleagues. Ducky, OPCW. The title of article 131 of the Ukrainian Code of Land is as follows: "Article 131. The right to ownership of land on the basis of other civil law agreements." In the first part of article 131 of the Ukrainian Code of Land, the words "created under Ukrainian legislation, as well as territorial communities" should be noted with the words "resident legal persons and local self-government authorities". Dear colleagues, the fact is that our faction constantly insists that all these issues can be considered only after a nationwide referendum. So, dear friends, I'd like us to understand why the "ministers of the people" are so concerned that the answers to these questions are provided by our Ukrainian people.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-03-m0.u251	I'm betting on the 2097 vote. Please identify and vote. [[13:38:58]] For-79 The decision is not taken. 2098, Ducky.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-03-m0.u252	Thank you. Your Honor, I'm addressing you now. Still, I'd like you to answer, and as much as I do, I'm addressing the committee head, please. Don't distract the committee head from work, please. Hello! Can you hear me there, sir? Because you talk to everyone except the one who asks you the questions. Please tell me, however, how much do you plan to receive from the sale of land, and in what time period? It's a question that's being asked by all the Ukrainian people today, even though you say it's not really a question. And that's essentially the question. Next. My 2098 amendment. Article 131 of the Ukrainian Code of Land, to complement the new part with the second sentence: "According to the laws and regulations of Ukraine and taking into account the requirements of this Code, agreements are concluded and certified." Thank you. Please answer my question.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-03-m0.u253	Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-03-m0.u254	The money for the land will be given to its owners. If you own it, you'll get it and you'll want to sell it. This is the first thing, yes, for general information. In a state land that is not the subject of this law but is the subject of bill 2194, adopted in this first - reading room, local communities will receive money. Edit rejected.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-03-m0.u255	I'm betting on a vote of 2098 Kaczny. Please identify and vote. [[13:40:58]] For-76 The decision is not taken. 2099, Ducky.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-03-m0.u256	Mikola Tarasovich! Mikola Tarasovich, I'm addressing you again. Mr. Head! Mr. Head, please put order around the rostrum. May I have a word with you?
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-03-m0.u257	Vadim Evgenovich, I'm sorry, my colleague's addressing the committee head, you just ripped it off, yeah.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-03-m0.u258	Yes, thank you. Mikola Tarasovich, i.e. I understand that your committee and the Ministry don't know how much taxes you're going to get from selling the land to the owner of the pies. Yes, I understand? So all you're going to do is help our hosts get money for these pies. Yes, I understand you, Mikolo Tarasovich?
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-03-m0.u259	Mikola Tarasovich, position of committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-03-m0.u260	See, there are valid rules relating to the taxation of land contracts. They're prescribed, they don't change that law. You can pick them up and look at them. They're different, they're different from the kind of tax that's currently going on hidden sales, long leases and emphysema. This is the first moment. The other one. There's no point in y. It's not the point in the calculation, it's the point of giving back the rights that belong to man, how much of them are sold by me or you're not predicting.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-03-m0.u261	Thank you. I'll bet you 2099. Please identify and vote. [[13:42:49]] Z-77 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. Caltz. 20. None. 20. 02. None. Princess, 2105. None. Is it? Yes, please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-03-m0.u262	Yes. Now, one minute. The amendment proposes that Article 131 of the Code of Land should be supplemented by the provision that a legal person may be the acquirer of a land only if there is a permit for transitional property rights and a land area issued by a public authority. This is due to the State’s having to ensure State control and control over the functioning of the earth’s market rather than replacing it with private notaries, as in this law, which does not have the authority, the resources, or the legal procedures. May I have your comment, please? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-03-m0.u263	I'm betting on the 2005 Princely vote. Please identify and vote. [[13:44:08]] For-94 The decision is not taken. 2106, Speedboat. Don't insist. Novinski, 2109 Don't insist. Magera, 2110.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-03-m0.u264	Thank you. Magera, 58th District, Mariupol City. My amendment concerns the right to acquire. the acquisition of the right of aliens to land. And I propose that the owners of land should be citizens who are registered as taxpayers in Ukraine, legal persons, final beneficiaries, who are solely Ukrainian citizens and registered as taxpayers in Ukraine. I don't understand why the committee didn't support this amendment. Because it does not deny the law itself, but it does make specific adjustments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-03-m0.u265	I'll bet you 2110. Please identify and vote. [[13:45:27]] For-86 The decision is not taken. Sobolev, 2111.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-03-m0.u266	Dear colleagues, my amendment concerns a very specific matter. Who is the subject of acquisition of property rights through mortgages and other civil law agreements? I'll give you one example. The richest nation in the world — the United States — this year owed more than $400 billion to American farmers. The key to this debt is the land. The State of the United States has adopted special decisions regarding the compulsory redemption of land by states, municipalities, and the direct state of the land to banks. You're getting us into this adventure that can't even go through the most powerful economy in the world. I don't have any banks. I demand that this be put to the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-03-m0.u267	I'm betting on a vote of 2111. Please identify and vote. [[13:46:50]] For 1052 The decision is not taken. 2112, Labazuk. Are you insisting? Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-03-m0.u268	Labazuk Sergey, Hmělniččina. My work is technical, but it's extremely important. This room discussed many questions about who has the right to own the land in Ukraine. And I think it's definitely only Ukrainian. In my opinion, we write that the clarifications to article 131, which determine the basis for the acquisition of ownership rights to land areas, are that they can acquire ownership rights exclusively by the legal persons of Ukraine, created under Ukrainian law, made up of the founders and participants who are exclusively citizens of Ukraine, the territorial communities and the state. Please support this revision.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-03-m0.u269	I'm betting on the 2112 vote. Please identify and vote. [[13:48:02]] For-92 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. Volintz, 2113. Don't insist. Double, 2114. Are you insisting? Double. None. Dear colleagues, let's not go back to the right. Next. Double. You don't? Mikhail Yakovich. Turn it on, please, Wolin. Next update of the Kachura, I'm warning you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-03-m0.u270	Dear colleagues, the Fatherland faction, Mikhailo Wolinitz. We insist that a referendum take place. We keep talking to Ukrainians all over the country, all over the region, and Ukrainians say, "Why didn't they ask us?".. Once again, I insist that my amendment be voted on.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-03-m0.u271	I'm putting her to a vote. I'd like to make up my mind. [[13:49:26]] For-92 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. Katchura, next line 2117. Don't insist. It's stuck. Don't insist. Paulie. Don't insist. Batenko. Don't insist. Kristenko. Don't insist. Demchenko. Pauline. Please turn on the microphone. 2125.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-03-m0.u272	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished Ukrainian people, "The Opposition Platform for Life", Yuri Pavlenko. Our political power is consistent in its position not to allow this law to be passed, to sell the Ukrainian land according to the standards that are offered to us, in our view, by a worthless legislative act. Unfortunately, last week, when we communicate with people, we must note that the situation in land matters has become even worse than it was before the beginning of the consideration of this law. We can say that, unfortunately, the state is still not ready to open up the land market under these rules that you are proposing. People don't. And this growth is only increasing. Therefore, our appeal to you. Let's stop this adventure. We'll hold a referendum, the more tomorrow we'll see an appropriate bill, create a ministry of agrarian politics, and then.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-03-m0.u273	I'll put it to a vote of 2125. Please identify and vote. [[13:51:27]] For-80 The decision is not taken. 2124, Germano Vasil Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-03-m0.u274	I'm a reporter and a colleague. I would like to say that, as provided in this article, the right to acquire property. Who made such an offer, tell us where 6 million of our people are on Donbassa and in Crimea. You're a political wreck here, these authors say it's our Crimea. If this is our Crimea, so are our people. And the Opposition Platform thinks so, and these people, their will must be taken into account. What are we doing today? They will be the object of the acquisition of this land. They will participate. That you're in the middle of a plague. It's not acceptable at all, it's bullying from the nation. You can't listen, you can't even consider this law. Dear colleagues, I'd like us to ask questions to stop, to stop them.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-03-m0.u275	I'm betting on the 2124 vote. Please identify and vote. [[13:52:57]] For-79 The decision is not taken. Kolyhayev, 2126 Don't insist. Kirilenko, 2127. Volodyna, 2128. Don't insist. Lubenets, 2130. Scram, 2131. I'm sorry. 2129, Royal.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-03-m0.u276	Dear Mr. Speaker, we ask that we pay more attention to the amendments made by the Ukrainian people's deputies. Because unfortunately, we don't have a full-scale professional discussion of this bill. "The opposition platform for life" insists that we stop this Sabbath and go to an all-U.S. referendum and ask people what to do with Ukrainian land. It's enough right now to distribute and sell Ukraine. It is enough to simulate a full decision on Ukraine’s future with regard to Ukrainian land. People expect us to join you in a united effort and leave, and we will hold an all - Ukrainian referendum. So "The Opposition Platform for Life" insists on its amendments and insists on holding a referendum. Please place an amendment for confirmation.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-03-m0.u277	I'm betting on the vote on this amendment. Please identify and vote. 2129. [[13:54:48]] For-75 The decision is not taken. Scram, 2131. None. Ivan Grigorovich, I asked you a question. 2127.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-03-m0.u278	Dear colleagues, this amendment removes the rule of land ownership by legal persons created under Ukrainian law. The formulation of "legal persons created under Ukrainian legislation" opens the way for foreign companies registered in Ukraine to acquire Ukrainian land. There's been a thousand "referendums" in this room. Not just for the earth’s market, but primarily for the earth’s market, if any, without the participation of foreign citizens. I ask you to put this amendment to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-03-m0.u279	I'll put her to the vote. Please identify and vote. [[13:56:00]] For-84 2133. Are you insisting on your right? Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-03-m0.u280	Dear colleagues, article 132 is proposed to complement part of the following content: "1-1. The transfer of ownership to agricultural land is not permitted on the basis of established, including notarized, prior contracts, trusts, entitlements to the use of foreign land for agricultural purposes. " The question of the famous emphyteusise. That is, it is proposed to prohibit the transfer of ownership to agricultural land on the basis of previous agreements, trusts, emphyteussis agreements. The change of owner to land under the stated contracts and trusts is a shadowy way of bypassing agricultural land that needs to be removed. Friends, raw law, cheese. And the shadow circle remains, and the aliens remain. What are we doing? Please put to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-03-m0.u281	I'm betting on the 2133 vote. Please identify and vote. [[13:57:19]] For-84 The decision is not taken. Yvchenko, 2134.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-03-m0.u282	Ladies and gentlemen, many times in this room have been fought against the shadow market of the earth. You know, a lot of contracts are signed between rations and renters or potential buyers in the shade, in the shadow sector. If we don't clear the shadow market today and we don't have the buyer and the seller, the buyer is the one who has the pie, the seller is the one who has the pie, and the buyer is the one who will buy, we'll never get rid of that shadow market. Today, some 4 million hectares have already been sold in the shadow sector. Colleagues, that's why we're fighting the shadow market and talking about the next. All previous contracts, all emphyteusise contracts, trusts and so on are worthless. Only the seller can come to the notary and sell his land. That's why our amendment is so that we can take this position into account.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-03-m0.u283	I'm betting on a vote of 2134. Please identify and vote. [[13:58:48]] Z-87 The decision is not taken. 2141, Bondarenko. Don't insist. Fries, 2144. Are you insisting? Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-03-m0.u284	Thank you, Mr. Head. Igor Fries, "Serial of the People," Affliction. Look, Mikola Tarasovich, we've been talking to you about this. It improves existing land legislation, which is bound by the fact that we're cleaning out the words "agreement" that we've already agreed to clean up a long time ago, and we're determining that the drafting is based on civil law agreements, and we're expanding the scope of these agreements. And I'm kind of surprised why we didn't take it up with the committee, this amendment. It is perfectly logical, normal, and would have had a place, and it would have settled those issues that were not regulated by valid land legislation. I'd like to put her to a vote, this amendment. And, in principle, if the committee were to be able to somehow resolve this issue, it would be grateful if we could do it in some way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-03-m0.u285	Thank you. I'll bet you 2144. Please identify and vote. [[14:00:09]] For 118 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed.
