ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-04-m0.u1	Good morning, dear fellows! Good morning, distinguished national MPs! Good morning, media officials, honourable invitees, government, distinguished guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine! I'm happy to welcome you. Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for registration. I'm reminding you that registration takes place by clicking on the green pros button. Ready? Dear national deputies and guests of the Supreme Council! In accordance with article 83 of the Constitution of Ukraine, the third session of the Supreme Council on the ninth occasion was announced openly. [[The National Hymn of Ukraine]] Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for registration. Is everyone ready to register? Ready? Please register. [[10:08:59]] There are 360 Ukrainian national deputies registered in the hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-04-m0.u2	Honourable National Deputies, distinguished guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, are invited to the floor by the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Dmitry Alexanderovich Razumkov.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-04-m0.u3	Good afternoon, once again, dear colleagues! I'm happy to welcome everyone in this room, and I'd like to wish both of you, and to tell you that, despite the fact that the second session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the Ninth Assembly was sometimes difficult enough, sometimes there were more than serious discussions in the Hall, sometimes they were even at the border -- that's also true, but nevertheless, the Supreme Council of the Ninth Assembly is working together, and it's not only the merit of the majority or individual factions -- it's the credit of the entire Supreme Council, every national deputy. I would like to remind you that we talk a lot and we have a lot of discussions about what's right and what's wrong. I often repeat that the one who does nothing is not making a mistake. And I think everyone in this room will agree. However, more than half of the bills that became laws during our second session took on the constitutional majority and were supported by more than 300 votes. This proves that we are doing a pretty good job. And you have people who work in regions and communicate with people, and I have the opportunity when I'm on work trips, talking to people, and they're all also saying that the Supreme Council is working for weeks now, not like it used to be for days. I want to thank you all for being able to do so much during our work in the last session. It's also a removal of the MP's immunity, it's also a return to responsibility for illegal wealth, and it's received in time. This, if I'm not mistaken, has not happened before, the MPs with experience may be correcting me, but this is not how the budget was accepted. He wasn't taken under a tree. We accepted it peacefully, on time, and hopefully we'll do the same in the future. We also cleaned up many schemes that included corruption. You remember a lot of so - called sites and other things that we have been able to clean up with you because of the truly shared work of the entire Supreme Council. I think this is just the beginning of our work. You and I still have a lot of things to do that we promised our constituents. And that's what all the factions were talking about, and at the time the parties were going to Parliament. This is also the struggle against buttoning. We've taken the first step, we've cleaned up this phenomenon partly because we've introduced criminal responsibility for it. However, we promised that people would lose their mandate if they did not do so in person. Unfortunately, there is a decision of the Constitutional Court today. However, I think this bill should be finalized. Still, we are like national deputies, and I, including myself, will insist that we live up to this promise that we have made to the people. And we're going back to a beautiful tradition that, unfortunately, was forgotten many years ago -- this is a plan for the legislative work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. We also adopted this law. Finally, we will be able to approach our responsibilities, which, I am sure, also affects the quality of the laws that we will adopt with you. I really hope that we can maintain that effective pace, but increase the quality of our work. And it's up to each of us, each of you. I thank you all and wish you a fruitful session!
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-04-m0.u4	Dear colleagues! I would like to thank the government in charge of the Prime Minister of Ukraine. Thank our colleagues for opening the session today. And continue our work on schedule. Dear colleagues, in accordance with article 25 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Regulations, we have 30 minutes Tuesday for the presentations of the authorized representatives of the MPs and groups with proposals, announcements and messages. Members of the MPs and groups are requested to sign up. Gorvat Robert Ivanovich. Kulinich Oleg Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-04-m0.u5	Good afternoon, dear Mr. Head, distinguished colleagues, distinguished voters! Today a new session of Parliament is beginning, and there are enormous expectations in Ukrainian society about the results of the Supreme Council’s work. First of all, people are waiting for the adoption of laws that can actually improve their standard of living. It's a salary, it's an opportunity to pay for utilities, it's a pension. But only an efficient state economy will enable these problems to be solved and these things will be provided. What do we have in our country today? In recent times, there has been a steady trend in industrial production. In the last month of last year, this trend has intensified. The decline in industrial production, for example, in October was 5 percent, in November was 7.5 percent, in December was 8 percent, and this applied to virtually all areas of economic development. For some, this figure is even 80 percent or more. Cities are closing down large industrial enterprises that are budget-generating, and this is a huge problem for both people and the economy of the state as a whole. According to various expert estimates, at least 5 million citizens have gone abroad. Understandably, people are looking for ways to feed their families because, unfortunately, they do not have such opportunities. With the loss of a large number of working lives, there is a catastrophic situation where 1 out of every 3 Ukrainians is a pensioner. And 70 percent of the pensioners in Ukraine receive a pension that is much lower than the subsistence minimum of 3,000, 200 dollars. At inflation levels over the last five years, 260 percent of the pension was indexed only 1.7 times. And so when some ministries or heads of some state-owned enterprises receive cloudy wages and cloudy bonuses, the pensioners ask a specific question about how they can live for 2,000 dollars, how can they pay for utilities? But you have to be honest and honest that only in the working economy in the state can you solve all these things. And so the main task of the government is to create the right conditions for both the Ukrainian business and the Ukrainian producer. And gradually, we have to get our economy out of the shadows so that working in black is just uncomfortable. So the Trust MP group is going to the government: soon we'd like to hear the government's economic bloc and understand where we're going, where we're going. We need to give a clear signal to business whether we have a strategy for development, an economic development of the state at all. And so in the near future, we'd like to hear exactly the economic block of government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-04-m0.u6	Thank you. Batenko Taras Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-04-m0.u7	Good afternoon, dear fellows! The parliamentary group "For the Future" joins those sincere greetings to all the MPs and the Ukrainian nation who are looking at parliament with the hope that, on the last day, laws will be passed that will facilitate the life and functioning of the Ukrainian community as a whole. Unfortunately, we don't see it yet, my friends. Ukraine is actually in what was historically called the Great Depression, which America experienced in the late '20s and early '30s. The great depression, when we continue to see a decline in industrial production, when we were only in January this year, currently fell short of the government budget of Ukraine, 13.8 billion dollars when our ordinary citizens received two gas payments in January: gas payments and transportation payments. When we have a price for gas for industry is lower by a thousand dollars than the price for gas for people. The price for industry was 4 thousand 700 in January, and for people 5,000 800 how could that be? Friends, who should be responsible for this? And that's got to be the government that can't give that advice today because it wants to let go of the gas issue and create free pricing in the gas market. And if we are tied to the Dutch hoods, and the state will not correct and regulate this issue, we are not sure that the price of gas will not increase. And I don't think that's the answer that ordinary citizens want to get in the face of wages and top officials' premiums both in government and in government companies that the Prime Minister of Ukraine has not yet responded to. We expect a specific answer from Parliament to these questions. And this Friday, at the request of the President, this was about to happen, and this issue was to be settled for the community. These changes to the Constitution that we will accept today are ambiguous, because there is a negative conclusion in most of them by the Constitutional Court of Ukraine. In fact, we're talking about narrowing down democracy and narrowing down Ukrainian parliamentaryism when we're recording a proportional system of elections and reducing the number of deputies in the Constitution of Ukraine, defining a proportional system of elections as the best of all. No one in the world has the best election system. Each election system is better during a different historical period of time. When we actually define 300 deputies by tying them to a particular number of voters, but this is less than in Poland than in the Czech Republic, we are reducing the competitiveness of our political parties. And I think we should listen to the Constitutional Court ruling that calls for a violation of the balance of power in Ukraine. The parliamentary group "For the Future" once again reminds us that there is a parliamentary-presidential form of government in the country, and let's stick to that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-04-m0.u8	Zbrodsky Mikhailo Vitaliovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-04-m0.u9	Thank you, Mr. Head. Arthur Gerasimov.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-04-m0.u10	Arthur Volodymyrovich Gerasimov.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-04-m0.u11	Dear Dmitry Alexanderovich, I take it that the "Serial of the People" factions are not interested in listening to the performances, because you look at the noise in the hall and what they're doing now. Just pay attention. That cancels it. Unlike the way the other performances were listened to. I call to you and to the leadership of the Servants of the People. Dear Mr. Head, distinguished colleagues, respected Ukrainians! At the end of last week, U.S. Secretary of State Mike Pompeo visited Ukraine. In tight terms, an American high-ranking officer, in his own example, explained to the President of Greens the inadmissibility of politics, "what difference does it make?"and in a busy schedule he found time to honor the memory of the fallen in the east of Ukraine's defenders, and to meet wounded soldiers at the hospital, and to communicate with the Metropolitan P.C.U. Epiphany, all of which lacks time for the acting President. Next. "European Solidarity" expects a clear answer regarding Ms. Venedikt's call to the profile committee due to the aberration and violation of the law at the D.B.R., particularly through the appointment of lawyer Yanuković as the first deputy director of the bureau. This is another serious signal about the collapse of democracy and the transformation of Ukraine into a totalitarian state. We stress in particular the urgent review of Decree 2649 on the creation of TSCs to investigate the fact that Office of Greens is involved in the work of law enforcement agencies, such as the DBR. Next. "European Solidarity" concerns Banking's plans to hold local elections at Donbas in October. This is evident from the statement made by Greensky’s surroundings. There are no prerequisites for local elections in the ORDLO. The Russian occupying forces remain in positions, and almost every day our soldiers are killed. To run an election under such conditions is with the hands of Donbas' ghost on the scenario of the so-called Crimean referendum of the 14th year under the barrels of Russian machine guns. "European Solidarity" strongly opposes that. We and you had the power to revoke the Decentralization Act, which they hid inside the federalization, the Steinmayer formula, and centralization instead of decentralization. International and national experts have recognized decentralization as one of Peter Poroshenko’s most successful reforms. Our team gave the community financial independence by increasing local budgets at times 10 times. Instead, Zelenski is taking money from the community and encouraging Ukrainians to form an authoritarian regime with excessive powers from the President. And finally, we're drawing your attention to the real threat to national security that the "Slut" bill conceals about citizenship. The initial changes, read this law, open up wide opportunities to get Ukraine's passport by the citizens of the aggressor country. The bill also poses a real threat to the visa-free regime with the European Union. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-04-m0.u12	Wasilenko Lesia Volodymyrna. Vakarczuk Svetoslav Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-04-m0.u13	Good morning, dear fellows! I want each and every one of you to remember the ones that made us here today. I have here the face of the heroes of the Celestial 100, of whom I would like to speak today, the Heroes of the Celestial 100, who gave their lives for Ukraine to become a European state. They went out to Midan to rule the law and justice in Ukraine. Already in February, we will celebrate the sixth anniversary of the Dignity Revolution. But then justice in the country still needs to be pursued. And it is very sad that this justice is not seen by the family of the Heroes of the Heavenly Hundreds. Twenty family members of the dead, not waiting for justice and judgment regarding the killing of their children, think of 20 family members. He died a hero’s son, Igor Tkakouk, who was 23 years old before his father was sentenced to death. Fifteen mothers died, awaiting the sentences of the murderers of their children. You can imagine, going to the courts for years, seeing your family's killers, and realizing that, after loud statements, no one is going to fight for justice. In some cases, so far, six years later, the preparatory sessions of the courts did not even begin. Not only has the situation changed with the coming of the new government, but it has worsened. The transfer to the D.B.I. was a scandal and ended only after the Voice and some other parties intervened. Maydan's case is in danger again. After we passed the D.B.I. Reload Law, it didn't get any better. The deputy director of the D.B.I. is appointed to think about it! – Janukovic's lawyer, a man who has no moral or political right, was put in charge of the investigation. It's an injustice, it's a violation of the law and a mistreatment of the mother's grief. We need to work together to get our ex-colleague in Parliament, head of the current D.B.I., acting as head of the D.B.R., to release Janukov's lawyer, Mr. Babikov, and appoint an independent person to a transparent competition. There is another thing that we are obliged to do as national electorates: we must recognize Maidan as a historic event by an official decision of Parliament. It is Russian media and Ukrainian - run propagandists who are trying to tell old stories about the civil conflict in Ukraine. These stories need to be stopped, we need to be unanimous in our view of Maidan. I thank all the leaders of the pro-Ukrainian parties, the factions who signed the Maidan Recognition Order. I call on the Supreme Council this week to vote on this decision and to put a dot on what mayan means to Ukraine. That's important, too.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-04-m0.u14	Thank you, thank you. Vadim Zinović Rabinovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-04-m0.u15	Dear Government, do you mind if we arrange our affairs there? Dear Ukraine, yesterday an epochal event took place: Ukraine, after all, struck its main enemy -- parliamentaryism and democracy. The Supreme Council Hall had already been banned from making posters, loudspeakers, and the Council’s guards were allowed to keep the national deputies from missing. From now on, the Council is under guard. I remember the dragon laws of Yanukovich and I wonder what kind of democracy he was and how far the young generation had moved. Janukovic in Rostov is probably sitting there thinking, "What if that was the case?".. I'll give you some advice, dear friends, "green" dear friends, don't be shy. Why would you do that? In order to sell the land of Ukraine, you can move your slave code to work that cancels two mandatory weekends, while pregnant women can simply be thrown into the street. So that you can get a country in peace so that you can go back to where you are, and we'll stay here, face-to-face with the trouble, with this misery. And that's why, according to the media and misinformation bill, you're getting the media, so that people don't need to know the bitter truth. Make him laugh better, then sell out his dogs and cats, or pay for nothing else. But there is good news. In Ivano-Frankivsk, another veteran of the SS division "Galicin" Mikhail Mulik was buried. The funerals were public. The mayor of the city, the Fascist people, it's all set. They promised to open a memorial. Not only are you being robbed but you are also fully legalized by fascists and fascists. There's trouble in our house! We need to stand up for the protection of Ukrainian land. Fascism didn't go away in 45 years and it won't go away! The end of fascism alone. Praise be to Ukraine, who will end fascism.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-04-m0.u16	Timishenko Julia Volodymyrna.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-04-m0.u17	Dear colleagues, it's a shame that now, well, representatives of the people of Ukraine can't be in this room. Because, in fact, no one in this room really cares what the MPs say, the leaders of the factions in the rostrum. It's about the government's party, where they're solving their lobbying issues right now in the hall, not moving away from the register. There are virtually no two-thirds of the people's deputies, there's a bazaar-vocsal in the hall, at a time when the country has chosen a diametrically incorrect strategy of life. Yesterday we tried to talk about it with the Prime Minister and his ministers, about the fact that we can't sell ports today, airports, we can't sell land, we can't pass a labor law that they want to adopt right now, about work. We wanted to talk about the decline in production since March, and for the first time in the history of Ukraine, I emphasize that almost 25 percent of the budget failed since January and the failed budget in 2019. Borgy, you know that yesterday at 8:00 a.m., there are no more miners coming out of the ground on the mine. They stayed there because 1 billion 600 million dollars owed to miners and more than 3 billion owed to everyone who works in the economy of Ukraine today. The country is going to total ruin. Herson and Mikolai ports are devoted to foreign corporations forever. Our Lviv airport, which doesn't need any investment and investment, is profitable, it's now in concession, it's in privatisation. What are we doing with the country?Oh, my God! And so I want to say that the hope that this government, this President, will change course to the right council of Ukraine and people, there is no such hope. And now we have to fight. On Wednesday or Thursday, they put in short - term adoptions throughout the Sales Law. They want to break all regulatory bases and in 40 minutes decide on the full sale of agricultural land to Ukraine, as well as forests, watersheds, reserves, and so forth. The locusts just came to Ukraine and we have to stop them! I want to go to the country now. Wednesday and Thursday are two key days when they want to give away the Ukrainian land completely. I appeal to all men of goodwill: Go up to battle! Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-04-m0.u18	Raducci Mikhailo Borisovich, "Slut of the People" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-04-m0.u19	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues! Every February 4 is marked by the World Cancer Day. The goal of this day worldwide is to raise public awareness of cancer as one of the most terrible diseases of the present and the need for timely diagnosis and treatment. Regrettably, Ukraine has second place in Europe at the rate of the spread of cancer. During the past 10 years alone, the number of cancers in our country has increased by 25 percent. Each year more than 140,000 new cases are reported in adults and thousands in children. Today, there are 1 million people in Ukraine who suffer from malignant neoplasms, nearly 6,000 of whom are children. Fragile neoplasms take second place in the structure of the Ukrainian population's mortality. The motto of World Cancer Day 2019-2021 is: "I am and will be." And our task is to draw the attention of the general public to the fight against cancer and to call for concerned politicians to treat cancer as one of the political priorities. It is generally known that almost 50 percent of cancers could be prevented by following basic standards of healthy behavior and timely diagnosis. As head of the Committee on National Health, Medical Care, and Medical Insurance, I ask you, dear colleagues, not to take sides in the world’s fight against this horrendous disease. By the way, on February 12th, the National Health, Health and Health Insurance Committee initiated parliamentary hearings on "Organization of the anti-missile fight in Ukraine. Problems and ways to solve them." We invite all concerned to join us. And one more thing. I urge Parliament to adopt, develop and adopt a state programme for 10-15 years after the fight against cancer in Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-04-m0.u20	Thank you. Dear colleagues, all those who wish to speak. So let's get to the point. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the day-to-day issues. Please invite the national deputies to the hall. You are invited to consider the draft Order on the Order of the Day of the Third Session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the Ninth Call. Dear colleagues, a statement has been made from two factions with a replacement for the performance. Aresonkov Vladimir Yuriovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-04-m0.u21	Good afternoon, dear fellows! Vladimir Aresonkov, trust MP. I'm stressing-- the MP group. But I would like to remind everyone who knows the Rules, who does not know the current Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine: the MPs act and function on the rights of the MPs, having the same rights. The head of the Supreme Council, and we fully supported his thesis that the first session was a success, or third, including respect for the thought and rights of all, beginning with small parliamentary groups and factions, ending with great, this unity of thought, unity in decision-making, mutual respect, tolerance. I want to remind you of such simple democratic beautiful words and sentences, they have to work. So, right now, specifically on the subject raised by the MP's "Trust." Representatives of our group (thyre) are still not represented in a number of committees of the Supreme Council. The Committee on Rules, MP ethics, would like you to consider your meeting and determine how to bring together our colleagues ’ active committees, to work effectively and to carry out their duties. The same applies to the representation of the "Trust" MP in our representation in the Parliamentary Council of Europe, the PARJE Group. We got the answer from the Committee on Foreign Affairs, which is that it's already a formed delegation, that it's kind of a permanent body, and it's a closed topic. No, dear colleagues, given that the "Trust" MP group was formed later, the state of affairs today requires that our representatives be represented in all active bodies, which is consistent with the legislation in force. And to the end. I'm talking to the committee I was talking about. Until then, an interparliamentary group of relations with the Republic of Belarus had not started. If anyone thinks it's secondary and irrelevant, I personally don't think so. The questions of mutual relations, the setting up of economic, political, and other matters with our neighbors are of great importance.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-04-m0.u22	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the day-to-day issues. Dear colleagues, you have been invited to consider the draft Order on the Order of the Day of the Third Session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the Ninth Call. In order to establish an agreed agenda, 226 votes in favour of Ukraine’s national deputies are required. Please take your seats, prepare for the vote. Dear colleagues, I am voting on the proposal to adopt the entire draft Order on the Order of the Day of the Third Session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the Ninth Call. Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[10:42:39]] For 246 Decision taken. Thank you. Show me the factions, please. The People's Servant Party – 211, "The Opposition Platform – For Life" – 1, "European Solidarity" – 0, "The Fatherhood" – 0, "For the Future" – 15, "The Voice" – 13, "The Trust" – 0, "The Trust" – 6. Thank you. The procedure is Arthur Volodymyrovich Gerasimov.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-04-m0.u23	Mr. Chairman, Your Honor, I understand that under the Rules you may not discuss this matter. However, given the importance of the order of the day session, which includes the bill of factions, and more specifically, the bill of opposition factions, such as the bill of tax on capital output, is not included. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-04-m0.u24	Dear colleagues, first of all, we discussed on the Conciliation Council. And the second question. I would like to stress once again that we are now working, and I think that this week we will get a plan for the legislative work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the ninth call, where these questions will be reflected as well. Thank you. Let's get down to business. Dear colleagues, you have been invited to consider the draft Order on the Liberation of Babak Alona Valeriyivna from the post of Minister for the Development of the Communities and Territories of Ukraine (registration No. 2767). It is suggested that this issue be considered in a simplified manner. Please support and vote. [[10:44:47]] For 239. Decision taken. Dear colleagues, a word for the report. The report is given to Prime Minister of Ukraine Honcaruk Oleksija Valeriyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-04-m0.u25	Comrades, welcome to the start of the new session! I think the last session was very productive, thank you for it. We've done a lot of cool, right things. I now propose to you to consider the draft Decision. I want to explain the situation a little bit. Our respectable colleague, Alon Valérievna Babak, expressed her desire to do so, wrote an application for her release from office. But obviously this year the question of decentralization is one of the key to all of us, we all understand that perfectly. So at the same time, I'd like to introduce you, if I may.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-04-m0.u26	Alexei Valeriyovich, this is the next question.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-04-m0.u27	Next question, okay. Then I would like to thank Alona Valeriyovni for her work, and I would like to support her for the hard work that Alona Valeriyevna has done over the four months.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-04-m0.u28	Thank you, Alexei Valeriovich. Thank you, Alexei Valeriyovich. Thank you. Mikhailo Mikolaiovich, we are in the process of dealing with the issue, after we have completed the procedure. [[B in m in s a l in]] Sergei Volodymyrovich! Sergei Volodymyrovich! Alona Valerievna will also have the word to speak. Now the committee head is supposed to be all under the Rules, you know the Rules better than I do. The committee head will report now. For the purpose of the report, the word is given to the head of the Committee on Public Authority, Local Self - Government, Regional Development, and the construction of Kloczko Andriyovitch.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-04-m0.u29	Good afternoon, distinguished colleagues, distinguished national MPs! At the request of the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the Committee on the Organization of State Authority, Local Self-Government, Regional Development and Urban Development considered, at its meeting on 17 January 2020, the submission of the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the release of Babak Alona Valerian from the post of Minister for the Development of the Communities and Territories of Ukraine, submitted for consideration by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on 16 January 2020. The Committee notes that the introduction of such submission by the Prime Minister of Ukraine is in line with paragraph 2 of the first part of article 18 of the Ukrainian Act on the Cabinet of Ministers. At the same time, the Supreme Council of Ukraine, on the basis of paragraph 12 of the first part of article 85 of the Constitution of Ukraine, has to consider the application and may decide to release a member of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine from office. After a comprehensive discussion of the issue, the Committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, in accordance with article 85, paragraph 12, of the Constitution of Ukraine, that Babak Alona Valériyov be released from office as Minister for the Development of the Communities and Territories of Ukraine, by adopting the draft Decision No. 2767 as a whole. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-04-m0.u30	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the speech is given by Babak Aloni Valeriyovni, the minister of community development and territory.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-04-m0.u31	Thank you to the Ukrainian Parliament for giving me the confidence to serve the people of Ukraine as Ukraine's first minister of community and territory development. I sincerely thank the President of Ukraine, the Prime Minister of Ukraine, my colleagues for their professional and effective cooperation. But I asked that word to tell those people that I would call today "the villains" in the building sphere who confused it like a rod, and I think they'd like to be very happy on my bones after this release: it's not going to work! It's not going to work because what started by this government, the Ministry of Community Development, the President's Office for Combating Corruption in Construction, in the area of architectural and building control, has started and has no way back. The law enforcement agencies that, in direct submission to the President of Ukraine, have launched a systematic fight against those who are today trying to resolve the situation through different clans, both in the President's Office and in the government, and are speculating about it. The law enforcement authorities see that they are now trying to liberate people in the DABI through well - founded organizations. I call the basics of today's Handicap Social Organizations like "Stop Swavill," "Citizen Truth," through people who today in the DABI system continue to work and write locks in order to leave the sphere of influence. I want to point out that all of you are being followed today. They are properly followed by those in other clans today who threaten individuals through gangs.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-04-m0.u32	Thank you. Give me 10 seconds to finish Alona Valerian.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-04-m0.u33	So they don't go to work. I also want to say to those who started the fight with me personally in the press because of the cancellation of the permit in Wilshan, Gogolovsky, and these people will soon start building near the Palace of Ukraine, at John Frank: the Chinese friends will not stand.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-04-m0.u34	Thank you. Alona Valeriyevna! 10 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-04-m0.u35	So, your honor, just because I'm leaving this post doesn't mean the President stopped fighting you. The whole system is running. Fear, you will have no place in the building industry!
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-04-m0.u36	Thank you, Alona Valerievna. Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss this matter? [[B in m in s a l in]] Please sign up: two in, two in. Majjkovich Mikola Romanovich. Alexeiovich Honcharenko
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-04-m0.u37	Alexei Hotcharenko, European Solidarity, north of Restoration. Dear friends, what do we see with you? We see that government is changing frames, ministers are changing. But why? We never heard the answer. Why did Mrs. Alona file a statement? We don't get it! She just said she's struggling with the building mafia. So it turns out that the building mafia forced Prime Minister Goncharuk to get a statement from Mrs. Alona and bring this question here to the session room? Because how does it work? A man fights the Mafia, and he gets picked up by a prime minister from the government? So, the Prime Minister for the Mafia, then? Mrs. Alona, name your names. You've named what addresses, where all the sneezes are. Not everyone knows every address. Names! You know, in that movie, "Name, sister, name!" We want to hear who these people are, who are this mob, who want to abuse the state, build parks, build squares, destroy our cities. We want to hear the names. And I'm not surprised that you're being released right now, because I think you, Mrs. Alona, are one of the few really professional government officials and I treat you with great respect. So what's going on? When we were told that government would be strengthened, what did they mean? They're going to take away a few professional people and people who want to fight the Mafia, and they're going to leave only the pros, the fats, the emptiness in the head and the fog? What kind of government would that be in our country? And I don't get it, I don't get it. Our faction did not vote in favour of this Cabinet of Ministers, but we will not now vote for the release of a man whose fault it has begun to fight the Mafia. Here's Zelensky's real truth, his team: they're behind the mafia and they're destroying those who fight the Mafia.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-04-m0.u38	Okay. Thank you. Vlasenko Sergei Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-04-m0.u39	Dear colleagues, you know, I've known Mrs. Alona Babak a long time ago at work in the previous Parliament. He is a completely decent, professional, and honest person. And you know, Mrs. Alona, I'm now referring to your former leader of the Oleg Beresuk faction, who said he was often affected by cognitive dissonance, which is the separation of personality. I have a split personality right now, too. You have, in fact, declared a crime against you from the Supreme Council’s rostrum that you are being harassed. Well, you're struggling with corruption that in this area that you've been in control of, you've been subjected to violent corruption, instead of supporting this room, the Prime Minister is filing a report on your release, and they're assigning another person to your place. Well, first of all, I'm going from this rostrum to the head of the State Bureau of Investigation, the head of the National Anti-Corruption Bureau, to consider the speech of Minister Alona Babak as a crime statement and to figure out what's going on there, who's threatening her, who's affecting the work of the minister, who's influencing the Prime Minister's work on this issue. You know, we're a faction of opposition, the Fatherland faction is a faction of opposition, we're not going to vote in favour of the liberation of Babak, but I call on everyone who has the honour and conscience in the "Serve of the People" faction not to vote in favour of the liberation of a man who, she says, has continued to initiate and continue reforms in this area? What's she getting fired for? She spoke, sorry, Mrs. Alona did not say why she was leaving the post. The Prime Minister didn't say that. We don't understand what's going on in your cabin. That's why I'm calling the "Serial of the People" faction: don't support this submission! Let's leave the minister, give her a deadline to report on her work, hear her fight in the DABI, and then we'll make a decision. I'm asking her to keep her in position. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-04-m0.u40	Nestor Ivanovich Šufrich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-04-m0.u41	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman, Your Honor. Welcome to the beginning of the third session of the Supreme Council of the Ninth Assembly. And unfortunately, we're starting our work with a rather unseemly unpleasant thing like resignation, probably the only professional in your government. You know, with Mrs. Alona, I'm a political opponent. She represented in the Supreme Council of Ukraine the faction with which we opposed from the first to the last day. But in matters relating to public services, when we raised tariff issues, when we raised the issue of the fair distribution of national resources, I want to say that Mrs. Alona was opposed to positions including her faction, if that was the interests of Ukrainian citizens. And this is an example of responsibility, expertise and professionalism. When the government was appointed, I took the responsibility to say that the only professional in this government except for Habakkuk, who remained with the previous government, was Mrs. Babak. And I think that her principle position, her insubordination to certain processes, was the cause of today's action that Ze-command will only disgrace. So stop and leave the only responsible professional in this government. And if not, it's a disgrace! Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-04-m0.u42	Lozinski Roman Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-04-m0.u43	Dear colleagues, what's going on right now? As soon as the minister in Parliament, in these walls, clearly says that she works under pressure. It is clear that, including her words, the motive for this release, or the claim, may be external pressure. And if Parliament and Kabin can't now hear the answer to what it is, can't hear the name, can't hear the facts, it can't be called internal pressure. This is a fiction that's happening. And I want to remind you what happened on the committee that reviewed this resignation. Unfortunately, we didn't have a chance to hear it, we just went through it formally, and for tomorrow at our next committee meeting, tomorrow we have to look again and listen to the Minister for the reasons for this resignation. We cannot view human resources as important, strategically important, especially in government, in such a format. We can't work, release or assign people just as formality and engage in such fictions. I want to thank the Minister for her work, because the work has been done and done both in the context of decentralization and in the context of fighting the building mafia. And if Parliament now decides to release a minister without listening to specific reasons, facts and reasons for such a release, then it remains only a fiction, and so Parliament cannot work. The Voice faction did not vote in favour of this government, and the Voice faction would not vote in favour of Mrs. Alona Valeriyovna Babak. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-04-m0.u44	Thank you. Batenko Taras Ivanovich, MP for the Future, with motives.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-04-m0.u45	Dear colleagues, former vocational deputies are well acquainted with Mrs. Alona Babak, and we want to celebrate her principles, professionalism and integrity. And I'm more than convinced that these things are, unfortunately, not exactly compatible that she's shown today with her government work. Because today the system eats up such professional ministers as we think is Mrs. Alona Babak, who dared to fight the viewers, and we see that the age of "watchers" did not fall into flight. It has been in existence for decades and has continued to flourish. That's why I think we've recently changed the D.B.I., passed the new Law on the State Bureau of Investigation, and let's give a commission to the State Bureau of Investigation on the fact that Minister Alona Babak's statement is clear and put the "watchers" at risk. Our "For the Future" MP group will hold on to this issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-04-m0.u46	Thank you. Bacon. Out of place, right, microphone? Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-04-m0.u47	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs, colleagues! Paul the Bacon. As if I were also born and got out of a beautiful large family, a political party called Self-Help, and repeatedly Mr. Oleg Barresuk claimed that Self-Help was growing quality, good, honest people. One of them is Minister Alona Babak. She's actually a professional, honest, decent, quality minister who always hears, hears, and will probably hear us, deputy majors. Today she claims pressure on her, today she claims to fight corruption. And the shame of the system that wants to set her free, because that's going to be the end of fighting corruption in this particular area. Thank you. Our group will hold.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-04-m0.u48	Thank you. Dear colleagues, have you all spoken? Please invite the national deputies to the hall. Dear colleagues, I'll give you one more minute, please, Minister. However, if you please, a few words. The first is not resignation, it's a statement of your own. This is not to say that we are expressing some mistrust to a competent minister, a respected colleague. Let's not manipulate either. Come on. Please, Alona Valerievna. Please turn on the microphone for two minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-04-m0.u49	Your Honor, this statement was written by me at my own request. Because that's what's necessary and important right now. This is my personal decision. I'm asking you not to speculate on that. Which means the system wants me. Is that where he's pushing me? I'm not being pressured by the system. Because the system of law enforcement now protects me, it's not a problem. All the facts that I've just heard are now under consideration by the relevant authorities, with all the necessary documents and statements made by people under direct pressure. All of this is going to be a law enforcement system being evaluated. I can't say now what there are no closed decisions yet. So I ask that you pay attention to my will and let me go with God. I'm asking you very much to do this. And I said that today the President is personally in control of this whole system. And because of the law enforcement agencies, they're studying all of the things that I've partially heard, but I haven't heard everything yet, and that's all in the study right now. So, Your Honor, please stop the speculation and let me go free. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-04-m0.u50	Thank you. Dear colleagues. No, there were speeches. Mikhailo Mikolaiovich, no. Dear colleagues, let's go to the vote. Please prepare for the vote. I bet the vote on the proposal for a draft decision as a whole: Order to release Babak Alona Valeriyivni from office of the Minister for the Development of the Communities and Territories of Ukraine (registration number 2767). Please prepare for the vote. Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[11:06:19]] For 266 Decision taken. Thank you, Alona Valerievna. Show me the factions, please. Dear colleagues, let's move on to the next issue of the agenda. Dear colleagues, you have been invited to consider the draft Decision on the appointment of Mr. Schmigal Denis Anatoliyovich, Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister for the Development of the Communities and Territories of Ukraine (Registration No. 2768). Dear colleagues, it is suggested that this issue be considered in a simplified manner. Please support and vote. [[11:07:20]] For 262 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, a word for the report is given to Prime Minister of Ukraine Honcharuk Oleksija Valeriyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-04-m0.u51	Your Honor, the work is continuing. I want to thank Alona Valerian again for that job. As she said, the fight against corruption will not stop, and it will become stronger, stronger, and stronger every day. The focus of this ministry is now on the issue of decentralization. In five months, we worked very closely with the heads of the district government, and there were many tasks. And in carrying out these tasks, Schmigal Denis Anatoliyovich appeared to be the best among the heads of the district administrations. Please, this man. I now propose to you to appoint the Deputy Prime Minister, Minister of Community Development. Why? It's very simple. Because this person really understands how the region works, he's a great manager. The focus of the ministry's work now shifts to priorities this year: decentralization, namely the creation of capable communities. The reform of the construction sector will not be followed. The work carried out by Alona Valeriyevna and the government team in general, which foresees: the introduction of a method of design, the creation of a system of individual responsibility of architects, the creation of a system of strategic planning of territories, all of which will be continued, it is already at the conceptual level, and individual projects are already running, such as the DABI Window. All these projects supported by Denis Anatoliyovich, supported by a well-known colleague of Michael Fedorov, who is responsible for the digital transformation of the country, will continue and will not necessarily diminish their effectiveness. Today I ask you to support the new man in our government. I'm sure he'll seriously strengthen our joint team. Thank you for your confidence. Please support Dennis Anatolyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-04-m0.u52	Thank you, Alexei Valeriovich. The word for the report is given to the head of the Committee on Public Authority, Local Self - Government, Regional Development, and the construction of Kloczko Andriyovitch.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-04-m0.u53	Honorary Heads, Honorary National Deputies of Ukraine, as instructed by the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, discussed at its meeting on 17 January 2020 the submission by the Prime Minister of Ukraine of the appointment of Mr. Schmigal Denis Anatoliyovich, Vice-Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister for the Development of the Communities and Territories of Ukraine, submitted for consideration by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on 16 January 2020. The Committee notes that the introduction of such a submission by the Prime Minister of Ukraine corresponds to paragraph 12 of the first part of article 85 of the Constitution of Ukraine. Part four of article 114 of the Constitution of Ukraine. At the same time, the Supreme Council of Ukraine, on the basis of paragraph 12 of the first part of article 85 of the Constitution of Ukraine, has to consider the application and may decide on the appointment of the proposed candidate for office of the Ministers of Ukraine. Following a comprehensive discussion of the issue, the Committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, in accordance with article 85, paragraph 12, of the Constitution, that Smigal Denis Anatoliyovich be appointed Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Minister for the Development of the Communities and Territories of Ukraine, by adopting the entire draft Decree (registration No. 2768). Please be supportive. Dennis Anatolyevich was on the committee, speaking. There are no comments. And I'm sure that this man will continue his public affairs and hold this position with dignity. Thank you all.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-04-m0.u54	Thank you. The speech is given to Šmigal Denis Anatoliovich. It takes two minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-04-m0.u55	Good afternoon, Mr. Head of the Supreme Council, Mr. Prime Minister of Ukraine, distinguished national deputies, distinguished cabinet members, distinguished Ukrainians! Thank you for your confidence. It is a great honor and a great responsibility to take up such an office. Of course, reforms and movement will continue. There is confidence from the President, from the Cabinet of Ministers, from the people of Ukraine. So the key priorities, the key priorities of the Ministry of Regional Development and the Cabinet of Ministers, which have already been launched and are now in such an active movement, are the reform of the construction sector, the reform of the housing and utility sector, and the key social high priority is the reform of the administrative and territorial system of Ukraine, which requires a great social dialogue and the completion of this year, will continue, will move forward. I am pleased and honoured to join the Cabinet of Ministers under the leadership of Alexi Hotcharuk. Thank you for trusting the President. Thank the people of Ukraine. Thank you. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-04-m0.u56	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we need to talk, do I understand? Please register by faction: two in favour, two in opposition. Labunsky Angela Victorian. Angela Viktorovna Labunska.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-04-m0.u57	Vlasenko. Please pass the word to Sergei Vlasenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-04-m0.u58	Sergei Volodymyrovich Vlasenko. Huh?
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-04-m0.u59	Dear colleagues, the cognitive dissonance in Parliament continues. The Prime Minister has just made a statement, saying, "The previous minister is a young man, so she's reformed, she's done everything right and well, but we're releasing her." Well, logical, logical statement absolutely, there's no problem here. Perhaps Mr. Prime Minister makes a logical statement. Because, as he himself says, he's a proponent in the economy, I think he's a proponent both in logic and in jurisprudence. At the same time, I don't know the distinguished Mr. Candidate completely. I don't know how professional he is. But I wanted to hear from Mr. Candidate what he was going to do. Because the general phrase "for all the good, for all the bad" is always heard from this rostrum by representatives of the executive branch. Instead, I would like to hear concrete steps and specific priorities in the work of this two - way ministry. I'd like to pay attention to another point that probably doesn't get a lot of attention. This is the first candidate to run for Vice Prime Minister. So it's a continuation of the apes of the former government. So let's be honest that this government doesn't do anything new, that it continues to do everything that the previous government and the previous previous government have done. That this President continues to do what the previous President did. There has been no change in the political strategy in the state. And this authority continues with the wrong strategy of the previous government, nothing has changed. Because as the opposition faction of Fatherland won't support this candidate, he won't vote for it. And we urge all other opposition factions not to vote for it. Because several opposition factions said they would not vote for it, but it was revealed on the board that they had supported it and it was by their voices that Alona Babak was taken. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-04-m0.u60	Thank you. Batenko Taras Ivanovich
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-04-m0.u61	Dear friends, taking advantage of the opportunity to be present in this Chamber of Prime Minister of Ukraine, we would like to remind you that the President of Ukraine has given the Prime Minister a mandate by February 4th to visit gas payments in heat, the first, after reforming the ministries, is the second. And in general, for the dragon's wages that top officials and individual ministers have. So the fourth number today, Mr. Prime Minister, is an appropriate opportunity for you to tell Parliament as a higher legislature about this. That's the first one. The other one. We know each other personally, and we know Mr. Dennis Schmigal well as a professional. I believe that this is the right increase for the category of completion of administrative reform. We hope that, with its direction, the administrative reform will be well continued and completed, that none of the small towns, villages, OTG - united territorial communities will be followed and, on the contrary, greater protection of the local communities. I would like to ask the future Prime Minister of Ukraine to turn to an institution such as the Energy Efficiency Fund, which has a budget of 4 billion dollars, and to help small towns to receive adequate funding for the warming of their homes. Because if we put this money on the big city monsters, and the small cities don't wait, I think it's going to be a big negative to keep us in touch with the potential of our small cities. I think it's a worthy candidate, and we can support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-04-m0.u62	Pippa. Password? Lozinski Roman Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-04-m0.u63	Dear colleagues, we are now starting the third session of our vocation, the ninth vocation of the work of the Supreme Council. And we all have to understand that one of the key priorities throughout the call and this session should be to complete the reform of local self-government and finally to effectively complete the entire decentralization process that was in the country. The Voice Group welcomes the fact that the government's priorities now include the completion of local self-government reform and the effective completion of decentralization. Obviously, the vice-premier status will help and be useful in this case, so this part of this assignment and this decision we absolutely support. The Voice faction didn't vote in favour of this government, we don't join the coalition, we won't vote in favour of the Voice faction either. But we understand the importance of ending the reform of local self - government. So in spite of factional ownership, in spite of any faction debate, we will work with the newly appointed minister, Vice Prime Minister. We will be all the forces of our faction and all the opposition factions to influence that we have a debate on decentralization, that all the communities that have constructive proposals should be taken into account and reflected in the new Law on the Administrative Territorial System. The forward-looking plans are to be changed and clearly established in order to comply with all the consultations that are under way. And it is obvious that this curse, as amended by the Constitution on decentralization, must be resolved during this session. The Voice faction hopes that the minister and the whole of Kabmin will be here as a platform for discussion so there won't be any cases like last month. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-04-m0.u64	Coltunovich Alexander Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-04-m0.u65	Coltunovich, "The Opposition Platform for Life." Well, given the appointment of a minister to such an important office that applies without excluding all regions of Ukraine, we need to pay attention to very important things. First, and most important, the Programme, which was approved and voted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine, envisioned such interesting moments as overcoming regional differentiation. What are we talking about? In one region, the average wage is 12,000, and in another, 8, the leveling of these figures was defined as a priority for this Cabinet of Ministers. I haven't seen in a year or six months the results of this activity. Another very important point is the question of tariff policy. We know that there are regions where the heating tariff is, for example, 38.55 per square meter, in others it's much higher, sometimes it's more than one-and-a-half times. That can't be! Another very important point is about employment. We see internal labour migration, which also needs to be overcome, and that's the problem with regional economic policy. Now for housing and utilities and construction issues. We know that we have a large number of residential properties in an emergency, and transportation infrastructure is also critical. But most importantly, more than 80 percent of the plumbing is in critical condition. This means that the Ministry of Profiles should offer appropriate sectoral regional programs to deal with these consequences. And another very important point: to stimulate the economic development of the regions. There should be priority areas for the development of regions, and then we will see, not primitive fiscal decentralization, but real economic growth in the regions, rather than the fact that we are now seeing lower revenues from local budgets and inter-budget transfers in Ukraine's 2020 budget. Thank you. Our faction will not vote in favour of the decree.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-04-m0.u66	Thank you, Alexander Sergiyovich. Dear colleagues, let's go to the vote. All those who wish to speak? Please take your seats, prepare for the vote. I am voting on the proposal for adoption of the entire draft Decree (Registration No. 2768) on the appointment of Mr. Schmigal Denis Anatoliyovich, Vice-Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister for the Development of the Communities and Territories of Ukraine. Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[11:23:38]] For 278 Decision taken. Show me the factions, please. Honourable National Deputies, in accordance with article 10 of the Ukrainian Law on the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, a person appointed as a member of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine shall, on the day of his appointment, serve at the plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Denis Anatoliyovich Schmigal, Vice Prime Minister of Ukraine - Minister for the Development of Communities and Territories, is invited to make an oath on the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-04-m0.u67	An oath made by a member of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine "I, Schmigal Denis Anatoliyovich, "aware of the high responsibility of a member of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, solemnly swear allegiance to the Ukrainian people. I commit myself to upholding the Constitution of Ukraine and the laws of Ukraine, strengthening Ukraine's sovereignty and independence, upholding human and civil rights and freedoms, ensuring the well-being of the Ukrainian people, the continued democratic development of society." On February 4, 2020, I place a personal signature in the presence of the national MPs.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-04-m0.u68	Thank you. Dear Deputy Prime Minister, congratulations! Have a fruitful, successful job! Thank you. Dear colleagues, let's move on to the next issue of the agenda. Ladies and gentlemen, your consideration is about the preliminary approval of the bill (registration No. 1017) to amend articles 76 and 77 of the Constitution of Ukraine (to reduce the constitutional composition of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and to consolidate the proportional electoral system). According to article 149 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the issue of prior approval of the draft amendment to the Constitution of Ukraine is being considered in full discussion. The report is given to the deputy head of the Committee on Legal Policy, Olga Volodymyrni Sougiri.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-04-m0.u69	Dear colleagues, in accordance with part five of article 44 of the Ukrainian Law on Committees of the Supreme Council, the Committee on Legal Policy has reviewed at its meeting on 13 January 2020 (Protocol No. 18) as an urgent draft of the Act amending articles 76 and 77 of the Constitution of Ukraine (to reduce the constitutional composition of the Supreme Council and to consolidate the proportional electoral system) (registration No. 1017 (since 29 August 2019) and the conclusion of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine of 16 December 2019, number 8-in/2019, and established the following. The purpose of the proposed amendments is to reform individual aspects of Parliament's status with a view to optimizing the general principles of the status of the single legislature. The proposed legislative initiative aims to amend articles 76 and 77 of the Constitution. By a decree of the Supreme Council of September 3, 2019, the bill was incorporated into the agenda of the High Council of the Ninth Call and sent to the Constitutional Court to reach a conclusion on compliance with the requirements of articles 157 and 158. In its conclusion of 16 December 2019, the 8th in/2019 Constitutional Court declared the bill to be in conformity with the requirements of articles 157, 158 of the Constitution. Taking into account the provisions of article 155 of the Constitution, the Committee on Legal Policy decided to review its conclusion of 18 December 2019 and to recommend to the Supreme Council, on a re-examination basis, that the President's draft Law on Amendments to Articles 76, 77 of the Constitution of Ukraine should be approved in advance. A panellist on this subject identified the deputy chairman of the committee, Sughir O.V. Add the appropriate materials and please consider.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-04-m0.u70	Thank you, Olga Volodymyrically. Dear colleagues, will there be questions for the rapporteur? Please sign up. We have three minutes to follow the Rules. Please, I give the floor to national deputy Vlasenek Sergey Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-04-m0.u71	Dear Mrs. Sougir, you have so vividly told us what is the correct conclusion of the Constitutional Court, but the Constitutional Court’s conclusion contains direct and firm warnings, and then, according to the procedure, this bill should be passed on to the committee. And in fact, the profile committee made that decision. The only thing I think is that, under political pressure, the committee suddenly reconsidered and brought this bill to the sessional Hall of the Supreme Council. I have a simple question. Why do you do the right thing in the wrong and illegal way, allowing it then to be brought before the Constitutional Court, which, with a great deal of probability, will have to decide on the apparent violation of the procedure when considering this bill to amend the Constitution? And why do we send the Constitutional Court's conclusion on the nation's legislative initiative to the committee, and this conclusion is referred to the Supreme Council for consideration? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-04-m0.u72	Dear Sergey Volodymyrovich, first of all, the right of the committee to review its previous decision is provided for in part five of article 44 of the Supreme Council Committees Act, and you know that very well. Secondly, we come from the fact that a comprehensive list of the powers of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine as defined in this document is called the Constitution of Ukraine. There is no authority here for the Constitutional Court to make a warning. Here is the exclusive mandate of the Constitutional Court to determine the conformity of the bills with the requirements of articles 157, 158 of the Constitution. According to the conclusion. I'll be done in a second.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-04-m0.u73	Yes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-04-m0.u74	According to the Constitutional Court of Ukraine, the bill meets the requirements of articles 157, 158 of the Constitution.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-04-m0.u75	Thank you. The word is given to the national deputy of Osadchuk Andri Petrovich, the faction of the political party "Golos".
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-04-m0.u76	Please pass the word to Oleg Makarov.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-04-m0.u77	Oleg Makarov.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-04-m0.u78	Dear Olga Volodymyr, you've just shown everyone the Constitution, but I'm showing you the answer. And there's a law called the Supreme Council Regulation. The Rules, articles 149 and 150, clearly state what the Supreme Council should do if the Supreme Court made a warning. The Supreme Constitutional Court, I'm sorry, has given a warning. In this case, the five warnings given in the decision of the Constitutional Court were considered by the committee. The committee reached a decision, reached a conclusion in accordance with articles 149 and 50. What changed after that? Why did you make a proposal on the committee to cancel the committee's legal decision, to make an illegal decision on further work and your report today? What's the reason? What is the reason, say, procedurally, procedurally, and in fact, what is the reason for the abandonment of the law? Breakdown.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-04-m0.u79	Dear Oleg Anatoliyovich, first of all, the committee's decision has not been overturned, but has been reviewed. That's two different reasons. That's the first one. Other than that. You've shown that there's a first article in the Rules that determines that the organization of the work of the Supreme Council is defined by this booklet in the first place, which is called the Constitution of Ukraine. And it says here, I repeat, that the Constitutional Court of Ukraine has no right to make a warning. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-04-m0.u80	Thank you. I invite you to the words of National Deputy Coltunovich Alexander Sergiyovich, the faction of the political party "The Opposition Platform for Life".
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-04-m0.u81	Please pass the word to Germany, Vasil Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-04-m0.u82	Please, Germano Vasil Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-04-m0.u83	Germano Vasil Ivanovich, "The Opposition Platform for Life". Mr. Reporter, we have stopped at this, and I would like you to give an answer on why you ignore the position of the 149th and 150th Rules, which obliges you to consider the warnings of the Constitutional Court. And that was the committee's decision. On what grounds did you, in fact, go about confusing the concept and taking an unreasonable decision by the committee on the introduction of a bill rather than the adoption of a decree to amend and supplement the bill? You realize that this will come about in the future and may be a matter of review and revision of the subject.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-04-m0.u84	Dear Vasil Ivanovich, I repeat, paragraph 3 of the first part of article 150 of the Constitution of Ukraine clearly states that the mandate of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine is fully determined by the Constitution of Ukraine. The Constitutional Court therefore concludes that the bill amending the Constitution of Ukraine is compatible with the requirements of articles 157 and 158, which the Constitutional Court did. We have a positive conclusion from the Constitutional Court: The bill meets the requirements of articles 157-158.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-04-m0.u85	Thank you, Olga Volodymyrna. Please take your seat. The National Deputy of Ukraine, Representative of the President of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine Fedir Volodymyrovich Venislavski, is invited to attend. Please, Fedor Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-04-m0.u86	Honorable Presidium, distinguished national MPs! Today you and I have a preliminary approval of the bill under registration number 1017 amending articles 76 and 77 of the Constitution of Ukraine. And it has been repeated in this room, the Constitutional Court of Ukraine, in full compliance with its mandate, has concluded that the bill proposed by the President of Ukraine meets the requirements of articles 157 and 158 of the Constitution of Ukraine. Everything else referred to in the Constitutional Court's conclusion is its legal position, which the Supreme Council of Ukraine, as the sole body of legislative authority, as the only body that has the right to consider and approve or not to approve a bill amending the Constitution of Ukraine, may count, may not count. The Committee of the Supreme Council of Legal Policy recommended that the Supreme Council of Ukraine consider the bill. I would like to draw the attention of all the Ukrainian people's deputies to the moment that many of the political forces represented in the Ukrainian Parliament today, when they go to the elections, have declared their intentions to reduce the number of Ukrainian people's deputies. Many political forces have criticised Ukraine's major-proportional mixed electoral system right in the majority component. Because, according to election practice, the majority component of the electoral system is the most corruptive, and it is because of the fact of the mass bribery of the electorate that individual candidates have very often become deputies. Today, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to remind you that our Parliament has adopted the Electoral Code, which has already established a proportional electoral system. So there can't be a return to the majority element without amending the Electoral Code. But in order to prevent any temptation in the future to question the effectiveness or inefficiency of the very proportional electoral system, President Vladimir Zelenski of Ukraine, as the subject of the legislative initiative's right to fully comply with his constitutional powers, has introduced a bill to Parliament, which is also fortifying what we are looking at today, and which establishes on a constitutional level a proportional type of electoral system. Consolidation of a proportional type of electoral system at the level of the Constitution will make it impossible for any future intentions of any political force to return with a view to political relevance to the majority component. And you and I know very well the history of Ukrainian parliamentaryism and the history of the repeated change in the type of electoral system through legislative regulation. When the overpowered political power realizes that there is not enough voter votes to obtain a majority in Parliament, the administrative resource and the intervention of the majority element to then obtain the necessary majority in Parliament begin. So today, my fellow countrymen, we have a unique situation with you, a unique example when the President of Ukraine, who has an unprecedented level of trust in society, the Ukrainian Parliament, in which most belong to the political party, which owes much of its success to the President of Ukraine, is trying to make an impossible revision in the future of electoral legislation and the return to the majority component. That is why I call on all the Ukrainian people's deputies to advance this bill in order to guarantee us against the impossibility of returning to the negative practices that have taken place in the previous history of Ukrainian parliamentaryism. With regard to the reduction of the number of national deputies to 300, it is also, as I have said, repeatedly stated by various political forces, and, more than that, it is possible to refer differently to the entire Ukrainian referendum on the People's Initiative on April 16, 2000, but the people of Ukraine have said their word that they want to see 300 national MPs in Parliament. And so by adopting this law, we are actually implementing the will of the Ukrainian people, which was expressed in a free universal referendum and which no one has questioned today. With regard to the legal positions of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine in this opinion on the bill that we are considering today at registration number 1017, I would like to point out that President Volodymyr Zelenski of Ukraine, in August 2019, issued a constitutional decree. formed by the Commission on Legal Reform. And of course, this committee is working well, different subgroups, including a subgroup of constitutional reform, systematically conducts its meetings. The purpose of the commission’s work is to make systematic changes to the Constitution of Ukraine, which are designed to improve the quality of the text of our Basic Law. And there is no doubt that the position of the President of Ukraine, the position of the Legal Reform Commission, is that the warnings that our political opponents are talking about, which is essentially the legal position of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine, but which have some legal basis, will be taken into account in the future draft of the Basic Law. I would like to point out that one point in the legal position of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine is that the reduction in the number of Ukrainian national deputies should be brought in proportion to the number of subjects, to the number of Ukrainian national deputies who are the subjects of the appeal to the Constitutional Court of Ukraine. The President of Ukraine agrees that the number of national deputies who have the right to initiate a constitutional application to the Constitutional Court should be reduced. And in the future process of updating the Basic Law, these positions will be reflected. With regard to other warnings, I would like once again to draw the attention of the country's distinguished national deputies to the moment that the Constitutional Court of Ukraine said that Bill No. 1017 met the requirements of articles 157 and 158 of the Constitution of Ukraine. The Ukrainian Parliament should be guided by the Constitution of Ukraine, which is, moreover, the rules of direct action. And Parliament has a positive conclusion from the Constitutional Court of Ukraine that the bill complies with the requirements of articles 157 and 158 of the Constitution of Ukraine to approve the bill beforehand. So I'm asking all the national MPs to support this bill in advance. And I would like to remind you that we need 226 votes and more votes from the national MPs for our previous support. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-04-m0.u87	Thank you, Fedor Vladimirovich. Honorable National MPs. Excuse me, is there a question for Fedor Volodymyrovich? Please sign in. Three minutes. I invite National Deputy Bilkovo Olga Valentinovna, faction of the political party "The All-Ukrainian Union of the Fatherland". Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-04-m0.u88	Dear colleagues, please pass the word to Master Sergei.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-04-m0.u89	Vlasenko Sergei Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-04-m0.u90	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. Dear Mr. President of the Constitutional Court! I have a very simple question. Today we are looking at a series of changes to the Constitution that are based on the findings of the Constitutional Court. In particular, in addition to the conclusion that the Supreme Council's constitutional composition has been reduced and that a proportional electoral system has been put in place, we will consider changes to the Constitution on the legislative initiative of the people. There is also the positive conclusion of the COP of 157-158, but there is a warning. And you legally sent this bill through the procedure provided for in article 150. Why does the cognitive dissonance, the separation of personality, continue in the Supreme Council Hall? That's exactly the same conclusion -- you're telling me right now that it needs to be approved. And the other way to think about it is you're saying you have to go through a different procedure. Why so?
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-04-m0.u91	Thank you for your question, Your Honor Sergey Volodymyrovich. But I would like to remind you that it is you who are a member of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Legal Policy, who have given appropriate recommendations to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The committee's decision is taken by a majority if the committee considers it appropriate to recommend that the Supreme Council of Ukraine should adopt decisions in this way, that is the committee's right. And the right of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the right of national deputies to listen to the Committee's conclusions or to adopt other decisions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-04-m0.u92	Thank you, Fedor Volodymyrovich. I invite you to the words of National Deputy Knazevitch Ruslan Petrovich, faction of the political party "European Solidarity".
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-04-m0.u93	Thank you, Your Honor. Feder Volodymyrovich, I'm also a member of the Legal Policy Committee. And I voted against it on the committee, like Deputy Vlasenko, and the MP Makarov, and no national MPs. We just haven't figured out the motive yet. Because we have, indeed, the identical conclusions of the Constitutional Court, and the right decisions of the committee to continue working on the relevant bills, which were due in December 2019, but in early January 20th, one of the bills was somehow considered appropriate for the committee to review. We asked the committee a question, and the reporter said that since the political position and other political will on the bill had changed, it should be reviewed. And the 1015 position hasn't changed, and there's no other political will. Therefore, it must be left as provided for in the Law of the Rules. Please tell me, what is the point of this political will? Whose political will is this? And why is it so selective? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-04-m0.u94	Thank you for asking. I would like to point out once again that the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine recommended that the bill be considered. The findings of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine are positive, and there are no obstacles in the Supreme Council of Ukraine in terms of the constitutional procedure for considering a bill amending the Constitution of Ukraine in order to consider this bill and to approve it in advance at this time. With regard to the political component, of course, Ukrainian citizens want 300 national deputies to be present in Parliament. And Ukrainian citizens want a proportional electoral system to work on a permanent basis. That is why the president of Ukraine, Zelenski, introduced this bill to Parliament. That is why I call on all Ukrainian national deputies to support the President's position, to support the committee's position and to vote in favour of this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-04-m0.u95	Thank you, Fedor Volodymyrovich. Please take your place. Dear colleagues, we are moving on to a discussion from the MP factions and groups. I'm going to ask you to sign up for the statements by members of the MP factions and groups. I invite you to the words of national deputy Šufrich Nestor Ivanovich, faction of the political party "The Opposition Platform for Life".
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-04-m0.u96	Vasil Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-04-m0.u97	Please, Germano Vasil Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-04-m0.u98	Dear colleagues! Germano Vasil Ivanovich, "The Opposition Platform for Life". I wanted to focus on the fact that once again, the Supreme Council Hall found itself in the turbulence of the adoption of laws, more of which had to do with the amendment of the Constitution. Say, please, find an example that we can essentially change our Constitution in four months on the subject of its operation. The second question. I would like to add to the fact that the reporter here has declared the President's will, that this will should be based on law and procedures, not on political relevance. I want to inform you that the Opposition Platform is to reduce the number of national MPs. And I'm informing my young colleagues that if in the 2000s the issue was raised by our political power and there was a referendum on the need for 300 people's deputies, and so to refer to these circumstances, to the Opposition Platform for pursuing some goal, it's unethical, and it's illegal, and it's immoral. The second question. If we're talking about changes to the Constitution, I'd like to bring my colleagues back here from the Legal Policy Committee who think that the decisions of the Constitutional Court do not have essentially legal power. Read who the Constitutional Court is. It does not protect the rights and freedoms of citizens; it guarantees the rule of the Constitution, the rule of law. And if it was stated in the decision that, more faithfully, the Constitutional Court that there is a warning to this bill, there must be problems. And they are. First, look, we've fallen out of 76 articles on the principles of elections -- that's the fundamental foundation of democracy. The other one. See why the Constitutional Court is wrong by making a warning about what, and what about what you added in the article.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-04-m0.u99	Thank you, Vasil Ivanovich. The word is given to Sofia’s national deputy Romanovna Fedini. Please. Alexei Hotcharenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-04-m0.u100	Alexei Hotcharenko, European Solidarity, Clothing. Dear friends, you and I are now discussing an extremely important issue -- the change in the Constitution of the State. Once again: change of the Constitution of the State is the Basic Law of our State. What are we offered? We're offered, let's reduce the number of national MPs, because people support it. So it's not 450, it's 300. Why? Because that'll save you money, and in general, fewer deputies -- it'll be better. Dear friends, that's the way it is. Why 300? I suggest that we move on: the right number that the Servant of the People is going to offer is 95 to be the 95th Quarter here in the room, to fully match the number of deputies, the essence of what's going on here, and the reality is equal to what's going on here. Maybe it's not the number of deputies, it's the quality. Maybe the problem is, among the deputies of the "Serve of the People" is the person who raped a minor? And Zelensky promised us that this man would not be in parliament, they would take the mandate. Show me the Parliament, where is 300, or 500 people in the room being raped by a minor? And in the Ukrainian Parliament, please. And you brought him here, "the servants of the people" and Zelensky. In our parliament, an MP who proposes to sell a dog for gas in our parliament is an MP who proposes to film girls directly from the Supreme Council session hall. And all of this we have from one faction, this faction called "Serial of the People." You've all been brought here by Zelensky! And now they're telling us, let's reduce by 300! If you really want to cut the state's spending on this body, where you've now established rapists, dogsejlers and other boys, please support my bill to reduce salaries for the people's deputies. I passed the bill, the average pay per country. Come on, back up! And now we're going to cut costs. Now! Not once, for the next Parliament, but here and today, we're going to cut spending on the Supreme Council. Why don't you say that the Constitutional Court objected to that bill that you filed, that the Committee on Legal Policy initially supported those objections, and then. By his decision, and then he was tilted, as always, from Bank -- and he voted again that "no, no, no, no, no, we don't see any objections"? There's no Parliamentarianism in Ukraine, you've turned Parliament into a notary office that prints everything that Sharikov carries from Bank. Whatever you're carrying, you're stamping. In that case, we don't need 300, and maybe 95 isn't necessary. And you need one person, one who's just going to put a seal on all of Zelensky's decisions: whether it's smart or maybe it's Yusik -- I don't know who you're going to pick there. There's only one person in this Parliament. So it's a populist bill, do the quality of your deputies, get rid of the rapists, get order.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-04-m0.u101	I'd like to invite you to the floor of the People's Deputy of Bakuña Pavel Andriyovich, the "Trust" MP. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-04-m0.u102	Dear Chairman. Honorable National Deputies, reverend Ukrainian people! Paul Bakunec, Jovkovsky, Yavorovsky district, MP group "Trust". Dear colleagues, when it comes to the Constitution, especially the changes to the Basic Law, it is very responsible. Our Ukraine was also celebrated by the Constitution of Philip the Eagle in 1710. Our Ukraine is also celebrated by this 96th Constitution as one of the most democratic. And throughout independence, the Constitution, the Basic Law, has been amended six times. Today, there are as many as five bills in the agenda of the ninth session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to amend the Basic Law of our country, including the draft Act amending articles 76 and 77 of the Constitution of Ukraine (to reduce the constitutional composition of the Supreme Council). I said less deputies, less expenses to keep the Supreme Council. In fact, all the countries of Europe, which have fewer populations, have more national MPs in their parliaments. Yes, there are 460 deputies in neighboring Poland and 100 in the Senate in Poland. Why do these developed countries not reduce the number of people in their parliaments? This is because the reduction in the number of deputies will mean, first of all, that the average citizen will be one-and-a-half more difficult to reach out to his protégé in Parliament. After the number of national MPs has been reduced, it will be more difficult for people without large funds or without the support of the authorities to get through to this main parliament of our country. Also, the decline in the number of deputies and the quality work of our committees will deteriorate. I would like to stress that if we reduce the number of national MPs, we will thus limit our people's ability to address their representative in Parliament. Therefore, the Trust MP group, which consists of majors from Lviv, from Carpathians and all the way to Luhansk, does not support these changes in the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-04-m0.u103	Dear colleagues, I give the floor to National Deputy Bondar Viktor Vasilovich, MP for the Future. Excuse me. Taras Ivanovich Batenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-04-m0.u104	You know, friends, one of the classics said that democracy is the worst form of government, if not everyone else, is Winston Churchill. Democracy is the best form of government, and that's why we in the Constitution have prescribed that we are a social, legal, democratic country. But no political law has proved which electoral system is the best. The Ukrainian state changed the electoral system three times in history: we had a majority, we had a proportion, we had a mix. Now we're back in proportion to what appears to be open lists. We adopted the Electoral Code just a few weeks ago. Now we want to change it, this Electoral Code, because we understand that there are a lot of technical inaccuracies, and we realize that it's so complicated, that no one's figured it out. I have a question: why do we rewrite the imperfections of any electoral system into the Constitution, into the body of Ukraine's higher law? Let's try the proportional system: whether it actually works as open lists, or whether it's closed lists, or whether it's effective in terms of citizen representation, and we're reducing citizens' representation by reducing the Supreme Council of Ukraine to 300. Therefore, these changes to the Constitution do not withstand criticism. And I wouldn't say, I would warn people to approach it with humor. Such serious things cannot be approached with such an aplomb, humor. I think it's very serious. In fact, we're breaking up contact, direct contact with the electorate. And today, by adopting such changes into the Constitution, we are making political competition worse. I more than think that citizens want any result that will effectively reflect on the representation of their interests so that they can reach out to a specific deputy of the Supreme Council. What's going on in the hall today? There's been manipulation and political play with the voters when we're told about 300 deputies. Let's lower the utility and lower wages to top officials, and we'll be responsible for representing the interests of the communities rather than the populist sentiments that are today in individual factions and groups in this room. Thank you. Our parliamentary group does not vote for changes to the Constitution in this regard.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-04-m0.u105	Thank you, Taras Ivanovich. Dear colleagues, 12:00. I'm calling it a 30-minute break. We're starting our work at 12:30. Please don't be late.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-04-m0.u106	Dear colleagues, we continue our work. Vasilchenko Galina Ivanovna You don't? Okay. Let's go to. Is it? Is Vasilchenko in the hall? [[B in m in s a l in]] Is it? Where? Oh, there is. Yeah, who's gonna do the show? Makarov? Dear colleagues! Oleg Anatolyevich, let's figure out what time is coming.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-04-m0.u107	Dear colleagues, I would like to continue the discussion on these two books. During today’s discussion, we were repeatedly presented with the Constitution and were reminded that the Constitution was to be implemented, including when deciding to change the Constitution. I want to say that the mandate of the Constitutional Court is clearly stated in the Constitution, as is the mandate of the Supreme Council, the President of Ukraine and the National Deputies. No article in the Constitution states that the National Deputy of the Supreme Council in the Constitutional Court, as well as the National Vice-President of the President in the Constitutional Court, has the right to interpret the Constitution, has the right to interpret the decisions of the Constitutional Court. There's not a word in the Constitution about that. On the other hand, there's another booklet that's just as important as reading, called the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Regulation, which clearly states how the Supreme Council works. Chapter 26, in particular article 150, clearly states that if the Constitutional Court concludes that a bill amending the Constitution as a whole or a separate provision of the Constitution is recognized as not meeting the requirements of articles 147, 158 of the Constitution, and if the Constitutional Court concludes that there is a warning about the provision of such a bill, the Supreme Council shall decide on the issue of further work on the bill and determine: the deadline for submission of proposals by the relevant subjects, the right to the bill, and beyond. What happened? The Committee of the Supreme Council on Legal Policy met at its meeting and agreed, acting under article 150. After that, without explanation, on January 13, the committee revoked or revoked its decision and made a new decision. What's the reason? Let us take a look at the substance of the warnings made by the Constitutional Court. In particular, the Constitutional Court indicated that the text of the Constitution in part of the election of the national deputies was missing the phrase that elections were held on the basis of a general, equal, direct election right by secret ballot. Why did this happen, colleagues? Such a provision is found in articles that regulate the election of the President, the election of local governments. Why is this thesis missing from the Supreme Council election? Similarly, the Constitutional Court has pointed to many mistakes, indecisiveness, disagreements that need to be resolved by the Supreme Council. Hopefully we'll do that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-04-m0.u108	Vlasenko Sergei Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-04-m0.u109	Thank you, thank you, Mr. Head. First thing I'd like to say. That the Motherland Party has always ideologically supported the transition to a proportional electoral system. We voted in favour of this many, many times both in the previous Parliament and in the previous Parliamentary Assembly. This is our political position. And we went to the polls with this political position. But, fellow believers, you cannot do the right thing in the wrong way. Because, in fact, the devil is in detail and the devil is in procedures. In fact, the celebration of cognitive dissonance in the Supreme Council continues. I have in my hands two conclusions of the Constitutional Court, two: one on the bill of amendments to the Constitution that we are currently considering (this is about reducing the constitutional composition of the Supreme Council and strengthening the proportional system of elections); and the other on the legislative initiative of the people. Both the conclusion and the other point are that these bills are in line with articles 157 and 158 of the Constitution. But in both conclusions there is a warning from the Constitutional Court of Ukraine. In particular, in the conclusion of this bill, which we are considering, paragraph 2, paragraph seven: at the same time, the Constitutional Court is stressing a warning. The warning text is still coming. In paragraph 12 of paragraph 2.2: The Constitutional Court notes as a warning. We're told some, excuse me, with all due respect for the office of President in the Constitutional Court and all due respect for the position of Representative of the Supreme Council in the Constitutional Court, but we're told some kind of legal abracadabra, some sort of set of legal words. How to act to the Supreme Council in the event that the Constitutional Court issued a warning to the relevant draft amendments to the Constitution is contained in the Supreme Council’s Rules, that is, article 47, paragraph 11, and articles 149 and 150 mentioned here. I have a simple question. Why are two of the same conclusions on the amendments to the Constitution being considered in different ways: one is legally and correctly, i.e. it is transmitted back to the Committee of the Supreme Council, the deadlines for amending and supplementing this bill, then again this bill will be sent to the Constitutional Court, and why is the second bill on amendments to the Constitution proposed to us to vote in the wrong way? I have one suspicion: in this way they want to give the opportunity to sue, to legally challenge this decision before the Constitutional Court, so that the Constitutional Court can cancel the decline in the composition of the Supreme Council and the transition to a proportional system. That's the only goal that could be why we're offered to do it this way. And once again, colleagues, we have time, next vote only in September. Let us act by law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-04-m0.u110	Thank you. Venislavski Fedir Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-04-m0.u111	Honourable Presidium, distinguished national MPs, many of the speakers show just how different interpretations can be given to the same positions of the Constitution of Ukraine. Indeed, the Basic Law of Ukraine is the Constitution, binding on both the Supreme Council and the Constitutional Court and the national deputies. Dear colleagues, I would like to draw attention to the cross-cutting concepts for lawyers, such as the "limiting principle of the activity of public authorities." Let us open the basic article 6 of the Constitution of Ukraine and draw our attention to part two that clearly says that the Supreme Council acts only on the basis, within the limits of the powers and in the manner provided for in the Constitution. No expansion of the powers of the Supreme Council through. No extension, no colleagues, no powers of the Supreme Council through the Rules of Procedure Act, no other Constitution is permitted by law. So let us respect the Constitution, guide the Constitution and make decisions in accordance with the Constitution. With regard to this bill, the Constitutional Court of Ukraine, once again underlining the conclusion, gave a clear, unequivocal conclusion: the bill met the requirements of articles 157, 158 of the Constitution of Ukraine. The only body to decide whether or not to adopt a bill to amend the Constitution is the Supreme Council, in addition to Chapters I, III, XI. And that's why you and I have to solve the question of reducing the number of national MPs to 300, and forging a proportional electoral system is in the interests of the Ukrainian people or not responding. To the deep conviction of President Zelensky, the president's team, that's what suits the interests of the Ukrainian people. So we urge everyone to support this bill in advance and to give their votes for Bill 1017. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-04-m0.u112	Boyko Yuri Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-04-m0.u113	Dear Mr. Speaker, the honourable present, three weeks ago we witnessed how in this House the Servant of the People simply disregarded the Constitutional Court's decision when there were 4 decisions to reinstate the social benefits to the people who had been deprived of them in 2014-2015. In line with Parliament’s decision in support of the Constitutional Court’s decision, the people were left without support, without State support. And it was the use of the Constitutional Court: when necessary, its decision is taken; and when it is not needed, they are ignored. We're definitely against it. We should set an example for people in a country that we are law-abiding and comply with the decisions of the Constitutional Court. With regard to today’s draft law. Our faction decided to support this bill for two reasons. One: we believe that a proportional system must stop the political corruption that the majority system has become. Because action, including today’s authorities, has led people to poverty. And any candidate who offers material assistance is forced to support him. And this is the straight path to political corruption. It's not people's fault, it's the fault of today's authorities, the same "ministers of the people" that led to today's state. And the second reason why we support this bill. We support the bill because we think that what is going on at the legislative level today is a direct violation of the Constitution. We believe that humans and today’s authorities should step aside because they have deceived people. They all promised to improve lives, reduce tariffs. They promised that people would live better and that peace would come to the country, and they broke it. And we think this bill is going to bring us closer to changing power, and we're going to have it accepted, and people have chosen a new power that will not deceive them. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-04-m0.u114	Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the performances by the national MPs. Please sign up. Dear colleagues, the People's Deputy Pippa Natalia Romanovna, the faction of the political party "The Voice".
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-04-m0.u115	Please pass the word to Makarov Oleg.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-04-m0.u116	Please, Mr. Oleg Makarov.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-04-m0.u117	Fellows, I'd like to go back to the warnings that don't allow the Voice faction to support this bill. I want to remind you that the Voice faction was the initiator of such changes, and in its electoral program, it repeatedly spoke of the need to reduce the number of national MPs. Unfortunately, some implementation does not allow us to support this bill. Note the warnings of the Constitutional Court. The deletion from the first part of article 76 of the Constitution of Ukraine of the position "on the basis of the general, equal and direct right to vote, by secret ballot" may provide an opportunity at the legislative level to consolidate any principles of the election of Ukraine's national deputies, except those currently stated. The six articles of the Constitution state, with regard to elections, that "elections are conducted on the basis of a general, equal, direct election right, by secret ballot." This also applies to the election of the President, this is about the election of the Crimea Parliament, this is about the local elections. And it is from the article on elections to the Supreme Council that this position is deleted. What is the reason? It's just that we've come to this, we've come to this, we've come to this, it's just a two-man team that's been drafting this bill, or is it what the secret point is, which is set in changes to the Constitution? Next. Note that in Article 17 of the “Transitional Regulations”: after the validity of the Supreme Council, elected to take effect by law, the Supreme Council continues to exercise its powers to the next election of the Ukrainian National Deputies. What does that mean? According to the Constitution, articles 90, the authority of the Supreme Council ceases on the day of the opening of the first meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And according to the changes to the Constitution that are being proposed to us, the powers of the Supreme Council continue to be re-elected. Please tell me before the election announcement, before the first round of voting or by any other date? This can cause it. This is a threat to the continuity of power in Ukraine. In the situation that Ukraine is in right now, we can't risk such a situation, we can't allow the continuity of power, we have to follow article 90 of the Constitution. The Supreme Court stressed that the draft submitted by the President's team was contrary to article 90 of the Ukrainian Constitution. Similarly, there are three other warnings that the Supreme Court pointed to. What should we do? We must now send this bill to the committee for further work, invite the President or 150 national deputies as the subject of the submission to correct these warnings and vote on these changes at this session. I propose to stop this constitutional vacchanal, which continues in the seven bills submitted by the President's team. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-04-m0.u118	The word is given to the national deputy of the Black Dmitry Sergiyovich, faction of the political party "Slut of the People".
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-04-m0.u119	Please pass the word to Maxim Bujanski.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-04-m0.u120	Please, Maxim Bujansky.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-04-m0.u121	Dear colleagues, a venerable presidency. The national MPs of Ukraine are, first of all, citizens. And by narrowing down their numbers from 450 to 300, we're narrowing down the representation of our citizens in the Supreme Council. I suggest you don't support it and don't do it. I'm sorry, but when the government decides on how not to double the gas payments that come to our citizens, to assign something more complex in these circumstances than the changes to the Constitution to me, that's the wrong position. We have no less difficulty, we have no less problems to solve for the Ukrainian National Deputies. I want representatives of our citizens here to represent our country as a whole, as different as we are. So I'm going to propose leaving the Supreme Council at 450 people's deputies, it's going to cost us more than 300 people's deputies, it's going to cost the country more, it's not going to be cheaper, it's going to cost more. Don't take the easy way, it's the wrong way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-04-m0.u122	Bondar Mikhailo Leontijovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-04-m0.u123	Bondar Mikhailo, European Solidarity. Please give me the word of Ruslan Knazevitch.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-04-m0.u124	Knyazevich Ruslan Petrovich. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-04-m0.u125	Thank you. Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues! I want to remind you of the history of our calling. On the first day of our consideration of the agenda in the first session, we considered a bill amending the Constitution in relation to 80 articles of the Constitution. And then we had a long discussion, and what to do with the warnings of the Constitutional Court. I specifically insisted that, without taking into account the appropriate warnings, we could not go any further and accept the changes. The fact that we simply closed our eyes and the corresponding bill was adopted without warning by the Constitutional Court received, in a mild sense, a disapproval among the judges of the Constitutional Court. I recommend that you read the individual opinions of the judges, or the grainy ideas, where they directly write that this kind of attitude towards the Constitutional Court means simply ignoring the body of constitutional jurisdiction in Ukraine. In view of these circumstances and of what then appears to be a hindrance to the fact that the warnings were taken into account, it was that they were not written out in the resolution part, but only in the motivating part, and were not specifically marked as a warning, this time the Constitutional Court and the Motivative Court, and already in the resolution part clearly wrote them out as a warning. And the committee had no choice but to really agree with this kind of approach. Because speaking of what is in the Constitution is only a corresponding 157th, 158th is to narrow down the constitutional regulation of the Constitutional Court, because 157th, 158th is only about human rights violations, territorial integrity, state of war, and so on! And in that case, if these changes run counter to other articles of the Constitution or to the conclusions of the Constitutional Court, which they have previously expressed, they have this tool of caution. And this warning tool has been the subject of the Constitutional Court's review on several occasions, and it has been the decision since January 2016 of the Constitutional Court, where it is clearly stated that the constitutional procedure is the order of execution of the 13th article. Chapters of the Constitution and Chapter 26 of the Supreme Council Rules of Procedure Act. This is the only constitutional procedure established by the Constitutional Court. In view of these circumstances, such repeated disregard of the Constitutional Court’s warnings would mean total disregard of the Constitution, which clearly spelled out the role of the Constitutional Court as the sole body of constitutional jurisdiction. You can't let that happen, because it's not just a violation of the constitutional procedure, it's already smelling of power. This type of action may qualify, including as criminal. So I would ask you right now before we vote, but I would still go back to the previous conclusion of our committee, and in this case, don't violate the Ukrainian Constitution so harshly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-04-m0.u126	Hončarenko Alexyyyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-04-m0.u127	Alexei Hotcharenko, European Solidarity, Clothing. Dear friends, let's take it easy, you know. Because the idea of why 300 is proposed is, of course, a pure pierre, nothing more. About how much you have to do instead, I've already said it's better than 95, or 1, it's also clear. But let's look at the experience of other countries. We're told too many deputies. Come on, France is 900 deputies in two chambers for 60 million people, 900. Is this a bad country? I don't think so. Great Britain: There are 650 deputies in the House of Commons, and there is also the House of Lords. Well, it's clear that we don't have a lot of lords, well, it doesn't add up. We will not even count the House of Lords. The House of Commons is 650 deputies. What are we supposed to do? Poland is our neighbor, the country is about the size of the population: 560 deputies, once again, 560 deputies. Please tell me, do these countries live badly? Do these deputies ever get in the way? No, it's not. Let's see, where is the proportion that we're now offered: we have about 150 to 200,000 inhabitants, one MP. I'll tell you: The Russian Federation, yes, 450 is the Djrduma, and 170 is the Federation Council. Yeah, that's exactly what Zelensky is proposing right now. Another country is Venezuela: there are 167 deputies for 30 million. Equally, for the 200,000 inhabitants of the 1st MP, it's okay. What can we conclude from this? The problem is not the number of deputies, it's the quality of them. If there were MPs going to the districts, they would solve people's problems instead of offering to sell the dog for gas. If there were deputies who helped people and wrote laws, people would say, "Give us a thousand deputies, we have fewer than 450." And when MPs are rapists, when MPs are corrupters, buttons, or anyone else, and this is not solved by a number of deputies, there is no solution. This will only make it worse, and people's access to a deputy will decrease, and the ability to reach anyone will diminish. 'Cause we're the only ones who's happy is Sharik, and now he's in the business of the Greens and the government. And the other 40 million inhabitants of Ukraine, how can they live? So it's a totally stupid law that doesn't give anything to anyone that doesn't cut any costs actually. Once again, we want to cut costs -- let's cut wages, I've passed the law. So, dear friends, don't vote for it, because it's stupid, and besides stupid, you can't call it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-04-m0.u128	The word is given to the national deputy Shahov Sergey Volodymyrovich, the MP's "Trust".
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-04-m0.u129	Sergey Shahov, Luhanščina, Deputy Group "Trust". I give the word to Rudik Sergio.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-04-m0.u130	Sergey Rudik, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-04-m0.u131	Dear colleagues, over the past hour and a half, each of you who wanted to hear, perhaps one of the TV audiences, heard our colleagues tear their throats out, trying to give a logical argument that the bill would not be acceptable. In an article in the Constitution, the Rules of Logic, but it doesn't work in this room. Look, the front row in most of the light bulbs has everything you say. I represent the Cherkas region and the city of Smilu, this is the central city of my constituency. There are two receptionists in this town: one of the National Writer MPs, one of the People's Mayors, they're through the wall. Ask the bold how many admissions the citizens had this year or in the past, perhaps in December, a national deputy list; and how many receptions were conducted by the deputy major. A similar situation throughout the country. Political parties benefit from the new Electoral Code, representatives of political parties who want to go beyond the majority, proportional system, the benefits of today’s changes, and the benefits of fewer deputies. I'm not surprised if they're going to suggest that the people's deputies be transferred to public service at all, so that the people's deputies will work, free of pay. All of this is done with one goal: not to go to the region, not to go deep, not to communicate with people, not to close your eyes when closing FAPs, schools, departments, when united communities are done through, not wanting to stutter, and there are no other words without asking people’s opinion. What's the point of going? But the new electoral law, the fewer national MPs, the more voters. They will not come to you, dear Ukrainians. They're going to decide in one government office, and they're just going to press buttons. For ethical reasons, I deliberately did not call the name of any MP, no political power. But you, your fellow Ukrainians, understand who you are talking about. Vote for those whom you know, whom you see, whom you see, both in joy and in pain, and not just those who perform on television. Don't vote for this wall. I know there's not a chance, because 226 is what they're going to have. But, you know, no one's coming to you tomorrow, only they're coming to the OTG election, in the district.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-04-m0.u132	Thank you. Suffritch Nestor Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-04-m0.u133	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. I see the experience of seeing Savik Schuster, he did. Dear colleagues, of course, we are now standing in one step from making a historic decision about the introduction of a proportional system as the norms of the Constitution in our country. This is very responsible and very important. You know, I've been in major districts twice, I've been in a proportional system four times, and I can tell you, the responsibility for political presence at the same time is hundreds of times more than the responsibility for my actions in major districts as Ukraine's senior national deputy. So we certainly support this initiative today. I do not wish to speak at this time, to offend the institution of the majority national deputies of Ukraine, but all the unfortunate cases that have taken place in the Supreme Council of Ukraine over the past 20 years have unfortunately been linked to the position of the majority national deputies of Ukraine. There are dozens of them, but now I won't mention this sad experience. With regard to the decline in the number of Ukrainian national deputies, if we are to cut the majority system by which half of the Supreme Council of Ukraine was elected, it is logical that Ukraine's national deputies should be twice as small. And 450 divided by two is not 300. I understand that perhaps our colleagues from the Ze-command have taken advantage of the experience of the 2000 referendum, during which the people of Ukraine have spoken in favour of the position of just 300 Ukrainian national deputies who are to work in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. We hope that today we will make a preliminary decision, not later than in September we will vote as changes to the Constitution. Although we would be able to vote in favour of the final adoption of these changes to the Constitution of Ukraine if we really wanted to work in the region. And even today, we could adopt this law. I reiterate that the proportional system makes the Supreme Council of Ukraine more responsible, and responsibility becomes transparent and understandable to the people of Ukraine. Then there will be no need to hide behind such bad corrupt majority MPs as to hide behind a bad government with a good president. Today we've got the Ze-command, we've got Ze-command, we've got Greensky. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-04-m0.u134	Thank you. The final word from the committee is Olga Volodymyrna's.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-04-m0.u135	Dear colleagues, we've heard.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-04-m0.u136	Excuse me, Olga Volodymyrna. Ladies and gentlemen, after that, we shall proceed to the vote. Please invite the national deputies to the hall. Thank you. Olga Volodymyr.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-04-m0.u137	Dear colleagues, we've heard a lot of arguments about dogs and we don't know what. But please listen to arguments that are truly scientific and reasonable. First. What allowed the Constitutional Court of Ukraine to conclude that the bill was in conformity with the Constitution of Ukraine? Maybe not many people in the hall have heard about it, but there's a scientifically proven formula called Tageper and Sugart formula, or "cubic root," according to which in the number of people in the state that is now approximately 37 million citizens, the number of national MPs, the number of parliamentarians is 300, up to 320 national MPs. It's a theory of constitutional law. It's basic stuff. The other one. The factions refer to the position of the Venice Commission. So I'm going to read to you the conclusion of the Venice Commission number 662/2012: the number of members of Parliament is not regulated in any way at the level of international standards. There is no commonly accepted formula between the number of mandates and the size of the population. So everything that's said in the room right now is manipulation. Third. The experience of foreign countries. Last year, Italy, with an increase in population over the past 10 years, decreased by 8 million its parliamentarians from 945 to 600. Can Italy’s experience of a democratic country be considered? I think so. Same thing in Lithuania. Last year Lithuania reduced the number of deputies compared to what existed before that. As for the proportional electoral system. Dear colleagues, the proportional electoral system, really exists in fewer countries. Because if you compare it in an absolute proportion, but if you are the brothers of the States of the European Union, which I think for Ukraine is a solid pattern and an example, then virtually all the states of the European Union have a proportional electoral system at the national level for parliamentary elections. Next argument. I've already sounded it when we voted for inviolability. I think this argument is important and definitive. I'm done, ten seconds. In 2000, 90 percent of Ukrainian citizens said they had reduced the number of parliamentarians to 300. Let us do, honourable deputies, the will of the Ukrainian people and this time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-04-m0.u138	Thank you, Olga Volodymyrically. Ladies and gentlemen, prepare for the vote, invite the national deputies to the hall, and take your seats. In accordance with article 155 of the Constitution of Ukraine, honourable members of article 149 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Rules of Procedure put to the vote the draft Decree (registration number 1017/P1) on the preliminary approval of the bill amending articles 76 and 77 of the Constitution of Ukraine (to reduce the constitutional composition of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and to consolidate the proportional electoral system) for adoption as a whole. People's deputies, please prepare for the vote. I would like to stress once again: this is a prior approval. A decree is made, Your Honor. Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[13:10:07]] For 236 Decision taken. It's been decided. Show me the factions, please. [[B in m in s a l in]] You see. Dear colleagues, let's move on to the next issue of the agenda. Dear colleagues, you are invited to consider the draft Law on Amendments to Article 106 of the Constitution of Ukraine (to consolidate the powers of the President of Ukraine to form independent regulators, the National Anti-Corruption Bureau of Ukraine, to appoint and resign. Dear colleagues, a little quiet in the hall, please! From the procedure? I'll read it for you in a minute. Director of the National Anti-Corruption Bureau of Ukraine and Director of the State Bureau of Investigation.) Kornienko is out of procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-04-m0.u139	Colleagues are proposed for a reduced procedure where the conclusion of the Constitutional Court is negative. Can we put this to a vote?
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-04-m0.u140	Dear colleagues, look, this is the decision, the committee's decision to refer to work. Does it make sense to follow full procedure? Let's cut it short and send it to the committee right away. [[B in m in s a l in]] No, look, talk about it. Let's get out of here. It's like a reduced procedure: statements from factions, but less time to spend. Okay? So you don't waste your time. Dear colleagues, ready to consider a reduced procedure? Please support and vote. [[13:12:13]] For 232 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, a word for the report is given to the Head of the Committee on Legal Policy, Kostin Andriy Evgenovich. [[B in m in s a l in]] Let's see the factions.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-04-m0.u141	On 18 December 2019, the Honourable Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, at its meeting, considered the President's urgent bill to amend article 106 of the Constitution of Ukraine (to consolidate the President's powers to establish independent regulators, the National Anti-Corruption Bureau of Ukraine, to appoint and relieve the Director of the National Anti-Corruption Bureau of Ukraine and the Director of the State Bureau of Investigation) (registration No. 1014), as well as the Constitutional Court's conclusion of 16 December 2019, number 7-in/2019, and to establish the following. In its conclusion of December 16, 2019, the Constitutional Court acknowledged a bill amending article 106 of the Constitution of Ukraine in such a way that it did not meet the requirements of part one of article 157 of the Constitution of Ukraine and that it met the requirements of part two of article 157 of article 158 of the Constitution of Ukraine. According to part of the first article 150 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Rules, if, in the conclusion of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine, a bill amending the Constitution of Ukraine in general or individual situations is recognized as not meeting the requirements of articles 157, 158 of the Constitution of Ukraine, the Supreme Council decides on the question of further work on the bill. Taking into account what has been said, the Committee on Legal Policy recommends to the Supreme Council of Ukraine: to establish a 30-day deadline for proposing and amending the bill amending article 106 of the Constitution of Ukraine; to entrust the Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Legal Activities, Anti-Corruption Policy, Budget, Integration of Ukraine with the European Union to process proposals and to draw the conclusion of the Committee of the Supreme Council on Legal Policy in a 15-day period; to entrust the Committee of the Supreme Council on Legal Policy to deal with proposals and amendments in a 15-day period; to review the bill at the plenary meeting of the Supreme Council within 7 days. Please support the appropriate decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-04-m0.u142	Thank you, Andrey Evgenovich. The report is given to the representative of the President of Ukraine at the Constitutional Court of Ukraine, Venislav Fedor Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-04-m0.u143	Honorary Presidium, honourable national MPs, we now have with you an example of the fact that in some of our colleagues of today's opposition political forces there is going to be the same cognitive dissonance that they have repeatedly claimed in this room, accusing many of the President's bills aimed at strengthening his power and usurping power. It is very difficult for me to imagine that the Constitutional Court of Ukraine, in the context of another political reality that was still a few years ago, had negative conclusions about the bills that the President of Ukraine is submitting. Moreover, I would like to draw the attention of the country's distinguished national deputies to the fact that the conclusion of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine, which we respect and will implement, does not provide concrete examples of what this bill leads to narrowing or restricting constitutional rights and freedoms. He only hypothetically predicts that under certain circumstances this could lead to a hypothetical restriction on constitutional rights and freedoms. But our political power has consistently advocated adherence to its activities, including the constitutional principle of the division of government. We respect the decision of the Constitutional Court, which has reached its conclusion. And we'll do it. As for the President's position, it remains unchanged: the Director of the FBI, the Director of the NABU, is to appoint an independent branch of the executive branch of the institution. Similarly, independent regulators are to be established according to a series of directives of the European Union and will be created. That's why we call on all concerned people's deputies to join in refining this bill, we're working on it, and, I'm sure, in the next session of the Supreme Council we are.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-04-m0.u144	Thank you, Fedor Volodymyrovich. Dear colleagues, please sign up: two for, two for, two against, from factions. Krulko Ivanovich. Vlasenko. Sergey Vladislavovich was involved.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-04-m0.u145	Dear colleagues, you know, thank God, even though we're going through the constitutional procedure. What didn't happen in the previous bill. I didn't get a chance to say anything. I have one question. Tell me, what electoral system did the people vote for in the referendum then, many years ago? For proportional, mixed, or major? So when it's referred to, it's impossible to do that, it's a constitutional step. But can this bill be amended? In our faction, it's impossible to do this because the key principles of the parliamentary-presidential republic have been violated. The key recommendations of the European Commission were violated when we approved the Law on the State Bureau of Investigation. The key principles of the distribution of power in the parliamentary-presidential republic have been violated. And can something be done now by making amendments, even 30 days later? Our faction is deeply convinced that it is impossible to do so. That's why our proposal is that if someone wants to define a constitutional, the constitutional order for the appointment of the head of the NAB, the head of the DBR, should open an active Constitution and clearly understand that it is impossible to do so by assigning the heads of the DBD, the NAB president of the country. And what happened right now, because of the temporary law, the temporary procedure we did it, you lost the committee head, but you didn't get the D.B.I. head. That's the conclusion we got as a result of these proposals. Our faction will vote against it, because this bill cannot be redrafted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-04-m0.u146	Cabal Volodymyr Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-04-m0.u147	Makarov Oleg.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-04-m0.u148	Dear colleagues, let's go back to the Rules, to this document that we have to implement. Article 146 is entitled: "The consideration of the Supreme Council on the incorporation of a bill amending the Constitution into the agenda of the day session of the Supreme Council and the order of the continuation of work on it." In this article, I also pay attention to the Head of the Supreme Council: “The discussion on the inclusion of a bill to amend the Constitution in the agenda of the Supreme Council’s day session, on the order in which it is to be continued, shall be conducted in accordance with Article 30 of this Rules.” Attention! "The short-term procedure of discussion in this case cannot be applied." I propose to the Head of the Supreme Council that a meeting of factions be held on the systematic violation by the Chief of the Supreme Council of the Rules. Regrettably, the session room supports the proposals made by the Head of the Supreme Council to consider amending the Constitution in violation of the Rules. This is not the first violation we allow. I think we need to get together, draw red lines that we will never cross, and clearly implement the regulations of the Rules for amending the Constitution and for further work on the bill. The Constitutional Court has made it clear that this bill is unconstitutional; it is contrary to articles 157, 158 of the Constitution. We colleagues have two ways in accordance with article 150 of the Rules: either to submit this bill to the committee, as proposed by the Committee of the Supreme Council of Legal Policy, or to determine now that the work of this bill should cease. If we don't support and vote against it, this bill will be rejected, returned to the President. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-04-m0.u149	Thank you. Lubinet Dmitry Valeriovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-04-m0.u150	Dear colleagues, the "For the Future" MP will not support, vote in favour of the bill. Again, we explain our position. We live in the parliamentary-presidential republic, the candidate for the Ukrainian Security Service is submitted by the President, approved by the Supreme Council; the candidate for the Attorney-General is submitted by the President, approved by the Supreme Council. They are also released by the Supreme Council. Then why do you want to make changes to the Constitution and give the President the right to appoint and release the leaders of the NAB and the DBR? Where's the Supreme Council? Then tell the electorate directly that we do not want to live in the conditions of the parliamentary-presidential republic, we have enough Presidential authority to give the President all the authority to be the head of the executive branch of power, and then everything will be in place. Every time we have a president, we measure the power with the head of government. And you keep making that same mistake, you're getting back on these Ukrainian rakes. And speaking to the President in the Constitutional Court, he can't hear me right now, but I'll read it to him myself. When he said that hypothetically there could be no exceedment of powers on the part of the President, I read out the decision of the Constitutional Court, where it was explicitly written, "the amendments proposed by the bill provide for a one-sided, unbalanced extension of the competence of the President of Ukraine through the granting of his non-proprietary powers, which contravene the fundamental positions of the Constitution of Ukraine." Not hypothetically, but directly contrary to the Constitution! Therefore, we urge all colleagues not to vote, not to support, because even by procedure – in the 30-day period, it is impossible to amend the text of the bill. Please don't back up, don't vote for this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-04-m0.u151	Dmitri Valeriyovich, we will not vote in favour of this bill. We only vote for the ruling. And if it does. And it's meant to be sent to the committee for further work. Dear colleagues, let us also not deceive ourselves or colleagues. As other colleagues say, the Constitutional Court has declared this bill unconstitutional. It's also manipulation, because it says it's completely different. Anyone can take it and see what it says. [[B in m in s a l in]] I didn't say anything wrong with you. Dear colleagues, Shufrich Nestor. Papiev Mikhailo Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-04-m0.u152	Mikhail Papiev, "The Opposition Platform for Life." Our faction and national MPs of Ukraine consistently, already many of the Supreme Council’s calls, Ukraine clearly adhere to the 6 articles of the Constitution of Ukraine, which should be clearly shared by our authorities: the legislature, the executive and the court. By the way, we were the first to launch in 2004 an exit from the presidential-parliamentary republic and a vote in favour of the draft Constitution of Ukraine, which would return power building to the European bosom in Ukraine in general, and for Ukraine to be a parliamentary-presidential republic. In doing so, we are clearly and clearly aware that the Supreme Council of Ukraine is a higher legislative body. The Supreme Council has given up the function of appointment of judges and many other functions. The only one who has acquired signs of executive power during this time is the President of Ukraine. The President of Ukraine under the Constitution is the guarantor of the constitutional rights and freedoms of citizens and the observance of the Constitution of Ukraine. You now want to give the President of Ukraine exactly the executive functions of appointments, discharges, it is completely illogical and does not correspond to the European traditions of a clear division of power and power. We have consistently observed that the national deputies of Ukraine must be deprived of the inviolability. This was our promise to the citizens, and we made it clear. Today there is the only official in the state who is untouchable – this is the President of Ukraine. So let us still be logical in our approach to the promises that we have made to humans. Let's make clear some rules in this country, we won't. And let's make sure we have the barriers to making the country as authoritarian, despotic as it was in previous years. We must not vote on such changes and regulations. And one more to the people who did.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-04-m0.u153	Thank you, Mikhailo Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-04-m0.u154	Ten seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-04-m0.u155	Mikhail Mikolaiovich, with all due respect, but I do. Mikhailo Mikolaiovich, thank you. Dear colleagues, who else would like to speak? Knazevitch. [[B in m in s a l in]] I'll turn it on. The prince and. Now Ruslan Petrovich is motivated, and then we go to the vote. Please invite the national deputies to the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-04-m0.u156	Thank you, Mr. Head. I don't know who's talking. We have before us the text of the Constitutional Court's conclusion. I'll let myself read it. This bill does not meet the requirements of part one of article 157 of the Constitution. Here is the definition of the entire conclusion of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine. Dear friends, this is really a serious dilemma: what to do next. The Law on Rules states that in such a case the committee should propose a solution to the situation to Parliament, and Parliament has its own decision either to take such a decision or to refuse further work on the bill. It seems to me that this is the case when we have to give up further work on the bill, because the whole bill is recognized as being contrary to the Constitution of Ukraine, and no position can be changed. There's only a new bill that doesn't apply to these provisions. So there's no point in further work, because this bill, it was unconstitutional. I'll remind you that during the discussion in the hall we emphasized these things. If you look at the conclusion, there's actually all of our definitions rendered in other words. So, my friends, we can't.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-04-m0.u157	Thank you, Ruslan Petrovich. Dear colleagues, please invite the national deputies to the hall. Take your seats, get ready to vote. Ladies and gentlemen, I remind you that we are not voting for the law right now, we are not voting for any prior approval, we are not voting for prior approval. We are now voting on this bill to be submitted to the committee. And they have to do it in 30 days. It is directed towards further work, processing, and making rights and suggestions. Dear colleagues, a motion for the adoption of the draft Law on Introduction. draft Regulation No.1014/P1 as a whole on the strengthening of the powers of the President of Ukraine to establish independent regulators, the National Anti-Corruption Bureau of Ukraine, to appoint and relieve the Director of the National Anti-Corruption Bureau of Ukraine and the Director of the State Bureau of Investigation. Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[13:32:19]] For 214 The decision is not taken. Show the factions, please. The decision is not taken. Let's move on to the next question of order of the day. Honorable colleagues, for they are. Because respected colleagues, since bills related to changes to the Constitution take a long time, colleagues say that it is necessary. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, please be quiet in the hall! Dear colleagues! No, I think we're going to change the order of things. Look, it's not my call, it's the hall. Now I'm going to give my word because there's a statement from two factions replacing the performance, and then there's an offer. "The Fatherland" and "The Voice." Who will act? Please, Pippa Natalia Romanovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-04-m0.u158	Natalia Pippa, 115th District, Lviv. Dear Ukrainians, dear colleagues, I cannot keep my mouth shut as a Ukrainian and a Levite. In Ukraine, especially in Lviv, freedom of speech is under way. In our country, there has been a threatening tradition, we have systematic attacks on journalists, public activists, and all other people who are not afraid to publicly call things their names. And every time, despite promises, the investigation takes years. It turns out that freedom of speech in Ukraine is an expensive pleasure. You never know what's gonna happen to you tomorrow. On January 30, in Lviv, in the middle of the night, a car was burned by a prominent journalist, Radio Freedom of Galina Tereshuk. No, the criminal didn't run away from the scene, but calmly and presumptuously went on, and on the witness's question, do you want to burn the whole street cynically, he said, "No, it's just a car," as if he knew he wasn't going to be punished, and it's not the '90s. I appeal to the National Police and personally to the Minister of Internal Affairs, Arsen Habakkuk, to investigate the matter as quickly as possible and to punish the guilty. Freedom of speech is what distinguishes us from the aggressor country. I want to finally forget that in my country, property can be destroyed, beaten or even killed for having your own opinion and not afraid to express it. Please consider my speech to be a parliamentary appeal to the law enforcement authorities. Every crime against freedom of speech in Ukraine must be punished. Yes, freedom of speech in Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-04-m0.u159	Alexander Sergiyovich Korniyenko of the procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-04-m0.u160	There is a suggestion to move the issue of order around so that the consideration of changes to the Constitution will be last considered after consideration of other issues. Because they take a long time. We have many interesting and beneficial laws.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-04-m0.u161	Dear colleagues! Dear colleagues, there's an offer. We'll discuss it now. Yet, considering the changes to the Constitution in accordance with article 150. That's what Mr. Makarov said. If the findings of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine. The bill amending the Constitution of Ukraine as a whole or its individual provisions has been recognized as not satisfying the requirements of 157 and 158 articles of the Constitution of Ukraine, as well as in cases where the Constitutional Court concludes that there is a warning about the provisions of such a bill, the Supreme Council decides on the question of further work on the bill. And there's really no line defined here. So this is a question of discussion. Yet I think we are. 146 articles, respected colleagues. She did. Discussion on the inclusion of a bill to amend the Constitution of Ukraine in the agenda of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and the modalities for the continuation of the work under Article 30 of this Rules. Dear colleagues, I guess we should settle the Rules then, and that's the right offer, okay? We'll get back to that, too. Dear colleagues, there was a proposal by Cornienne Alexander Sergiyyovich to change the way matters are dealt with in the daytime. Dear colleagues, please invite the national deputies to the hall. Dear colleagues, I announce a 30-minute recess. Heads of factions, please gather here. Dear colleagues, since the break ends after 2 p.m., I close the morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine.
