ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-04-m0.u1	Good morning! Good morning, distinguished colleagues, distinguished national MPs, distinguished representatives of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, distinguished representatives of the media! Please prepare for registration. I see that not everyone will register. But this does not affect your quality of work in the future. Please remind everyone that registration takes place by clicking on the green "for" button on the first left. Please register. No, if there's even one, there's a meeting, there's no possibility of making decisions. Vadim Eugeneovich, thank you. [[10:07:44]] There are 148 national deputies registered in the hall. But we all see that there are many more. Let's get back to our work. Dear colleagues, first of all, on September 4, 1991, a blue and yellow flag was raised above the building of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. [[Applause]] The Ukrainian Parliament has always demonstrated the continuity of traditions, the protection of the interests of the state, and in the difficult stages of our country's life, Parliament itself has made key decisions and has always helped the state move forward. And many historical events took place in this very building or in other parliamentary institutions earlier in our history. And I am sure that we should all know, remember, the story with all its victories and defeats. Because only with history will we be able to build a quality future for our children. During the celebration of Independence Day, I was able to visit the Museum of State of the Ukrainian Nation. I'm telling you honestly, I recommend you go down there and watch. Because many of the historical events, I'm not sure that we know as deep and as quality as it would be worth knowing the Ukrainian people's deputies. Once again with this sign event in the history of our nation! [[Applause]] And let me also say hello, today we have three nouns. This is Dmitri Sergiyovich Mikisha. I can't see, there's no room. Mikita Ruslanovich Poturayev. We see that we have a bit of a blocked approach to the Supreme Council, not so easy to get there, corks. And Gregory Mikhailovich Surkis. He's here. Congratulations! [[Applause]] Dear colleagues, once again with the feast! The Prime Minister of Ukraine, Denis Anatoliyovich Schmigal, Vice-Prime Minister, is taking part in the meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, which cannot break away from the National Deputies, Mr. Reznikov and the distinguished representatives of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. There were two applications for a break with a replacement for the performance. One statement from the "Trust" MP and "For the Future" faction, that's what I understand. Please, three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-04-m0.u2	Thank you. Alexei Hotcharenko, European Solidarity. Just 29 years ago, a blue and yellow flag was erected above the building of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. We believe that a white-and-white flag will rise on the Belarusian Parliament in the near future! Friends, Ukraine with you! Today, you are fighting not only for democracy and freedom of Belarus but for the very existence of your country! Dictator Lukashenko pours Billorus Putin. You can't let that happen. But every Alejandro will meet Lady The Hague, so will this time.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-04-m0.u3	Lisa Yasko, "Serial of the People" faction. Dear colleagues, when my neighbor, the Belarusian people, comes out to protect freedom, I see Michael Žiznevsky, a Belarusian who died in Midan, defending Ukrainian freedom, and I see Alexander Tarajkovski, who died in Minsk earlier this August, defending Belarusian freedom. Freedom and human dignity, human rights have no national boundaries and have no geopolitical preferences, and have no party privileges. So regardless of our party, factional affiliation, we must stand with the Belarusian people to protect our freedom. Long live Belarus!
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-04-m0.u4	In 2004, the Supreme Court managed to admit in Ukraine that counterfeiting was, and then we went to the polls. And for us, it went peacefully, clearly, because it's the right of the people to go to elections and choose and be chosen. That's the first one. If the authorities of Belarus are so convinced of their victory, please go to the polls, but stop the violence, allow the opposition candidates, allow international observers. What, then, is the problem? And I want to tell you: believe me, we have a society where there's a growing tension with this kind of story of "what difference," believe me, what difference does it make if you're hit with OMON sticks. Alive Belarus!
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-04-m0.u5	Soboloev, Fatherland. I don't think there can be a situation where there's a country in the center of Europe where there's an unrecognized election. There can be no situation when there is a regime in the center of Europe that speaks to its citizens through violence and disgrace. [[B in m in s a l in]] There can be no situation when those who shot people on the streets of Ukraine today are being used in Belarus. And there can be no situation when the Russian Federation, which sent its tenants here, continues to send Donbas, who occupied Crimea, now let them do the same in Belarus with the Belarusian people. And no matter what they do to the dictatorial regimes in Ukraine, which served Yanukovic by faith and truth, they will still win over the Belarusian people, just as the Ukrainian people did. Alive Belarus! Alive Belarus! Alive Belarus! Alive Belarus!
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-04-m0.u6	Dear colleagues, the time for the speech is up. Thank you all. Dear colleagues, have you seen all the flags? Please, Elijah Volodymyrovich, and other colleagues, let the Ukrainian flag be the first to appear in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. It's a wish, it's a wish.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-04-m0.u7	The symbolism of foreign nations is forbidden.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-04-m0.u8	Just like any other. That's exactly what I'm talking to them. Dear colleagues, please remove the flags from the rostrum, including. Thank you. Elijah Volodymyrovich, a symbol of the state of Ukraine, must be. Please remove all flags. You can't hear me. They've said it. It's your right. Elijah Volodymyrovich, please, flags of other nations. Thank you. Thank you, everyone's heard. Thank you. Dear colleagues, and all others, I also request that the flag’s wishes be limited to the Ukrainian state and the symbolism of only the Ukrainian state. Everyone heard the political position, everyone saw it. Everyone else is doing their job. As national deputies, please take care of yours. Take off the flag, please. Who left, colleagues? Behind the flag, take off, please. Colleagues, someone's left. Colleagues, please take the flag. I'll be right there. This is my place of work. I beg of you, Igor Volodymyrovich, if you please. Take off the flag, please. Don't worry, I'll take it off. Take the flag. If you hang here Ukrainian, I don't have any questions. Another statement about a break with a replacement for the performance.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-04-m0.u9	Dear colleagues, I advise you to be very careful right now, as much as possible, because I will now appeal to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Registered on the Supreme Council site, a petition from the families of dead military personnel demanding to know, and what happened to the murderers of their relatives and loved ones, to those who entered Ukraine in the 14th-15th year and killed Ukrainian defenders. And one of those killers was the fighters of the so-called Vagner CHV, who were deported from Belarus to Russia, and as the media said it was a special operation of the Ukrainian Special Forces, which was torn down by someone from the Office of the President of Ukraine. And now I would like to listen particularly carefully because, at the request of the Office of the President of Ukraine, it was said that this was a lie, different representations, different authorities. And I'm saying that they lied to the President of Ukraine's Office because we have incontrovertible evidence that it was actually a special operation for the Ukrainian Special Forces. And why lie, obvious things to say, that it increases the suspicion that they're trying to hide something? And not enough, we know that the evidence of this operation is being destroyed. The memory of the soldiers of Ukraine has been betrayed. Betrayed are those who have demanded all the years of justice because murderers today remain unpunished. Attraction to the responsibility of murderers, including on international sites, is now significantly complicated. I want to remind you how in Strasbourg, in Brussels, we did everything we could to get the killers punished, and today's authorities are only doing so as to let the killers go. And that's why we demand that we immediately create a TSC. Mr. Razumkov, right now put this to a vote, create a temporary commission of inquiry so that the military can learn the truth so that the families can learn the truth. If not, these documents will be published immediately.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-04-m0.u10	From the military, from the brothers, from all who fought, we demand the truth, we demand the creation of the TSC.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-04-m0.u11	In accordance with article 229 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine regulations on Friday, we have time for "the hour of questions to the Government". At the suggestion of the MP factions and groups that were proposed during the Conciliation Council, the theme was: "The state of disease for coronary disease in Ukraine and the urgent measures taken by the government to prevent its spread." Dear colleagues, the following rules of procedure are proposed during the "hour of questions to the Government": up to 20 minutes for a speech by the Minister of Health, 21 minutes, i.e. 1 minute for questions, 2 minutes for answers, from the MP factions and groups, and then up to 20 minutes for questions to the Prime Minister of Ukraine. Is there no objection? Please welcome health minister Stepanov Maksim Volodymyrovich to the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-04-m0.u12	Good afternoon, distinguished national MPs! Good afternoon, dear Ukrainians! In August, 12 record numbers of new COVID-19 patients were recorded in Ukraine. Another record today -- 2,000,723 people were diagnosed with coronary disease. Yesterday 51 people died. Fighting the virus is not about political interests, it's about people's lives. Now the victory over the pandemic is the priority and President Vladimir Zelensky, the government of Ukraine and the entire Ministry of Health in particular. The health of the Ukrainians is at stake. A total of 130,951 Ukrainians became ill throughout the pandemic. The worst part is that many people are used to statistics and begin to view them as numbers and to take quarantine restrictions lightly. But COVID-19 is now an essential part of our lives, it's our new reality. Our common goal is to help citizens adapt to it as quickly as possible so that it is safe to live in it. Let's imagine a situation where people don't know that the red light had to stop. This may be the case with us if, in the new reality, our citizens do not adhere to the basic rules of public safety. This week we received hundreds of photos from the celebrations of the days of cities, festivals, and concerts. We see people's attitude towards anti-epidemiological measures, and we can only conclude that we're all starting to "cross the road into red light." So the strategy to fight the new coronavirus has two components. The first concerns the implementation and enforcement of rules that help to protect people. The Ministry of Health has developed preventive measures and insists on their implementation: washing hands, wearing masks, and maintaining social distance, operating facilities, and carrying out measures during the epidemic. The issue of enforcement is within the competence of the relevant authorities. The second ingredient is the process of treating people who are sick. It focuses on improving treatment schemes, the availability of equipment, and the conditions for medical care. This also applies to strengthening family medicine so that at the initial stage we can properly identify the patients and begin to treat them immediately. This is a limited supply of strength, because even though we now have 35,000 beds, we can face a situation where there are not enough doctors. We can't take all the doctors out of their direct responsibilities and put up a fight against COVID-19, because the Coronavirus pandemic didn't cancel either oncology or cardiovascular disease or any other. COVID only made this difficult. We've put in place an adaptive quarantine and developed such conditions to find the maximum balance between the security of citizens and their comfortable lives. The Ministry of Health is as open as possible. We communicate and explain these rules to everyone -- both the authorities and the citizens. At the same time, we are preparing for all possible scenarios of epidemic events. At the beginning of September, there are 26,000 beds available in 315 health care facilities that provide care to patients with COVID-19 and 213 hospitals in reserve ready to accommodate such patients if they increase their number by almost 9,000 beds. The total number of beds is 35,000. You could forget, but at the beginning of the coronary disease epidemic in Ukraine, there were only 12,000 704 beds ready for admission. In five months, we've restored the work of the laboratory centers from 4 to 69, and the number of PLR tests has been increased from 200 tests per day in early April to almost 25,000 and we continue to take turns. The total number of plr tests that have been done is now approximately 1.7 million tests. On September 1, 2020, a total of 1 000 370 medical teams, consisting of 29.7 thousand doctors, 2 000 816 anesthesiologists and 4 000 204 infectives, therapists and pediatricians, as well as 46.7 thousand medical staff of medium and younger medical personnel, are providing hospital assistance to patients with COVID-19. At the beginning of the epidemic, medical care for infectious patients was provided by 1,000 183 doctors and 5,000 157 health - care workers in the middle and younger chains. And every day we have to thank our doctors and medical personnel for saving the lives of Ukrainians. I also want to pay attention to the technical equipment of hospitals. During these months, we began working to solve deep problems. Hospitals designed to treat patients with coronary disease have 3,000 759 artificial lung ventilators, currently active 227. That's 7 times more than it was at the beginning of the pandemic. 16 times the patient's security has increased, now it's 4,000 467 grand. I'm talking about hospitals that are defined for the treatment of COVID-19. The number of moving x - ray machines, gas analyzers, and other equipment used for treatment has also increased. To date, all health workers working with patients with COVID-19 receive a 300 percent supplement. Of course, there are isolated cases of complaints of payment of these funds, but we are quick to solve these problems so that the medical community will receive funds from the state in time. When I was in charge of the Ministry, there were problems in the country with the provision of personal health care. This deficit was eliminated. And today, that's the situation. At the beginning of the fall, there are over 1.4 million suits and robes in hospitals, an average of three months ’ supply, nearly five million masks, and 1.3 million respirators, and 5.4 million gloves. Predicted and formed nomenclature and number of individual remedies for purchases in the State Reserve of Ukraine. It's a very large amount that can't be broadcast because it's information for service use. In particular, I want to mention the medical situation. On September 2, 11,000,754 health - care workers contracted coronary disease, nearly ten percent of them. Of these, 98 cases resulted in fatalities. As a result of our activities, the average proportion of health workers in disease COVID-19 declined from 20 percent, which was between April 6 and 12, to less than 5 percent, the situation for now. That's almost four times. The Ministry of Health, the decrees of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, have allocated 14 billion 345 million dollars from the hedge fund. In particular, these funds are earmarked for the following purposes: 100 million dollars for the purchase of artificial lung ventilation equipment; 2 billion 990 million dollars for the provision of individual protection for workers in emergency health care facilities, health care facilities, laboratory centres, also for the purchase of laboratory equipment at our laboratory centres, for the increase of salaries in laboratory centres; 5 billion 300 million dollars for the purchase of equipment in the receptional health care facilities in the hospital districts; and 5 billion 995 million dollars for the payment of salaries to medical and other health care workers. These supplements start from September to the end of the year. Since the outbreak, the National Health Service of Ukraine has paid for the treatment of patients with COVID-19. These fees are paid by means of the following packages: extra medical care, fixed medical care, including specialized facilities, and mobile brigades. Overall, almost 3.5 billion dollars were paid under the National Health Service contracts. I want to point out that this is unaccounted for in August, because August's month's payoff starts on September 5. Thanks to the quality and effective treatment of patients with COVID-19 by the Ministry on 2 April 2020, the Protocol on the Provision of Medical Care for the Treatment of Coronary Disease was approved. This document is constantly updated taking into account international practices and scientific research, both in treatment and diagnosis and in all cases COVID-19. But since life with COVID-19, as I said, is our new reality, we can't work 100 percent just on this problem. Because Ukrainian medicine has accumulated more than enough problems over the past 30 years. To this day, there has been no real attempt to reform medicine. It's just that epidemiology was the first to fail. The Coronary Disease pandemic has allowed each of us, even those who have not previously experienced domestic medicine, to realize the conditions under which medical workers work and the conditions under which patients are treated. At the beginning of the epidemic, both the world community and Ukraine paid great attention to the support of doctors. Now, even though Facebook and Instagram have stopped flashing, our doctors continue to work in difficult conditions and need support. So I support our medics not only in words but in real things. We're working on really reforming the medical system, making it feel comfortable in the workplace, and getting the necessary treatment. This is the first time that our team in the history of independent Ukraine has embarked on a strategic reform of all fields of medicine, including medical education, boarding, continuous medical training, emergency medical care, secondary medicine, level IV medicine. So that no further serious test will be fatal to the system. I will remind you that most patients die not because of COVID but because of complications caused by related diseases. It's also cardiovascular disease, and diabetes, and oncology. In general, two thirds of deaths in Ukraine are from cardiovascular disease. So we paid special attention to that. We will not wait for the epidemic to end. We need to change that stat right now. People need to be treated. And that's why the tariff for acute myocardial infarction was changed, and it was increased from 16,000 to the actual 30,000 109 dollars. For the treatment of acute strokes, from 19,000 to almost 27. This will finally allow doctors to have what they need to help with these diseases. In our fight against the coronavirus, we also had to save the psychiatric services and the Tubdispancers in parallel because they were threatened with destruction. The financing of these hospitals, compared with last year, was reduced by 50 percent and in some cases by 80 percent. The general underfunding of only psychiatric hospitals in Ukraine consisted of 898 million. Now they're funded in terms of last year. Many talk about the human body deficit in connection with the coronavirus. This is not the case, this is the result of 29 years of neglect in the medical field. And indeed, a shortage of personnel is a huge problem. At present, 24.7 thousand medical posts remain understaffed in health care facilities, with a deficit of about 8,000 in rural health facilities. There's no one to treat people. And it doesn't matter how many new HLM devices we buy if we don't have enough who can work with them. To treat, to resuscitate, to assign medical devices -- all of this needs to be learned, the state needs to raise and support doctors, nurses, labs, reanimatologists. For 29 years, no one was even interested in medical education. We have also embarked on a reform of emergency medical care. During the epidemic, the brigade carried out 50,000,364 visits to persons suspected of being SOVID-19. We had anticipated additional money for the purchase of emergency cars and for the increase in the salaries of health workers. We'll buy 400 cars by the end of the year, but that's only part of it. I will insist on the approval of this budget. Because if we're talking about the same SOVID, the epidemic has shown that even the chain -- the diagnosis, the rapid removal, the reanimation in the hospital -- was a huge problem for the system. There was no normal set of tests, no drugs, not even enough normal machines. Not to mention that Uber's driver gets five to six times the driver's salary and three to four times the driver's speed. Not related to COVID, but we have made a breakthrough in a transplant that will allow us to save thousands of lives and develop native medicine. For the first time in a long time in our country, doctors began complex organ transplant operations. To defeat COVID and to ensure that any epidemic has no fatal effects on the economy, we will, we will build real medicine. Before the budget process, what I want to say is that real medicine costs less than 3 percent of GDP, we need to allocate at least 5 percent to medicine, as prescribed by legislation. Because if you compare it to European countries, there's a figure of 6 to 12 GDP, including questions to you, honourable national MPs. And then we have a chance of real reform and the possibility of saying that any future outbreaks of the pandemic or anything else will go without panic, difficult, stressful, but no devastating consequences. And the real reform is when a ambulance comes to the challenge in 15 minutes, when people get the medicine they need, and when they save people's lives, they don't think about what to feed their family today. It's when we don't look for doctors and we know that as long as some people save lives from the epidemic, others continue to save lives from oncology, other diseases, autoimmune diseases. The real reform is when every Ukrainian citizen is confident that if he needs help, he will receive it regardless of the circumstances. Our team and government, and of course President Vladimir Zelensky, and the entire medical field we know, are possible. I urge my colleagues and national deputies to cooperate and work together to achieve this goal. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-04-m0.u13	Thank you. Please sign up for a question to the minister from the MP factions and groups. The alien Boris. Kulinich Oleg Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-04-m0.u14	Oleg Kulinich, trust MP. Good afternoon, dear colleagues. Good afternoon, Mr. Secretary. Next question. The Coronavirus pandemic, which has plagued the world, has exposed human resources problems in Ukrainian medicine. This is the absence of physicians such as epidemiologists, virologists, bacteriologists. As is known, the government’s procurement of these specialties has not been available since 2014, which is more than six years. So how is the question on this current year? And how does the Ministry plan to level this situation so that when, God forbid, there will be a second wave of the struggle against the coronavirus? And how will we deal with this? And what will we do with the government’s order to have enough qualified doctors in our medicine? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-04-m0.u15	Thank you for asking. In fact, the problem that we have with epidemiologists in particular -- we didn't even have a region where it would be made up of at least 50 percent. What's more, these last four or five years there have decided that we don't need them at all. And the medical schools that were in our medical universities were simply destroyed, closed. So the answer is two, let's say, two things. The first is re-training for today's specialties that can be re-educated. It's also the Phthiatri doctors, what we've just started, and the doctors of other specialties. In addition, we are currently conducting, including in medical universities, graduates who are studying in the Faculty of Medicine to go to epidemiologists, virologists, and other specialties. In addition, it's the restoration of the government order, the restoration of the training of professionals in the specialty of medical prevention. That's what we're planning to start next year. I have created an appropriate Board of Rectors, where we reconcile these issues, where all 17 of the Rectors of Higher Education Institutions, who are part of the Ministry of Health subordination, are included. Of course, in that sense, we're looking at another issue -- the lack of footage that we have. And one of the main factors is that I think we're okay with the personnel -- that's the prestige of the doctor's profession and the wages. The doctor can't get the salary that he has today. I think it's embarrassing in the state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-04-m0.u16	Thank you. Suffritch Nestor Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-04-m0.u17	Thank you. Minister, please answer three questions. First. Do you think the funds allocated within the state budget and the funds left in the cadaver fund are enough to finance all the enterprises to overcome the increase in COVID diseases by the end of the year? First question. Second question. Does Ukraine buy tests, and when will tests appear in Ukraine? And the third question. It has just been reported that the Kyiv City Laboratory Centre of the Ministry of Health of Ukraine stated that it has been slowing down tests for private individuals since Monday. Please answer three questions, and first, especially carefully and responsibly, because it is about funding and perhaps the need for your call to increase funding. I mean, is that enough money or not? Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-04-m0.u18	Thank you for asking. The total amount of funds allocated to the Ministry of Health, as I said, is 14 billion 435 million dollars. These are the funds that go, let's say, for the purchase of personal protective equipment, for the purchase of the same lab equipment, and for the purchase of drugs. In addition, we have the funds provided by the National Health Service to finance the treatment process itself. The amount that was paid is about 15.6 billion dollars. Today, 3.5 billion are spent on medical care, but this is not the case in August. In our calculations, if we're even going to the dynamic where now, I mean the increase, and we see the load going up, the amount of money we need to treat patients with COVID-19, we're going to need by the end of the year. But it's coming out of today's numbers. Of course, Mr. People's Ombudsman, we may have a situation that we need to increase the amount of money in the process of treating the amount of money. It's about the tests. We are now fully equipped with tests. You can see that it's not even possible to compare the situation that was at the beginning of the test epidemic and today. We're doing today, but today there were over 25,000 tests. The total number of tests we have. We want to reach 30,000 by September of the day. In all, we've been providing tests, our labs for over a month and a half. Now we usually buy them from two Ukrainian manufacturers. In addition, at the expense of the World Bank, we also take part in tests. That's what we're talking about at the Kyiv Center. Well, I'm just going to find out. I've never seen this message before. But he works in normal mode.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-04-m0.u19	Thank you. The word is given to the national deputy Klimenko Julia Leonidini, factions of the political party "The Voice".
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-04-m0.u20	Please pass the word to Olga Stefanishini.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-04-m0.u21	Olga Stefanisin.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-04-m0.u22	As of today, 11,000,754 people have become ill in Ukraine. Every second these people save lives. You're telling us about the sort of real things you're doing, so let me tell you, the Supreme Council passed the COVID Social Insurance Act on May 7. I have here an official letter from the Ministry of Health saying that the state of the day is 723 medics waiting for payments from the state and cannot get them, namely 660,000 dollars, because the Ministry of Health has not developed a form for medical personnel to submit special documents to the Social Insurance Fund. Four months after the adoption of the law, the MOH failed to do its work, resulting in the suffering of medical personnel who had suffered from COVID. I have a simple question. How much will you humiliate our doctors?
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-04-m0.u23	As far as the issue of social insurance payments is concerned, I think you should know that this question does not apply to the competence of the Ministry of Health, but that you have had the experience of acting as Deputy Minister of Health. That's the first one. The other one. The number of medical personnel who are ill with COVID-19. I've already reported that because of the actions we've done over the course of five months, by correcting the situation that we've inherited from the previous leadership, when the entire system has been destroyed, we've just been destroyed, now we don't have 20 percent of the total number of people with COVID-19, and not more than 5 percent of the average statistics. Thirdly, as far as payments are concerned, these payments are all made according to the rules. What's more, they've been simplified, substantially simplified procedures, the issue is on enough serious government control and they're being implemented. I don't think that the information that you said about it just doesn't fit the reality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-04-m0.u24	Please give the floor to the national deputy Klimpush-Cincadze Ivanni Orestovni.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-04-m0.u25	Please pass the word to Mary Ionova.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-04-m0.u26	Please, Maria.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-04-m0.u27	I'm sorry, Blues.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-04-m0.u28	Who, again? Please, the People's Deputy of Sinyutka.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-04-m0.u29	Dear Minister, among all health issues, the most resonant is the coronavirus. And among all the areas of Ukraine, unfortunately, the biggest record today is recorded in Lviv, where more than 15,000 people are infected today, and only a third, 4,000 of them are cured. It's the most lethal of all, last day it's 423. The most loaded hospital beds are more than 50 percent. But unfortunately, there's the least that officials react to these things because it's worth it when four months of IFA testing equipment wasn't even printed, it was in a cellophane. And unfortunately, the Lviv City Council has recently become the fire of the Coronavirus. And the officials of the Lviv City Council not only did not take appropriate measures under the protocol but also tried to hide these things from the inhabitants of our city. So the question. When will officials be responsible for their inactivity?
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-04-m0.u30	We actually have the Lviv region as one of those areas where we have a large number of patients that we register. And what's more, there's a very difficult situation in terms of hospitalization, because we're constantly, I can tell you, several times a week, we're entering new hospitals, I'm signing up for the fight against COVID-19. In the context of the pandemic, I believe that the proposals made by the Ministry and approved by the government regarding the conditions of adaptive quarantine are as much an ideal balance as possible between the security of citizens and normal life. They just need to be done. We just have to follow these new rules that we have. And we have repeatedly pointed to this, including local self - government. If you look at it, it is very common to fail and ignore these requirements, unfortunately, that local self - government is taking place. Not only in that city you told us about, the city of Lviv, but in the rest of the cities. So another way to beat COVID-19, besides following the rules, the rules of the new reality, just doesn't exist and it's already proven by all the countries that we have today. What I want to say about the number of tests is once again, we're constantly increasing this number of tests, both in terms of testing the PLR by the method and the IFA testing. It's been scaled up. And if we're talking, for example, about Lviv and the Lviv region in general, we're testing about 2.5 thousand in the Lviv area today, the same thing, we're constantly increasing the number of IFA tests. And the situation is, believe me, on my permanent personal control.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-04-m0.u31	Please, National Deputy Sobolev Sergey Vladislavovich, faction of Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-04-m0.u32	Mr. Secretary, I also have a question about tests. The United States is 350 million people, 85 million tests, one in four. Ukraine is 1 in 40. But that's not even what I'm talking about right now. Such billions that have been removed from the budget have been cut off from other articles. Well, can't you ask the Minister about the free test? There can't be a person who gives a pension or half a pension for a test, the more in remote villages, they don't get tested and they keep spreading the disease. The other one. Hospitals already have the facts when the results were tested in two days. During this time, this person is managing dozens of people, including doctors. I have a big request -- look at these two. That's not even a question. Free testing is a matter for the Prime Minister. And the second is the urgency of testing and results. Without it, we will not overcome this disease. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-04-m0.u33	Thank you for asking. What I want to remind you once again is that we've got a completely destroyed system, but you can clearly understand that to run a test, you need equipment, you need a room that's specialized and you need medical personnel. At first, we eliminated epidemiologists as a specialty, and then we took out these labs, and we increased the number of tests almost a hundred times, more than a hundred times. We have a clear testing algorithm: what is being done free of charge, free of charge to citizens. Of course, in this algorithm, because we have a big country, we have a lot of different employees, including sometimes not following this algorithm and just sending citizens to a private lab to test. We react quickly enough to these actions and correct these actions. So once again, I want to remind you that any person who has signs of coronary disease by calling on their family doctor should be sent to a properly mobile brigade that's testing him. We don't have another one, and there's no one else. The same is true of people who get into, for example, a hospital with signs of coronary disease. As far as reducing the number of people in hospitals is concerned, so that testing can be done as quickly as possible, believe me, we work every day to make that term as narrow as possible. First of all, how do we increase our power and our number of tests? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-04-m0.u34	The word is given to the People's Deputy of Urban Anatoly Igorovich, the MP's Party for the Future.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-04-m0.u35	Good afternoon, Mr. Secretary. I'll have three questions for you. First. By September 12, the NHRI announced the conclusion of transitional financial arrangements for hospitals. Is it enough to fund all hospitals in Ukraine? And the second question. How does the ILO solve the problem of quality of health care? And the last. How does the ILO plan to address the issue of population immunization? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-04-m0.u36	Thank you for asking. What is involved in transitional financing. Transitional funding is exactly the kind of package that was designed to save medicine from those experiments that started on April 1. What is it? We found ourselves in a hospital with a deficit of up to 70 to 80 percent, and in order to get to the level of last year, it was introduced by the government. To date, 504 hospitals, which have already submitted their proposals, are now in the process of making contracts and recalculating corresponding funds. The sums of money are enough, these costs are provided in full, I emphasize, in full volume, that everyone, without exception, will have enough. Moreover, when we made the appropriate decision of the government, it was estimated that funding was starting in July. Next on the quality of medical care. This is one of the key elements of medical reform when we really want quality medicine. For that, I've been saying, and I'm saying that we have to make the right standards, what we do, what we do, what we're going to provide for quality criteria. When each person clearly knows the quality of medical care they receive, the State will know exactly what they are paying for. So this is the question that we've been asking since the 21st year, it's definitely going to be about everyone: rapid primary health care and the rest of the questions. Right away, moving on to immunization. It's a question of quality, quality indicators for primary health care, and it's going to be about immunization. Today we are provided with all the vaccines, all of them, I emphasize, and it is important for us that we do not have any other outbreaks of disease. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-04-m0.u37	The word is given to the National Deputy of the Third Party of Mikolayevna, faction of the political party "Serve of the People".
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-04-m0.u38	Please pass the word to Zaslavski Jury.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-04-m0.u39	Yuri Zaslavski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-04-m0.u40	Good afternoon, everyone! Minister, let me ask you a few questions. The first question is about schooling during the coronary pandemic. Who will control the implementation of quarantine standards in educational institutions? That's the first question. Next question. Should a medical examination be carried out at the beginning of the school year? And the third question I have is about transplantology in Ukraine. How will it be financed? Is there funding for this field of medicine? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-04-m0.u41	Thank you for asking. The issue of education, especially in our schools, was one of August’s most important issues. And the Ministry of Health, along with the Ministry of Education and Science, has ensured the development and implementation of, I think, a lot of comfortable, understandable and basic rules that can be implemented. All these rules, they were made to take into account the specificities of our teaching process. They are very simple, very often they depend solely on organizational activities. Well, for example, age-grouping is different inputs and exits. Or the rules on eating, or the rules on washing hands after school. So all these rules, they're pretty clear, including wearing masks. For example, teachers in classes, exclusively in the orange zone, we're talking about shields. Control is in line with the Ministry of Education, the State Food Service. And yesterday, literally, it was the prime minister of Ukraine's task to develop a monitoring group consisting of the Ministry of Education, the State Food Service and the Ministry responsible for the development of communities and territories and to conduct such monitoring around the country. That's the first one. Second question of medical examination. We didn't have to, we let them go through every year's medical exam. So how would you know what conditions we're in? And the next. What's going on with the transplant. We want to achieve transplant independence in 2-3 years. What does that mean? We don't want our citizens going abroad to be treated for the entire transplant here. We're funding, and now we have 112 million dollars in the pilot project that finance the transplant. For the next year, we're serving 585 million dollars. We look forward to your support, the people's deputies, on this issue.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-04-m0.u42	The word is given to the deputy head of the Supreme Council, Oleni Constantine Kondratuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-04-m0.u43	Thank you, Mr. Ruslan. Mr. Secretary, to my surprise, you haven't said a word today in your statement about vaccination from the Coronavirus. Today, more than 165 vaccines are being developed in the world from the Coronavirus, and 31 are already being tested. The European Commission itself, as far as I know, has already made arrangements for the purchase of more than 300 million doses of vaccine from SOVID. Please tell me, what is the situation in Ukraine right now? Are We Foretold to Buy? Is this humanitarian aid a vaccine? Who are these talks with? What companies are they dealing with? And the second. Are these all the expenses that should be in the 21st year budget already foreseen? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-04-m0.u44	Thank you for asking. Of course, all about vaccines that are being developed in the world today is a question that is also a priority, because we understand that only vaccination can completely defeat SOVID-19. According to the tasks that we have received, including from the President of the country, we communicate with virtually all leaders from the point of view of the development of vaccines. Who are these companies? First of all, we're negotiating with AstraZen, a famous company that, along with Oxford University, is developing this vaccine. Now they're in stage three clinical trials, expecting a proper completion of clinical trials and vaccine registration in quarter IV. We're doing the negotiations, we're expecting them to offer the number of vaccines they're willing to put in, and in which order they'll be ready to give us. Immediately, we will be ready to pay, and we will make the right decision. If confirmation is available, they are willing to pay the corresponding subscription. In addition, we are negotiating with the Chinese manufacturer Sinovax, who is also in stage three of the clinical trials. And we also expect them to have the final draft, the amount of doses they're willing to make. In addition, Ukraine has been admitted to countries under the COVAX initiative, a global vaccine distribution initiative, and 20 per cent of the population is for Ukraine an order of 8 million doses. We are now in the process of signing contracts, corresponding memoranda, agreements, and so forth, so that we can get them immediately after the vaccine has been produced and registered. In addition, we communicate with other companies, including Johnson & Johnson, Pfizer, Moderna, the American company. Unfortunately, there is no company to produce and register vaccines to date.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-04-m0.u45	Thank you, Minister. Please take your place in the government’s bed. The Prime Minister of Ukraine, Denis Anatoliyovich Schmigal, is invited to attend. Or is that what I understand? It's a question, isn't it? I think it's better this way. Please sign up for a question to the Prime Minister of Ukraine. Knyazevich Ruslan Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-04-m0.u46	I'm handing it over to Ion.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-04-m0.u47	Jon’s Maria Mikolayevna
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-04-m0.u48	Good afternoon! In fact, I would like to ask the Minister of Health one more, two, two, clarifying questions, because it was wrong to say that it did not correspond to the reality and information that my colleague, Olya Stefanisin, said. Because it's really the MOH that has to deal with and care for the doctors themselves, 11,000 sick doctors with the coronavirus, but it's the opposition faction "European Solidarity" that's taking care of when we offered the mandatory government insurance for doctors. Then tell me, when will the law work? Because what the majority has adopted in order to protect doctors, this bill does not work. And so on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on. Out of 64 billion, there's more than 3 billion left. Only 16 percent were spent on medical and medical infrastructure. Now it's been spent on Big Construction. Why are you as a minister and as Prime Minister, when you beat all the bells and warn the authorities and society of the inadmissibility of embezzlement of such a budget.?
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-04-m0.u49	Okay, first of all. What's going on with insurance and state insurance is once again I'm stressing this is a question that is currently in charge in the state. Moreover, each case is investigated, costs are paid, both to people who have lost their lives because of occupational illness and to families of health - care workers who are unfortunately killed. This is a question that's under control, and I want to stress it again. In addition, you see, and I put it in numbers, almost four times the number of people who have COVID-19 has dropped. 300 percent of the wages are paid to all health workers who are directly involved in the treatment of patients with COVID-19.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-04-m0.u50	Sussun Inna Romanovna
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-04-m0.u51	Good afternoon. I have a question for Prime Minister Dennis Schmigal. Mr. Dennis, you wrote an interesting post on Facebook last night. You wrote: "Today, you received a letter of appeal from the work team of the University of Crimson and State of Economics and Technology, which is outraged that yesterday the government did not consider the issue of a prize for the President's father." First of all, I have a lot of questions on the subject of lice rhetoric. And please tell us that in 2020, in the 30th year of Ukraine's independence, are you embarrassed to use this rhetoric? The second question. Please tell me, is that how the President's father got a permanent scholarship from the government? And continuing to question the circus. The probationary term for the minister of education and science will soon end. I would recommend that you start looking for a new minister, because a current minister on the air yesterday was unable to answer the question about how many teachers we have in the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-04-m0.u52	Regarding the received letter. Indeed, such a letter was received. In fact, Mr. Alexander Green’s working group was repeatedly presented as a candidate for the State Science Award in previous years. Regrettably, the previous management of the labour force was rejected. Now that such submissions have been made, both by the President of Ukraine and by the government, it has been decided to appeal once again to all the working groups to gather all the dignitaries who have learned Ukrainian and to make this list wide and to include all the worthy scientists in Ukraine who can be presented as candidates for such a scientific scholarship. So that's exactly the traditional approach that happens every year, but this year we want to make it broader, more public with the total involvement of all the working groups of universities and scientific institutions.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-04-m0.u53	Please give the floor to National Deputy Coltunovich Alexander Sergiyevich, faction of the political party "The Opposition Platform for Life".
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-04-m0.u54	Thank you. Dear Lord Chairman! There will be a question to the government’s chief of staff regarding the increase in the debt of wages to 3.4 billion dollars. It's a very large figure in the new history of Ukraine, it's a record. So we are interested in the question of how you will deal with these consequences and the shameful phenomenon. This time. The other one. Yesterday we made changes to the budget about us giving 150 million, other things to the stadium in Bloody Rose. Maybe it's better to focus and define other priorities of fiscal policy on driver stimulation or economic growth, industrial production and other things that will have an economic multiplier effect. That's two. And the third. Of course, the crisis in the real economy and the fall in industrial production by 8.3 percent, the decline in exports by more than 6 percent. Your agricultural production is surprisingly falling by 12 percent. So GDP as a whole is negative 11.4 percent. How will you cope with the economic crisis in the country? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-04-m0.u55	Good day again, everyone. And the question, the answer, more faithfully, to the first part is debt on wages. This is indeed a crisis - related problem. These are usually private - property enterprises. We have a 5-7-9 program. We have other programs to stimulate middle and small businesses that allow businesses to re-learn and take credit, actually, to pay off their wages. These programs are now very statistical and very active in both small and medium-sized businesses. They've already gained such a certain pace, and these are the tools that the government and the Supreme Council are giving business to manage the debt reduction process, in particular. It's about the Big Construction program. The construction of schools, gardens, stadiums, roads and other social infrastructures is a multiplicative approach to economic development that generates the largest number of jobs in the related sectors. And financing similar objects actually allows Ukraine to go through what you called the 11 per cent drop in GDP, although it was expected to be 14. Compared to Europe, with the United States, where the decline accounted for 34 percent of the third quarter, Ukraine is undergoing this economic crisis, so to speak, quite moderately. Although, of course, measures to stimulate small, medium-sized businesses, credit, and improve conditions. The mortgage is now less than 10 percent available. That's what the president and the government promised. And it's growing. Literally in the morning, a meeting was held with bankers, and by one and a half percent of the week, the mortgage program in Ukraine in general increased. These are also stimulating factors that create additional jobs, additional multipliers. 270, almost thousands of people are currently employed through the Employment Centers.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-04-m0.u56	Please, National Deputy Heratchenko Irina Volodymyrna, faction of the political party "European Solidarity".
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-04-m0.u57	Please pass the word to Alexia Potter.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-04-m0.u58	Alexiyovich Honcharenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-04-m0.u59	Thank you. Alexei Hotcharenko, European Solidarity. I have a question for Mr. Prime Minister Two. First question. For today, please let us know. Is there a complete foundation for the fight against COVID infection, the 65 billion dollars that have been invested in the state budget? Is there still an unscheduled remnant? Please let us know the exact information. First. Second question. Now in the Supreme Council, the decision to remove 2 billion 150 million dollars from subsidies to citizens and transfer them to the government, the D.B.I. and so on. I have a question for you. Are you personally responsible for the fact that the money left on subsidies is enough to pay people off, considering that there has been a sharp rise in gas prices — by September of the month already 45 percent? And last but not least, Mr. Razumkov, Mr. Stefanchuk, we're requesting a committee on "vagregate," a temporary commission of inquiry. Once again, don't walk away from this question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-04-m0.u60	So it's about subsidies. Of course, the State will fulfill all its social obligations, all subsidies will be paid, as they are to be paid. As far as gas prices are concerned. Ukraine has already made a huge breakthrough and a step forward in the formation of market prices rather than corrupt gas prices when corrupt pricing has been established by officials. And according to today's gas price is regulated by a competitive market, which is very important. For the first time in 56 years, we have the lowest gas prices in the next month -- August, September. Of course, there will be a natural market increase, but it will be the lowest price in five years for gas in Ukraine. Subsidies will be properly paid. Regarding the Fund’s fight against COVID and its consequences, it is fully distributed. There's an appropriate percentage of the use of funds, i.e. cash payments, I'll now ask a representative, the first deputy minister of finance to complete and comment on what percentages of use, but the fund is on schedule. There is a possibility of redistribution, if necessary, within these funds, but this will, of course, be done with the participation of the budgetary committee, with the participation of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, if this is necessary. Thank you. Please, Dennis Valeriovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-04-m0.u61	Thank you. When it comes to using the COVID fund. Today, on September 1, cashier’s expenses amounted to 19.1 billion dollars out of $65.96 billion. [[The voice from the hall. I'm sorry, the questioner's out of the room. I understand he's not interested, so maybe we won't answer.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-04-m0.u62	Yeah, I wanted to answer that, too, but there's no Alexi Alexiovich, unfortunately. Dear colleagues, I give the floor to a national MP. Excuse me, People's Deputy Boris Viktorovich, Deputy Group "Trust". Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-04-m0.u63	Please pass the word to Oleg Ivanovich Kulinich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-04-m0.u64	Oleg Ivanovich Kulinich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-04-m0.u65	I have a question for you, Mr. Prime Minister. In the near future, a draft Act on the State Budget of Ukraine for 2021 will be introduced to Parliament. The president of our nation has been anointing the increase in medical expenses. It's going to be almost double, in the area of 6 percent of GDP. So here's my question. Is that really true? What kind of sum would that be? And what are the directions for using these funds? Taking into account the complex situation with COVID-19, given the possible, God forbid, the increase in disease and the second wave of the Coronavirus. So people are interested in areas where these costs are going to be used and what exactly is going to be the amount. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-04-m0.u66	Thank you for asking. The budget is now in formation. On September 15, as the law requires, it will be brought to the attention of the relevant committees and parliament in order for us to move on to such a systemic discussion. To date, the Ministry of Finance has been completing, more faithfully, balancing the basis of the budget. In terms of expenditure on individual fields, such as medicine, education, and military expenses, the military has already been set aside. I could also ask the First Deputy Minister of Finance to comment on your question after, say, a preliminary calculation of the cost of medicine. Of course, we're going to fund all the necessary costs for the cadaver needs, if that's the case next year. And they will be, because we're already living with this virus, with this pandemic, and it's going to continue for the next few periods. Of course, we will continue with medical reform and today, from the rostrum, the ministers spoke and sounded all the basic indicators of how we will move with reform. At the cost rate, if it is, Denise Valeriovich, I'm going to ask you to add, sound, to the medical area that the sum is foreseen in the previous project, let's say, in that project that is now balanced and will be passed.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-04-m0.u67	Thank you. To date, the Ministry of Finance is finalizing the drafting of the State Budget Act, the draft law, including consultations with the chief supervisors, at the limits that have been argued, the main medical administrators have been provided with some 144 billion dollars. I think the results of the consultations are going to come up with some balanced amount that's going to set up both sectors.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-04-m0.u68	The word is given to National Deputy Tistik Rostislav Jaroslavovich, political party "Serve of the People".
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-04-m0.u69	Thank you, Ruslan Alexiovich. National MP Rostislav Tistik, Lvivščina, "Serve of the people." Question to the Prime Minister. See, in November 2019, at the time, the Prime Minister was the previous Alexei Honcharuk, and the issue of heat delivery in the two densely populated cities of Lvivščina, the New Division and Novojavorysk was dealt with as a matter of urgency. Then a new ruler of Naftogaz Warp was appointed. As of now, September 2020, Naftogaz Heplo as manager and Energia Novayavorovsk (the contractor company) has failed to carry out planned hydraulic tests. This time. Two. They stopped the hot water. And the third. I didn't plan on repairing the freeways. The conclusions are clear: we are back on the path of a local technological emergency in the 30th-thousandth city in Lviv. A request and a question to you. Take it under personal control and take immediate steps to repair the highway heat and carry out all the appropriate tests to provide for the heating season in Novoyavorysk, Lviv. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-04-m0.u70	Thank you for asking. It's more of a fixation of the problem. I agree with you completely. I support you. It's in control, we understand the situation. Literally this week, you've had meetings, and meetings are scheduled. I will now give the floor to the Minister of the Cabinet of Ministers to work with the ARMA, who will also transmit the relevant NAC Naftogazu networks so that we can avoid repeating the situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-04-m0.u71	In fact, two meetings have already taken place at the Prime Minister's appointment. Yesterday at the extreme meeting and NAC Naftogaz and his subsidiary, which is now the manager, have been held, provided full information about. Indeed, no trials have been made for one simple reason. When they were transmitted to the manager of the network, they were not transmitted. So the corresponding NAC Naftogazu subsidiary doesn't have to physically do this. We set a deadline until Wednesday for the ARMA to work with the SAP and the NABU to decide on the transfer of this property. If this is not resolved, the responsibilities of the ARM will be changed. Thank you, the report's over.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-04-m0.u72	Thank you. The word is given to a national MP. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-04-m0.u73	Dear colleagues, no, unfortunately, the time has run out. No, dear fellows. I would like to thank the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the honourable government officials. Thank you and wish you a fruitful day. Ruslan Alexiyovich Stefanchuk, First Deputy Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-04-m0.u74	Dear colleagues, before the government has left the bed, I have one request. Today we have mentioned many important dates in the history of Ukraine. And I would like us in Parliament to talk about another date that exists. Today, 35 years ago, he died, sadly, the great Ukrainian poet of the 20th century, translator, proseic, thinker and main participant in the dissident hand of Ukraine Hero of Ukraine Vasil Seminovich Stus. Let us remember his memory in the Supreme Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-04-m0.u75	Thank you. Let's get back to our work. Dear colleagues, you have been invited to consider the draft Decision repealing the Decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of 1 September 2020 on second reading adoption and, as a whole, the Law of Ukraine of the Draft Law on Amendments to the Final and Transitional Provisions of the Law on the Electricity Market of Ukraine on the supply of electricity for the purpose of ensuring the operation of the common property of the apartment building (registration No. 2098-P). The National Deputy of Ukraine, Kucherenko Aleksij Yuriovich, is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-04-m0.u76	Alexy Kucherenko, "The Fatherland" faction, head of the All-U.S. Association of Housing Owners of Ukraine. Dear Ukrainians, honourable deputies, dear Mr. Head! I'm in a few of these difficult situations today, but I want to explain why I was forced to make a decision requiring the vote to be lifted for my own bill, which I've had to go through for more than a year. It was a perfectly correct, sorry bill that was out there that regulated the problem of electricity supply in multi-room buildings at the price of the population. It was awaited by millions of Ukrainians, the heads of the FSB, the heads of the FBK, and the governing companies. But unfortunately, this bill was called "To make changes to the Final, Transitional Regulations" of the Ukrainian Electricity Market Act on the supply of electricity to ensure the operation of the common property of a multi-housing apartment house. Unfortunately, our committee colleague has brought about an amendment that has broken the essence of this bill and that has fundamentally changed the situation not only with this problem but also with the energy situation. Unfortunately, Rada, the hall did not pay any attention to this. Unfortunately, the honourable Lord of Heads, Mr. Razumkov, whom I respect, did not even give me the floor to speak out and explain to you why you should not vote in favour of a fellow member of the Jurassic who will eventually lead to an increase in the price of electricity. That's why I'm taking advantage of this opportunity to say and ask that it doesn't happen again. But since this bill is necessary, I am withdrawing my ruling and calling your attention not to do so in advance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-04-m0.u77	Thank you, Alexei Yuriovich. Colleagues. Can we not vote after yours? Thank you. The next speaker is Müb Victoria Alexandrovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-04-m0.u78	Dear colleagues, good day again! I very much ask you to pay attention now, and I will not take my ruling off, and I will ask you to vote for it. Look what we have in Parliament today. We're in violation of the Rules. When laws that are adopted in the first reading are then introduced in the Final Position, they change the substance of the bill. Please tell me, if we're going to have this kind of chaos in Parliament, if we're going to break legislation, we're going to have the same chaos in the country. It's time for order. And I very much ask you today to mention this number 8 issue, which has been introduced into the Nuclear Energy Act. And we all remember how much we all had to, you know, just stamp our eyes just because we were on the market, on our market, where the power surplus, we also started importing, putting our heat energy on our knees. When our miners are forced to go straight away. We want the same situation, the same chaos from this bill? I ask you very much, Dmitri Alexanderovich, to pay attention to a grave violation of the Rules. And I ask you, colleagues, to vote in favour of this decree. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-04-m0.u79	Dear colleagues, the chairman of the Committee on Rules, MPs, and the organization of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Kalchenko, Sergey Vitaliyovich, is invited to the floor.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-04-m0.u80	Dear Dmitre Alexanderovich, distinguished national MPs! The Regulatory Committee discussed, at its meeting this morning, both draft regulations 2098-P and 2098-P1 on repealing the decision of the Supreme Council on the adoption of the law as a whole (registration number 2098). On the basis of these draft regulations, the explanatory notes indicate that the review of the decision was accompanied by a violation of the Rules’ procedure for consideration and decision-making. At the same time, the Regulatory Committee pointed out that the People's Deputies, Kucherenko and Grib, had not addressed the presiding officer in the plenary meeting with a statement of violations established by the Rules, voting procedures and consideration of the draft law, but had brought to Parliament the relevant draft decisions repealing the decision. In summary, the Regulatory Committee adopted conclusions and adopted conclusions on both draft regulations and adopted a decision that accordingly suggested that the Supreme Council should decide how to vote on the adoption or rejection of these draft regulations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-04-m0.u81	Ladies and gentlemen, please sign up from the MP factions and groups: two in, two in, and two in, against. Kucherenko Aleksei Yuriovich
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-04-m0.u82	Alexy Kucherenko, faction of Fatherland. Dear colleagues, I will now try again to explain to you the reasons behind the violation of the Rules and the adoption of such rights. A colleague named Grib recalled the sad amendment of a deputy regarding Russian electricity imports. So far, we can't solve this. The paper that another colleague of the "Serve of the People" has brought down is also destroying the electricity market. It gives the authority to a questionable body, which has essentially become responsible for the huge problems that are now taking place in the housing sector, in tariffs, in the electricity market, in the gas market. This is the National Energy and Utilities Commission. I'm paying attention to the whole country. The commission’s leadership is formed in an illegal way. Four non-competition members were appointed by President Zelenski of Ukraine as temporary for three months, but then received permanent, permanent status, if you will. The rotation that takes place in this body is now approved by the President of Ukraine, although it is recognized by the central authority of the executive branch. 90 percent of the problems in the electricity market today are caused by this body. The Damaged Energoatoma, the Damaged Ukrenergo, the Damaged Guaranteed Buyer, the Damaged Distribution Company, the Heatcommunerage Damage Company, the Huge Debts, that's what the current composition of the commission can't deal with right now. Why, then, should we give him additional effort that he will fail? That's why, colleagues, I urge you to support Mrs. Greeb's draft decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-04-m0.u83	Thank you. Danuca Alexander Anatolyevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-04-m0.u84	Good afternoon, colleagues! You know, I support most of my colleagues, Kucherenka, because we have an interesting situation where almost all state electricity companies are bankrupt, and all private companies are profitable. That is why there is a great request. Well, it's dissonance, it's impossible at all. One who has done little business in life realizes that such things cannot be done. So there is a request to support Mrs. Greeb's decision and I ask everyone to support and vote in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-04-m0.u85	Majjkovich Mikola Romanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-04-m0.u86	"European solidarity" will be maintained when these draft regulations are voted on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-04-m0.u87	Suffritch Nestor Ivanovich. Don't you insist on the performance?
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-04-m0.u88	Thank you. Please give the floor to the National Deputy of Ukraine to the Honourable Coltunovich Alexander.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-04-m0.u89	Alexander Sergiyovich Koltunovich, turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-04-m0.u90	Thank you. Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs! Our first-reading faction voted in favour of this bill because it was really positive. Indeed, the standards proposed by Mr. Kucherenk have, in our view, addressed the issue of supply and direct tariff policy for energy resources, including access. However, during the second reading, the draft law was completely distorted by that 3 amendment. The 3 amendments were supported by the hall and our faction did not support the draft law. Actually, I wanted to pay attention to this energy-schematosis and including this 3 amendment. That if we don't vote on this ruling today, still, the list of draft laws that are being submitted to the Supreme Council today, to the Supreme Council Hall, they will inevitably lead to an increase in the electricity tariff. Well, there's a specific national MP, and he can't even be saved if, God forbid, 90 copies of the bill goes up for the population. But other things that are happening today. And we see that the price of gas is rising, the price of electricity is rising for delivery, other moments are rising, other services are increasing. So I would like to point out that for the future, please don't accept those draft laws that will in the future lead to an increase in housing and utilities tariffs. Because even the limit today is 100 kilowatts, it doesn't allow people to get quality services in the field of electricity and use a tariff of 90 copies. Many people consume 1.68. So I'm paying attention to you that you're doing reforms that won't lead to an increase in tariffs. And this decision is actually going to hold our faction, and we're not going to vote. Because we don't want to take part in the conflict of two financial and industrial groups. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-04-m0.u91	Thank you. Let's go to the vote. Dear colleagues, we will formally have to vote on Alexi Yuriovich Kucherenk's motion for a ruling so that there will be no legal collegiates. But the author does not insist that she be supported. I'm betting on the vote on the proposal for adoption in the whole of the draft Decree (registration number 2098-P). Please identify and vote. [[11:38:18]] For-55 The decision is not taken. I'm betting on a motion for a motion for adoption in the whole of the draft Decision Cancellation Order (registration number 2098-P1). Please identify and vote. [[11:38:47]] For-55 The decision is not taken. Thank you. Let's move on to the next question of order of the day. You are invited to consider a draft Law amending certain legislative acts to improve the regulation of relations in the field of the safety of individual categories of road users (users of personal light electricity, cyclists and pedestrians) (registration Nos. 3023 and 3023-1). It is suggested that this issue be considered in a simplified manner. Please support and vote. [[11:39:32]] For 208 The decision is not taken.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-04-m0.u92	The agenda was reduced, the day-to-day session was scheduled, and the deadlines for the submission of alternative bills were reduced. The committee was scheduled to hold a meeting today. All right, you can turn around. [[B in m in s a l in]] It's out of order now, because it is. Please don't yell at me. Don't yell at me. First of all, we're in the middle of a day's work. Another issue of the agenda. [[B in m in s a l in]] Because it's not ready. We cannot consider an unprepared question. Are you insisting that we consider the unprepared issue? No, it's not. I agree with your position. First Deputy Head of the Committee on Transport and Infrastructure Klimenko Julia Leonidivna is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-04-m0.u93	Dear colleagues, I would like to offer you an apolitical bill, but very important, because it will regulate our future and more faithfully regulate the status of people who use light personal electricity. This is about gyroscopes, monocycles, electric scooters, and many other light - transport modes that are and will appear in the future. I mean, at this point in time, there are actually no such people in the legislative field in Ukraine. Those who use light electricity have neither rights nor obligations, they drive, but they are not pedestrians, not bicycles. The bill is very simple, and it introduces into the Road Traffic Act, which was adopted in the 93st year, and accordingly did not have an easy electricity transit, the notion of "light transport users", and regulates their rights and duties. These are two bills: 3023 and 3023-1. Bill 3023 was passed on February 6, 20 and 3023-1 from 20.02.2020. They're essentially the same. They are only different if users are allowed to move light electricity through sidewalks. So you're looking at these two bills. Amendments to certain legislative acts to improve the regulation of relations in the field of ensuring the safety of individual categories of road users. As I said, registration number 3023 from 6.02. 20th year. As well as making changes to some Ukrainian legislation on the organization of road traffic for people who are using portable electric vehicles (register No. 3023-1), from 20.02. 20th year. These bills propose to introduce a new category of road users, determine the circle of rights and obligations of the new category of participants, and address individual safety issues of other road users. The adoption of these bills will help to regulate the legal relations that arise in the process of the operation of electrical means of transport. We see many conflicts that arise in cities. At the moment, when local authorities don't know who these people are, they don't allow companies that either rent or just individuals who use their electricity, who they are or how they should move. So I propose that this week we actively adopt bills in the first reading on the development of electricity in Ukraine, including light electricity. And if we accept it in the second reading, I hope that Ukraine will still be the leader of electricity and light electricity. So we need to adjust and still determine the status of people who are moving on light electricity. So the Road Traffic Act. The main scientific and expert office supports the adoption of both bills on the basis of observations. The Committee on European Integration with the European Union noted that these bills do not conflict with Ukraine's international obligations. The Committee on Budgetary Questions noted that the projects identified would have a direct impact on the budget indicators. And the Committee on Anti-Corruption Policy did not reveal any corruption. As a result of the discussion at the meeting, the Transport and Infrastructure Committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council a draft Ukrainian law amending certain legislative acts to improve the regulation of relations in the field of ensuring the safety of individual categories of road users.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-04-m0.u94	Thank you. The National Deputy of Ukraine Kunayev Artem Yuriovich is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-04-m0.u95	Thank you. Dear Mr. Head, Your Honor, your opinion is on a draft Ukrainian Law amending some Ukrainian legislation on the organisation of road traffic for people who are moving by means of portable means of transport on an electric weight, which is an alternative to Bill 3023. First of all, I would like to point out that the relevance of drafting such drafts has long been ripe, especially since the whole country survived a full stop in public transport during quarantine and the number of people using electric motor vehicles and other electric transports, not as a toy, but as an alternative to buses and routes, will only increase. However, domestic legislation does not contain legal rules governing their rights and obligations and the extent to which they are responsible for possible violations. So, de jure, these people don't recognize themselves as road users, but we do see dozens of electric cars and other electricity in our streets. I would like to point out that Bill 3023-1 is primarily about safety, safety day and night for those who drive this transport, for those who walk or drive by car. And unlike Law 3023, we, together with its authors against excessive regulation, and from the reality of today's, we offer to allow people who travel by means of portable means of transport to ride not only on special bicycle tracks or on the road, but also on sidewalks, but at a safe speed. The main scientific and expert body of the Supreme Council of Ukraine considers that the rights of the legislative initiative are sufficiently well founded on the amendments proposed in these bills, and generally does not deny the possibility of adopting both bills as a basis. In view of the foregoing, I ask you, honourable national deputies, to support Bill 3023-1 itself. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-04-m0.u96	Thank you. Dear colleagues, do you need a discussion? Please sign up: two in, two in, two in factions. Cimbaluk Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-04-m0.u97	Mikhailo Cimbaluk, Fatherland. Please give the word to a colleague of the Sergio Vlasenko faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-04-m0.u98	Vlasenko Sergei Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-04-m0.u99	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues! It's absolutely right and it's a clear bill on the safety of road users, but I'd like to say a little bit about something else. In fact, the Head of the Supreme Council has done much to keep this Parliament within the limits of the Rules. Sadly, though, dear Mr. Head, ten minutes ago was not such a pleasant occasion. In some ways, Bill 4043 was born into the agenda, which somehow the session hall was not currently under consideration. Dear Mr. Head, if you have rightly pointed out that this bill is not ready, which I fully agree with, I have a simple question. How did this bill come about in the order of the day that you form, Sir Head? This is position number one. Position number two. Colleagues, no one but the Supreme Council's session room, can move, remove. If there are no objections to national MPs, then this can be done without a vote. But if there is a denial of the people's deputies, Mr. Head, this question must be put to the vote if we want to remove the bill from the agenda, whether it is ready or not. Now, a few words, actually, about this bill. By this bill 4043, they want to give the Central Election Commission absolutely non-proper functions, allowing it to conduct sociological studies that will be manipulated, both during the organization and the elections, and to manipulate public opinion. In fact, the key thing is not only that, but the key is that this bill is completely unconstitutional, it's the second day they're trying to get through the profile committee, it's the second day they're trying to get through the session hall. Once again, the Constitution does not give the Central Election Commission such powers. And if we're taking the bill off the table, Mr. Head, there should be the will of the Supreme Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-04-m0.u100	Pippa Natalia Romanovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-04-m0.u101	Please hand over Klimenko July.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-04-m0.u102	Clemensa Julia Leonidivna.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-04-m0.u103	I'd still like to go back to the users of light electricity and the bill 3023, and say that I haven't made it. This bill, to say the same to our Ukrainians: this bill has no additional regulations, no certifications, no additional rights, no additional help. So movement, people who are moving on monocycles now, on electric scooters are going to be as much as they are moving now, no extra ones, they're just getting into legislation and they're now full-fledged road users. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-04-m0.u104	Sukhov Alexander Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-04-m0.u105	Please pass it on to the Sergey.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-04-m0.u106	The great Sergey Anatolyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-04-m0.u107	Sergey the Great, Luganskina, the Trust Group. In recent times, hundreds of children have been affected and more than a few hundred have been affected by a wave of emergencies in and outside educational institutions. "By Santa's car hit a group of cyclists -- six injured." "Volina's RV" is a cyclist collided with a car. "In Dniper, a rider was killed by a cyclist." This is just a few headlines in the last few days. The "Our Land" political force has launched a campaign at the local level to increase road safety. We will not waste time and wait for the decisive action of the government, we will increase security from below, without waiting for it to reach the top. In all local councils, including the OTG, we are initiating security measures. The bill aims to increase the liability of road users (helicopters, electric motorists, scooter drivers) to increase fines for improper implementation of traffic rules. That's why the "Trust" group will vote in favour. Thank you for your attention. Sergey the Great, Luganskina, the Trust Group.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-04-m0.u108	Nestor Ivanovich Šufrich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-04-m0.u109	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. Singleness is certainly a good thing, but not very affluent for individual prime ministers of Ukraine. We all mentioned how Mr. Hotcharuk came on his own and I don't know if he left Smigal with his own car, but I think it's time for him to take this samocate and drive from the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Dear colleagues, I respect all the performances in the Supreme Council, every national MP has the right to do so. Surely we are in pain of what is in Belarus, and do not let it end like that in Ukraine. And they look at it, they can compare it, and they can draw conclusions. We mentioned many outstanding Belarusians, but we forgot another prominent name. This is Paul Sheremet, an outstanding Belarusian journalist who came to work in Kiev, to protect the rights of Ukrainians as a Belarusian, and he died at the hands of law-abiding officials. Why are we not mentioning this today? And I sincerely want the Belarusians not to have radicalism become an idea that can destroy stability in this country. The Belarusians will figure out for themselves how to be, how to live. I can see that they are united and will deal with this issue. Today, we wish the Belarusians stability, peace, peace, and development. And indeed: Long live Belarus, our brothers and sisters! Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-04-m0.u110	Dear colleagues, time. Polyakov is a minute from motive, after. Bigwich. And after that, Polakov is two minutes of motivation. And let's go to the vote. Invite the national deputies to the hall. Majjkovich Mikola Romanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-04-m0.u111	Dear colleagues, when we have supported this week, including "European Solidarity", our electricity transport now raises the next question: to regulate the rights of those citizens who use light electrical individual transport. It is extremely important to protect them because, unfortunately, it is very common that motorists ignore the rights of such road users. "European Solidarity" will support this bill 3023, will vote and call for all to support. Because this bill does not apply to any policy, it applies to all Ukrainian citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-04-m0.u112	Polakov Anton Eduardoovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-04-m0.u113	Anton Polyakov, MP Group for the Future, Montenegro. The parliamentary group "For the Future" will unquestionably support this bill. But it is appropriate to note that, apart from the rights of these citizens, there is a need for responsibility. And for the second reading, there may be some restrictions on speed, on the age of those who can travel in this transport, and on the capacity of this transport in connection with the development of these technologies. Because we realize that these vehicles will soon be likened to normal cars at speed and capacity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-04-m0.u114	Dear colleagues, let's go to the vote. Please prepare for the vote, invite the national deputies to the hall. I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Law amending certain legislative acts to improve the regulation of relations in the field of the security of individual categories of road users (users of passenger light electricity, cyclists and pedestrians) (registration No. 3023). Vote? Ready to vote? Based on the base. Please support and vote. [[11:57:53]] For 268. Decision taken. Thank you. Dear colleagues, the committee requested. Hold on, hold on a second. A committee was asked not to consider bill 2289 today. Is there no objection? None. Then there's a break until 12:30. Please don't be late.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-04-m0.u115	Dear colleagues! Please take your seats. So let's get to the point. You are invited to consider the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on State Support for Agriculture of Ukraine and other Ukrainian laws on the functioning of the State Agrarian Register and the improvement of State support for agricultural producers (Registration No. 3295). Please invite the national deputies to the hall. We're going to have to vote on the proposal for a reduced procedure. Dear colleagues, ready to vote? Invite the national deputies to the hall. Are we ready to vote now? It is suggested that the issue of registration number 3295 be considered by a reduced procedure. Please support and vote. [[12:34:31]] For 176 Decision taken. The National Deputy of Ukraine, Artem Olegovic, is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-04-m0.u116	Good afternoon, Your Honor's Presidium, Honorable People's Deputies, Honorable People of Ukraine! Bill 3295 of 30.03. In 2020. As it were, the main idea of the bill was that after committee hearings, the bill set out two objectives: to improve the functioning of the state support system for agriculture and to remove administrative barriers and additional costs for agricultural producers with State support. As for the first, discriminatory standards are being removed and we are increasing the list of subsidies for agricultural producers. That is: Cossacks, that is, Western Ukraine, aquaculture is the southern part of Ukraine, and we are also improving grapes, and that is the situation that has now taken place in Ukraine this year. It is the producers who can offset the cost of damage to agricultural crops from the extraordinary situations of technological and natural phenomena, namely drought this year. Also, government support for organic agricultural products that are used by meliorated soils. The second part, as well as the main novelty of this bill, is the introduction of the State Agrarian Register. In order to create an electronic information system, transparent administration is geared towards the distribution of state support funds in the agricultural sector by means of electronic means. Ladies and gentlemen, this is how we clean up a very powerful, so to speak, bureaucratic machine. Now all the agrarians can register and get their grant in an automatic period. Thank you. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-04-m0.u117	The chairman of the Agrarian and Land Policy Committee, Solski Mikola Tarasovich, is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-04-m0.u118	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues! What's this bill about? Actually, it's about two blocks. First. The procedure for obtaining subsidies in the current legislation requires that the agricultural activity entity that wishes to receive it be given a wide range of activities related to obtaining help and so forth. Since February of this year, a pilot project has been operating in parts of Ukraine, where it is done automatically through a so-called agrarian register, which should be granted official status under this law. This will make it easier to access and simplify information for all farmers who are being submitted for grants. This system combines the following data: the State Land cadastre data, the State Register of Legal Persons, the natural persons entrepreneurs, the Register of Real Estate Rights, the Register of Animals. In addition, the bill expands the areas of agroactivity that may be subject to grants. That's right.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-04-m0.u119	Thank you. Dear colleagues, do you need a discussion? Please write down: two for, two for the factions for the performance. Laba Mikhailo Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-04-m0.u120	Mr. Mikolo, good afternoon. Please tell us that the bill organizes the market for such agricultural producers. I would like to take into account, if possible, the position that this would not be a complex mechanism for the registration of such subjects, and then it would become more difficult to obtain such assistance from the State. If this mechanism is simplified, I will support this bill as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-04-m0.u121	Arjev Vladimir Igorovich Kubi Stepan Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-04-m0.u122	Dear Mr. Head, the Presidium, the honourable colleagues! Bill 3295 is a very important bill. A bill that establishes the principles and functioning of the State Agrarian Register. We're also talking about collecting information, we're talking about a system, we're talking about accumulation of data processing, and this information is very important for agricultural producers. We are like a country that moves from raw materials exports to the processing stage in Europe, Asia, Africa, South America. This is a very important piece of legislation. The bill includes provisions for state agricultural intervention, government regulation of prices, individual agricultural products, state mortgage purchases, and grains and products. But between the first and the second readings, we have to take into account a number of shortcomings that relate to the collection of different types of agrarian products and the jade direction. We're talking today about an important position to adjust the conformity of European standards, what John Klimpus-Cincadze made today's comments. At the same time, I want to say that the text of the bill does not correspond to a comparative table. Excluding the provision that a credit subsidy or compensation for leasing payments is granted on a competitive basis, the use and violation of Article 27 of the Budget Code. In this regard, between the first and the second readings, we are ready to make our suggestions. We are ready to focus on adopting the bill as a whole in the second reading. "European Solidarity" will support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-04-m0.u123	Makarov Oleg Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-04-m0.u124	Please, Krulko Vadim wants to speak. Ivchenka, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-04-m0.u125	Ivchenko Vadim Evgenovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-04-m0.u126	Ivchenko Vadim, Fatherland. What bothers agrarians today. It's a paperweight. It's a conversation with an official. These are trips to the region. Today, through the electronic system, we can implement this agririum automatically to receive support. I'm not talking about small or medium-sized producers, or family. Most of these manufacturers do not even have lawyers and qualified personnel to write the relevant documents and bring them to Kiev. Plus, it's an extra cost. Of course, digital technologies will do their utmost to ensure that 95 percent or 100 percent of the civil servant’s automatic support comes to the Ukrainian farmer. I'm glad we're writing into this agrarian register of one-man farms today. We need to understand clearly who is growing today. This will and will be in fact in line with the European Union directives, which clearly refer to the quality of the product, the safety of the product, the traceability of the product. And this bill, of course, needs to be supported on the basis. As Fatherland, we're going to be filing a warrant to make it clear that we're prioritising state support. Because for us, it's not a "comparative," it's a priority that family farms or single farms should be given this support on an irreversible basis. We need to clearly define the cost-recovery priorities for the purchase of technology as support for the agricultural producer, in particular, the manufacturer who manufactures industrial products for agriculture. We're going to work on this bill, and now let's vote on it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-04-m0.u127	The alien Boris Viktorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-04-m0.u128	Please pass the word to Kucher Mikoli Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-04-m0.u129	Kucher Mikola Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-04-m0.u130	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues! I ask you to support this bill. An extremely important bill for agriculture. First of all, that block of issues that regulates the State Agrarian Register. This will provide all agrarians with a simplified procedure for registering budget support, automatically verifying their status through access to other state registers, simply submitting an application for state support, quickly verifying compliance with state support criteria, and the ability to assess. Publicity is the main thing. Publicity of the distribution of state support funds and control by the state and the public regarding the use of taxpayers' funds, and the formation of a single office of agrarians. The second block of issues that this bill deals with is the exclusion of issues from the law that relate to all issues of regulation of standing intervention procurement. The question of mortgage intervention procurement had to be resolved ten years ago, because if they were needed in 2002-2005, today, apart from corruption, these two possibilities do not solve anything. So I'm asking all of you to support a bill that still provides State support to fruit producers, berries, grapes, hops, and compensation for the costs they spend on getting, to buy drip systems, to build refrigerators to store fruits, grape varieties, hops and vegetables for my own production. The adoption of the law will contribute to the development of gardening, berries, hops, goats, and aquaculture. The introduction of the State Register will facilitate the calculation of agricultural producers and provide them with additional opportunities to obtain state support. Thank you again, I urge you to support the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-04-m0.u131	Thank you. Now it's Shufrich, Sobolev. You don't. The Cabal. The "voice" came in and handed over Yvchenko. Sobolen. And now you're giving in to Voice. Strategy? All right. Two minutes, then we vote. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-04-m0.u132	Thank you. Dear Chairman, dear colleagues! The Opposition Platform for Life supports the idea of redistributing subsidies for small farmers. Today, no one is saying that we have become billionaires, those who have used state-owned support -- a totally corrupt scheme to raise funds from the state for their own wealth. Now we have to support those people who are really working on the earth. Sadly, though, the good purpose is again tainted by certain standards that do not apply. That's why we demand: flies separately, chops separately. On the first reading, we will uphold this law. If those norms that remind us of the very continuation of the land reform -- the looting of people -- are there, we'll block that law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-04-m0.u133	Thank you. The word is yes, I understand, Soboljev. Sobolen. Rachmanin. Please, Rachmanin. Please, who's coming, please? Sabal, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-04-m0.u134	Dear colleagues, we all remember how in Ukraine's history agrarian donations have not been received by those to whom they are supposed to go – big profitable businesses. This law is one of the many things we want to do to change this situation. This law introduces transparency, making it clear who and how many government grants are received. The other one. It provides better access for small and medium-sized farmers. Not just for large farmers, but for small and medium-sized farmers, for agricultural subsidies. And the third. It expands the scope of this law, and now more different sectors in the agricultural sector will be able to claim agricultural subsidies. So I call upon all my colleagues in the hall from all the factions, let us unite and uphold this law. Thank you so much for your attention!
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-04-m0.u135	Thank you. Is there anyone else who would like to speak on the grounds of the vote? Who wants it? Vlasenko. But now, I'm looking at you, your party has been speaking. No, no, I can't. We'd love to hear from you in a private chat room. Dear colleagues, who else are those parties that have not spoken in order for you to be able to speak on this issue? It doesn't, does it? Then I ask you to invite colleagues into the hall and prepare for the vote. Dear colleagues, ready to vote? I am voting on the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on State Support for Agriculture of Ukraine and other Ukrainian laws on the functioning of the State Agrarian Register and the improvement of State support for agricultural producers (Law No. 3295). The committee's proposal is to take it as a basis. Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[12:50:37]] For 271 Decision taken. The law is adopted as a basis.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-04-m0.u136	Show the factions, please. "The Servant of the People" – 183, "The Opposition Platform for Life" – 16, "The European Solidarity" – 22, "The Fatherland" – 10, "For the Future" – 7, "The Voice" – 14, "The Trust" – 13, "the Non-Factional" – 6. I'll tell you. Representatives of MP factions and groups have come forward to consider, and we have 7 minutes left to deal with the issues of time. We've come up with a proposal to now consider two issues, two ratifications -- 0048, 0050. Is there no objection? No discussion. Okay. Prepare to vote. I'm betting on a motion for adoption in the entire draft Act on the withdrawal of the Treaty. Do you insist on discussing it? If I give you a minute, will you be okay? Two minutes, one faction takes over and we vote. Is there no objection? Coltunovich Alexander Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-04-m0.u137	Ladies and gentlemen, let me explain what our basic approach is here. Because whatever things are going to disintegrate with the countries of the SND, they are directly damaging the national economy, and whatever steps we're taking today, they're going. Those who are now shouting "disgusting," in 2014 they overturned Ukraine's export potential, tricked them into diversifying. And I'll explain in numbers how this happens. Minus $20 billion we have in 2019 in export to the SND market. We lost $20 billion compared to the year 2013. Shut up, God, you idiots! Look, next moment, second moment. As for exports to countries.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-04-m0.u138	Turn off the microphone, please. Alexander Sergiyovich, such a statement is certainly not in Parliament. Let's apologize to our colleagues. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-04-m0.u139	Thank you. I apologize for the intolerable word, it is inappropriate in the public domain. Next, second moment. We have a loss of $20 billion in exports. This leads to huge losses in industrial production, loss of wages, jobs, and many other things. We have 12 million migrant workers in the country because people don't have a place to work, they don't have a place to store their products or anything else. For example, UTZ, the South turbine plant, has the potential to produce 150 turbines per 100 million. It's an export of 15 billion dollars, just one turbine. Markets are SND countries. That's why we're against ratifying this decision, because they're causing damage to Ukraine, including such steps. As far as diversification is concerned, what we've been asked to do. We've been exporting about twenty billion dollars to the EU markets, and we have these huge losses on the SND market, not Russia, we haven't diversified. So think about what you're voting for. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-04-m0.u140	Dear colleagues, we are. Julia Leonidina! Or we vote on it. I am voting on the proposal for the adoption of a draft law on the withdrawal from the SND Cooperation Agreement in the creation, use and development of an interstate network of information and marketing centres for the promotion of goods and services to national markets (registration No. 0048). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[12:55:18]] For 223 The decision is not taken. Next. Let's see the factions. I am voting on the proposal for the adoption of the Protocol Ratification Act as a whole, amending the Additional Protocol to the Convention on the Transfer of Convicted Persons (0050). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[12:56:09]] For 274 Decision taken. Thank you. Let's see the factions. Dear colleagues, I suggest you step over. [[B in m in s a l in]] Don't scream! Don't scream! [[B in m in s a l in]] Mr. Marikowski, when did you move to the Faction? Just to make it clear to others. What card did you vote on? [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, a little quieter in the hall, please. Wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait. Wait, wait, wait, wait. Sergey Volodymyrovich, please come. Papiev is Mikhailo Mikolaiovich in the hall? Come here, please. Sergey Vitaliovich Calchenko, come to me, please. Stay out of the hall. Dear colleagues, please take your seats, listen to me. We didn't vote in this room, and we won't vote. Natalia Juryovna Královska did not vote, voted on her card. That's another question -- how did it happen? I'll make a deal. This happened by accident, because our national deputies are very fond of moving around the hall, sometimes landing where they are not needed. And by chance, really by accident, you don't deny it, it's a fact. Wait. They didn't replace the card with the other card. On the other hand, I am addressing all the national deputies: if you leave the hall, take the card with you. I have a request. A written statement that Natalia Juryovna Královska did not vote. It'll take off the political nuisance, right? On the other hand, we will not vote on anything. Law, registration number 0050, accepted. Thank you. Dear colleagues, it's now 30 minutes to announce the MP's request, then it's "Crazy." And then there's a picture of who's gonna stay.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-04-m0.u141	Ladies and gentlemen, over the years.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-04-m0.u142	Dear colleagues, the statement has already come from the faction "The Opposition Platform for Life" about this vote. I'm handing it over to the secretary. Everything? Question taken? Thank you all.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-04-m0.u143	Dear National Deputies! During the plenary week, 115 parliamentary inquiries were made. Of these: to the President none; to the authorities of the Supreme Council - 1 parliamentary request; to the Cabinet of Ministers - 60; to the heads of other public authorities and local authorities - 48; to the heads of enterprises, institutions and organizations located in Ukraine, irrespective of their subordination and forms of ownership - 6. Let us move on to reading the requests of the national MPs. Alexander Bakumov to the Odessa City Head, Kharkiv City Head, Dniprovsky City Head, Lviv City Head, Kiev City Head, on the effectiveness of managing the municipal property of the territorial community. Alexander Bakumov to the Odessa City Head, Kharkiv City Head, Dniprovsky City Head, Lviv City Head, Kyiv City Head to provide information on the situation in the workplace and the direct performance of duties by officials of the local government. Anton Kisse to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the creation of a working group on the preparation of agreed proposals for the restoration of railway connections and the railway movement in the Berezin area, Ukraine, Basarabiaska, Republic of Moldova. Alexander Tkachenka and John Shinkarenko to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on the need for an immediate response to the agricultural situation in the Odessa region in connection with the effects of drought. Alexander Tkachenka and John Shinkarenk to the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine regarding the possible illegal alienation of land on the seashore in the village of Primorska Kili district of Odessa. Alexander Tkachenka and John Shinkarenk to the Ministry of Finance of Ukraine for the financial support of people with disabilities. Groups of national deputies (Tkachenka, Shinkarenka, and others) to the National Health Service of Ukraine on the use of measures to ensure funding for the Tatarbunar Central District Hospital and the creation of adequate conditions for the provision of health care to the population. Groups of National Deputies (Tkachenka, Shinkarenka, Slavicka) to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on the definition of 21st-year expenditure in the State budget for the repair of roads in the area of Killian and Tatar regions in the Odessa region. Alexander Kachura to the Head of the National Police of Ukraine on a comprehensive, full and impartial study of road traffic conditions. Valery Koluch to Prime Minister of Ukraine on the legality of the conduct and the results of the competitive selection of candidates to replace the vacant post of Director-General of PAT "Electronic Devices". Victor Medvedchuk and Vasil Nimchenk to the Attorney-General for the inadmissibility of unlawful privatization of strategic enterprise shares of the National Stock Company Naftogaz Ukraine, which is owned by the State, and for the cessation of the commission of crimes by senior officials from State-owned assets that threaten Ukraine's national economic security. Victor Medvedchuk to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the use of urgent measures to debunk the entry into Ukraine of publishing products, such as scientific medical, educational and artistic products from the Russian Federation and the distortion of disciplinary conduct in relation to officials who have caused significant losses to the State budget of Ukraine. Bogdan Thorochti to the head of the Kirovograd District Council, Director-General of the Dnipro-Kirovograd District Municipal Production Company, on the quality of drinking water and other issues of the activities of Dnipro-Kirovograd. Anton Polakov to the Attorney General for failure to comply with legal requirements and to create obstacles to the work of the Ukrainian National Deputy. Roman Gritchcock to the Prime Minister of Ukraine to ensure adequate funding for the organisation of anti-epidemic measures in educational institutions. Roman Gritchcock to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine on the legality of building a residential building in the territory of the National Academy of Internal Affairs. Sergia Mandiya to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the need to allocate funds from the state budget of Ukraine to complete the reconstruction of KNP "Shepetovska CRL" under the perinatal centre." Sergia Mandiya to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for inclusion in the objects of the National Programme "Great Building" of the multi-functional sports complex Slavutsky Palace of Youth and Sports with a swimming pool in the territory of Slavutské OTG Hmelnický district. Groups of National Deputies (Tkachenka, Shinkarenka, and others) to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on the need for a comprehensive review of Natalia Ponomarenko’s appeal to take effective measures to pay compulsory social payments. Igora Kolyhayeva, head of the Herson District State Administration, on the measures taken by the administration to protect the public's interests with regard to the proper spending of budgetary resources and the completion of the gasification of the village of Burgunka and the village of Novopetrovka. Alexander Tkachenka and John Shinkarenko to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine for the definition of 2021 expenditure in the State Budget for quality water supply and water supply, heating, well-being and energy efficiency. Vladimir Kradenka to the Attorney General, acting director of the State Bureau of Investigation for possible criminal offences by prosecutors of the prosecutor's office of Kharkiv and Zaporozhi district, investigating the national police in the Kharkiv region, as well as deputy of the Zaporozki District Council, the first deputy head of the Zaporozhye District Public Administration (former deputy of the city chief of Melitopol, Zaporez Region) Fedor's John Sergiyovich. Vladimir Kradenka to the Attorney General, the director of the State Bureau of Investigation for the possible commission of a national deputy of Ukraine, Minko Sergey Anatoliyovich, and his immediate environment of a series of criminal offences. Igora Kolyhayeva to the temporary duty of the Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine to evaluate and compile programmes for correcting and developing children with autism. Vladimir Timothychuk to the Minister of Health of Ukraine, Prime Minister of Ukraine, for the provision of medical facilities with individual protection and medical equipment. Vitalia Bort to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine on the improper conduct of criminal investigation, which is located in the Podilski UP NP in Kiev, according to the signs of an offence, the use of fraudulent schemes in relation to the raiding of citizens' property. Dmitry Kisilevski to Prime Minister of Ukraine for consideration of the complaint of citizen Valery Onufriyev. Michael Bondar to the Minister for Veterans of Ukraine on providing information on granting subsidies from the State budget to local budgets for the period 2018-2020 to address the housing issue of some categories of persons who protected independence, sovereignty and territorial integrity of Ukraine as well as their families. Michael Bondar to the Director of the Department of Road Management of the Lviv District State Administration for the completion of the work on the sidewalks on the section of the road of Broda, the Red Cross in the death of Lopatin and the village of Hmilny Radehov district of Lviv. Jury Mishagina to the Minister of Environmental Protection and Natural Resources of Ukraine, Prime Minister of Ukraine, Head of the State Environmental Inspectorate of Ukraine for the immediate verification of environmental pollution by toxic wastes from the Dniprovi metallurgical combination and the Coxochemical plant. Dmitry Black to Minister of Infrastructure of Ukraine, Head of the State Road Agency of Ukraine on the urgent repair of the road cover of the 34th constituency district of Dnipropetrov. Vladimir Aresonkov to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on some of the issues of State and municipal leases by territorial and local electoral commissions in the 2020 local elections. Vladimir Aresonkova to the Authorized Supreme Council of Ukraine for Human Rights on the issue of debt relief for victims of an accident at CHAES from Orucsky and the People’s Districts of Žitomirščina for compensation for lost property. Sergey Ljowczina to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on speeding up the increase in debt from salary payments. Paul Melnik to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the development of the Ukraine Water Drinks 2020-2030 budget programme and the restoration of funding for this programme. Paul Melnik to the Minister of Health of Ukraine on the need to allocate additional funding to the KNP "Michail Multi-Profession Hospital" and KNP "Tokmatka multi-profession hospital intensive treatment" to save medical personnel and to prevent a sharp deterioration in the quality of the provision of health services to the population. Paul Melnik to the Minister of Health of Ukraine on the need to amend the relevant legal acts of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine regarding the restoration of the supply of medicines to the rural area in the Primorski district of Zaporozhye. Paul Melnik to the Minister of Infrastructure of Ukraine, Head of the Road Service in Zaporozhye Region, Head of the State Agency for Road Traffic in Ukraine for the capital repair of the area of road of international importance M-14 Melitopol-Priazovsk-Primorsk, as well as the area of road T-08-21 Primorsk-Panfilowka. Paul Melnik to the Minister of Infrastructure of Ukraine, head of the State Agency for Road Traffic in Ukraine for the capital repair of the T-04-08 Orichov road area - Tokmak, T-04-01 Poga - Tokmak road area. Paul Melnik to the Minister of Infrastructure of Ukraine, head of the State Road Agency of Ukraine, for the capital repair of the T-08 - 05 road area of Kamyanka - Dniprovka - Velika Bilozerka - Wesele (from Melitopol to Weselovo) and the road of T-08-20 Yakimovka - Kirilovka. Jury Zdebski to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the settlement of agricultural and property issues between Ukraine and the Republic of Moldova in the area of the watershed dam of the Dniestrovsko complex hydraulic line and the completion of the demarcation process of the Ukrainian-Moldov state border. Mikhail Zimbaluka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the payment of debts from wages to the miners of PAT "The Hope" in the Sokal region of Lviv. Mikhail Zimbaluka to the Minister of Interior of Ukraine for the full, objective and comprehensive investigation of the burning of the newspaper "The Voice of Samobirščina" in Lvivščina. Vladimir Vatras to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the need to allocate funds for the reconstruction of the KNP therapeutic building "Chemerovecka Central District Hospital" on Pyrogova Street, 1 village of the city type Čemerovci Cemerovacki district of Hmeljnice district. Anton Kisse to the Prime Minister of Ukraine regarding the appeal of KNP to Odessa District Psychiatric Hospital 4. Olga Vasilevsky-Smagluk to the Minister of Health of Ukraine, temporarily acting as head of the National Health Service of Ukraine, chief physician of the municipal non-commercial enterprise Kyiv City Clinic No. 11, executive body of the Kyiv City Council (Kyiv City Public Administration), on providing information on the service of "mobile political care for children and adults". Zinovija Andrivovich to the Minister for Environmental Protection and Natural Resources of Ukraine, Prime Minister of Ukraine, for the allocation of funds to the Ministry of Environmental Protection and Natural Resources of Ukraine (for the Ukrainian State Water Agency) for the restoration of water and water dams damaged during the emergency of 12-24 June 2020. The Lord Nekludova to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the return of St. George's icon to the Mariupol National Science Museum. Nakludova, the Prime Minister of Ukraine, is in charge of providing patients with spinal atrophy with life’s essential treatment. The Nekludova government to the Prime Minister of Ukraine is concerned about the need to solve the problems of transport logistics and the railway connection between the city of Mariupol and other regions of Ukraine. The Nakludova government to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the need to solve the problem of the aviation connection of Mariupola with other regions of Ukraine and to restore the operation of Mariupol airport. Sergey Vlasenka to the head of the Ukrainian State Judicial Administration on the territorial jurisdiction of the district courts located in the areas of destroyed areas. Sergey Vlasenka to the CEO of the Ukrašta Association, the head of the government of the public shareholders association of the National Shareholder Company Naftogaz Ukraine, the head of the board of shareholders of the Ukrainian Railways, again on the possible violation of legislation during the payment of wages (other rewards) of leadership, members of supervisory boards and representatives of executive bodies of companies, one hundred percent of the shares of which belong to the State. Grigory Mamka to the Montenegrin City Head on providing information on the implementation of the budget programme "Builts of football fields with artificial coverage in Ukraine" in 2017-2018. Taras Batenka to the head of the National Commission, which regulates national energy and municipal services in order to bring the activities of natural gas operators into line with current legislation. Anton Polakov to the Chernigow City Head about the circumstances of the damage to the local community of Chernigov. Olesia Long to the Minister for the Development of the Communities and Territories of Ukraine for the preparation of the city of Svetłovodsk Kyrovograd for the heating period 2020/21. Alexander Guerrega to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the restoration of the functioning of state-owned target programmes in the field of fire safety of educational institutions by amending the Cabinet of Ministers Order of Ukraine from 11.10.2016 number 710. Alexander Gerega to the Minister of Culture and Information Policy of Ukraine on the financing of the State Historical and Cultural Reserve "Samchiki", which is located in the village of Males of Hmielnicki district. Alexander Tkachenka and John Shinkarenk to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on the use of effective measures to ensure financing of the work related to the reconstruction of clean-up facilities in the city of Bilgorod-Dnistrovsk Odessa. Alexander Tkachenka and Antonina Slavicka to the Pension Fund of Ukraine for the creation of adequate conditions for the provision of services to pensioners during the quarantine period. Anatolia Kostuha to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the provision of the Zacarpathian Public Health District Centre with necessary medical equipment. Anatolia Kostuha to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the proper financing of complex flood programmes in the Zakarpat region. Oksana Savechuk to the finance minister of Ukraine, Prime Minister of Ukraine, for the inclusion of a kindergarten in the region of Cascade, the city of Ivano-Frankivsk, in the social finance programme in 2021. Oksana Savchuk to the head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Budget, Minister of Finance of Ukraine, Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Infrastructure of Ukraine for Projection of Expenditures in the State Budget of Ukraine for 2021 for the construction of a bridge across the Bistrica Solotvinska River and a transport solution in the area of the street of Chemików – Adversary in the city of Ivano-Frankivsk. Oksana Savchuk to the Minister of Interior of Ukraine, Head of the Office of the President of Ukraine, Head of the Security Service of Ukraine for the prevention of possible provocations and for the failure to use administrative resources during local elections in the city of Plain and Plain. Igor Krivosheev to the head of the National Environmental Inspectorate of Ukraine for the verification of compliance with environmental standards and standards in the activities of TDV "Perecinski LHK". Mr Dmitry Black to Prime Minister of Ukraine, Head of the Dnipropetrov Regional Government Administration for the continuation of the Government’s National Programme for Radiation and Social Protection of the population of Yellow Water for 2013-2022, approved by the Cabinet Order of 25.06.2012 No 579. Bogdan Jaremenko to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on threats to Ukraine's national security in connection with the continued activities of the Ukrainian-Russian Fisheries Commission in the Azov Sea. Natalia Pippa to Prime Minister of Ukraine on the use of urgent measures to ensure safe learning and quality education in quarantine conditions. Natalia Pippa is acting as director of the Department of State Architecture and Construction in the Lviv region for illegal land construction near the City Square. Natalia Pippa to the city’s head of the town of Vinnicki for violations of land and water legislation in the use of land in which the Lake of Vinnik is located. Natalia Pippa to the Lviv City Head regarding illegal construction on the land near the Square of Dignity. Natalia Pippa to the Lviv City Head on the line-up and protection of St. John Paul II’s Park. Sergia Eutuska to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the non-closure of special boarding schools for orphans and children with special educational needs. Oleg Kulinić to the Minister of Culture and Information Policy of Ukraine on the transfer to the National Museum of Commerce of the administrative building of the Opišnjan geological exploration expedition of deep drilling. Helen Copanczuk to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the provision of personal protection for children in difficult circumstances and for the provision of adequate financial security for local self-government authorities to carry out anti-epidemic measures. Julius Ovovnikov to the Attorney General on the procedural status of the person and the state of criminal conduct in the case of Vasiliev W.T. Vladimir Ariev to perform the duties of Director of the State Bureau of Investigation, Attorney General, to provide information on the situation and the results of criminal conduct opened by the fact that a provocation was committed against a public activist who exposed the corruption of Stańk Dmitr Aleksandrovitch. Groups of National Deputies (Crowrukina, Koravchenkova, Zacharychenka) to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the need to ensure the right of consumers of municipal services to an economically sound salary for subscription services. Roman Gritchcock to the Rector of the National Technical University of Ukraine, the Kiev Institute of Political Engineering, Igor Sikorsky, for the realization of the right of education recipients to stay in hostels. Oleg Kolev to the Odessa City Head for the Admission of the Odessa U.S. Teacher of Ukrainian Language and Literature, the Hero of Social Work, the Distinctive of Education - Wojtenko Nina Yuhimovna And the last request by Oleg Kolev to the head of the State Service of Ukraine from an extraordinary situation regarding compliance with the rules of fire safety of the MAF, which is located in front of the residence at the address: Odessa City, 5 CAP Street. Mr. Vlasenko, can I see you in front of us for a moment? And we have to ask questions about the answer to a request from the Ukrainian national deputy Vlasenka Sergey Volodymyrovich. He's asking him to give three minutes to do a lineup on that request. Please, Mr. Sergey Vlasenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-04-m0.u144	Thank you, Madam Chairman. On July 3, 2020, I sent a parliamentary request to the NAC of Naftogazu Ukraine, the Crucifixions and the Crucifixions on the salaries of the supervisory boards of these societies, 100 percent of which belong to the state. Unfortunately, and we have repeatedly talked about this, the external administration, which is carried out by the largest state-owned enterprises, does irreparable damage to the Ukrainian state not only from a material point of view. Unfortunately, all these leaders who understand that they are the highest-ranking members of their supervisory boards, they don't respond to requests, they just don't answer. They say it's none of your business. You know, you remind me of an old joke, remember, in Mikhail Mikhailovich Zvanecki, a brilliant Ukrainian humorist, there's a miniature called "Walk, Move." Odessa steamboat." And there was a moment when the ship's captain rang the bell, and they said to him, "Who is this? Who's that? We don't understand. We're burning stuffed fish here. And you don't have to call here." That is to say, about the same is felt by the heads and members of the supervisory boards of these 100 - percent state-owned enterprises, where, 100 percent of the shares belong to the state, when either the executive branch or representatives of the legislative branch of government address them. So in this question, you know, how dew is reflected in the world, so this is really reflected in how the majority in the Supreme Council today understands government, understands how the state should be governed, and what needs to be done to ensure that state institutions, national deputies, legislative branches of power, executive branch of government have real powers of control over what's going on in the state. I emphasize once again, I asked one simple question, this is a hundred percent state-owned enterprise. I asked for personal information, I didn't ask for anything. I asked to know whether the Cabinet of Ministers' decree on the limitation of payments to members of the Supervisory Boards was being implemented. So I asked the heads of the state enterprise whether they were in charge of the government of Ukraine. He did it as a national MP. I didn't get the answer. I think we have to end these stories in the country when we have state-owned enterprises run by some Skype foreigners from the United States without understanding what is going on in Ukraine or what should be done with these state-owned enterprises. Would you please tell me that the Crucifixion has become better at work in the last six years? Would you please tell the U.S. manager if it got better to work? I mean Mr. Smilianski, an American citizen who runs one of the largest state enterprises. Please tell me, have people started getting better services? I think we should cancel the authorization of these supervisory councils. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-04-m0.u145	Thank you, Sergey Volodymyrovich. There's another message, an announcement. In accordance with article 60 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Rules, we report on the creation of the Ninth Interfractional Enthirider Union in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The national deputy of Ukraine, Stefanchuk Mikola Alexiyovich, was elected leader of this association. We can move on to the question of "Crazy." Please record who wants to speak. Please record the performance. Did you sign up? Welcome to Mr. Melnik's speech, the "Serve of the People" faction. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-04-m0.u146	Dear presiding fellows, dear Ukrainians! I am constantly approached by my constituents, the residents of the Zaporozhye region, as well as by tourists who rest at the resorts of the Azova Sea on the problem of low - level Internet coverage and the quality of mobile communication. I will note that in the resort city of Primorsk, in Yakimivsk and Priazov district of Zaporozhi, as well as in many populated areas of Tokmak, Wessel, and Mikhail district, local residents do not even have a stable coverage of the mobile signal. Under the conditions of active digitalisation, the problem should not be overlooked. The development and improvement of digital infrastructure will increase the attractiveness and resorts of the Azov Sea, a demand that has increased significantly under adaptive quarantine. With regard to the solution of this problem, I directed appropriate parliamentary appeals and queries to the Ministry of Digital Transformation, the Television and Radio Network, and national mobile operators. I will point out that as a result, the problem came to an appropriate response from Mincifre, Nacrada, as well as mobile operators. It is planned to start work on the installation of new mobile signal transmitters in the city of Primorsk, inhabited by the Primorsk and Priasov district. However, the solution to this problem still requires a large number of population points in the Zaporozhye region. According to the National Commission, which regulates communications and information, licenses for use of 4G in the low frequency range for Zaporozhye are expected only in December 2020. This address is addressed to government authorities, such as the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, to all relevant government agencies and national mobile operators. Speed up the process of addressing the low level of mobile Internet coverage and the quality of mobile communication in the population areas of the Zaporozhye region. The development of both the Azov Sea resorts and the entire region is a direct consequence of this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-04-m0.u147	Thank you. Mr. Mikhailo Cimbaluk, the "Fatherland" faction, is invited to the floor. Please, Mr. Michael.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-04-m0.u148	Mikhailo Cimbaluk, Fatherland. Honorable Presidium, Honourable People's Deputies, Honorable Citizens of Ukraine! Today, I would like to begin my speech with a serious situation that has arisen on the Trust mine in the region of Lviv, Montenegro. For seven days now, 16 miners have not been beaten to death as a cry of soul for unpaid wages since the beginning of spring of this year. The "Hope" shaft is an enterprise that has demonstrated both high coal and farming performance in recent years. But thanks to the unprofessional, disgraceful position of the Ministry, which is a profile, today is the Energy Ministry, when they started assigning non-professional managers there, today the enterprise has a payroll debt. And when the Prime Minister canceled the next meeting on the allocation of 41 million dollars to pay off the debt, I think he would have to go down from office 7 to the ground to get the miners of this mine to their families and get the wages they earned. When the Ministry explains that there is an abuse of previous leadership, it is not the subject. For this there are law enforcement authorities. And the people who work today, who get coal, have to get their wages. Please consider my appeal to the head of the government. This is the next thing I want to pay attention to. It is unfortunate that yesterday the national MPs did not support a bill that facilitated the registration of candidates for local councils. You know that with that legislation in force, almost 10 pieces of evidence are to be submitted today by candidates to the unified territorial communities, district councils, and district councils. Our proposal was to simplify these instructions to a minimum, for only one of them would cost 400 to 800 dollars of injudgment. Whether the IMF service centres will withstand such inflows. We demand that the Supreme Council respond immediately and make a decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-04-m0.u149	Thank you, Mr. Michael. Anton Polakov, the Party for the Future, is invited to the floor. Anna Speedboat, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-04-m0.u150	Dear colleagues, I want to raise two subjects today. The first relates to local elections, namely those headed by territorial election committees and those headed by local territorial election committees. So, colleagues, in the Kyiv region. We had the People's Servants as the head of the territorial election commission in the Kyiv region of Mrs. Wertiletsky Oksana, who, at the time we were still working on the first and second rounds of presidential elections, forged and falsified the results of the elections. Which, during the first round, broke down the budget that was set aside for the presidential election. A criminal case has been committed against her. She was repeatedly approached by the CLTC, by law enforcement authorities, but probably by Mr. Dubinsky anyway, so it was handed over by the "Serves of the People" to the head of the territorial election commission in the Kyiv region. I realize that all methods are good to win local elections. But whatever you do and whatever shoes you're wearing, believe me, people will say their word and no one will help you, because your ratings are even lower in fact than the ones you're drawing for yourself. The second question that I want to raise, which is overwhelming for today. For the past seven years, the miners of the state chess club, Hope, have protested. 16 people are underground. The price of the question is 51 million dollars in debt on wages. Dear Prime Minister, Mr. Schmigal, please immediately assemble the Cabinet's next meeting and resolve the matter, do not abuse the people and their families. At the moment, the family of miners walked from the death of the Culiks to the Lviv. I ask you very much, this is the life and health of our people, our Ukrainians, please do not be indifferent and away from this question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-04-m0.u151	Thank you for the talk. Vladimir Ariev is invited to attend. It's a faction of European Solidarity. Please, Mr. Vladimir.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-04-m0.u152	There's not much of us in the hall, but I'd like to, again, ask you to listen. I've just published at the briefing in the Supreme Council's towers absolutely incontrovertible evidence of the bank's lies and certain force structures that have denied the existence of a special operation of Ukrainian special forces that have tried to extract from the Russian Federation criminals from Wagner's PMC who were involved in the war against Ukraine in an illegal intervention by the Russian Federation in 2014-2015, and these people who are directly guilty of the destruction of the IL-76 military aircraft in June 2014, two SU-25 planes and a military helicopter. All we're asking is for a temporary commission of inquiry. I was here this morning with my faction. Reasoners ignored the requirement to put a temporary commission of inquiry to the vote. And we don't want anything but to get to the truth. Fear of what? We demand, we demand the military, we demand the relatives of the dead, so let's do it. Let's not, as you say, speculation, clearly define the place where we're going, define absolutely everyone who comes, and what's more, there are people who are willing to testify. After this press conference, by the way, Razumkov didn't want to put to the vote the creation of a temporary commission of inquiry. Little has begun to suggest to me and to some people who know, that you should be a little more careful. So it's stuck. We also know that the destruction of evidence has now intensified, including in the Department of Defense Intelligence, and in the Office of the President, even surveillance cameras have been erasing information, including in the U.S.A. And what's interesting is that right now, mass media is trying to stop you from giving any information about this. I'm wondering, by the way, if this briefing is going to show the "Council" channel, as it shows the briefings of all the national MPs and MPs and factions. This is going to be a very interesting moment, by the way, of lacmus paper. And by the way, the pressure on the media that's going on right now, especially on the "Primary" channel, the disqualification of the "Primary FM" license is also in the same ditch of destruction of those who will distribute information that might be unpleasant to the Office of the President of Ukraine. And the office of the President of Ukraine and the moles who settled there, I say, now the antichrist is ready, wait.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-04-m0.u153	Thank you. Mr. Mikhailo Bondar, "European Solidarity" faction, is invited to the floor. Please, Mr. Michael.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-04-m0.u154	Thank you. Bondar Mikhailo, 119 constituency, European Solidarity. Many things have already been told by colleagues today on the problems of the PAT miners, "Hope Checkout." I'm going to say that my colleagues (with Michael Wolintz, with others who are concerned) were right in line with the responsibility of Minister Olga Buslavec, Prime Minister. Another option, like making changes to the 20th Year Budget Act, is unfortunately they don't see it. So in those bills that were adopted yesterday in the first reading just after the budget changes for the 20th year, we're definitely going to be making amendments to the coal sector. And not only did 51 million dollars in Hope mine to close the debt on wages, but also, as Mikhail Wolintz has repeatedly said, it's 1.4 billion, which is now generally in the coal sector of wage debt. I analyzed the order of the day of today's Cabinet of Ministers. I don't know, the colleagues said that if it was canceled, but, I see, the agenda came to the post office, followed by a meeting of the Cabinet of Ministers from 2 p.m. to 3 p.m. Regrettably, there is no day - to - day solution to the issue of debt to coal companies. So, I think my colleagues and I are going to find some time and go to a cabinet meeting to clarify this situation. But indeed, the previous management of the Pat "Hope Checkout" for 2019 and 5 months of 2020 caused damage to the enterprise in terms of 90 million dollars. I mean, these funds could cut off this debt and give it there to develop this mine. But what does the Ministry do? The Ministry doesn't hand over, as soon as it claims to have transferred the materials to the law enforcement authorities, but they're assigning the former director to the Volin Coal DP. Now they're also talking about that he's going to be released. But he must not simply be released; he must be drawn to criminal responsibility. The damage that he did to the business and the families, because they were really at the time they were supposed to be at home gathering the kids to school, they were doing, as Ana Krachod said, they were now walking to Lviv. Therefore, all those involved in this equipment must be brought to criminal responsibility, and the government must do its utmost to find a mechanism in the shortest days to settle the debt owed to miners. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-04-m0.u155	Thank you. Nina Yuzanin, the "European Solidarity" faction, is invited to the floor. Please, Mrs. Nina.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-04-m0.u156	Good day to all citizens of Ukraine, and especially to business subjects. I would like to draw your attention today to the vote of the Supreme Council this week. It seems to me that not only me, but all experts, professionals and associations should now respond to those draft laws that were considered and adopted in the first reading. I would like to pay particular attention to the draft laws submitted by the President on so-called "investment." Listen, please, the basic law is not adopted. We do not know what circle of business subjects it will refer to. Whether there will be criteria for determining an investor only to invest more than 30 million euros or 30 million euros in Ukraine, that is almost 1 billion dollars. We understand that this will apply to a very narrow and already defined circle of people who are planning to get a huge tax benefit for 15 years. In addition, if you know and realize that a share of the state’s investment should be up to 30 percent. How can this be determined if the State’s contribution starts with the investor’s first action? He imports equipment and no longer pays any taxes or VAT, and he has not invested his investments in Ukraine. This equipment can simply be imported and stored in Ukraine, and we have already provided it with benefits. And so many inadequacies, which contain the basic Law 3760, I have never seen in any such legal work. So the consultants who prepared this draft law for the President, I think they have to take responsibility and they have to listen to the entire list of observations. I made my comments in the form of suggestions. Hopefully, they'll be supported, and that's what we talked about on the profile committee. But what happens next? Without acceptance, without understanding the circle of people who will receive these benefits, we have already considered the changes in both the Tax Code and the Customs Code, which are completely exempt from payment of all taxes. Instead, we're going to compensate for all of these shortfalls in the budget at the expense of ordinary entrepreneurs, because so far in the Council we haven't agreed to consider draft laws in the hall. I'd like to go to 2 million entrepreneurs. Yesterday, I officially filed a letter to the head of the profile committee to consider two bills that would restore entrepreneurs' rights to a peaceful and successful job, so that they could consider it at the next committee meeting. It's a bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-04-m0.u157	Thank you, Mrs. Nina. Anna the Wheeler, the "Serve of the People" faction. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-04-m0.u158	Good afternoon! September 7 is the Universal Day for Duchène’s spread of muscle dystrophy. There are more than 500 families in Ukraine who are raising children with this disease. This is a rare genetic disease, where all muscles are gradually destroyed and replaced by fibrosis and connective tissue. It turns out to be gradual, with the age of a child. The first symptoms are back muscle failure. Usually, under the age of 12, boys are no longer able to walk and move on their own by means of wheelchairs. As a teenager, they already need respiratory support. In our country, most patients with such a diagnosis rarely live to 20 years, but in developed countries life expectancy increases to 40 years, or 10 years, sometimes even longer. In European countries, patients receive education, employment, and marriage despite severe illness. Now it is impossible to cure the disease completely, but there are a number of measures that slow down disease progression and improve the quality of life. This requires: the establishment of a neuromuscular centre, the provision of respiratory equipment, medications, the creation of conditions for supportive therapy and clinical research. This cannot be done without State support. Thus, along with the parents of Duchenne’s muscular dystrophy, we urge the Ministry of Health, the National Health Committee, medical care, and health insurance to pay attention to these problems. Patients with Duchenne’s muscle dystrophy look forward to your support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-04-m0.u159	Thank you, Mrs. Anna. Mrs. Speedboat, will you be speaking again? Oh, you've changed. Please, Mr. Anton Polakov, the Party for the Future. Please, Mr. Anton.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-04-m0.u160	Good afternoon, colleagues! Anton Polyakov, political party for the future, Montenegro. Dear colleagues, I would like to raise once again the issue of the Black Sea Torponneur sector: "Chernigovtorf", and all the questions that I raised on Wednesday and all the references I made to the Prime Minister and to the temporary duty of the Minister of Energy. These companies, the Smolin Torfobret factory and the Irvatski Torfobret factory, have repeatedly addressed Kabmin, the head of the Montenegrin District Administration, asking them to resolve the issue and stop blocking the business and the administrative pressure on the officials of these enterprises. The peat sector is the energy independence of entire regions. It's a tortilla on many, many centuries. And that's what they're looking after, what they're doing with the heating of schools, kindergartens, households. But for now, these companies are trying to stop, cut into metal, and capture these fertile lands. Repeatedly, our governor, Prokopenko, worked for a long time in the Russian Federation, from which companies want to take over. And he must have gained a kind of experience there that we no longer understand. For the first time in six years after Maidan, all the doors and doors of the Chernobyl State Administration were closed and crossed by the border of the National Guard with dogs. The National Police and the Reconciliation and Dialogue Service were in shock. No one expected that. No official from the Chernigian district government went out to the people. No official came out to see me. As a national deputy, I was unable to enter the Montenegrin District Authority, a government agency on a working day. Today I raised this question during the "hour of questions to the government" when I approached the Prime Minister and Minister of Energy. I hope that they have finally heard me and will deal with this situation, because we cannot allow these factories to stop their activities. Because once again, it's the energy independence of entire regions, it's jobs, it's taxes. There's a lot of talk about "investment" and business support, but at least we have to keep those businesses and factories, factories that are now working successfully, and the state has nothing to do with it.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-04-m0.u161	Thank you. Alexander Bakumov, the "Serving of the People" faction, is invited to the floor. Please, Mr. Alexander.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-04-m0.u162	Honorable Presidium, Your Honor! I would like to draw your attention to what is currently taking place in the Kharkiv region, especially in Kharkivsk, the state of regional emergency. In the Dvoričan region of Kharkiv, there is a forest fire that is currently localized. Yet, as a result of this fire, we have virtually destroyed the village. Another village suffered as well. The fire destroyed 28 courtyards, 52 farm buildings, 12 residential buildings, 2 cars, and 40 people evacuated. In another village, five inanimate buildings and five farm buildings were destroyed by fire. Our great gratitude goes to the national deputies who were elected from Kharkiv and Kharkiv region, who are present in the hall now, to all rescuers and law enforcement officers who have joined in overcoming the consequences of this tragedy, who have engaged all the forces and means to overcome the fire, especially the fire helicopters, and the two planes that are suitable for Antonov, the special fire trains, and so on. Some thanks to volunteers who are now helping the local population, who are evacuated accordingly, and providing them with the necessary supplies of primary importance so that they can somehow arrange their first life after this terrible tragedy. From this high rostrum, I appeal to the Government of Ukraine, to Mr. Prime Minister with a requirement: please assess as soon as possible the damage caused by the corresponding fire to the population and citizens of Ukraine, the inhabitants of the respective territorial communities, and consider at the next meeting of the Cabinet of Ministers the allocation of the corresponding funds from the budget reserve fund in accordance with these consequences and the compensation for all relevant negative manifestations of this phenomenon.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-04-m0.u163	Thank you. The last performance for today is Mr. Dmitri Black, the "Serve of the People" faction. I've changed my mind. That's why, Mr. Head.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-04-m0.u164	Dear colleagues, the time for presentations and those who wish to speak have come to an end. I welcome everyone to the end of the day. I declare the morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine closed. Thank you.
