ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-16-m1.u1	Good afternoon, distinguished national deputies of Ukraine! Good afternoon, distinguished members of the media! Dear guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine! The President of Ukraine, Vladimir Aleksandrovich Zelenski, participates in the ceremony of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Welcome to the President. [[Applause]] National deputies of Ukraine’s first and ninth appeals, the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the President of Ukraine, Leonid Makarovich Krawczuk, Viktor Andryovich Yushchenko, Peter Alexiyovitch Prashenko, the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Denis Anatoliovich Schmigal, and members of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the leaders of the judicial branch of power, the representatives of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the representatives of the media and the honored guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the leaders of the international organizations accredited in Ukraine, the representatives of the media and the distinguished guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Dear National Deputies! Dear guests! Please submit the Declaration of State Sovereignty of Ukraine to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. [[Applause]] Dear National Deputies! I declare open the ceremony of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the occasion of the 30th anniversary of the Declaration of State Sovereignty.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-16-m1.u2	Heroic glory! Please sit down. Please include the historical footage of the film chronicles of the adoption of the Declaration of State Sovereignty of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-16-m1.u3	Thank you. Dear colleagues, many of those prominent in Ukraine’s history, unfortunately, have passed away from life today, are not in this room. I propose to honor the moment of silence of everyone who is not here today. [[A Minute of Silence]] Please sit down. The President of Ukraine, Vladimir Alexandrovich Zelenski, is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-16-m1.u4	Ladies and gentlemen of the national council, distinguished guests of the solemn meeting, distinguished Ukrainians! A thousand - year - old Ukrainian history knows many of the documents that have become fundamental to the creation of the Ukrainian State and the Declaration of State Sovereignty of Ukraine no doubt one of them. Today we celebrate the 30th anniversary of the birth of this document. 30 years ago, a certain step was taken towards the final achievement of Ukraine’s independence. The Declaration drew close to the victory of the Ukrainians in the centuries - old struggle for a free and independent state. On July 16, 1990, it became a truly historic day. At that time, the Declaration of State Sovereignty supported 355 national deputies from various parts of our native Ukraine, from different parties, with different views, but with only one purpose. Notice, no one has collapsed the Declaration by proposing 8,000 amendments. No one tried to block her from rulings. No one tried to beat her through the Constitutional Court. The adoption of the Declaration is an act of an incredible merger of politicians for the sake of the will of the people and the great national goal. Dear Ukrainians, we are now six years in a row protecting our sovereignty from Russian aggression. We pay the highest price for this, the lives of our citizens. Today, the entire civilized world recognizes that Ukraine is doing everything possible to bring about such desirable peace, just peace, peace in our sense of the word. It is the peace where state sovereignty will prevail in reality, not on paper. Yes, we've lost some territory, we've lost our people, and unfortunately we can't bring the dead back. But they must restore all their territories, restore their faith. [[Applause]] Returning faith in truth and justice to the cause of death to our heroes has never proved to be in vain. I am convinced that we have only one chance to do this in Ukrainians if we all unite as we did 30 years ago. Today, there are national electorates in this room for the first time, and their contribution to the nation’s creation cannot be overestimated. And there are those here and those who are unfortunately not with us, all of them have written their names in the history of an independent Ukraine. Today, we are immensely grateful to each of you. [[Applause]] Thank you. 30 years ago, when you had polar political views, you clearly showed what a state's position is. You have become a living example of unity and wisdom. And I'm sure that today's MPs are why you have to learn and never forget that the sovereignty they choose, we have to protect and protect you both from external enemies and from internal strife. To that end, I will not be tired of calling on all of us to be truly united, for it alone is our strength and our victory, for only in it is Ukraine. From this high rostrum on this holiday day, I want to remind everyone of the words of the initiator of the Declaration on the State Sovereignty of the Hero of Ukraine, Viacheslav Maximovich Crnovola: "Give it to God, we love Ukraine more than anything today, so that we don't have to love it bitterly after losing it." Dear friends, stop fighting and strife, stop manipulating and playing political games, do not share Ukrainians and divide themselves into power or opposition, left or right, red or blue. We need to stop being politicians, becoming statesmen, people who have not a great appetite, but a great dream of a single, strong and invincible Ukraine. [[Applause]] This is my dream, my goal, and I'm sure yours too. Let us take care of ourselves, guard our sovereignty, and let us take up the coast of Ukraine. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-16-m1.u5	Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine! Dear guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine! The head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Dmitry Alexanderovich Razumkov, is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-16-m1.u6	30 years ago, the Ukrainian Parliament took the first, complex but very important step towards the creation of an independent Ukraine. The approval of the Declaration of State Sovereignty stands in one row with such important events in our history as the declaration of independence, the December 1 referendum and the first presidential election. The Declaration of State Sovereignty is a very bold document that was accepted by courageous people who believed in the future of our nation without any guarantee of success. Let's think about what it was like. July 1990. Ukraine does not yet have its own army, its own services, its own citizenship, its own diplomacy to defend the interests of the state in the world, but the Soviet Union is still in control of the internal situation in the Republic. By August 1991, more than a year remains. Under such circumstances, it is not certain that the MPs of the seventh vocation of the Supreme Council of the U.S.R.R.R. will be able to say, more correctly, the first call of the Supreme Council of Ukraine will be the adoption of the Declaration on State Sovereignty, an ambitious and bold document that has set in motion the active stage of the struggle for the independence of our state. After his approval, independence was only a matter of time. On behalf of the entire Ukrainian people, from our generation, these future generations, I want to thank you all for having taken this wonderful step in 1990. [[Applause]] Doing important things is not always easy, and sometimes even dangerous. And I understand that at that point you put everything on this map, maybe even your life and the lives of your loved ones, your families, those who love your heart, but you did it and you did it and you did it and you did it and you did it and you did it. [[Applause]] The Declaration laid down the principles on which we built our country, democracy, the priorities of human rights and freedom, freedom of speech and religion, the rule of law and law, the independence and independence of state decisions, the people as the only source of power in the state, peaceful coexistence and cultural development of all nationalities, the priority of universal values over class. These principles were later established in the Constitution of Ukraine and are fundamental to all the laws adopted in this Supreme Council. They remain relevant today, and they should be followed by every citizen, since these principles are based on our nationality. Ukraine is changing very rapidly, but even in the wake of rapid and dramatic changes, there are truths that must remain constant and unmovable even in time. 30 years ago these truths were placed in the Declaration, and today we have to defend these same truths through diplomacy and unfortunately with weapons in our hands. The sovereignty and independence of our state is something that can never be questioned in any way. The declaration declared that Ukraine’s territory in existing borders was intact and could not be changed and used without its consent. Ukraine stood up for its sovereignty in 1990 and stands down 30 years later. The Declaration declared that State sovereignty is a fundamental value in our nation. Later, these same principles were laid down in both the Declaration of Independence Act and the Constitution of our State. Parliament stood in favour of the Declaration on State Sovereignty and then all other important documents that now form the basis of Ukrainian society. The Supreme Council of Ukraine has always been and remains a reflection of the Ukrainian people, its expectations and expectations, the place where the truth is born and the future of the state is built. In Ukraine, Parliament is treated differently. He is expected to do much, and he is often criticized enough. But we should not forget that, at the moment that Ukraine has fallen and critical, the Supreme Council of Ukraine has demonstrated its unbroken political will, has always been and will be on the side of the Ukrainian people and the Ukrainian state. [[Applause]] This was the case when the Declaration of Sovereignty was adopted, so it was when the Act of Declaration of Independence was adopted, so it was at the time of the adoption of the Constitution, so it was during many of the fundamental changes and challenges faced by Ukraine, so it will always be. At a time when the fate of Ukraine was decided, it was national. The Ukrainian Parliament has always made decisions regardless of political flags, slogans, and messages. We should remember that when we are united with a great common goal, we make decisions that truly work for the benefit and benefit of our nation. A great power is always a great responsibility. I am convinced that everyone in this room today understands well that our decisions depend on what future we will build for our children and what challenges they will face. Today, the fate of Ukraine, which has been going into its independence for centuries, is in our hands, and we, the Ukrainian Parliament of the Ninth Assembly, must prove by our actions that we are ready for this responsibility. [[Applause]] Just like you did 30 years ago. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-16-m1.u7	The Prime Minister of Ukraine, Denis Anatoliyovich Schmigal, is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-16-m1.u8	Dear Mr. President of Ukraine! Dear Mr. Head of the Supreme Council! Dear National Deputies! Dearly Honourable Ones! Dear Ukrainians! 30 years ago, in this room, the absolutely constitutional majority adopted the Declaration of State Sovereignty. And even today, when we're looking at historical images, we all have tears in our eyes: both in the older generation and in the younger generation, because it's an extremely important moment of emotion, and it's certainly the story of our nation that was written here by those people who are here today. By the Act of State Sovereignty, we have identified and formed the foundations of the state, political, economic and political order of Ukraine, the republican form of government, the rule, independence, completeness, the independence of the Republic's authority within its territory. The Declaration defined the foundations of economic autonomy, self-employed banking, financial, customs, tax systems, the right to form a state budget, to have its own monetary unit. These principles still shape Ukraine’s economic progress. The economic independence principles of Ukraine, which were established and conceived 30 years ago, allow us today to teach our children in Ukrainian schools, to reform, to effectively protect and develop small and medium-sized businesses, to store and create new jobs, to support vulnerable populations. The strength and strength of this document, they've been for 30 years and over the next hundred years, I'm sure they'll give our country a boost to development, they'll develop our country, and they'll allow Ukrainians to be around the world leaders, the world's developed nations. The declaration was the foundation of a future referendum on independence on December 1, 1991, where more than 90 per cent of Ukrainians voted in favour. And this confirmed Ukraine’s willingness to take responsibility for the fate of its country. I believe that it is this responsibility, which has been identified as the national advocates present in this room today, that should motivate us all to make effective and informed decisions, and we must all work for the benefit of Ukraine. I call upon everyone to be united in thought and action, and, of course, these will once again return to these historical frames, they give us an understanding of the importance of this document, the importance of this holiday, the thoroughness of the Declaration of the Sovereignty of Ukraine. Thank you all for writing this story. Thank you all for protecting her today at the cost of her life. Thank you. With a holiday! Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-16-m1.u9	The First President of Ukraine, Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine in 1990-1991, National Deputy of Ukraine for the first, second, third, fourth call, Hero of Ukraine Leonid Makarovich Kravchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-16-m1.u10	Dear Mr. President, Honourable Head of the Supreme Council, Honourable Mr. Prime Minister, Honourable National Deputies1 Today we have a solemn day, a great time of thirty years ago, this is where the first public government document, the Declaration of Independence, was adopted. [[Applause]] It was a difficult time, and the Declaration answered all the challenges of that time. The people were looking for answers, and they wanted to know how we would live on. And the force of the Declaration was that it gave such answers. She was read, quoted, I remember asking questions because, in fact, few people believed that a hall composed of 370 Communists and only 80 non - CPD members, although the Communists were different, did not believe that such a document could be accepted. And another very important detail. The chairman of the Committee for the preparation of the Declaration was a member of the CPD. [[Applause]] Ukraine’s Declaration of Sovereignty opened the way for moving forward, Ukraine began this way. There were doubts, there were hesitations, there were problems, but we overcame them. And most importantly, the democratic, national-democracy wing of the Communist Party has gradually begun to take the path of sovereignty under the influence of the Ukrainian people, because at the same time we were able to listen to the Ukrainian people. [[Applause]] But the movement was also complex because we had neither the necessary experience nor the necessary knowledge. We lived in another time, in another country, and we had to break ourselves and act accordingly, but we did. In addition, Moscow, the Soviet political class, wanted to stop Ukraine and did everything to ensure that Ukraine’s sovereignty did not take place. But we have also overcome this problem. I want to read only one phrase or one of the most important of the Declaration of State Sovereignty: "The Supreme Council of Ukraine of the Russian Federation, expressing the will of the people of Ukraine to determine the need to build a rule of law with a view to asserting the sovereignty and self-government of the people of Ukraine, proclaims Ukraine's State sovereignty as the rule, independence, fullness and integrity of the Republic's authority within its territory and independence and equality in external relations." [[Applause]] I am convinced that these are still valid today. But other times and people today are also different. A new generation of young, energetic, intelligent, and educated people has grown. We are happy to have all the members of the first generation who believe that these people, despite all the complexity, sometimes even the swinging, sometimes even the doubts, will create a new Ukraine. [[Applause]] The greatest value of the Declaration of Sovereignty as well as the State Independence Act of Ukraine is that they testify to the fact that our people can be the only one. And he proved it. And he's proving it. And he'll prove it. He is now proving his sovereignty, losing the better sons and daughters of Ukraine, overcoming the pandemic that has unfortunately fallen upon our destiny, and we must overcome it. It is a great responsibility for all of us for Ukraine, for its people. I think and believe that we will do what any citizen at any point in our country and at any time of day and night always with pride wanted to say, "I am proud of Ukraine! I'll protect her! I will defend her state sovereignty! [[Applause]] I will not allow anyone to dominate our house and rule our land!".. Dear National Deputies! Ladies and gentlemen! We have a great and famous story. We stand on the shoulders of a thousand - year history of government creation. We are creators and beginnings. Our people are the creator and the beginning of the great history of the civilizational breakthrough of the millennium of the baptism of Russia-Ukraine. A date that will be famous this month. [[Applause]] This means that after 30 years in an independent Ukraine and having gained both experience and knowledge, we can and should seek answers to all the most difficult questions in our home, in our own Ukraine. We have no right, having a great history, a great nation, a great will and great power, even to think of what someone has done to us as teachers or to intervene in our internal affairs. [[Applause]] And it doesn't matter if it's in the west or if it's in the east. [[Applause]] The only thing we can never allow under any circumstances is to consult with our enemies and friends, because it demeans us and makes us, if you'll excuse me, every one of those who allows it, worthless, petty and very small. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] I am asking you to stop the mahout of hostility in society and in the Supreme Council itself. [[Applause]] I've got a lot of time now, and I'm actually looking at all the battalions and I'm often sitting there and I think it's really looking for a better way, whether it's looking for the shortest way to power through populism and all sorts of disadvantages. [[Applause]] On the other hand, it looks extremely difficult. I don't want to use a stronger word. Believe me, I'm not a young man anymore, and at the age of 60 with a tail, even I was in different systems of power and I saw everything. But no one was publicly allowed to descend below the waterline. You can do this at home in your kitchen, but not at the state level. [[Applause]] We don't have the right and we can't accept the fact that in society, we have the resistance of the center and the region, the opposition between the elite center and the regional elite. Believe me, this is a very dangerous trend. This could eventually lead to a loss of government and it would shake the power and power of our state. To those who do so, I have one request. Yes, you can do whatever you want, but first consult with the people, change the Constitution. Whether the people of the Federation want a unitary state or not. In a unitary state, we can't assume that. [[Applause]] Dear Mr. President, by all means supporting the implementation of the fundamental fundamental positions of democracy and the rule of law, I very much ask you not to forget that all of this works when the law is in force. And before the law, we're all equal. And that's not a word. [[Applause]] I see people or some MPs, some political powers defy the law. They view the law even often as paper and worse as paper. This is unacceptable! And it is up to you that the law should prevail, and those who break the law should be held accountable regardless of who he is or who he is. [[Applause]] And another important thing about the culture of relationships both in society and in the Supreme Council. You know, when you look at the rhetoric of some MPs, some politicians, it makes a sad impression that we're on Bessarabia. Images, ignorance, inaccuracies, and even small lies that are unacceptable to Ukraine’s great tasks. So I'm asking very much to think about the culture, the political culture of our lives. [[Applause]] We will win by relying on our history, by resorting to freedom, to human rights, to faith, truth and love, to the national values of the world's human scale. 30 years ago in this hall, under the creaking of the hall, there were great and high words: God's only, great, us Ukraine's food! We didn't have Hymn back then, we didn't have Herb, we have a lot. There was no flag, there wasn't much. But we had spiritual strength, we knew that if we relied on that power, we would win. In these words of high spiritual takeoff, we also have love for Ukraine, and hope for Ukraine, and the need to safeguard Ukraine. Ukraine is everything to us. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-16-m1.u11	Thank you, Leonid Makarovich. The first, second, third, fourth, first, first, first, second, first, first, second, third, first, second, first, first, first, first, first, first, second, second, second, second, second, first, first, first, first, first, first, first, first, second, second, second, second, second, second, second, second, second, second, second, second, second, second, first, first, first, first, first, first, first, first, second, third, third, third, third, third, third, second, first, first, first, first, first, third, third, third, third, second, Ukrainian scholar, and public, Igor
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-16-m1.u12	Dear Mr. President, distinguished deputies and guests. Thank you to the Head of the Supreme Council, Mr. Dmitri Aleksandrovitch, for the approval of my person for the presentation of the Supreme Council. [[Applause]] Thank you very much for the invitation and the organization of the visit to Kiev. [[Applause]] In my speech, I'm going to touch on a few sides of the story of our present and my vision of our behavior. The history of the development of Ukrainian statehood in connection with the anniversary of the adoption of the Declaration of State Sovereignty requires an honest affirmation of the developments of those days and the head of the actors and forces, not merely a declaration of the trivial history of the final adoption of the Declaration of Independence. I have repeatedly said that the Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic before World War II and after World War II are different republics. After the war on the fronts, the winners returned home. They took office as heads of political and economic institutions, they settled in half-empty cities, they had the dignity of winning in a terrible war. At the end of the war there was another epoch in the history of the earth — the explosion of atomic bombs over Hiroshima and Nagasaki. The atomic bomb was made by the most prominent physicists, including Fermi and Einstein. This forced the head of the Soviet Union, Joseph Stalin, to turn to the director of the Institute of Nuclear Physics of the Academy of Sciences, Kurchatov, asking what needed to be done in order for the Soviet Union to have nuclear weapons. As a result, a completely revolutionary Law on Education and Science was passed. The wages and supplies of scientific families have increased tens of times. In a short time, the country was overwhelmed by the scientific literature of the world's best scientists, by the 1950s, the Soviet Union had tested nuclear and nuclear facilities, created nuclear weapons, but scientific institutions were soon equipped with the latest technology. This situation is now in China. In Ukraine there was an ethnic explosion of scientific talent -- learning, becoming a scientist in general became prestigious. Generations of young, capable, scientific and productive personnel flourished in the country. During the adoption of the Declaration of Independence, the Cabinet of Ministers led the wise and capable Prime Minister Wiold Fokin. [[Applause]] Former Head of the State Plan of the U.S.R.R. Cybernetics at the Academy of Sciences was led by the academics Mikhalevich, along with Professor Podovevý they created an entire science of the mathematical economy, including the system of equations, the balance of supply and demand, which is extremely important for the Ministry of Economics. Ukraine still has a priority here. Along with Fokin and Podoliv, the Law on Ukraine’s Economic Independence was written. Soon there was the first Maidan youth, led by young activists Yovishin, Donya, Kirilenko, Barkov, Kuzik, and others. As a result, a Supreme Council decree was issued on the conduct of military service by Ukrainian citizens in Ukraine. The Minister of Defense was the former commander of the missile unit, who was the first to recognize Ukraine’s independence, General Morozov. All of these events are related to the adoption of the Declaration of Independence. And the Declaration was like that. At the Supreme Council in 1990, we were offered the text of the Declaration. It turned out that then the Soviet leadership of Ukraine led by Vladimir Ivashk initiated the text of the Declaration. The text was processed by the Institute for the Study of Productive Forces of the Academy of Sciences of Ukraine, led by member correspondent Drogunsz Sergey Ivanovich. As head of the National Council, I had to study the text of the Declaration. We left everything as it was written, except for the office of Attorney General. At that time, the Attorney General performed the functions of the present Constitutional Court. In this draft declaration, the Attorney General of Ukraine was appointed Attorney General of the Soviet Union. Remember, two months earlier, the Supreme Council of the Russian Federation adopted the Declaration of State Sovereignty of Russia. Thus, the Declaration of State Sovereignty had to be adopted permanently. It was necessary to change the text of the appointment of the Attorney General. Thankfully, Vladimir Andriyovich Vasilenko, a member of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, now Ambassador of Ukraine, Professor of the Kyiv-Mogilian Academy. And the draft declaration submitted to the Supreme Council of Ukraine already meant that the Attorney General of Ukraine was appointed by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The draft Declaration further referred to the need for an allied treaty, but I knew it didn't matter. On behalf of Ukraine, I took part in the work of the Allied Commission on the drafting of a federal treaty, and I knew it was a futile thing, and I didn't argue with the Communists. The discussion in the Supreme Council was not too intense, the People’s Council in the face of John Durres suggested that Ukraine be declared a nuclear - free state, but outside the walls of the Supreme Council, the people were torn apart, the people were well - dressed, the sea of flowers was washed away. And the deputies of the Supreme Council, whether they were members of the People's Council or the Communist majority, when they came out of the walls of the Supreme Council, the joyful people sprinkled them with such a sea of flowers, changed the internal psychology of each of them so much that they, the deputies, realized that they had done the right thing. [[Applause]] Later, Ukraine’s Economic Independence Act was passed, and a decree on the Ukrainian army was adopted. It's all together the Declaration of Independence, the Law of Economic Independence, the army that Ukrainians have to carry out military service in Ukraine, actually made Ukraine an independent state. It was the President-Parliamentary State, the President could appoint and release a minister, and at the same time there were parties: the Movement Party, the Republican Party, the Communist Party, was the National Bank with a smart leader, left to act on the USR Constitution, throwing out a section on the leadership role of the Communist Party. All of this was the result of the adoption of the Declaration of Sovereignty. What mistakes have we made? The biggest mistake was that in the heat of anger, we excluded from the number of deputies Vladimir Ivashka, who and a group of Communist deputies, without telling us anything, went to Moscow for the XVIII CPRS. Ivashko was in a trusting relationship with Michael Gorbachev. I am deeply convinced that his progressive activity as a member of the Supreme Council of Kiev, and later as Head of the Supreme Council, was actually decided with Gorbachev. And the positiveness of their decisions was approved by the people. I must say that for the first time we have become a European Parliament thanks to Ivashka. He invited me as Head of the People’s Council for a discussion and suggested that the People’s Council become an official opposition to Parliament. We had, the Bureau, which was supposed to be 24 deputies, seven seats were allocated to us from the Bureau. We were in charge of education, we were in charge of the economy, we were in control of the other two other ways of producing Ukraine. The Supreme Council approved all our candidates, the entire Supreme Council. We have become a model European Parliament. In the person of Ivashka, Gorbachev, and his wife, Raisa Maximovna, we had good friends. This has particularly affected the liberation of the military territory of the Kyiv-Magilian Academy, where Gorbachev's wife played a major role by asking the Yazov Defence Minister to give us the territory of the Kyiv-Mogilian Academy. When I, as head of the People's Council, came to the territory of the Magilians, I was met by a general, the head of the section, and he pointed to the middle body, built by Bolsheviks, at the site of the church where the Gothman Sagaidajdachny was buried. The general offered to help us tear apart this body and release the tomb of Gehtman Sagajdachny. After Ivashka, the Supreme Council was led by John Plush, a man of wisdom and color. It was he who had discussed and adopted the Declaration of Independence. Ukraine has developed, and Prime Minister Fokin’s progressive work has wisely led the country. In particular, Fokin organized the printing of bracelets. Under his direction, the Law on Economic Independence was passed in government. We made a second mistake: we fired Prime Minister Fokin. Soon there was a HCHR. After the coup d'état, the National Council played a central role in the official declaration of independence of Ukraine. Thus, the adoption of the Declaration of Sovereignty became an introductory key at the door of the independent State of Ukraine. Now to sum it up. The state has now experienced revolutions, arenas, in its development. Every Midian has achieved something, but he has lost something. The first student "on granite" showed the power of the young, we got up our own army, showed the positive role of the Kiev polytechnician in helping the hungry students. The second, the Orange Revolution, was a demonstration of the beauty and strength of the people in establishing the justice of the election of the President of the State. The third is the Dignity Revolution. Result: Prohibition and disappearance of Communist ideology, Communists in Parliament, approval and protection of Ukrainian language. The fourth is the victory in the presidential election of Vladimir Zelensky, the creation of a new political party called "Serve of the People". All the achievements of the field are marked by huge masses of people. And under no circumstances or circumstances should they lose out. And yet now there is a terrible reality: war. Our most important fault is not our duty in trade and economic relations, the weakness of the Ukrainian Security Service in the prevention of conflicts, the softness of the power structures and the willingness of the power to give in to the national principles of the State in order to preserve people's lives. I'd like to address you as the oldest academic veteran of World War II, Mr. President. I watched your wife's face when you took an oath, her deep clean shock. Now that gives you a lot of money and a loan of trust, don't ruin it. May your Ukrainian language become native and beautiful by its melodious sound. Let it become that way in your family. From you, let it spread brightly to your companions and to the whole nation. [[Applause]] The state of the Ukrainian language is the foundation of the Ukrainian state. Now who's against it is a state criminal. [[Applause]] Dear Mr. President, may your predecessor become your advisor and your support, do not let the authority of the previous presidents be diminished. There's a war for the country, for Ukraine. Mr. President, be determined, wise and invincible, don't be afraid to fight, you have the Armed Forces of the whole country. One of the most important tasks of the state is justice, it does not exist in our country. Ukraine’s former leaders are most guilty of violating the law of work. There is no such cardinal violation of absurdity in any country of the world, either in Africa or in the ocean. All over the world, and especially in the European community, there's an average wage -- that's the teacher's salary. Its size is the value of an order of 880 pounds [880 kg] of bread and has held on for almost a hundred years. All the wages of other specialties vary around the middle, but they are fluctuating, not exceeding a hundred times. In order for the authorities to cope with this problem, the Supreme Council’s decision to carry out a progressive wage tax, depending on its size, should be supported by up to 80 percent of the wages. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen of the ninth vocation, my colleagues, be industrious, honor the Supreme Council by your actions in your language, by your outward appearance, introduce a uniform code. And to the end, be filled with great joy from the laws of the Ukrainian State that have been passed. [[Applause]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-16-m1.u13	Thank you. First, second, third, fourth, seventh, eighth, ninth, and ninth, Julius Jacobic Ioffe are invited to the floor.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-16-m1.u14	Honourable citizens of Ukraine, honourable ladies presidents, distinguished national deputies, guests! I am very proud to have been one of the national advocates who accepted the Declaration of State Sovereignty. This historical document has provided a solid basis for building a new independent democratic and peace - loving state. I remember the hard discussions that took place between the supporters of the various political movements. There were Communists, national Democrats, centrists and former dissidents in the Supreme Council in 90. We were different, but we understood how important it was to ensure civil peace in our country, to create conditions for the development of Ukraine, and to cooperate with neighbouring states. And despite all the disagreements, we found compromises. We were very proud that Ukraine was practically the only Soviet republic in which the political struggle was without a drop of blood. Regrettably, this gain and an important government tradition are lost today. Today, it is not possible to watch without pain as modern - day politicians distort the foundations that we then laid. As contrary to the principles and the position of the Declaration through manipulation, legislative distortions drag us into the military bloc. As today's basic principle of the Declaration on Equality for All Citizens is ignored. The policy of cultural and linguistic discrimination is carried out. And the price for this is armed conflict, the loss of territorial integrity and social peace. According to the Declaration of State Sovereignty, Ukraine was to become a social, democratic, legal, non-block and multinational state. Politicians were not the only ones who agreed to these goals. This choice was further supported by the people of Ukraine. This was the first major social agreement that was established in a referendum in 91. Overall, both in the west and in the center, and in Donbas, more in Donbas, more than 83 percent of the citizens voted in favour of the Ukrainian Declaration of Independence Act. The people of Ukraine maintained state sovereignty, chose the course of a self - centered, peaceful, non - blocked, and nuclear - free state. One day, with a referendum on Ukraine's independence, citizens elected the first President. And our country began its transition from socialist to capitalism. Unfortunately, as we can see today, over the years, we have gained oligarchy capitalism instead of national capitalism. This oligarchivirus has completely captured and is painfully killing our country, unfortunately. Ukraine is plagued by the actions of non-professional government officials, the untimely and up - to - date decisions such as land sales, the legalization of the game business, and the pseudo-reformation of the energy sector. As a result, most of the population today is being robbed of the last, of state-owned businesses in waste and damage, and of agile businesses in stormy profits. Today's return to the foundations of the Declaration of State Sovereignty is the only way to recover our homeland. But it takes political courage and responsibility. In my opinion, unfortunately, it is not in the ruling majority and today my colleagues in today’s parliament. The government repeats the mistakes of its predecessors who broke the Ukrainian social treaty. Today we hide behind the slogan "No peace, no war," and the war continues. And it's a very destructive position, it has not only political but economic and social consequences. Everything from industry to culture, from energy to health care. But the worst part is that people die in the flames of the East conflict. I urge my colleagues of today's deputies to come to their senses and do everything they can to restore territorial integrity, social unity and political dialogue in our country. The path of hostility, oppression, and coercion will lead us to national tragedy. Our sovereign state is in great need: the independence of Parliament from the pressures of power and business, the independence of power from oligarchic influence and external management, the independence of politics from tranches and memorandums, the independence of thoughts from propaganda and unobjective information, the independence of elections from dirty schemes, nets (when we first met in Parliament, there were no, money did not go to elections), from dirty schemes, nets, bribes, sweet promises, worthless and corrupt politicians. To do this, we all need to go back to the sources of our Declaration of State Sovereignty. To bring this parliament into history today as a parliament that has achieved peace, not a country. And looking at the actions, in my opinion, not a very professional government, as the oldest member of this Parliament of age, I would like to remind the youngest in the history of Ukraine of a quote by the famous work that "disruptment is in the heads." It is necessary to place professionals in all places, and then the destruction will disappear on its own. Stop this turmoil and finally begin a period of peace, sovereignty, and the economy of Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-16-m1.u15	The first, second, fourth, sixth, seventh, eighth and ninth appeals of Sergey Vladislavovich Sobolev are invited to the floor.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-16-m1.u16	Ladies and gentlemen of the dissidents, I address you first of all, Mr. President, the honourable presidents! I think that the historicity of today is not that the Ukrainian State began 30 years or 29 years ago, but the history of today is that the Ukrainian State is a truly millennial story and without understanding it, the Declaration itself will not be understood, because everyone reads it in his own way, and the key phrase of the Declaration is the right of the Ukrainian nation to self-determination. And if someone doesn't realize it's the only territory on the planet where the Ukrainian nation can define itself as a nation of state. Yes, we're all Ukrainian people, we represent different nationalities, but it's only here that the Ukrainian nation has the right to self-determination, and that's what everyone who voted for that act back then confirmed, and I think that this act is inseparable from the Declaration of Independence Act. Yes, this is a year and a year and a half before December 1st, when the people of Ukraine confirmed that this is a Ukrainian state, they became the most responsible moment of modern history and a continuation of millennium history. Yeah, I can't help but mention the dissidents and the ones in this room and the ones that are gone. But you know, there are those who have the same responsibility. As dissidents took responsibility during the Soviet regime, they took responsibility at a time when it was most important and necessary. John Stepan Plush, he was the one who presided, not even the Head of the Supreme Council, because Ivashko went to Moscow during the most important adoption of the document, the Declaration. Leonid Makarovich Kravchuk is the person who took responsibility. I'm talking to today's President: who thinks that at the time, during the HCHR, it was easier -- it wasn't true! They had the army, they had everything, but they weren't afraid to take that responsibility. And I think the history of today's moment is that there's only once in a lifetime. And if it is the aggression of the Russian Federation and Putin, it is aggression, not the confrontation between different types of population in the face of some kind of oppression. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, This is the direct aggression of the Russian Federation. And the responsibility that lies with the President of the country and with each of us is a unique responsibility. Why, then, did we all endure? You heard it in the speech of the brilliant academic Igor Raphailovich Yukhnovsky. Yes, there was one party that had an absolute majority, it had almost three-quarters of Parliament, but they understood, everyone understood that opposition was the same people, and they needed to unite immediately for the nation's creation. I think that's the best lesson that allows us to move forward. The Declaration is another moment. Yes, the Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic even adopted the Ukrainian Language Act as a national language until its twelfth vocation, and they were not afraid to do so. Therefore, when some today shyly hide their eyes and pretend that nothing has happened, tomorrow in Parliament they want to consider a change to the Language Law. [[Applause]] I think that's the answer to the key question: where are we going? And in 30 years, we figured out whether I was born in a Russian-speaking family where my father's name is Sobolev, a Ukrainian, and my mother's name is Mironenko, a Russian, understood 30 years ago: it's the only place we can stand, unite and move forward. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-16-m1.u17	The national deputy of Ukraine on the sixth, seventh, eighth, ninth, is invited to the floor, the deputy head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Condratuk Olena Konstantinovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-16-m1.u18	Mr. Golovo, the distinguished ladies of the Presidents of Ukraine, the prime ministers, Igor Rafailovich, ladies and gentlemen! My talk today will be about dreams and the future, about pride and unity, about wisdom and love for Ukraine. All of this was demonstrated convincingly in the walls of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. "Ukraine begins with you," said Vjacheslav Czarnovol. And I would like so much to add to those words that Ukraine starts with Parliament. It was in this room that a great story of our congregation and independence was made. As a historian, I would like to highlight the obvious conclusions of those events, since all the most important decisions were made when most in the session hall were joined by an active minority, when the opposition voted with the majority for the national interests of Ukraine when tolerance prevailed against hatred and the MPs in the heart opposed evil and injustice. With the approval of the Declaration of State Sovereignty, the restoration of Ukrainian parliamentaryism took place. The country received an institution that represented and expressed the will of the Ukrainian people. The declaration of independence is the day that true patriots, by force of words, have convinced the majority of them and have put into practice the dream of many generations. Voting for the 1996 Constitution was a night without sleep, it was a night of justice. And let's remember how different this night is from the disgraceful budget nights of more late parliamentaryism, when MPs were moving away from the people, from the common people who delegated them to Parliament. So I would like to urge you never to forget who and who we work for in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I firmly believe that the DNA of the Ukrainian people along with the Ukrainian language, culture, the desire for freedom is another key element: the right of the people to decide their own affairs, the right to manage national wealth and to assert their future. I want to remind all of us that we are a parliamentary-presidential country, and the most important decisions must be made in these walls. And that was not the case. I inadvertently recall that evening when Parliament was surrounded by forces during the Dignity Revolution. We realized that the authorities had completely lost their minds and that the worst could start. But those MPs who were with the people and those who were not afraid voted in favour of withdrawing troops from Kiev. They then held the country back, as they did during the Orange Revolution. I want us to thank them all, too. Some of them are in this room. [[Applause]] I recall how the Ukrainian Parliament, at the level of the Basic Law, strengthened the Euro-Atlantic choice of the Ukrainian people made during the Dignity Revolution. [[Applause]] I am writing that after passing the Law on the Functioning of Ukrainian as a State Language, the Supreme Council has placed a dot on "and" last year, and it cannot be, and it will not be, in Ukraine, any other State language than the Ukrainian language. [[Applause]] Updated, as never before, the ninth convocation parliament has also entered history – it has annulled parliamentary inviolability. At the same time, today's parliament faces no less challenges than previous parliamentary calls. The war is going on, part of the territory of Ukraine is occupied by the aggressor country, the Russian Federation, the era of poverty has never ended, people are experiencing social injustice. Because of the pandemic, the virus’s crown is rapidly changing the world, and Ukraine cannot stay away from these issues. I'll tell you that the adoption by a majority of the Agricultural Land Sales Act and the license to gamble do not add responsibility and confidence in power. We should remember that the Supreme Council, as an institution other than the representative and legislative one, also has a supervisory function under executive authority. Today, more than ever, we are obliged to show experience, professionalism, expertise, wisdom, innovative approaches, and knowledge so that together we can give quality answers to all the challenges facing society today. Just by calling for unity, I want responsibility to finish my speech. Unity and understanding for the sake of Ukraine's good, unity in the interests of people who grow bread, teach, heal, create, build, unite for the sake of our heroes, who in advance protect Ukraine and Europe from the scourge of totalitarianism, protect the ideals of parliamentaryism, freedom and equality and human dignity -- all that must be the cornerstone of the welfare of the people and the country of happy people. I dream of a parliament in which there will be equal representation of women and men. Today in the Supreme Council, we have 20 percent female representation. And I hope that very soon there will be more of them in the local councils, more women in the government, in the government, in the parliament. It's not "new faces," it's those who understand what it's like to work, what it is to succeed, what it's like to take care of children and families, not often without support, but without effort. I believe that they will be the new force behind Ukraine's development. I'd like to welcome the holiday and give it to all the MPs for the first time, especially the fact that on this day of July 16, 1990, you pressed the "yes" button. For Ukraine. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-16-m1.u19	Thank you. Dear colleagues! I would like to thank everyone once again for what you did 30 years ago, for what you're doing today, for allowing us to work in these walls today, to work and how you benefit the Ukrainian people. And I'd like to thank you both from myself and from the entire MP Corps. Thank you very much again. [[Applause]] After the festivities are closed, I invite everyone to take a joint photo at the branch of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues! I think you'll all see me, but not in a meeting, if you don't mind. Dear colleagues! With all due respect, let's close this session, you'll have the opportunity to talk to me and your colleagues. Hello again. Thank you. [[Applause]] I declare the ceremony of the Supreme Council of Ukraine closed.
