ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-13-m0.u1	Good afternoon, distinguished national MPs! Good afternoon, media officials! Please prepare to register, take your seats. Dear colleagues, prepare for registration. I have a request: Head of the MP factions and groups, please come here for a moment. One minute, please. Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for registration. Dear colleagues, in response to the demands of the President of Ukraine and in accordance with part eight of article 19 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine regulations today, we are holding an extraordinary plenary meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Please prepare for registration. Are you ready to register? Ready. I remind you, registration takes place by clicking on the green "for" button, the first one on the left. Please register. [[14:19:33]] There are 345 Ukrainian national deputies registered in the hall. I now declare open the plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Dear colleagues, today is the birthday of three Ukrainian national deputies. This is Andrew Volodymyrovich Bogdanec, Peter Vasilovich Jurczyn and Anton Volodymyrovich Yacenko. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] [[Applause]] Hello! Health, Strength, Success, and New Achievements! Motovlover's out of procedure. Wait a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-13-m0.u2	Friends, on Friday there was a ghastly event — there was a pusher underneath the rostrum. And I apologize to Santa Claus for touching your hand. Excuse me. This rostrum is often used for political pressure, imagery, and others. Experienced politicians do this. I don't want to be an experienced politician, I want to be an effective politician. Our job is to adopt laws, write them and work. Please accept my apologies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-13-m0.u3	From the procedure? Heratchenko is out of procedure. And let's get to work.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-13-m0.u4	Dear colleagues, Maria Ionova is on her way today. She's listening to a broadcast from the Supreme Council of Ukraine. She and our political power accept these apologies. We think that this is a good example for young politicians to learn from experience. Because in some cases it is better to apologize, put a dot together and move forward in the development of parliamentaryism, gender equality and work for the country.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-13-m0.u5	Thank you. Let's get to work. Dear colleagues, a statement came from two factions about a break with a replacement for the performance. Lozinski Roman Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-13-m0.u6	Three days ago, during the shootings at Donbas near the village of Trooticki, a Russian occupation took the lives of another Ukrainian soldier. Killed a real patriot and just a good Ukrainian. I ask you to honor the moment of silence of the younger lieutenant of the 24th Brigade of the King Daniel of Ukraine. [[A Minute of Silence]] Thank you. On July 10th, Russian aggressors fired at our positions. The first shell of the minomet got into the blinding. And Taras Matthew, a hero of Ukraine, went to rescue his brothers. He saved them and pulled them out, but he lost his life instead. The next one, the next one, the shards, and another death of the Ukrainian soldier. Taras Matthew is an example for each of us, for all of us. He was at war from the first days and returned there for the second time. He never questioned Ukrainian interests, Ukrainian values, Ukrainian language, Ukrainian culture, and, above all, our Ukrainian future. He was with us on Maidan in three hundred self-defense. Between his first campaign for war and his return there, he decided to change his communities, and he went to local self - government. And along with our colleagues from the Ukrainian Galician Party, he was a member of the Jewish District Council, one of the most active deputies. We had the privilege of being with him on one team and changing our communities. Taras Matthew is also a reminder for each of us. A reminder that war is going on. The war is going on! It's not a conflict, it's not a fight between someone -- it's a war. Taras -- a reminder that just stops shooting -- doesn't work, playing with Putin in direct negotiations doesn't work. The war must be won. And Taras showed by his example how to fight the invader. Taras is a reminder to us that every day we must bring Ukraine closer to victory, whether on the front, on the war against Russia the aggressor, or in our communities, or simply quality and honesty, and professionally, doing our jobs every day. In April, Taras wrote very important words. I want everyone to stop buzzing and listen to them. Taras wrote, "I beg you, don't give up your freedom and rights because of panic and fear, then you'll have to return them with blood." Let us remember those words of Taras Matthew — The Hero of Ukraine. Let us put these words into practice every day by our actions, protecting our Ukrainian interests in the war, protecting our Ukrainian interests here in Parliament. And we will not take a step back in the memory of Taras Matthew and in the memory of all the fallen boys and girls, all the thousands who died in this war. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-13-m0.u7	Dear colleagues, a statement has been made from two other MPs, replacing the break for the performance. The word is given to the national deputy of Ukraine, Taras Ivanovich Batenka. Please, Taras Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-13-m0.u8	Dear colleagues, a respected Ukrainian society! The MP's Party for the Future joins the words of deep compassion that we address to the family and family of Taras Matvieva. From this sad statistic, unfortunately, we want to mention today two more fighters of the Ukrainian army who died on July 13 in the United Nations zone in the Donetsk region. Friends, who do not know or remember their history, do not have a future. And we're convinced that we had a "cold summer" in postwar history, but we had a hell of a summer in Ukrainian history. And it's not about the movie, it's about our tragic pages of history. As you know, the Ukrainian President’s decree of 29 August defined the Day of Remembrance of Ukrainian Defenders who died in the struggle for independence, sovereignty, and territorial integrity. And this date was tied to the day of the exit in Ilowiska on August 29, 2014. Ukrainian troops entered the city of Ilowaysk on August 18th and were able to take control of most of the city. However, after the introduction of regular Russian troops on August 23 and 24, the group of Ilova was surrounded. Getting out of the environment resulted in serious losses among Ukrainian military personnel, especially volunteer battalion fighters. The organization of the exit was ruined and the fighters had to leave on their own strength and on the aid of volunteers. Failure to admit such events in the future requires careful investigation into all the circumstances that led to the death and capture of a large number of Ukrainian soldiers under Ilowaysk and their comprehensive investigation. Also, you admit that serious losses from Ukrainian military and National Guard fighters and volunteers, Ukraine suffered during the Debalt boiler in the winter of 2015. The circumstances of their deaths still provoke so - called conspiracy theories in the Ukrainian society, resulting from the absence of objective information from Ukrainian citizens regarding events that took place in the city of Debaltsev. A mixed point in the Russian Federation’s fight against Ukraine is the bloodless outcome of grouping illegal military formations under the leadership of Hirkin, Strelkova of the city of Slovinsk Donetsk region in July 2015, just another anniversary sad. In view of the lack of intelligence, society and the military, there is widespread belief that the military leadership of Ukraine with the fighters would be involved in this. So the MP's Party for the Future calls on all factions and MPs in Parliament to immediately create a Temporary Investigation Commission and open to society the actual images of the events that have been recorded, to remove the white spots so that these strategic pages of history will never be repeated again. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-13-m0.u9	Heroim Slava! Dear colleagues, let's move on to. You are invited to consider the draft Act amending article 6 of the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine 2020 (registration number 3659). We need to make a decision on the inclusion of this issue in the agenda of the daily session, and we need 226 votes in favour of the Ukrainian people's deputies. Please prepare for the vote. Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[14:30:36]] For 236 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, it is suggested that this issue be considered in a simplified manner. Please support and vote. [[14:30:57]] For 237 Decision taken. The report is given by Shkurak’s Deputy Minister of Finance, Vasil Aleksandrovitch.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-13-m0.u10	Dear Dmitry Aleksandrovich, distinguished presidency, distinguished national MPs! In your view, a bill amending Article 6 of the State Budget for 2020 is proposed for consideration. The law provides for an expansion in the direction of the granting of State guarantees, namely for the provision of State guarantees to small and medium -sized enterprises for the purpose of implementing provisions for the provision of State guarantees on a portfolio basis. In addition, it is proposed to expand the direction of safeguards for the implementation of investment projects implemented by the Hydropower Plant for the implementation of projects for the creation of the Kanówska and Dniestrov Hydroaccumulation Power Plant. It is also proposed to provide State guarantees for loans granted by international financial institutions to enterprises producing or transferring electricity. These loans will be exclusively credited to international financial institutions. Please support the bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-13-m0.u11	Thank you. The statement is given to the Deputy Head of the Committee on Budgets, Trukin Alexandr Mikolayovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-13-m0.u12	Dear Dmitre Alexanderovich, distinguished national MPs! On 1 July, the Committee on Budget Affairs considered bill 3659, amending article 6 of the State Budget Act 2020. The committee has examined a bill that takes into account the conclusions of the Chief Scientific and Expert Directorate, as well as the comments made by the Committee on Budgets and the GNEU on the previous Law 3419, which has been returned to the government, and has focused on specific issues of reflection in the Committee's letter. First of all, it is noted that the bill is derived from Bill 3598 on amendments to the State Budget and the Budget Code, which regulates the issue of the granting of State guarantees on a portfolio basis. Therefore, the decision on the adoption of Bill 3659 should be made only after the adoption of the basic bill 3598, as opposed to the previous bill 3419. This bill contains a clearer formulation of portfolio guarantees provisions, a specific set of creditors and lenders, and a limit of guarantees. In addition, the Ministry of Finance has further proposed to supplement the bill with a provision for the inclusion in article 6 of the Act of a new paragraph on the possibility of granting State guarantees under the government’s decision to ensure the fulfilment of the debt obligations of public sector economic operators operating in the field of production and/or electricity transmission to international financial institutions. On the basis of the Committee's consideration of budgetary matters, the Committee adopted the following decision: recommending to the Supreme Council Bill 3659 to consider after considering and adopting Bill 3598 on changes to the Budget Code, on the basis of the first reading to adopt them as a basis and as a whole as a law taking into account the proposals and conclusions of the Committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-13-m0.u13	Dear colleagues, please sign up: two for, two for, and two for, the other for, the factions. Clemensa Julia Leonidivna.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-13-m0.u14	Please pass the word to Volodymyr Cabal.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-13-m0.u15	Cabal Volodymyr Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-13-m0.u16	Dear colleagues, in general, we think that the mechanism for providing guarantees to the public on a portfolio basis is really a good mechanism that exists in many countries in Europe and other developed countries. This mechanism allows the State to increase aid to small and medium-sized businesses because the process of issuing guarantees is very complex and no bank will go to lend to a small business by giving out. By going through this very complicated process, it's actually a very good mechanism. But let's look at this law. This law, besides, let's say it gives this opportunity to give State guarantees, it also adds an additional goal to which State guarantees can be given, it's the Ukrhydroenergo. This has nothing to do with portfolio guarantees, these are two different topics that need to be discussed separately and discussed in separate laws. So unfortunately, in this paper, when this good mechanism, which will help the state to help the small and medium-sized business that has suffered from the crisis, adds one more thing that has nothing to do with it. That's why we're going to abstain from voting for this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-13-m0.u17	Batenko Taras Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-13-m0.u18	Dear friends, we are surprised by the selective approach in this bill of a separate private stockholder society that has been drawn from among other important societies that the Cabinet of Ministers wants to make in its debt commitments. We realize that the Ukrainian State still bears a heavy debt burden, and by the end of the year we have to pay off some $17 billion of such debts. And because we see it in this bill? We see that there is no adequate justification in the accompanying documents for the marginal amount of government guarantees provided on a portfolio basis of up to 5 billion dollars. We see that the accompanying documents do not provide information on the possible amount of State guarantees to ensure the fulfilment of the debt obligations of the above-mentioned "Ukrodroenergo" for loans remaining to finance its investment projects. In fact, this can cause considerable corruption and abuse. And the freeing of the Ukrhydroenergo from the payment of State guarantees is discriminatory for other recipients of state guarantees. Therefore, our parliamentary group "For the Future" will abstain from voting on this bill, as well as on the accompanying bill 3598. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-13-m0.u19	Papiev Mikhailo Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-13-m0.u20	Thank you. Please give the floor to the national deputy, Koltunović.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-13-m0.u21	Coltunovich Alexander Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-13-m0.u22	Thank you, Reverend Dmitri Alexanderovich. Coltunovich, "The Opposition Platform for Life." First of all, we waited for the authorities to make appropriate changes to the budget, about serious structural transformations and changes in budgetary policy priorities. Because it's a budget, it's a conservation of poverty. 74 bracelets plus the minimum pension and the absolute inadequate perception of those realities and the challenges of time. It's about budget changes. It is also very important to ask that in six months of this year, a budget failure of 38.4 billion dollars or 7.8 percent to the plan is important. Another very important moment. And we're doing a correction of the planned indicators to lower and show as little budget failure as possible. So in this context, we insist that we be presented with a completely different budget and real changes to the Budget Code, which will reflect the real socio-economic situation in the country, which will form a resource base for raising social standards. Not to add to what seems to be a small business that is given 5 billion dollars, but also to sew on the question of "Ukrhydroenergo" and other things. That's why we're not going to support this bill. But in our view, the next question, which is in order of the day, which also deserves attention, is 3598, which is related to the draft law. So we urge Parliament not to support these two draft laws in order not to allow the actual embezzlement of 5 billion dollars. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-13-m0.u23	Timishenko Julia Volodymyrna.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-13-m0.u24	Dear colleagues, I'm only asking for two minutes of attention. Because two bills are now being passed, this one and the next, which are in principle incompatible with the existence of a stable, financially stable state. Just think about what you're taking. I want you all to think about it. The first law singles out the enterprise, the private, the Ukrhydroenergo, which "didn't fail," the second time the state is going to give up to 5 billion dollars in guarantees. Do you have any idea what that is? State guarantee is money. Money that will then be transferred to the state budget at the expense of wages, pensions, and so on. Please tell me, how many shots did you take, and who did you get for this law? Can you conduct an internal investigation with the "Serve of the People"? You know that this vote is going to be a test: either everyone in the fate and in the cause, or there are people who are beyond morals, for some honour and conscience. Please tell me, do you know any law in the history of Ukraine that a name-based private enterprise will be provided with state guarantees of 5 billion dollars? What are we doing in the next session instead of resolving the key issues of the state? I just think that if this is voted out, this law and the next one, we have to put things together and get out of this Parliament. Because no one understands the state's interests, the country's finances, the business equity, because you are creating a unique advantage for a single corporation for a private entity. I urge all of you to vote "against," if anyone understands anything at all in legislative action.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-13-m0.u25	Dear colleagues, prepare for the vote, please. From the motives of Shahov, and then we go to the vote. There are no more speakers, are there? Shahov Sergei Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-13-m0.u26	Sergey Shahov, Luhanščina, Deputy Group "Trust". Dear colleagues, do you have any idea what 5 billion dollars is? I just came from Lugansk. No roads, no water, no roofs, no infrastructure destroyed by 99 percent, all the elevators are broken. Five billion dollars is a new city for 100,000 people, and you want to give 5 billion dollars to a private company. Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like you to meet me at the train station. See how people live in the Luhansk region. In the city of Lysicánsk, they sit in a stone age without water. In the town of Severodonetsk, in all areas, The area, the Troitic region, is impossible to pass through, a pit like a grave. I've said this a number of times. Welcome to Lugansk. Thank you. We will not vote for this bill and we will not support it. Sergey Shahov, Luhanščina, Deputy Group "Trust".
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-13-m0.u27	Ready to vote? As the national MPs prepare for the vote, the committee proposes to take the whole as a basis. Is there no objection? One faction against. Who else would mind? In general. Four factions against. Five factions against. I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Act amending article 6 of the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for 2020 (registration number 3659). Ready to vote? Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[14:44:19]] For 213 The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, I am voting on the proposal to refer to the Committee for a re-reading of the draft Act amending article 6 of the Ukrainian Law on the State Budget for 2020 (registration number 3659). Ready to vote? Ready? Please support and vote. [[14:45:13]] For 272 Decision taken. Thank you. The next issue of the agenda is the draft Act amending the budget of Ukraine for the implementation of the mechanism for the provision of State guarantees on the portfolio basis and for the settlement of the order of payment of the tax debt (registration number 3598). We need to include this issue in the agenda of the day session. Ready to vote? Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[14:45:56]] For 243 Decision taken. It is suggested that this issue be considered in a simplified manner. Please support and vote. [[14:46:16]] For 239. Decision taken. Deputy Finance Minister Skurakov Vasil Aleksandrovich is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-13-m0.u28	Dear Mr. Golovo, Your Honorary Presidencies, honourable Members of the People's Parliament, you have been invited to make changes to the Budget Code regarding the implementation of State guarantees on the portfolio basis and the arrangements for payment of the tax debt. The bill amends article 17 to allow a new direction to be given to the provision of State guarantees on a portfolio basis. Article 17 will be adjusted accordingly and this legal possibility will be created. There are also changes to the Final Provisions of the State Budget Act, the Budget Code, I apologize. What will be envisaged is the possibility of allowing operators, tax payers operating in Ukraine’s controlled territory, who have a tax debt in the temporarily occupied territory of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, to pay off such a debt. To date, this debt amounts to 156.8 million dollars. The implementation of the bill will provide an opportunity to pay off local taxes and congregations that have arisen prior to the temporary occupation of resident payers. Please support and vote on the bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-13-m0.u29	Thank you. The head of the Committee’s Committee on Budget Affairs, Kubbit Yuri Mihajlovich, is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-13-m0.u30	Honourable Dmitre Alexandrovich, distinguished national deputies and invited, the Budget Committee on July 1st reviewed Bill 3598 on amending the Budget Code. The committee has examined a bill that takes into account the conclusions of the Chief Scientific and Expert Directorate, as well as the comments made by the Committee on Budgets and the GNEU on the previous draft Law 3420, which has been returned to the government and focuses on specific issues that are reflected in the Committee's report. Unlike the previous bill 3,420, the bill contains a clearer formulation of portfolio guarantees, specificized lenders and lenders, harmonised application of the term “portfolk” and detailed the essence of ensuring partial enforcement of debt obligations in the provision of guarantees. At the same time, it is suggested that other issues be further addressed, namely, the payment of a tax debt incurred in the temporarily occupied area of Crimea and Sevastopol, and the enforcement of State-owned rights. As a result of a review of the bill by the Ministry of Finance and the Court of Auditors, it is proposed that the bill be clarified. This is to exclude the possibility of execution of state-owned derivatives on the basis of over-planned borrowings; to provide, within the framework of parliamentary control, for agreement with the Committee on Budget Issues, for the selection of creditor banks and for the conditions for the granting of portfolio guarantees; to provide for the responsibility of the creditor and for the granting of credit in the case of portfolio guarantees. Excluding the position of the debt agency of legal persons to provide the services necessary for the management of guarantee obligations. Excluding the provisions on the dissemination of budgetary legislation on the protected expenditure of the budget on payments related to the performance of guarantee obligations and the necessary technical and legal clarifications. In addition, the Committee decided to recommend that the Cabinet of Ministers, when a bill was adopted in preparation for portfolio guarantees, provide for the settlement and reporting of accounting features. In view of the above, the Committee on Budgetary Questions recommends to the Supreme Council Bill 3598 as a result of the consideration.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-13-m0.u31	Thank you. In time, please. Please sign up from the MP factions and groups. Mamyan Suto Čolojevic.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-13-m0.u32	Please pass the Coltunovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-13-m0.u33	Coltunovich Alexander Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-13-m0.u34	Thank you, Reverend Dmitri Alexanderovich! I was just discussing the previous draft of the law and said that the two bills that go together cannot be supported, either first or second, because they both do not bear the economic performance parameters that need to be talked about. But what we would like to pay attention to is, in principle, this approach to increasing debt obligations. And as a whole, we have a very negative situation today, because we have a government budget of almost 200 billion dollars for Ukraine for 2020. We have something to do in this period, and I'm stressing once again that we don't really have the revenue part of the budget, we have the basic macroeconomic downturn. Instead, we see that changes are being made, including the correction of the Ukrainian Budget Code solely for its own lobbying interests, not for the benefit of Ukrainian citizens. So from this point of view, we turn on representatives and the profile committee and power: turn around the new budget project for 2020, show real macroeconomic parameters, and the third thing that's equally important is to show the resource base for the claimed increase of between 5,000 and 6.5 thousand dollars of minimum wage. Then we'll see the actual structure and the budget filling, and what's the main thing is the state budget spending. As far as the issue of State guarantees is concerned and so on, we still realize that these issues will not be met so we will not support them. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-13-m0.u35	Juršin Jaroslav Romanović.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-13-m0.u36	Please pass the word to Volodymyr Cabal.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-13-m0.u37	Cabal Volodymyr Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-13-m0.u38	Dear colleagues! Although the Voice faction did not vote in favour of the previous law, I would urge you to support this law, which creates a framework for amending the Budget Code to enable a mechanism to support small and medium-sized businesses. We all know that in the Western world, the state has supported, still supports small and medium-sized businesses during the coronavirus, mainly through the granting of credit. What is the market mechanism for extending credit? These are state guarantees when a bank issues loans on commercial terms, but the state guarantee makes it cheaper instead of mortgage. What happened to us? We also have a government that wanted to help a small and medium-sized business that had suffered from a coronary crisis. But unfortunately, no bank is ready, let's say, to deal with the difficult process of issuing guarantees for a small loan, and so the situation is that real guarantees can only be obtained by large enterprises, and small banks are not interested. So we came up with a mechanism that allows banks, without a complicated process of issuing guarantees, to issue loans to small and medium-sized businesses, to help them cope with the crisis, and the state will already be providing guarantees on the loan portfolio. There are two advantages here, first of all, we're allowing help to small and medium-sized businesses, not just big ones, but second of all, it's reducing corruption risks. Because when the state gives credit, guarantees, corruption risks are high, and when a commercial bank issues risks are much lower, because it knows that when a customer goes bankrupt, not only will the state go bankrupt, but the bank, so please support this bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-13-m0.u39	Julia Volodymyrna Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-13-m0.u40	Dear friends, I ask for two more minutes of attention, and I would like to thank those members of the People's Servant factions and all the opposition factions who did not support the granting of a state guarantee of 5 billion dollars to a private enterprise named the law. But now the second part of the Marleson Ballet is unfolding. I want you to know what this law is, this law that the Cabinet of Ministers will choose for its consideration and reasoning individual private companies and somehow give them State guarantees, as set out in the law, for example, by exempting these private enterprises from the obligation to provide property or other security for the fulfilment of obligations and payment to the State Budget of Ukraine for the payment of State guarantees. In other words, all those who now vote in favour of this law give the government a corrupt right out of hundreds of thousands of private companies on some unknown criteria to choose specific private companies and to give a state guarantee. This would mean that these companies that were chosen for the government's disposal would be with this state guarantee to go to the bank and take loans that would then not be returned, and the government would pay for it according to their guarantees. I just think I have hallucinations when I see that the minister of finance has come out to uphold this law. No minister of finance in his mind, in his mind, and in his life would ever allow such a law to be brought here in Parliament. And so I urge everyone to vote against this corruption, and the anti-corruption committee to consider this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-13-m0.u41	Shahov Sergei Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-13-m0.u42	Sergey Shahov, Trust MP, Luhanščina. Dear colleagues, this bill includes three things that cannot be combined. We would vote "Trust" for this bill, but not together. There's a rational grain here, but we can't combine both bank guarantees and derivatives today, and so on. Trust Group won't support this bill. And we also demand that we put and support the Free Zone Bill, which we require for four years to put the Lugansk, the Donetsk Region, and to give a normal life to a small, medium-sized business to develop, to invest in areas where war is going. What are you suggesting today? You offer a bank guarantee today and don't give banks money. How should the banking system work today? In this case, this bill will not be supported by the "Trust" MP. Thank you. Sergei Shahov, Luganshina.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-13-m0.u43	Dear colleagues, now with a motive, Kusbite, then we go to the vote. All those who wish to speak? Invite the national deputies to the hall. The "Serve of the People" is Kuzbit Yuri Mihajlovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-13-m0.u44	Dear colleagues, taking into account the above, the Committee on Budget Issues recommends to the Supreme Council Bill 3598 as a result of the first reading review to be adopted on the basis and generally as a law that takes into account the proposals made in the Committee's letter. Thank you for your attention, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-13-m0.u45	Thank you. Dear colleagues, let's go to the vote. Please prepare for the vote. Ready to vote? Question: "How many factions do you recommend on the basis and in general how many factions do you recommend against?" One, two, three, four. I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Law amending the Ukrainian Budget Code on the introduction of a mechanism for the provision of State guarantees on a portfolio basis and for the regulation of the payment of tax debt (registration number 3598). Ready to vote?
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-13-m0.u46	Based on that, I said 3598. Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[15:01:03]] For 215 The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, I bet. Keep it down, if you don't mind. I am voting on the proposal to refer a draft bill to the Committee for the re-reading of registration number 3598 on amendments to the Ukrainian Budget Code for the introduction of a mechanism for the provision of State guarantees on a portfolio basis and for the regulation of the payment of tax debt. Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[15:01:55]] For 264 Decision taken. Thank you. Ruslan Alexiyovich Stefanchuk, Representative of the President of Ukraine to the Supreme Council of Ukraine
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-13-m0.u47	High-level colleagues, the President sent a letter to the Supreme Council today to clear out drafts 3809 and 3708, 3708-1. Thank you. Please consider this in the order of the day.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-13-m0.u48	Thank you. Let's move on to the next one. 3712. Dear colleagues, you are invited to consider the draft Act amending Appendices Nos. 3 and No. 6 to the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine 2020 on the financial security of elections (registration Nos. 3712, 3712-1). Dear colleagues, aren't we going to fund this election? How about a little quieter? That's the impression you've already won. Ready to vote? I would like to vote on the proposal for inclusion in the agenda of the above-mentioned bill. Please support and vote. [[15:03:37]] For 325 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, it is suggested that this issue be considered in a simplified manner. Please support and vote. [[15:03:58]] For 261 Decision taken. The report is given to the Ukrainian National Deputy of the Forgotten Forest Valentinovni.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-13-m0.u49	Dear Chairman! Dear colleagues! According to the Constitution, the local elections are scheduled to take place on October 25 of this year. By law, local elections are scheduled not later than 70 days before the election day, and the election process begins 50 days before the first local elections. Our voters express concern about the preparation of such elections through the world’s announced coronavirus pandemic and quarantine in Ukraine. The main problem in the organization of local elections is their financial support, as part of the funding was directed to the Coronary Disease Foundation. Therefore, in view of the position taken by the CFR in its decision of 5 June 2020 No.100, the issue of financing the local elections in 2020 is to be addressed by the election of the Ukrainian National Deputy in the one-maned constituency No.208, by means of the restoration of the relevant resources. The bill proposes to increase the spending of the Central Electoral Commission by 1.3 billion dollars and to reduce the cost of the Fund to combat COVID-19's acute respiratory disease. Thus, the adoption of the bill will allow for the proper preparation and conduct of the next and first local elections, as well as the interim elections of the Ukrainian National Deputy in the one-maned constituency No. 208, the Chernigiv region. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-13-m0.u50	Thank you, Lesa Valentine's Day. National Deputy of Ukraine Lozinski Roman Mikhailovich on Alternative Bill 3712-1.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-13-m0.u51	Roman Lozinski, the Voice faction. Dear Ukrainians, fellow MPs, our communities are being robbed very consistently. More financial restrictions, burdens, are placed on communities and local self - government every day. And who's to pay? Crowds. This applies to the fight against the pandemic. We know that most of the 60 billion dollars that have been allocated to the pandemic are now going nowhere. They want to go to Fefania, they want to repair the offices of officials, and so on. The same logic was used when money was taken from the elections. How can we withdraw funds from the elections that will guarantee the Ukrainian constitutional right to vote? How can money be taken from elections in the same way that kills independence and objectivity, including results? We understand very well that the left hand side of the election organization is the election committee organization. Isn't it? And we understand very well that once the election boards are directly financed, often shadowy, often unofficial, then there will be the biggest problem. These people, paid and paid by the parties, will determine the results in favor of these parties. So it's absolutely right to pay the money back for the election. But where does this return come from? Once again, we are offered from the funds to be paid to doctors, to protective suits, and other equipment. That's the wrong logic. That's why I registered my alternative bill to collect the funds that now compensate latifundists, the agrarians. Not to a small and average farmer on extended credit programs, but to huge agroholdings who constantly suck money out of the budget. Cost the community, the cost to the doctors, not the latifundists. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-13-m0.u52	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please sign up: two in favour, two in opposition to a statement by MPs and groups. Sergey Vladislavovich was involved.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-13-m0.u53	Sobolje, Fatherland. I have been asked to support the decision to finance the local elections. It is a good thing that the previous question was taken away, where the election was for some purpose only in the district councils and in the city of Kiev, as well as the heads of the city of Kiev. But the only warning given by the "Fatherland" faction is where this money is coming from. These funds could be channelled from a fund that has been dedicated specifically to overcoming the Coronavirus, in our view, by the Ministry of Finance. Because according to the Codex of Budgets, the funds that were allocated to them could go back. So we have a great request to take into account all the necessary measures that still need to be taken, and yet we have to adopt a separate decision on how to finance in order to preserve the most important things that have been put in place to combat the coronavirus. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-13-m0.u54	Juršin Jaroslav Romanović.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-13-m0.u55	Please pass the word to Bobrovsky Solomia.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-13-m0.u56	Bobrovska Solomija Anatoliyevna
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-13-m0.u57	Good afternoon, dear fellows! You know, of course, the idea of a bill is absolutely right. However, we will ask you to support the bill initiated by Roman Lozinski, our colleague. What I'm explaining again. Since it's another source of fund-raising and actually raising funds to the public. And it's not supposed to be from the COVID fund. We are well aware that the second wave is not known how it will come upon us, which awaits us in September, October, and November. How are we going to maintain all this baggage and do it to protect the population, and the communities will no longer be able to. So we do focus and ask for support. Yet, the cost is not from the COVID fund, but from the fund, really, where we don't see and where we often take it, and there are nice baths to take away these funds, namely from the financing of the latifundists and the IMF, who, unlike the medics, receive regular allowances, and even those who don't work with COVID, with the population. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-13-m0.u58	You? Nestor Ivanovich Šufrich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-13-m0.u59	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. Dear colleagues, I would like to remind you, indeed, of the historic, very responsible vote when we warned that perhaps not at the expense of the elections should be financed by COVID. At that time, we offered a series of sources of support to the hedge fund to really overcome this tragedy. Look what's going on. Wildcard, a red card has been announced to Ukrainians in Europe, and this is power. Today, Ukrainians are looking and saying, "Why haven't we spent two months in quarantine? We have done everything honestly, as requested by the President and the authorities." What do they have now? That they are demeaningly unable to go to Europe to rest. We then begged: Do not move the money out of the election, because the elections will have to be held. No, they did, no, they took the money. Now, what's the opposite? So, please tell me, where is the responsibility? Where is the responsibility toward people? And now that we have the IFA tests, that's the information I got, and we're going to test it, that's a crime, compared to the PCR tests. When we're told that we have more than 10,000 tests per day, it's with the IFA tests. Why don't you and your voucher take an I.F.A. test somewhere? There, across the border, they'll tell you what to do with them and where to go with them. So we think it's insolent to take money from the hedge fund today when we're in the first place at the rate of the spread of this disease. We think that voting to take money out of a hedge fund is a crime that the state and the authorities want to do now. We need to protect and help people. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-13-m0.u60	Savrasov Maksim Vitaliovich. Hončarenko Alexyyyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-13-m0.u61	Alexei Hotcharenko, European Solidarity. Dear friends, three months ago we said I was the author of an alternative project for budget changes: don't take the money out of the election, we'll have to go back, we'll still have the election. No, we're taking it. As always, it's completely unprofessional. Of course, we have to go back now. Yes, we have to go back. But you know, if we're going to talk about local elections now, we probably need to first summarize those elections that ended a year ago, exactly a year ago. All of you, the "Serve of the People," have gained a monopoly and full authority in the country. And what are the results? What have you demonstrated to people? The year has passed. The age of responsibility has come, the time has come to report. You said in your pre-election program, quote, "The Servant of the People Party is going to the temporary parliamentary elections to bring in the Supreme Council of decent people who will serve Ukraine and their constituents." What did they actually bring? Rape, forgers, corrupters, manipulators. What have you done? To enrich Ukrainian folklore: "communal partner," "non-quality kids," "taboo," "ship pine" and a lot of other things that you've really brought. And who do you serve? Certainly not the people, oligarchs. And today, in the order of the day, Zelensky was asking the question of removing wages restrictions for top-shepherds, for a few thousand people to get hundreds of thousands of dollars again. So that's who you're really serving. So the time has come to answer for everything you promised. And so as a representative of the faction that from the first day that the only one in this room has been in opposition to you, Mr. David Arahami, leader of the "Serial of the People" faction, you're as busy as you've always been, some "traces" with you, I'm addressing you -- I'm calling you to the debate to tell you what you've done in a year. The time has come to answer – answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-13-m0.u62	Dear colleagues! With Batenko's motives, Bacon. No, two of "Trust" won't. Batenko, Bakunec, then we go to the vote. Please invite the national deputies to the hall. Taras Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-13-m0.u63	Colleagues, the position of the MP's Party for the Future is next. When, in March 2020, the executive took the money out of the article "The Elections in 2020" and it was pumped by the COVID-19 Foundation, it was a sign of the fear of power for elections in the country. We should not be afraid of these elections, and this was shown in particular by the Republic of Poland, our closest neighbour, who held yesterday's presidential elections in the country with a decent, good result, with a stable result. So, my friends, we're convinced that we need to get the money out of the same fund where it was pumped, the COVID-19 fight fund. And we are voting in favour of Bill 3712. Let us not be afraid of elections in the country! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-13-m0.u64	Bacunec Pavel Andryovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-13-m0.u65	Paul Bakunec, Lvivščina, MP group "Trust". Dear colleagues! We have returned from the constituencies today and many of our countrymen are asking whether the Constitution of Ukraine will be respected and whether elections will be held in the autumn. Many people are interested in this question. And of course, you and I need to adopt a lot of drafts this last plenary week in order for the elections to take place in autumn. It's this bill that's one of them. We need to add 1 billion dollars to ensure that we finance the elections to the local councils in the autumn. The "Trust" MP for the elections in the fall, that's why we support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-13-m0.u66	Solomah. Head of the Committee on Budget Affairs, Solomach Orest Igorevich Then we vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-13-m0.u67	Dear Dmitre Alexandrovich, distinguished national deputies and invited! The Committee on Budget Issues, at its meeting on 1 July, considered Bills 3712 and 3712-1 with the aim of settling the issue of financial security in 2020 and paying attention to this. In line with the current legislation on the organization of elections, Bill 3712 takes into account the conclusions of the CLTC on the necessary amounts of funding for the preparation and conduct of the next and first local elections in 2020, and the interim elections of the People's Deputies, as set out in Decision CLK No. 100, and sent to the Supreme Council. Bill 3712 is balanced and, according to the State budget, its adoption is supported by the Ministry of Finance. Bill 3712-1, although balanced, has regulatory shortcomings and is not in line with the decision of the CEC. As a result of the discussion, the committee adopted the following decision: after considering Bill 3712 and 3712-1 on the basis of article 110 of the Rules of the Supreme Council, recommending to the Supreme Council the outcome of the first reading of Bill 3712 to accept as a basis and as a whole. At the same time, drafts 3776 and 3664 were adopted by the Supreme Council on 3 July, according to which changes were made to the State budget for 2020 and expenditure rates changed. Therefore, if Bill 3712 was to be adopted, one of them would need to be clarified. Appropriately, the Committee on Budget Affairs, together with the Chief Legal Authority of the Supreme Council, on the signing of Bill 3712 as Head of the Supreme Council, appropriately provide the necessary technical and legal clarifications. Please be supportive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-13-m0.u68	Ready to vote? Please invite the national deputies to the hall. Dear colleagues, the committee also offers a basis for taking into account. All ready to vote? Okay. First on the basis, then on the whole. I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Law on Amendments to Appendices Nos. 3 and No. 6 to the Ukraine Act on the State Budget for Ukraine 2020 on financial security for the conduct of elections (Registration No. 3712). Ready to vote? Is everyone ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[15:20:48]] For 332 Decision taken. I am voting on the proposal for adoption, in general with the necessary technical and legal regulations, draft law No. 3712, amending Appendices Nos. 3 and No. 6 to the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine 2020 on financial security for the conduct of elections. Repeat, registration number 3712. Please support and vote. [[15:21:30.]] For 330. The decision is adopted, the law is passed in general. Next question. Let's see the factions. The next issue is the draft law registration number 3720, the draft Act amending section II, paragraph 3, of the Act on the Finality and Transitional Positions of Ukraine on the amendment of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the improvement of the electronic form of documentation in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Dear colleagues, perhaps this is a matter of no discussion? We're just passing the lines. [[B in m in s a l in]] There's only time transfer. We're just passing the lines, okay? Vote. I'm putting it on the ground as a whole. I'll bet you a vote. [[B in m in s a l in]] Irina Volodymyrno, we still have a lot of laws to go around. Let's not discuss this one. Irina Volodymyrically, well, I'm asking you very much - time transfer! I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Act amending section II, paragraph 3, of the Act on the Finality and Transitional Positions of Ukraine (Registration No. 3720). Please support and vote. [[15:23:15.]] For 302 Decision taken. I am voting on the proposal for adoption in general with the necessary technical and legal regulations, the draft Act amending section II, paragraph 3, of the Act on the Finality and Transitional Positions of Ukraine on the amendment of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the improvement of the electronic form of documentation in the Supreme Council of Ukraine (registration No. 3720). Please support and vote. [[15:23:51]] For 306 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. The next issue of the agenda is the bill. [[Noise Nodes]] Dear colleagues, there will now be a need for motivation. Draft Act amending Ukraine’s Air Code to improve the administration of national assemblies for each passenger departing from Ukraine’s airport and for each ton of cargo shipped or arriving at Ukraine’s airport (register No. 2424). The chairman of the Committee on Transport and Infrastructure, Pavlovsky Peter Ivanovich, is invited to the rostrum. Dear colleagues, this is the second reading. Who's going to insist on editing? [[Noise Nodes]] When it comes to motives, it will be the next time. We can vote, okay. Thank you, Paul Ivanovich. I am voting on the proposal to adopt a second reading and, in general, with the necessary technical and legal regulations, the draft Law amending the Ukrainian Air Code on the improvement of the mechanism for the administration of public assemblies for each passenger departing from the airport of Ukraine and for each ton of cargo arriving or arriving at the airport of Ukraine (Registration No. 2424). Well, they asked, they said no one insisted. Taras Ivanovich, I'm already putting this to a vote, sorry. Ready to vote? Ready? Please support and vote. [[15:25:59]] For 256 Decision taken. The law was passed in general with technical law. Dear colleagues. From the procedure? Let's see the factions. It's the Gerasimov procedure, isn't it?
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-13-m0.u69	Dear colleagues, dear Ukrainians! You know, there are no more important laws or less important laws, because every decision made in this room depends on the fate of Ukrainians, regardless of whether it concerns business or whether it concerns the social sphere or whether it concerns the sphere of investment or the law enforcement sphere. That's why when we're discussing any bill, it's written in the procedure not to be conducted, but to allow people to exchange their thoughts, and during that exchange, among other things, as we've seen, the position of certain factions and groups is changing over and over and over again. Why? Because there are shortcomings in decisions that can be made here without discussion. So, Your Honorable Dmitry Alexanderovich, a great request, if at least one faction requires discussion, a request for this discussion to come in and take more seriously the decisions that are being made today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-13-m0.u70	Thank you. Honorable colleagues, of course, are right. But that bill that we voted without discussion was not about economics or politics or the social sphere, it was about transferring periods of electronic circulation to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I think it's less that might be of interest to the people of Ukraine in the discussion. Thank you. The next issue of the agenda is the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation on social protection during the quarantine period related to the prevention and spread of coronary disease (COVID-19) (registration number 3486, 3486-1). We need to make a decision to address this issue in a simplified way. Please support and vote. [[15:28:31]] For 237 Decision taken. The chairman of the Committee on Social Policy and Veterans’ Rights, Trelyakov Galina Mikolayevna, is invited to attend. Are you from the authors and the committee? Give me four minutes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-13-m0.u71	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. Honourable People's Deputies, Bill 3486, amending the Employment Act of the Ukrainian Peoples' Act "On Stately Compulsory Social Insurance in the event of unemployment and on the basis of social protection for persons with disabilities in Ukraine". The bill is the result of laws that were passed by us in March. And the State Employment Service has protected, during COVID, more than 188 thousand citizens who have received their jobs because the State Employment Service has started working in the new regime. In addition, part - time employment, part - time employment, is a new procedure under which the State Employment Service operates, involving some 20,000 Ukrainians. So the bill, since the beginning of our laws during COVID, is the result of taking into account technical inconsistencies in laws on the basis of an already functioning mechanism. In particular, it is suggested that we do not allow the unemployed who do not come to the State Employment Service for 30 or more days as a result of having COVID. Provide jobless status if the information is provided by electronic means. The reasons for obtaining partial employment assistance are specified. In addition, the bill suggests that the time frame within which employers report to the relevant local centre on planned mass layoffs. It also reduces from 12 months to 6 months of working relationships and payments of insurance contributions that allow for the right to benefit from partial unemployment. In addition, there has been an increase in the time frame for large businesses to provide partial unemployment assistance. In addition, it is established that partial unemployment aid is established not by the Ministry of Social Policy but by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. In addition, there is an increase in the number of people who are entitled to a one - time voucher for retraining or upgrading their qualifications. The bill also allows the heads of family farms to pay the only social contribution for themselves and members of the family farm. This bill will support the Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority, which says that the bill can be adopted on the basis of subsequent consideration and observation by the joint representative body of representative trade unions in Ukraine, the joint representative body of the employers' side, and the Authorized Supreme Council of Ukraine with human rights. The Committee on Social Policy and Veterans' Rights at its meeting on May 27, 20th, considered the bill and decided to recommend it to Parliament as a basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-13-m0.u72	Thank you, Galina Mikolayevna. The word is given for the co-report of the author of an alternative bill to the Ukrainian National MP to the Royal Natalia Jurijivna. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-13-m0.u73	Respectful colleagues present in our country have decided that the fight against poverty can simply be fought against the poor. You can create conditions that people simply don't have the ability to survive in our country. I want to give you a few digits. Salaries in the country have already exceeded 3 billion dollars. Debt from residential services has already exceeded 60 billion dollars, and unemployment is just going crazy. We only have an officially unemployed population of over 500,000. And according to unofficial data, this is more than 2 million people in our country. We've all seen statistics decline in industrial production as small and medium-sized enterprises are cut short. And, yes, this bill has a social orientation, but you and I are very well aware that today we cannot fail to make a complex decision. And today we need to save the economy and protect people. Today we need to support our industrialists, our entrepreneurs, our farmers. Today we have to make a perfect change in tax and customs policy. Today we need to completely change our financial credit system in the country. And here's the point, unfortunately, they're not going to help the country, they're not going to help people. Today, we must adopt an anti-crisis plan to save the country and protect the people. That's why "The Opposition Platform for Life" requires a comprehensive decision, not just to say anything to people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-13-m0.u74	Dear colleagues, is there a need for discussion? Is there a need to discuss this bill? Please sign up: two in, two in. Please, National Deputy Kucher Mikola Ivanovich, MP group "Trust".
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-13-m0.u75	Please pass the word to Larissa Bilozer.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-13-m0.u76	Larissa Bilozer, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-13-m0.u77	Dear colleagues, dear Ukrainians! Larissa Bilozer, Winnitzkin, trust MP. Since the quarantine began, it's been 3.5 months and we've seen the magnitude of economic shocks for our economy. And it actually connects, really, to the postwar one, and it needs to be prepared that it's going to be lasting. The Chamber of Commerce and Industry estimates that 700,000 entrepreneurs and small businesses have stopped working because of quarantine, the number of unemployed has increased to 2.2 million people. The numbers are even much higher. And in May, we have a 50 percent increase in unemployment than last year. And actually, on average, saving one job is 5 times cheaper than creating a new job. So our task is to help the unemployed, to help workers, and to help employers adjust to new realities. In fact, on March 17 we adopted the first antiquities bill. Then it was March 30th. Already more than 10 such bills. Similarly, our group "Trust" will support this bill, because it proposes to make important changes to the Employment Act, the "On Public Compulsory State Social Insurance". And you know, it's very important here that we anticipate partial unemployment assistance. And that's why. Because today, employers have problems with retaining the human resources reserve. And the production stops. The question is also a matter of working hours. So there are also issues that are not related to quarantine but are very important when, for example, the funds that have come into the State Budget from administrative taxes and pennies can be used by the Social Protection Fund to provide compensation to employers. So, colleagues, the "Trust" group.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-13-m0.u78	Thank you. I invite you to the floor of the People's Deputy of Polakov Anton Eduardoovich, the MP's Party for the Future.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-13-m0.u79	Good afternoon! Anton Polyakov, Montenegro, parliamentary group of political Party for the Future. I want to be part of my colleagues' comments. Because part of the bill does not really refer to its subject. And of course, all the initiatives for fighting and protecting our population, we support them. But I would like to point out that such actions should be not only during the coronavirus but always. This is the first time. Secondly, we've repeatedly called on Kabin to actually develop a coherent program to come out of the economic crisis during the second wave of the coronavirus pandemic that we've been waiting for in the fall. But Mr. Schmigal doesn't do anything. For some reason, we're adopting some kind of legislation that doesn't have any action. And before that, I want to point out that there's no financial and economic justification in this bill, no calculations. And just so it doesn't go the way with the money being transferred to the election: they took it away first, then they brought it back. So that these steps can be taken and we can really help our population. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-13-m0.u80	The National Deputy Slavic Antonina Kerimovna, faction of the political party "The Opposition Platform for Life" is invited to the floor. Nestor Ivanovich Schufrich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-13-m0.u81	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. Of course, help is needed. But that sounds strange after the honourable chairman of the committee says we don't have to give birth to "bad" children. There were excuses, but I think these things are unforgettable in modern history. And today we have to make sure that we don't, in the final principle, find some crumbs for children, but make national policies for providing our children with enough resources when they can't do it at a sufficient level for their parents. We have to be a social state. What are we doing? Today, we spend about five billion dollars on roads. People are good! Roads are good. Everyone knows that these costs can be used to build a 1,000 - mile [1.5 thousand km] modern automobile. Let me give you an example. This is the road from Lviv to Kiev, this is the road from Dnipropetrovska to Kiev and this is the road from Kiev to Kharkiv. So we could do a really good thing. What is the use of this money from October to December? This will be done by everyone from the NABA to the Accounting Chamber. Because no one in the history of an independent Ukraine has ever asked for the roads that are being built today. It's Yanukovich, Dust and the rest of you need to learn how to do it. So today, raise your income, fight smuggling. Where are 100 billion dollars of smuggling? This money should be given to children and to pensioners. And what we have today is a $50 minimum pension is a disgrace to the authorities today. Shame! Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-13-m0.u82	Cimbaluk Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-13-m0.u83	Mikhailo Cimbaluk, Fatherland. Dear colleagues! Today we have two news. First, it's bad, that the President has committed to the 2030 Bill, which we have released from the payment of the administrative assembly for the registration of public organizations of persons with disabilities, persons with disabilities, persons with disabilities, and persons who have suffered as a result of the Chernobyl accident, as well as internally displaced persons. The law, if not committed by the head of state, would allow the most vulnerable social categories of citizens to carry out basic registration actions. What's the big deal? That someone, I emphasize, I don't believe it's the Head of State, someone on behalf of the President wrote two nonsensees when they brought this bill back to Parliament. The first is that if adopted, there will be a basis for manipulation and abuse that will increase the cost of taxpayers. In the second paragraph, after apparently forgetting this scarecrow, someone on behalf of the Head of State writes that "the law is unnecessary, not at all the State Budget spending is not that important." Dear colleagues, that's what's not nice. And again, as we are today, the decree declaring the day of the election of Glory to God has been lifted, today we will vote on the Law on Raising Responsibility for Violations of Road Traffic Rules, including Driving in a Sudden State. I would like to say something else, the next thing I know, is that the Fatherland faction is going to support Bill 3486, and if we don't support it, we're going to vote in 3486-1, because these are the bills that stand.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-13-m0.u84	I see that Heratchenko is motivated. Then we go to the vote, right? Hermit Irina Volodymyrna, then we go to the vote. Please invite the people's deputies to the hall. Heroceno.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-13-m0.u85	Dear Ukrainians, the authorities have lost the fight against the pandemic, and we'll remind you that 64 billion dollars have been allocated from taxpayers to fight the pandemic, half of which have already been spent on what's called road repairs, which often happens without tenders and has become dust, not repairs. Similarly, today, Ukraine is in the COVID red zone, our foreign colleagues, our partners, our neighbours, because mistrust goes to Ukrainian statistics, because Ukraine remains a country where one of the lowest in Europe is going to be tested for COVID, and in order to do the test, you have to pay 2 to 4,000 dollars and, of course, it's not a pocket, not an average Ukrainian. Although 64 billion dollars of Ukrainians have been allocated for this test. Similarly, there is no such thing as medical insurance, and none of them have been paid for what they call infection.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-13-m0.u86	Thank you. Let's go to the vote, invite the national deputies to the hall. I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation on social protection during the quarantine period related to the prevention and spread of coronary disease (SOVID-19) (registration number 3486) on the basis. Ready to vote? Ready? Please support and vote. [[15:45:39]] For 319 Decision taken. The next issue of the agenda is the draft Act amending certain legislative acts to ensure the rights of employees of state-owned agricultural enterprises, institutions, land collection organisations (pau), which is a re-reading (registration number 3012-2). It is suggested that this issue be considered in a simplified manner. Please support and vote. [[15:46:24]] For 254 Decision taken. The chairman of the Agrarian and Land Policy Committee, Solski Mikola Tarasovich, is invited to attend. Give me four minutes, he's from both the authors and the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-13-m0.u87	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues! You have introduced a draft Act amending certain legislative acts to ensure the rights of employees of state-owned agricultural enterprises, institutions, organizations to obtain land (pau) (number 3012-2). What's the bill about? In the '90s, we were in the middle of a coup d'état, including former colporteurs. All of the locals who worked in these colonies are talking about the rural population, and in their absolute majority they received a share (pai). At the same time, about 600,000 hectares are the lands left in the use of state-owned enterprises, and the inhabitants of these communities have not received land. What kind of enterprises are they? These are enterprises that are under the Ministry of the APC, such as the Constituent of Ukraine, Lictraves and others, they're enterprises of the agrarian Academy of Sciences, they're companies of the Penitentiary Service, the Ministry of Defence, education and other enterprises. What is happening in these businesses? And it's true that, unfortunately, the absence of regulatory normal rental mechanisms at the legislative level leads to the fact that this land is actually leased, but by contracts that have lease marks, but are hidden, for example, by joint processing contracts or similar to that scheme. In addition, there has been a constant demand in all these locations, a million appeals over the past 15-20 years about when the fate of these enterprises will be decided so that the opportunity for those local workers and sociospheres will also be possible to get their land. What does this law foretell? The Law provides for satisfying each of these needs. In what way? First, up to 40 percent of the land that is used by these enterprises, provided they are privatized, is dispersed between workers, former workers, and social workers, and population data. Twenty percent of the land is passed on. They are sold as OSH to participants in hostilities in the east, and at least 40 percent are transferred to auctions as leases. This is a ugly first reading, the first time we voted with you, and this law was ready in the hall, there was a major change. Since we have banned the sale of property in the land of the State, we have adjusted the rules in part of the land that is not sold for distribution, it is only possible to rent, not alienate, that is, sell. Please support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-13-m0.u88	Please register: two in favour, two in opposition to a statement by MPs and groups. Kowalczuk Alexander Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-13-m0.u89	Dear colleagues, I ask my colleagues from the ruling party "Serve of the People" and other colleagues in this room to take responsibility for this bill and support it, because this bill is about what we're supposed to pass on to people. And as the reporter said, some of these lands will be passed over to the members of those societies in the area, some of them are ATO soldiers, and some of them will go in the form of 2 hectares -- and I'm asking you to point out that not more than 2 hectares, and that's the normal size of the pie, because of transparent auctions. So I ask all my colleagues to support the bill in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-13-m0.u90	Thank you. Please, National Deputy Batenko Taras Ivanovich, Party for the Future, Party for the Future.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-13-m0.u91	Please pass the word to a colleague, National Deputy John Tchaikovsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-13-m0.u92	Please, Ivan Tchaikovsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-13-m0.u93	Good afternoon, Your Honor Chairman. Good afternoon, fellow MPs. Ivan Tchaikovsky, 165 constituency, Group For the Future, Party for the Future. What I'm saying is that the pattern of land burning transferred to collective property from enterprises and organizations since 08.08.1995 has divided agrarians into two categories. It's a category of agrarians who have worked on the ground and received their own pies, and they've been paid an honest rent for these pies for almost 20 years. Today, the rent is about 200 dollars per hectare. But there are the same agrarians that work in state enterprises today, and they get absolutely nothing for it today. This is a kind of injustice. So Bill 3012 is this injustice, this social injustice, I'd say it puts it in its place. Today, tens of thousands of agricultural workers are waiting for him in state enterprises. That's why the MP's "For the Future" Group will support this bill. And we ask our colleagues to support it because this bill awaits our agriculture. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-13-m0.u94	Burmich. Coltunovich Alexander Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-13-m0.u95	Thank you, Your Honor! Dear National Deputies! And, most importantly, the citizens of Ukraine! In due time, a law was passed on the circulation of agricultural land under the heading 2178-10. And then our faction just blocked, with our partners, this bill through cable rules, including land concentration, state property, and so on. Some standards were eliminated as a result of the struggle. And the President, he needs to be given what he deserves, has taken a principled position. And we've also reduced the concentration of land in one hand from 200,000 to 100 hectares. And what's more, they've removed the land rule, the sale of land that's not privatized, it's the state and municipal land of agriculture. But what do we see today? The cynicism of Parliament to a greater extent, because it is well - intentioned to spoil the land of agricultural assignment, actually means its sale. And those 10.4 million hectares in state and municipal property, de facto, with 2178-10 in mind, de facto means selling these land. And another cynicism from today's power. They have come up with ways to get Ukrainian citizens to sell their land. They conduct a standard through the financial and tax committees that will force you either to pay the right fee or you will sell this land. I urge everyone not to vote in favour of this bill because the right, the light right of citizens to own, buy and sell land is that the units only have $100,000 to buy 100 hectares of land. Even if it costs a thousand dollars per hectare. Who will buy up this earth? Only those who do not stand for our interests. I urge you not to vote in yellow, but against. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-13-m0.u96	Bobrovska Solomija Anatoliyevna
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-13-m0.u97	The Cabal of Volodymira, please report.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-13-m0.u98	Cabal Volodymyr Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-13-m0.u99	Dear colleagues, as has been said here, before the first reading of this law there are many observations, including me. But any law before the first reading should consider whether it's the right idea or the right one. In this law, really, there's a good idea that says what to do with the land that remains after the privatization of the state enterprise if it is privatized. And this law, really, it sets the right rules and I think it's fair that this land is partly going to the ATO soldiers, partly the land goes to the current former employees or pensioners, and partly the land is transferred to the OTG so that they can rent it, make money and raise the financial independence of the community. That's a good idea. But if you look at the details, I'm one of those people's deputies who likes to read the laws in detail and look for possible flaws, there's a lot of different kinds of flaws. For example, who are the people who, on condition, are the workers to whom the earth will be given? And if someone only works for five days, will they be given land or not? And if someone worked 10 years ago, would the land be available to him? And so on. And there are many shortcomings in this law. How does the Voice faction support this law, but until the second reading, we're going to give a lot of rights to correct these flaws, to reduce the corruption risks that can then arise, and to make the land of state-owned enterprises really go to the citizens and the communities so that they can earn it by raising their financial independence. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-13-m0.u100	Princess Mikola Leonidovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-13-m0.u101	Dear colleagues, we do have hundreds of petitions from Odessa, from Lviv, from the Radehiv region, where people are asking us to eliminate the injustice that this bill is supposed to actually eliminate. And in part he does, but not to the end. Incomprehensible is the definition of the percentage of land that is passed on to the relevant persons. Thus, the project envisions renting land markets at least 40 percent of the total area of agricultural land. However, workers from the total area of agricultural land are subject to privatization and persons with a combat status of up to 20 percent. Such a distribution can lead to the fact that most lands will be leased directly. Although the purpose of the bill is to guarantee the rights of agricultural workers. In the first reading, we vote, and in the second, we present our rights so that this bill does not become a hidden privatization of the land. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-13-m0.u102	Ivchenko Vadim Evgenovich. Then we go to the vote. You're welcome. "Trust." And who's from Trust? You've got four hands up there. I see. Ivchenko Vadim Evgenovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-13-m0.u103	Yvchenko, Fatherland. Colleagues, don't get the social sphere of this country. The law provides only 20 percent. Are young farmers and young people receiving our land? No, they don't. It is not provided for in this law. Instead, this law provides for a ladder of agrarian colleges. Do they receive the atolls, all the atolls of the earth in this law? No, it's not. Who would identify a better attaché or a veteran of an anti-terrorist operation? Officer. Colleagues, this bill today will deprive the State of an appropriate amount of land. And people are going to get cash, renting it to agrarian holdings and latifundists. As a result, the land moves from the state to agrarian holdings and latifundists. Those who understand how this land will be passed on, the signing of leases and the registration of these leases clearly understand what I'm talking about. None of this law will be good for the village. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-13-m0.u104	Thank you. Kucher Mikola Ivanovich. Then we vote. Please invite the national deputies to the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-13-m0.u105	Dear colleagues, I call on all of you to support this bill 3012-2. The bill is beautiful. The bill addresses the issue of social injustice that was violated 20 years ago. Each of you has state-owned enterprises in the districts where the land has not been destroyed. Everyone in the area got the land. 7 million people have pies, 200 or 300,000 people who have been violated and have not received pies. So I think we need to adopt this law, and these 200 to 300,000 people need to get land, and the land needs to be given to those who work in the social sphere of the village. Once again, I urge you to support the right and wise and serious bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-13-m0.u106	Thank you. Let's go to the vote. Please prepare for the vote. I am voting on a proposal for adoption on the basis of a draft Act amending certain legislative acts to ensure the rights of employees of state-owned agricultural enterprises, institutions, organizations to obtain land (pau) (registration No. 3012-2). Ready to vote? Ready? Please support and vote. [[16:01:30.]] For 267 Decision taken. The next issue of the agenda is Bill 2458. Draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine on the settlement of individual issues in the area of housing and utility services. It's a second reading. Dear colleagues, are there those who will insist on the readjustments, or can we vote? Vote. Who insists on law enforcement? Well, then let's get the table. Who insists? Colleagues, who will insist on their works? Just so it doesn't add up. Either we go by the table, or we define clearly right now. Royal, Timoshenko, Yvchenko. No, then they went straight, because. No, colleagues, you're adding your hands, but I'm not going to remember you all that way. Minko, 1 change. Don't insist. Chess. Don't insist. Surkis. Don't insist. Fries. Don't insist. Gorenouk. Don't insist. Mandy. Danuca, Greeb, Kasai, Royal, 15 revisions. Are you going to insist on everyone?
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-13-m0.u107	Dear colleagues! We're now looking at the new housing-communal-service-forming affair with you. At a time when debts on residential services have gone beyond all adequate borders in our country, and every person realizes that people don't have money to pay off these cloudy tariffs that are currently being used by mega-corporations, and people don't lower tariff policies today, at the same time you want to run new formulas as more people to account for services, how to increase tariffs. Therefore, "The Opposition Platform for Life" insists that the issue of reduction of tariffs and debt restructuring be urgently addressed. Thank you. Please bet on confirmation.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-13-m0.u108	Voting, right? Ladies and gentlemen, we are now voting on the 15th draft of the Royal People's Deputies. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[16:04:19]] For-95 The decision is not taken. Next amendment. Grandma. It won't. Kaptielov. He won't insist. It's fine. It won't be Minko. Gerus, 27 degrees. It won't. No, it won't. Thirty lashes, Shahov. Don't insist. 31st, Minka. Don't insist. 33rd, Minko. Don't insist. 34th. 35th, Shahov. Please, Sergey Shahov, 35 revisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-13-m0.u109	Dear colleagues! Sergey Shahov, Luhanščina, Deputy Group "Trust". Since our amendments are not supported, they still need to be put to the vote and voted in full and read them. This is about all tariffs. Tell me, please, just come from Luhansk, talk again I want to say in the cities of Lysichansk, Girski, Happiness, Gold, Dangerous. The people from whom should these tariffs be paid by the crazed ones who will rise? From which pockets do they get money when they're empty and leaky, the "air" in people's pockets will soon be blown out of power by a roof. Thank you. Sergey Shahov, Trust MP, Luhanščina.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-13-m0.u110	Sergey Volodymyrovich, you mean I'm not putting this amendment to the vote? Thank you. 36th, Kaptielov. Don't insist. 37th, Shahov. Don't insist. 44th, Shahov. Don't insist. 46th, Veretschuk. Don't insist. 47th, Mandy. Don't insist. 48th, Grissom. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-13-m0.u111	I have a lot of rights, please give me three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-13-m0.u112	Please give me three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-13-m0.u113	Dear colleagues! Once again, we do not hear each other, but look what the adoption of this bill will do. We all remember the gas explosion in Kiev, don't we? How many people have been killed. Who Was Responsible? So far no one, but there is still a question, and who was responsible for what happened directly in the wake. So right now, if we accept this bill, it's going to automatically result in responsibility on the owners of the house. And you and I realize that it's the owner of the house that doesn't understand how and how those gas networks and not just the gas should be located. So this is what we're going to do, and we're going to get that contract right here, and we're going to have to sign the contract, and it's going to need more time for the residents of the house. And so far, the treaty itself has not been drafted by the NCRECR. So right after the adoption of this bill, they're still going to make those contracts, and it's going to take about three or four months, and it's going to be three or four months in the houses, and it's going to be a complete collapse, it's not going to be clear who's responding. And that's exactly the kind of tragedy that happened in Kiev, and they'll be on your conscience. So before you vote for this bill, please think about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-13-m0.u114	Thank you. Committee position, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-13-m0.u115	Thank you very much for your input. But you just said there's only going to be a collapse of 3-4 months, but I want to tell you that the legislative collapse is already there and there's no procedure for today as it is legislatively defined. And if we don't want any more of these tragic cases, we have to do it and this law really regulates this issue of house gas networks, it's very important. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-13-m0.u116	Thank you. Please don't insist on voting? I've given you three minutes, we've done all the editing. Thank you. Next up, National Deputy Galuszko 49th. Don't insist. People's MP Pip. Is he insisting? Please 50 amendments to Pip's national MP.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-13-m0.u117	I have 25 amendments, I ask you to replace them for five minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-13-m0.u118	Give me five minutes, People's Deputy Pippa.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-13-m0.u119	Dear Ukrainians, dear colleagues, I am today asking you to remember that no OSBB and no Association with OSBB support this bill. I want to read the paragraphs in their open letter, which they all use to address us. I would also like to remind all my respectable colleagues that more than half of the Ukrainians live in Ukrainian apartment buildings and every major that you go back to the county and answer to the people why you supported this bill? What, what questions does the Association of OSB have to him? 2458 should simplify the arrangements for the provision of utilities. Instead of simplifying the arrangements for the provision of utility services, the bill actually deprives co-owners of a multi-room building of the ability to self-initiate contracts with the most popular model, an individual contract. So we're actually giving this bill if everyone who votes in favour of this bill gives way to the reform of OSBB in Ukraine. The next thing he does is he translates the duties of gas distribution network operators into the joint owners of the apartment building. They weren't doing it right now, operators. With this bill, we translate this responsibility to the inhabitants and to their security in their homes and the use of gas networks. At a meeting of the profile committee, all the amendments submitted by the Association of OSB were rejected without a proper explanation of why. The next item is also referred by the Association of OSB to a violation, which is that a number of amendments to issues that were not raised at all on the first issue are in violation of article 116 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And as parliamentarians, we should not have allowed that at all. The next moment, they propose, this bill proposes to force co-owners of multi-housing houses who have already paid for the installation of building heat and water counters in their homes, to pay now for the installation in the houses of those neighbors who did not want to do so -- that is to translate responsibility from one owner to another, which is not entirely consistent with the normal lawmaking in the country. In addition, there is a question of maintaining the instigatory territory. So once again, everything is translated into OSBB, and it requires the territorial communities to spend at least 500 million dollars across the country. Also on the European Union Integration Committee, it was considered that this bill could not be voted on in this way, and for the second reading, consultations and conclusions of the European Commission were to be held, because we have a previous agreement that everything about our cooperation, particularly in the gas and energy fields, we are in line with the European Commission. This was not done. And the next thing we're talking about is the OSB, and I'm also saying that this is a bill written by specific monopolies, and it lobbies not the interests of a Ukrainian citizen and those who own their houses, that is, each of us, but it lobbies the interests of great monopolies. I ask every deputy to consider whether you have promised this to your constituents and whether this is what the voters and citizens of Ukraine want. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-13-m0.u120	Thank you. The position of the committee, if possible briefly, on these issues.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-13-m0.u121	Thank you, Mrs. Pippa. First of all, for OSBB, today we have to say that today only 18 percent of everything is created from the entire general fund, that's the first. The second was Law 2189, which stipulated that contracts should be made with each co-owner of a large apartment building in paper form. So it's finance, well, and we're counting it, it's over 5 billion dollars, well, on our country's budget. And what we've done here is that the contract is done under simplified procedure because of the offer on the contractor's website -- that's the first thesis, so we simplify and we save money. The gas has already been mentioned here in terms of counters. To date, 80 percent of the counters are hardly set up to keep track.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-13-m0.u122	Thank you. Please, 51 lashes, National Deputy Kasai. Don't insist. 52 Rights of the People's Deputy Babenko. Don't insist. He insists, yes. Please, National Deputy Babenko, 52 revisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-13-m0.u123	I won't insist on further revisions, but I want to see my colleagues in the hall again. The OSBB Association does not support this bill, no amendments are taken into account at all without an explanation by the committee. So I urge all my colleagues today not to support this bill. Trust Group won't support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-13-m0.u124	You can react. Please take the seat of the committee. No, you won't, will you? Okay. 53rd National Deputy Deardin. Don't insist. 54th National Deputy Minko. Don't insist. 55th National Deputy Gorenjuk. Don't insist. Please. What? You're not here right now. Next. 56th, Kasai. Don't insist. 57th, Shahov. Please. Aah! Kasi insists. Please, Kasai. I'm giving it to Shah. Please. He's a great man, isn't he? Please, Reverend.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-13-m0.u125	The Reverend, Luganskina, the Trust Group. Thank you to the authors of the bill for removing the bill from the contents of the house entry law to the residents. But there are still those changes that have not been taken into account by our team. That is, it's a change in the procedure for contracting utilities by placing them on the Internet. This does not take into account the low level of knowledge and skills involved in the use of computer technology among pensioners. In addition, Internet access is not available throughout Ukraine at the moment. Shahov repeatedly invited him to visit Luhansk and see for himself that there is not only no Internet in some cities but even no mobile phone. Therefore, the Trust Group will not support the bill and will vote against it. Please support our position. Sergey the Great, Luganskina, the Trust Group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-13-m0.u126	Next. 60th, Kasai. Don't insist. 61st, Gerus. Don't insist. 62nd, Kaptelov. Don't insist. 64th, Yvchenko. That's where we got to you. Vadim Evgenovich, do you insist?
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-13-m0.u127	Yvchenko, Fatherland. Dear Chairman, I have six rights. I'd like two minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-13-m0.u128	Please, give it to me. [[Unheard]]
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-13-m0.u129	Thank you. Colleagues, I fully agree with those who say that this bill is imperfect and does not need to be supported. First. The essence of this bill's changes in commercial accounting is to shift all risks to consumers themselves, return corruption opportunities to community service providers, eliminate transparent control over the cost of setting up, servicing and replacing commercial accounting. The other one. Our application for the subscription fee didn't go through. A subscription fee can now be counted against the remuneration of the service providers. Next up, colleagues. This subscription fee will now not be limited. So we're not actually protecting consumers of utilities here. Next up, colleagues. We've left a standard where the authorities fully authorized by the tariffs for the transport of thermal energy supply define the characteristics of thermal energy tariff accounting. So on the consumer, we're completely leaving the cost of maintaining individual heat points. And finally, colleagues. We give consumers a full account of their own, say, of such a right as trust. Although we understand clearly that this trust of counters should be at the expense of subscribers who are actually in charge of providing appropriate services. That's why these Fatherland corrections were rejected. Left over and left behind, which is what I'm talking about. And in fact, this bill puts all the risks on consumers who get community services. Therefore, it is not possible to vote in favour of this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-13-m0.u130	Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-13-m0.u131	Thank you so much for your changes. But it must be said that today this very editor of 2189 has brought this sector of ours to a complete collapse. And so in order to make this form of law, we've got all the professionals involved, the Ministry of Regional Development, completely profiled industries. And we made this model of the law of transparency. And really, it's a housing-communal market. And that's why I'm asking you very much not to think that we've taken an i on this model. Today they took the law to reality, not the reality to the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-13-m0.u132	Thank you. 65 amendment, People's Deputy of Litvinov. Don't insist. 66th, Gerus. Don't insist. 68th, Gerus. Don't insist. 70th, Dirdin. Don't insist. 71st, Friz. Don't insist. 72nd Surkis. Don't insist. 73rd, Danuca. Don't insist. 74th, Shahov. Please. 74 revisions, yes, yours.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-13-m0.u133	Dear colleagues, with great respect, I ask you not to switch, if there's an amendment, quickly there: the chess will not be subject to your permission. I'm going to bet on confirmation, and I'm going to ask you to vote on every amendment I've made, which our Group of Trust has already put into this bill. This is very sensitive and important today for everyone, believe me, not only in Luhansk, but throughout the country. We're talking about networks today that also belong to the oligaric forces that want to put it on people's shoulders. Maybe there's some grain in this bill, but please look at all the adjustments we're making. They really need to be put to the stand and voted. I ask you to put this amendment and vote for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-13-m0.u134	Thank you, Sergey Volodymyrovich. I'm putting to the vote 74 the amendment of the national deputy Shahov. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[16:22:05]] For-60 The decision is not taken. The next amendment is the 75th National Deputy Kulinic. Are you insisting? Don't insist. 76th, Litvinov. Don't insist. 80th, Captiel. Don't insist. 81st, Surkiss. Don't insist. 82nd, Minko. Don't insist. 83rd, Gorenouk. Don't insist. 84th, Veretschuk. Don't insist. 85th, Mandy. Don't insist. 86th, Shahov. Please. Reverend, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-13-m0.u135	Sergey the Great, Luganskina, the Trust Group. How can this law be adopted without taking into account the conclusion of the General Legal Authority, which states that part of the law does not correspond to the Constitution of Ukraine and does not comply with other laws? That's why the Trust and Luhansk Group are against this law. Thank you for your attention. Sergey the Great, Luganskina, the Trust Group.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-13-m0.u136	Thank you. Do you insist on voting? I'm betting on a vote of 86 amendments to the People's Deputies of Shahov and the High Commissioner, and the committee is proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[16:23:39]] For-64 The decision is not taken. Next amendment 89 Galoshko. Don't insist. 92nd, Babenko. Don't insist. Dirdin. Don't insist. 97th, Kinsburg. Don't insist. 98th, Yvchenko. You took your minutes. 100th, Labazuk. Don't insist. 101st, Danuca. Don't insist. 104th, Royal Natalia Yuriovna. We agreed you'd take two minutes. Yeah? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-13-m0.u137	Dear colleagues, you and I are all very well aware that this bill will only make the procedure even more difficult today, as tariff calculations will put even more pressure on people. Today, before Parliament takes a break, decisions on tariff cuts and reductions should be made today, and decisions on the restructuring of people's debts should be made urgently today. Because, people, today we have a minimum pension of 1 thousand 712 dollars, at a time when people's payments come with more money, at a time when debts are already piled up nowhere, when people today have no money to cure to feed their families and loved ones. Well, why are you creating even more difficult conditions? Therefore, "The Opposition Platform for Life" calls for Parliament, calls for authority or to make the relevant issues and decisions that the country expects us to make today, which is, first of all, housing and utility services, to reduce housing and utility services, and to increase social standards, is a recalculation of today's pensions, subsistence minimums and other today's additional social guarantees from the state. And then when a person gets his fair pension, he gets the debt and the opportunity to find a job today, and the wages, then he only has the money to pay for the residential services. That's why we're demanding today to reduce housing services, increase social standards and maintain industry. We don't support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-13-m0.u138	Thank you. 108th, Veretschuk. Don't insist. 117th, Shahov. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-13-m0.u139	Sergey Shahov, Luhanščina, Deputy Group "Trust". Dear colleagues, I'm being referred to by all the heads of the OSB in the Luhansk region for reasons that we don't support this bill. He's putting all those who are trying to do something today in the residential sphere and still build a future in our state. Because today, for example, the host, or what to call it, in Geocadastra does not even solve the land under the house. Next. Let's see what we're talking about today -- the pay for the pipes that are now practically in the hands of the oligarchic groups. Today, people must take on their backs this communal sphere and support it. We need to put it in order first, and then we need to talk about giving it to people.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-13-m0.u140	One hundred and seventy-seven amendments are made to the national deputies of Shahov and the High Priest. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[16:28:17]] For-59 The decision is not taken. 123rd, Shahov and the High. Please, Shahov.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-13-m0.u141	Please give us two minutes, and we'll take the corrections off because they don't go through anyway. And the "Trust" group won't support this bill in the way it is. Dear colleagues, we demand that we take full control and audit of all housing and utilities in our country, check all the houses, the "baptisms," in which they are in a state where they are not only today, and once again I want to say, in the Luganian and Donatian areas, but in the whole country, how people can live in such houses and run such a house. People don't even want to come to OSB because there's a lot of pressure to repair these buildings. And they want to throw all the pipes on them, and the floors, and the roofs that haven't been repaired. In this situation, we do not support the bill in this way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-13-m0.u142	Thank you. Are you insisting on 123 amendments to the vote? Don't insist. Yes, thank you. Then we have: Pippa, Kaptiel, Dirdin, Fris, Labazuk, Danuca.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-13-m0.u143	Dear colleagues, will anyone else insist on their work? Can we get to the vote? Thank you. I am voting on the proposal to adopt a second reading and, in general, with the necessary technical and legal regulations, the draft Law amending certain Ukrainian laws on the settlement of individual issues in the area of housing and utility services (registration No. 2458). Please invite the national deputies, prepare for the vote. Ready to vote? Ready to vote? Your colleagues are coming along now. I'll bet you a vote. Ready? Please support and vote. [[16:31:31]] For 212 The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, wait, not so fast. I am voting on the proposal to return the committee to work with the second reading of the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian laws on the settlement of individual issues in the area of housing and utility services (registration No. 2458). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[16:32:19]] For 239. Decision taken. It's the law to send for pre-work. The bill is designed to be redrafted. Dear colleagues, you have before you the proposed draft Law amending the Ukrainian Law on the Electricity Market (Registration No. 3199). We need to include this issue in the agenda of the day session. This requires 226 votes in favour of Ukraine’s national deputies. Please support and vote. [[16:33:02]] For 256 Decision taken. It is suggested that this issue be considered in a simplified manner. Please support and vote. [[16:33:22]] For 255 Decision taken. A member of the Energy and Housing Committee, Kamelchuk Yuri Aleksandrovich, is invited to attend. Give me four minutes from both the authors and the committee. But I'd like you to bet, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-13-m0.u144	Yuri Camelchuk, 124th constituency. Dear colleagues, Reverend Dmitri Alexanderovich! To your attention, Bill 3199 on Amendments to the Ukrainian Electricity Market Act. In recent years, Ukraine has seen a sharp deterioration in the production and consumption of electricity, especially in this situation affecting the atomic segment, the big surplus, and the block stop. These decisions cost billions of dollars, and one of the biggest producers of energy, Energy, can actually go bankrupt. An additional factor is the rapid growth of alternative energy generation, which exacerbates the situation with electricity surplus and the balance of Ukraine's single energy system. At an unalterable level of consumption in the country, an increasing amount of electricity produced from alternative sources drains other kinds of electricity. This displacement takes place primarily on the basis of the electricity produced by the AES. In addition to the system failure of the AES, there are significant problems with the accessibility of new powerful consumers to the AES. Or the only solution to such problems is to create powerful energy and innovation consumers that can supply constant demand for additional electricity production. Today we are considering Bill 3199, which provides for the possibility of Energoatum, as decided by the government, to enter into long-term contracts for innovative energy-intensive projects. The bill is consistent with the Ministry of Profiles, Energoatoma, Ukrenergo and NCREKP. NEC Energoatom will be able to implement only the pro-profit amount of electricity and only consumers who create new productions and are end-users. The price of selling this amount of electricity is determined by the result of the auction, with the minimum starting price of selling this amount of electricity being set by the regulator. The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine is responsible for monitoring the compliance of consumer enterprises with all the criteria outlined in Bill 3199. The legislative initiative of Project 3199 is to enable state-owned enterprises, as well as economic societies, to sell electricity under long-term bilateral contracts for at least 5 years on special electronic auctions exclusively to end consumers. Such consumers should meet the following criteria. The total design capacity of 100 megawatts and above varies from constant consumption, forecasting, and a minimal risk of imbalance. The economic activity of such enterprises is not related to greenhouse gas emissions. The construction of large technology parks, which is a world trend, will gradually diversify the economy of Ukraine, make it more innovative and modern. Investments in the construction of a technology park and the installation of 500 megawatt computing equipment amount to at least $700 million. And big companies are ready for this kind of investment, only one Google company has officially announced that over the next few years it is investing 3 billion euros in European data centers. For Energoatum, it's billions of dollars of extra revenue. On June 25, 2020, the Committee on Energy and Housing and Utilities reviewed the amended bill and recommended to the Supreme Council that it be adopted in the first reading and on a basis. In its conclusion of 24 June 2020, the main scientific and expert office made a number of remarks to the bill. At the same time, I propose to support the decision of the Committee on Energy and to support Bill 3199 (worked), to adopt it on the first reading as a basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-13-m0.u145	Thank you. Needed to Be Discussed? Yeah. Please sign two for, two for factions. That was a rhetorical question. I can see the answer in your eyes. Cabal Volodymyr Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-13-m0.u146	Iron.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-13-m0.u147	Ironborn Jaroslav Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-13-m0.u148	Dear colleagues, good afternoon! I can't help but start off with the bill, probably not with the day. Mr. President is calling an emergency meeting very urgently, in which two issues were immediately called off and three today did not support this Parliament. I have a question: either we had something going wrong with the planning, or we didn't have to do this circus, and we could have done it in a normal way, especially if we hadn't gone into the game business for so long. Now to the bill. Let me just explain what this bill is about. We have a major energy sector strategy, which is actually to make it beneficial to the state and the environment. This bill speaks very differently. He says that nuclear power, which is superfluous, can be used for other purposes. And the drafters are right somewhere. But let's remember the outrage of the news when Mrs. Buslavec's responsibilities stated that electricity, which is the cheapest, namely nuclear power, could be used to own bitcoin, and that's what this bill is about. So based on logic and strategic vision, our faction will not support this bill. And as I finish my talk, I want to ask again. Colleagues, we are voting on it today only as a basis for us to ever have a possession there. Was this a more pressing question, which of the more important issues of floods, the more important decisions about Midan and other things that needed to be made so urgently? But it's probably not for us, it's for the planners who prepared this letter at the President's Office. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-13-m0.u149	Thank you. Please, National Deputy Danuza Alexander Anatoliyovich, faction of the political party "Slut of the People".
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-13-m0.u150	My colleagues, I would like to quote a colleague who said today that there are no more important or less important laws. Every law that is passed in this room begins with a big letter called "The Law," and it's passed for our Ukrainian citizens. So I ask you to accept and support this bill, at least in the first reading. Amend. It's very important to our country. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-13-m0.u151	Thank you. Please, National Deputy Jooffe Yuliy Yakovic, political party "The Opposition Platform for Life". Nestor Ivanovich Schufrich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-13-m0.u152	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. Well, I've seen various miracles. But that's how it had to be done today, so there's a bill to protect nuclear energy that's going bankrupt. Good people, how can nuclear energy be corrupted? I can't understand it in any language. I want to tell you right now, people good, everywhere in the world, nuclear energy is the most effective revenue-effective for the state. It is the only one we have during this year that has become bankrupt and goes bankrupt. Or is this bankruptcy not nuclear energy? Maybe it's the bankruptcy of the green power. You know, it seems to me that a green button in black needs to be recoloured because you've already discredited the green color in principle. So what you're voting for must be a black button in the room. And in what way do you want to protect energy? By raising the tariffs by 54 percent for the industry from August 1st? And even this money isn't going to go to generation, it's going to go to some middleman somewhere. And what do you want, what incentive does this law provide? Production, attention, bitcoins. Bitcoin will save the country and nuclear energy! People are good, do you have a mind? Do you have a responsibility? People are watching and asking questions, and who's going to pay for this banquet? These are the ones whose children are underprivileged, or Ukrainians, as some say, will pay for your innovation today. This law is anti-national, against people, against children, against Ukraine. You want to support energy, don't steal. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-13-m0.u153	I can see the speeding. No one else wants to speak? Please invite the national deputies to the hall. Anna Constantine's speedboat is on the move, and then we're going to the vote. Speedboat, turn on the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-13-m0.u154	Dear colleagues, I would like to point out that this bill does not in any way affect tariffs for the population or industry. This bill is called upon to make sure that the professional electricity we have today is used, and we can, on the contrary, involve a new consumer in Ukraine. So please don't let everyone manipulate and support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-13-m0.u155	Thank you. Ready to vote? Please take your seats. I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Law amending the Ukrainian Law on the Electricity Market (Registration No. 3199). Ready to vote? Ready? Please support and vote. [[16:44:59]] For 242 Decision taken. Let's see the factions. The next issue of the agenda is the question (registration number 3719, 3719-1, 3719-2) of the draft Act amending section X, paragraph 3, of the Act on Transitional and End Positions of Ukraine "On Total General Secondary Education" to extend the possibilities for the transformation of the educational network. I'd like to take this matter up by a reduced procedure. Please support and vote. [[16:45:50.]] For 259. Decision taken. It's a necessary discussion, isn't it? Can we vote? Okay. We can vote. I'll bet you a vote. Once again, we can, can't we? Is everyone all right? Natalia Juryevna? One question is, are we ready to vote on the basis and in general? I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Act amending section X, paragraph 3, of the Act on Transitional and End-of-life Education (Registration No. 3719). Please support and vote. [[16:46:53]] For 319 Decision taken. I'll bet you a vote. Wait. I am voting on the proposal for adoption, in general with the necessary technical and legal regulations, of the draft Law amending section X, paragraph 3, of the Act "Transitional and Final Positions" of Ukraine "On complete general secondary education" to extend the possibilities for the transformation of the educational network (registration No. 3719). Please support and vote. There's no motive here. You can't come out here. There is no voting procedure. Please support and vote. [[16:47:39]] For 323 Decision taken. Thank you. The law is passed in general. The ultimate issue of the agenda of today's extraordinary session is the draft Law on Assignment in 2020 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's nominees for young scientists – Doctors of Science (registration number 3815). Can we not discuss this? Great. I am voting for a proposal for a draft Decision on the appointment of the Supreme Council of Ukraine in 2020 for young scientists — Doctors of Science (registration number 3815). Please support and vote. [[16:48:33]] For 346 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, please don't break up, we have one more intrepid meeting, one question. We talked to the leaders of the MP factions and groups. The next meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed.
