ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-13-m1.u1	In response to the demands of the President of Ukraine and in accordance with part eight of article 19 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine regulations today, we are holding an additional plenary meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. People's deputies please register. The registration takes place by clicking on the green button, the first button on the left. Please register. [[16:49:24]] 350 Ukrainian national deputies registered. You are invited to consider the draft Law amending certain Ukrainian legislation on increasing liability for individual traffic security offences (registration number 2695). It's a necessary discussion, isn't it? It is suggested that this issue be considered in a simplified manner. Please support and vote. [[16:50:03]] For 287 Decision taken. The report is given to the Ukrainian national deputy Bakumov Alexander Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-13-m1.u2	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues! I'm asking your attention, because it wasn't just that the President of Ukraine called for an extraordinary meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Family is the most important center of society. Article 51 of the Ukrainian Constitution states that family, childhood, motherhood, parenthood are protected by the State. The traffic on the capital highway, which had a seat yesterday, is a terrible example of negligence, recklessness, and irresponsibility. At one point the Ukrainian family was gone. We pray for the life and health of a teenage boy who is in the hospital today, but he will never return either to his mother or to his father or to his brother or to his sister again. The government failed to do its job; it failed to preserve one Ukrainian family. I offer to honor the memory of the dead in yesterday’s terrible traffic in Kiev. [[A Minute of Silence]] Thank you. Dear colleagues! That statistic, which is today, the first half of 2020 -- 67,000 alcohol and drug control protocols -- 2019 -- 115 thousand protocols for appropriate administrative violations. During the past year, 3 thousand and 454 people were killed in the accident, and 32 thousand and 736 were injured. It is this bill that will be an incentive to remove the situation and correct the state’s attitude toward this situation. The bill proposes amendments to the Code on Administrative Violations, the Criminal Code, the Road Traffic Act and the National Police, increasing the responsibility for the management of transport, river, sea and small-scale vessels in the state of alcohol, narcotics or other drunkenness. The mechanism of invocation of responsibility for administrative misdemeanours is changed, fixed in automatic mode. Legalize the use of police technology for video recording, commit.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-13-m1.u3	The word for the report is given to the Head of the Committee on Law Enforcement in the Monastery’s Denis Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-13-m1.u4	Dear colleagues, the bill has also been drafted and discussed by parliamentarians of the last assembly, there have been such violent debates about how the relationship between "police driver" should be responsible for driving. But I think you'll agree that today's Ukrainian Code on Administrative Violations that can be passed on to a public organization is a disgraceful phenomenon. I'll give you a few numbers. Last year, over a year and a half, thousands of people who were driving drunk were transferred to a public organization and closed. There is also a reason for closing matters of little importance. And this can also be applied to drinking while driving. More than 600 people in the past year have avoided responsibilities precisely because of the Ukrainian Code of Administrative Offences. This bill, of course, needs to be further developed in the second reading. But I think we're all going to agree that these standards are absolutely groundless and impossible to use these days. Because such experiences yesterday, especially of course, prove that we must be very strict about punishment, not just about punishment, but about the prevention of those who are driving drunk. In no way can our society allow a person to get drunk for driving. Let's do it together, and by the end of the second reading, I think we'll be able to work out this bill very quickly, and maybe by the end of the summer we'll be able to adopt it in the second reading and in general. Please support this bill as a basis.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-13-m1.u5	Dear colleagues, please sign up for two in favor, two in favor. Abdulin Alexander Rafkatovich. Vlasenko? Sergei Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-13-m1.u6	Dear colleagues, you know what one word I've heard all the time when the authors were speaking is the word cynicism. Cynicism! Since Ukraine was criminally responsible for driving in an unbridled state, it acted for exactly two days. It worked for exactly two days! And then, according to the People's Servants, the President signed a law that annuls that responsibility. So, Mr. President, go to your family, to those relatives who are now mourning those who have died, and repent. Repent! Because the responsibility was, you took it down. And now you're talking about a moment of silence to remember. Yes, of course we do. But you certainly should not have this moment of silence advertised. It's total cynicism, when responsibility first works, then it's cancelled, and now, under a particular event, a terrible event, it's once again being reinstated. It's not government policy, it's imitation. The homage is also that this bill has worn out all sorts of furrows that have nothing to do with the actual criminal responsibility of driving a car in a state of drunkenness. Indeed, this law must be adopted. We had to leave the law that was, and everything would have been regulated by legislation. The Fatherland faction will support this bill in the first reading. But we demand that everything else be cleaned up, anything that has nothing to do with the responsibility of driving a car in a state of drunkenness. Therefore, criminal responsibility for every crime behind the wheel. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-13-m1.u7	Lozinski Roman Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-13-m1.u8	Please pass the word to Alexandra Ustinov.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-13-m1.u9	Ustenova Alexander Yuriyevna.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-13-m1.u10	Dear colleagues, this bill has the same criminal responsibility for drunk driving a transport vehicle as guillotine for dealing with headaches. You know, this bill does not impose criminal responsibility for driving a car in an unsuspecting state. He doesn't even raise the fine. This bill has the possibility of 10 days of administrative arrest and all, nothing more. But this bill allows the National Police to now set double standards for everyone else. You remember how the hajis used to sit in the bushes and could catch everyone on the radar. So now they can do it again, because now you don't need a sign that there's a radar in front and you can just sit back in the bushes and catch everyone on the radar. The other one. Now you can stop the vehicle without any explanation at all. And if there's a reason for that right now, you can stop anyone. And if you need to know right now, when you're being searched for your vehicle or you're looking at your vehicle, you don't need to do that right now. And actually the police will be able to: (a) just stop you, (b) search your car with no idea. And to be honest, I'm not sure that after that, in the car of ordinary people, and not the bushy cheerleaders who hang out at nightclubs or chase drunks into cars, they won't find drugs that they'll then be prescribed to make money out of. Now you want this law to bring back what you've been fighting for five years, against the will of the police, who used to use their huge rights to pick people, to stop drivers. I very much ask you not to support this bill if you do not want to have the police on the road again. And I also ask you not to make double standards, because they will.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-13-m1.u11	Thank you. Irina Volodymyrna's character.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-13-m1.u12	I ask you to pass the word to Knazevitch.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-13-m1.u13	Knyazevich Ruslan Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-13-m1.u14	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues, really, what happened on Sunday night is a huge tragedy. We feel sorry for those who died in this disaster. Friends, it would be absolutely fair if all the factions today passed a short bill, which was returned to criminal responsibility for driving in an unsettled state, and we would accept it quickly in general. What are you doing? Do you have a conscience? You're taking a bill registered on December 27th last year. You haven’t found time for six months to look at it, and today crocodile tears are pouring out that it should have been accepted immediately. Guys, let's get this bill started. What's that all about? I'm talking about penalty points that don't exist. You run the system, you leave the penalty points behind, you're clearing out the total waste that's left. You wrote about what can be identified by an electronic driver's license, and in the law you're talking about an electronic witness, you don't even understand what it's about. And what our colleagues said today, you just want to stop and without witnesses, without any idea of testing any means of transport for any reason. We can guess who will be the victims of such tests. They're sitting in this room in the back row. Guys, we've been through this before. Such things will not pass in this room. We're not going to let our "hotels" trick society into making noise. And that's the main thing. You want to now, think about it, friends, respectable colleagues, 10 times the fine for violating the fast regime. People are already afraid to drive. What do you want to do with the simple Ukrainian budget? Surrender yourself. Friends, what are you doing? Imagine ten to 200 untaxed minimums. Do you know what this is about? It's not that it's a disgrace, it's just disrespect for the Ukrainians. There's no such thing in the world. Instead of providing special passes, increasing urban speed, increasing urban speed, and building normal roads. You steal from construction, you do nothing about normal roads in cities, and you force Ukrainians.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-13-m1.u15	Rudik Sergey Jaroslavovich. "Trust" I see.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-13-m1.u16	Respectful colleagues, respected Ukrainians, know virtually everyone about the tragedy on the Obukhian route today. And they also know that these tragedies happen periodically in our country. I remember Chernivka when a drunk driver jumped onto a road trip in the city and knocked her mother dead with a baby and a child standing next to her. We know enough about such stories. We even know that this guy, this moral bastard, who did this yesterday, has been sitting for the same three years, he's had this criminal punishment. And what, it stopped him from doing it again? It's a complicated bill because, on the one hand, it responds emotionally to yesterday's tragedy, and on the other hand, it essentially regulates issues that should be governed by completely different laws. "Where's the criminal responsibility?" – speak to your colleagues. Where is the question that concerns all motorists: Who are responsible for accidents because of poor road cover? Who listed more accidents — there or there? The Society, our parliamentary group, is clearly responsible for criminal offenses against people who have committed an alcohol abuse, but we are firmly opposed to this being decided on the basis of violations of human rights by increasing the rights of the police. Well, isn't that understandable? We insist on a separate bill, a return to criminal responsibility, and the removal of these flaws is our position. I call upon all the MPs and factions in this room to work out a normal bill and to bring it into the hall by the end of this plenary week.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-13-m1.u17	Mother Grigory Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-13-m1.u18	Dear National MPs, "The Opposition Platform for Life," Mama. I would like to point out that there is a criminal responsibility in the State of Ukraine for such cases, the person currently has to be: (a) detained, held accountable, prosecuted, is the tragic consequence that occurred yesterday. I want to say for this bill, you have to do everything in your head, in your conscience and in your law. If this bill is really relevant to this event, it is a fact. Bills should not be sought by the elderly, and they should be brought into the session hall: (a) write, use, accept, serve for the benefit of Ukrainian citizens and to ensure their safety. This bill cannot fully accept the extent to which it relates and normalizes relations in this field until there is a new bill. This bill is old, out of date.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-13-m1.u19	Thank you. Aresonkov Vladimir Yuriovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-13-m1.u20	Vladimir Aresonkov, trust MP. Dear colleagues, I've listened very carefully to the speeches of lawyers-professionals, those who understand what our legislation should be. I agree with the conclusions of the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration, which professionally expressed a number of observations to the individual norms of this bill. On the other hand, I have hundreds and thousands of people who have died in front of me, their families. Let me remind you of the 3rd article of the Constitution: man, his life, his safety, his health is the main thing with you that we have to ensure. The Trust MPs will vote in favour of this bill. For the second reading, I urge everyone to work, bring it into line, but it is extremely useful and important. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-13-m1.u21	Dear colleagues, now with the motives of the Monastery. (no, no, no) then Deputy Minister Heratchenko with motive. And let's go to the vote. Invite the national deputies to the hall. The Monastery of Denis Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-13-m1.u22	Dear colleagues, I would like to remind everyone that the bill on criminal offences that we voted with you a few weeks ago and where the responsibility for driving was reviewed so that she could be working so that she could work was criminally responsible for cases like yesterday, voted by 316 national deputies, including representatives of all the factions that took place today. Therefore, it is not necessary to speak and manipulate information that the President has not signed or supports criminal responsibility for such disgraceful cases. The president, more than that, has supported and initiated this bill today, which has been in the hall for six months and has not been able to find support in this room. Yes, of course, we are working on a bill for second reading, and we have to go back and put a dot in these disgraceful situations, where little can be avoided by the responsibility that leads to such tragic cases.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-13-m1.u23	Heratchenko Anton Yuriovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-13-m1.u24	Ladies and gentlemen, 115,000 driving facts have been recorded in an unsettled state of affairs in the past year. This year, 67,000 cases in the middle of the year. It's a fine of 10,000, 200 dollars. Money is not the answer to the question of drawing on responsibility. This bill is proposed for the redriving, inadvertent management of 10 days under arrest, so that, including majors and rich people's sons, they know they'll be sitting behind bars. And you know, ladies and gentlemen, how much does a man pay a fine if he leads without rights? 510 bucks. The bill will be a fine of 1,0,200 dollars to make sure that a person is deprived of his driving rights so that he can be fined a serious amount. Third, the question. About what the deputy Princely said. What's 50 kilometers an hour a fine of 3,400 dollars? Every day we have a few hundred people chasing 170 kilometers an hour. The fine for today is 510 bucks. That's not enough. The bill therefore comprehensively addresses the issue of liability and speed on the roads and driving in an unsuspecting state. And the last. That bastard who killed four people yesterday, do you know how long she's gonna take? 5 years. Because he will be given a maximum of ten, and under the current legislation, he will be sentenced to good conduct in half a time. The bill proposes to increase accountability to 12 years in such cases. And only to be released after a minimum of 2/3 periods. Yesterday, perhaps the voters of each of the parties that are in the hall and the Servants of the People died, we don't know who they voted for. Please support all fractions in the first reading. If you don't agree with something, let's go to second reading, we'll fix it. But this law will solve the problems in a fundamental way.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-13-m1.u25	And what about the Council, why do we have a minute and a half of our motivations? [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, I have a big question. Princess, are you insisting on the replica?
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-13-m1.u26	Thank you, thank you. First of all, Mr. Heratchenko, I didn't say anything. I can only support the words of my colleague Knazević and say, of course, we must order those people who violate the rules, of course, in vain the President vetoed when we did so, of course, in vain into this bill to put the possibility of searching cars and stopping them for no reason. Of course, all wrongdoers need to be punished. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-13-m1.u27	Let's go to the vote. Please prepare for the vote. Ready to vote? I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Law amending certain Ukrainian legislative acts to increase liability for individual road safety offences (registration number 2695). Please support and vote. Take it as a base. [[17:12:03]] For 282 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, I hereby declare the meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine closed. Thank you all.
