ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-14-m0.u1	Dear colleagues, good afternoon! Good afternoon, media officials, guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine! Please take your seats, prepare for registration. I'm reminding you that registration takes place by pressing the pros button. Are you ready to register? Please register. [[10:08:07]] There are 351 Ukrainian national deputies registered in the hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear colleagues, a moment of silence. Unfortunately, we do. Dear colleagues, please take your seats. Sadly, yesterday we began our work on the Conciliation Council with words of compassion. I realize that they mean very little to both loved ones and, perhaps, to the country. But this is a tragedy, a tragedy that happened for the first time in the civil aviation of Ukraine, an independent Ukraine. And it's not just our tragedy, it's the tragedy of the world, because it killed 176 people, 11 of our fellow citizens. I ask you to honor the moment of silence of all those who have died in this terrible tragedy. [[A Minute of Silence]] Please sit down. I gave the commission, yesterday there was a committee meeting, and, as far as I know, a prepared decision, a proposal for a ruling by the Supreme Council of Ukraine, which we will be considering today, on this tragedy. I call on all representatives of both Ukraine and our international partners, on behalf of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, to join in this process so that the guilty will be punished, and we have indeed been able to prove to the end this important matter for the State, for the State and for the loved ones. Well, how rightly it was pointed out that all those who died in this tragedy would return home. So let's get to work. I still have an offer. I think all of you have seen information in the media about the increase in the salaries of Ukrainian national deputies. I've just been talking to the Apparatus, and they've given me complete information. There's an index of the wages of Ukrainian national deputies, but it doesn't correspond at all to the figures that are written in the media, about 100,000, I've seen about 150,000. A change in wages is about 3,000 dollars for a national MP. This has to do with the cost of living. At the same time, I'm sure we've all seen information about the award of individual heads of institutions and departments. And I think that as the Head of the Council and, I think, as the people's deputies, and primarily as the citizens of this state, it's very interesting to hear the position on these allowances, these bonuses, and how much they fit the reality, if they're responsible, for what. So there's an offer, it's coming, and I know that even from the "Serial of the People" faction, I think other political forces will join in. During the "hours of questions before the government" listen after the foreign minister and perhaps the prime minister's position on those prizes if they really correspond to the realities that have been assigned to individual ministers in the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Is that okay with you? I ask you to inform the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the representative of the Cabinet of Ministers of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to provide this information, to bring this information to the relevant ministries (there will be statements from the factions, I think you will be able to do so), to bring this information to them and to hear it in the "hours of questions to the government" in the walls of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. This will be of interest to us as well as to Ukrainian society. Thank you. Dear colleagues, we have. Is the speedboat in the hall? None. Yes. Anna Constantine's birthday is today. Hello. I want health. [[Applause]] And it's not just you. Dear colleagues, in accordance with article 25 of the Rules on Tuesday, we have 30 minutes to speak on behalf of authorized representatives of MPs and groups with proposals, announcements, statements, and messages. I'd like the factions to sign up for the performance. Majjkovich Mikola Romanovich. Gerasimov Arthur Volodymyrovich
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-14-m0.u2	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished colleagues, respected Ukrainians! After the secret rest of President Holobeard in Oman and the tragedy in Iran, talking only about the communication crisis of Ukrainian power is not true. Not fair about Mrs. Mendel, by the way, because she turned out to be the only one who did his job in those days -- she did the pedals of your bike as she could. The first of eight months of the security crisis of the new power, in which the authorities of Zelensky demonstrated irresponsibility, incompetence, and cowardice. You flew around the world's resorts and didn't even foresee a mechanism to get together in the event of a crisis. The incompetence of this power is particularly apparent when we compare its late ignition with the flashy reaction of President Dustenk to MH-17. What you did for a few days, he arranged for hours. Your fear is that you knew in the first hours that the Ukrainian plane was hit by a Russian rocket, but you never managed to say it out loud until you were taken to the wall by the leaders of Canada or, according to Bank, Canada, the United States, and Britain. However, it should be given due to Zelenski – he changes to Ukraine almost in time. Three times faster, by the way, than American astronauts per month. Other officials responsible for security and intelligence have never felt the need to return to their jobs. Nothing could ruin their holiday. Society also requires clarity about Oman. It turns out that the last wish of the sultan on his deathbed was to see our very own, as he is called, "the greatest leader of the modern world." But all the smart people realize that there was no official visit. There was a trip for private purposes or other purposes. And that's why we're all very interested in the mysterious charters that flew between Oman and Russia in those days -- very much like the secret negotiations. A simple question arises. What was that? Is it a lie or a lie? It doesn't matter. With New Year's Eve, the country of "mangled" voters! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-14-m0.u3	Black Dmitry Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-14-m0.u4	Dear colleagues, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that something is going wrong with the author of the Law on the Elimination of Deputies of Imputation by Peter Alexiovich Prashenko, who is currently absent from his workplace. As you may know, he did not show up about 26 times for questioning at the State Bureau of Investigation. Why isn't Dusty sitting down? This is the question that has been going on almost since May, and everyone wants to know from our constituents what is going on, whether he's really a decent person, and all of this has been happening to some other figure, whether he's ignoring legislation, whether he's neglecting the duties of a citizen and a national MP of our country, and he's sneering up to us all. I offer you, if by the end of this month he does not appear for questioning as he should, to call on the Parliament of the Attorney General of Ukraine, Mr. Rybosapka, and to ask the question: What now prevents Mr. Rybosapka from drawing Mr. Dustenk into interrogation. There are questions that need to be answered, first of all, what he was guided by when he sent our sailors to the Kerchny Strait for military entry and the collapse of the presidential election. I urge you to support the Attorney General's call if Mr. Dustynko continues to appear for questioning. The powder should be in prison. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-14-m0.u5	Sukhov Alexander Sergiyovich. Alexander Sergiyovich. You don't? Shahov Sergei Volodymyrovich. Sergei Volodymyrovich, I'm sorry, but you can see your time to speak. Let's do it on your own time.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-14-m0.u6	Sergey Shahov, Luhanščina, Deputy Group "Trust". Dear colleagues, we are all human beings, and we know how to truly feel for the dead. Tragic death in a war that was killed in Chernobyl, killed in the Afghan war. But it is convenient for us to express our complaint in soft chairs today, and it is convenient for us to express our complaint in a warm room. Sadly, though, it is uncomfortable for the Ukrainian people to sit in cold rooms today. Today, there is a huge problem with the budget. A hole in the budget really hit the Ukrainian economy, a 35 billion dollar gap in the budget. What's the hole behind it? It has brought down job cuts, and 175 thousand people have gone abroad. These are 175 trains loaded with people, traveling abroad, leaving their children with blood on their grandmothers, who receive a pension of one and a half thousand. The main problem in the country today is cold and hunger. Each of you today is responsible for tens of millions of families. If you have come to this room, you need to make decisions today with a cold head and make a warm living in Ukrainian apartments, allowing people to earn a small, medium, big business, rather than allowing them to enjoy today’s customs, smuggling. And it was the customs office that did not fill the Ukrainian budget today. 35 billion dollars is just one and the National Bank of Ukraine has just put a 31 billion dollar hole in it. The hole didn't go down; it was 2020 in its holed boots. You don't have to darken your eyes today and hide behind the shield of war, behind the shield of tragedy, admit mistakes and do something, turn to all the opposition forces if you can't do anything, and really not just make a deal, but hear us. Yesterday at the Conciliation Council, the Trust MPs proposed Bill 2108. He forbids the oligarchs from turning off the heat of kindergartens, schools, hospitals, and all lands. What, did they put him on the agenda today? No, we didn't. We've suggested to the majority that a bill and a draft decree be put in place by the New York City Council deputies, who have been looting for the fourth year -- 700 million dollars. Is there a monopoly there today as much as the forerunners? We demand that the bills that the "Trust" group demanded put into the order of the day, which will reduce the debt of state-owned enterprises in electricity today, will help us get out of Ukraine's debt pit and breathe normal air to Ukrainians. Thank you. Sergey Shahov, Luhanščina, Deputy Group "Trust".
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-14-m0.u7	Rachmanin Sergey Ivanovich. Lozinski Roman Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-14-m0.u8	Dear Ukrainians and fellow MPs! Please tell me, have you seen in the agenda of the Supreme Council a bill amending the Constitution on centralization and destabilization of the situation in Ukraine during the war? Didn't you see? I'll explain why. What our President and his team are actually doing really well is forming the right headlines and the right window of drawers, very attractive, for which they really want to vote. But once we look a little bit further than these headlines and the window display, what are we going to see, in particular, about the changes to the Constitution on decentralization? We're being asked to introduce a new feudal system. Instead of the old heads of district administrations or district administrations, we're offered a prefect's institute. Is it necessary? Maybe. Indeed, there will be many mistakes in the newly elected organs of local self - government, indeed, need control. But if the Constitution does not define a clear, comprehensive list of all powers, what will we receive? New feudals, new queens, new people who will not simply replace local self - rule but who will make hostages local self - control of their interests and moods. Do we see the special status of Donbas in the text of the bill? We don't see, but we see it beautifully described that the status of the areas, the status of all the administrative units are defined solely by laws. What does that mean? The President's impeachment protects in 337 votes, and in 226 votes we can change any status of any region, community or new districts, districts. In times of war, such changes to the Constitution are totally unacceptable. And finally, this whole theater of absurdity is headed by the format in which these changes to the Constitution are proposed. No discussion with the community, no absolute ignorance of 250 community leaders, organizations, and experts. We're being asked to accept these changes without any discussion right now, again in the area. These things are totally unacceptable, these dangers are put in place here. Instead, fiscal decentralization is collapsing, taking away all the grounds and all the provisions of education, medicine, for united territorial communities. Decentralisation needs to be implemented, reform must be completed, but in such a format without any consultation and with such proposals exactly without amending the Constitution.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-14-m0.u9	Vadim Zinović Rabinovich, "The Opposition Platform for Life."
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-14-m0.u10	Dear friends, I want to say hello, there's not much time left and we can go to any country of the world, because we're not going to have our own land, we're going to sell it. The following week they are going to sell the land of Ukraine. I realize that most of those in power today are where to go. They're doing Soros and the IMF, and they're going to go where their money is, and they're not in Ukraine. And there's no betrayal, there's no lie that's gone, you don't have to say that. The Ukrainians who remain on the sold land can enjoy excellent employment in the plantations. So you don't have to lie. And look, despite the protests of most of the population, despite the fact that people go out on the street, the law on the sale of Ukrainian land is being implemented in any and all illegal way. I understand that, as there is, Grandpa Soros demanded, but we have only one land. Those who raise their voices against the Devil’s plan will be intimidated, exposed to sticky criminal matters. And all in order to have a long-awaited event next week -- the sale of Ukrainian land, the day we'll be with you on the calendar, red, simple, black as the day of sale of Ukraine. Dear friends, our party is eager to bring to people the horror of what they are about to do. But today it is not enough, not enough, for one or two parties. We all have to say no to Ukrainian sales plans for Ukrainian land. It's nonsense, with applause, with smiles and jokes, to vote for the sale of Ukrainian land, just on the ground. And it's thought to be a victory. It's probably the last final experiment that brings miserable Ukraine. If we let that happen to you, we have no right to be in this room. We can't be called people's deputies. We're just a handful who couldn't stand up for his land. Dear Ukrainians, let's see with our eyes open that they just want to sell us as slaves along with the land. And finally, to power. When are you gonna get drunk, motherfuckers?
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-14-m0.u11	Tymoshenko Julia Volodymyrna, "The Fatherland" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-14-m0.u12	Dear colleagues, it's nice to hear how from the Supreme Council's rostrum there is a discussion of increasing the salaries of deputies, and it's nice to hear when NAK Naftogaz paid off hundreds of millions of dollars of the prize, and it's nice to hear how the attack continues on essentially the middle class in Ukraine, but while all of these issues are being debated here, now in these minutes in the seven points of Kiev, covered by agriculture farmers, the central highways of Kiev. I want to tell you that what they don't hear in this room, they don't see, they don't understand, it tells us that society is outside this room. I want to draw your attention to the fact that now thousands of people are on the road, they know that if the land sale law is passed, they have no chance to live and work in our country. But now I understand very well that everyone knows what this law is about the sale of agricultural land and the question of what to do. While part of Parliament was resting and on vacation, we had a memo of six factions signed, which clearly indicated that there was a legal review of the Land Sales Act. The memorandum, which states that six factions could not go beyond the law, was supported. And while the factions and parliament went to work on committees and in the regions, the agrarian committee simply crossed out this memo, and they, contrary to Parliament's will, all the factions, stressed by a few votes on the committee, passed a law on the sale of land for a second reading. Can you please tell me that parliamentaryism exists in our country after this? And what does the decision of the six factions mean if one Mr. Solski could cross it all out and make an arbitrary decision? That is why we now demand: firstly, the leadership of the Supreme Council and the committees, as well as the leaders of factions, to listen to the agrarians; secondly, after a speech by the deputies, to gather a meeting of factions leaders and force the agrarian committee and Mr. Solski to return to the memorandum and also to discuss and hold a referendum of the All-Ukrainian Federation on the sale of agricultural land, to withdraw the Law on the sale of land from consideration. I believe Parliament is capable of this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-14-m0.u13	Mealer Victor Nichiporovich. Batenko Taras Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-14-m0.u14	Christ was born! Dear friends, obviously, we realize that not only for the Ukrainian people, but for the Ukrainian State, this year began. We join those words of compassion that are echoing in the last days at the address of those killed in the plane crash. We understand and talk about it repeatedly, that there is nothing more valuable than human life and dignity and freedom of man and citizen, and we are concerned about the protection of our citizens. We are concerned about the issue of protection in the context of the order of the last week of the first session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, and this is primarily a matter of the earth. We understand that the market of the earth is a matter of discussion that was to take place in society. Did such a discussion take place in society? No, it didn't. So there will continue to be pinnacles under the Supreme Council of Ukraine, under a body that should not be catalysed, but to relieve the tension in society, friends, because Parliament itself is the body in which the deep debate is to take place, which has not been happening lately. And again, I would like to point out that this memo, which was signed by all factions and MPs in the Speaker of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Dmitry Alexanderovich Razumkov, was arrogantly ignored by the profile committee. And we stress that further consultations should now take place between leaders and participants in the entire negotiating process in order to understand how we are moving forward on this issue. We insist that there can be no extracurricular session in the decision-making of the land market, friends, because such issues cannot be discussed in one day, the debates that divide the society, which makes it even worse, a situation where more than 70 percent of the population does not accept the opening of the land market. I mean, even the Language Act, the Elections Act that we've been taking in this room, we've been discussing for months, and the land market we want to take in one day? I think that Ukrainian society will not let that happen. In addition, my friends, I believe that the question of decentralization, which is also being raised and raised in this room, is also a matter of a social agreement that we want to discuss with all interested subjects of the negotiating process. This is urged by the European Union, the European Community, a special envoy for reform in Ukraine, Milbradt, who stresses that unless all interested parties once sit at a round table, decentralization in Ukraine cannot be accepted. Let us not invent the wheel, the more this wheel was not once already in Ukraine, and it was not driving, it was crooked. So without discussion, we will not vote for such decentralization in this room. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-14-m0.u15	Thank you. Showtime's up. Dear colleagues, a statement came from two factions asking to hold a meeting in the Head. announce a recess for 30 minutes and hold a meeting in the office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I invite the leadership of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the heads of factions and the head of the agrarian committee to my office, please. Break until 11:05.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-14-m0.u16	Dear colleagues, another statement has been made by two factions, the faction "The Opposition Platform for Life" and the group "Trust" -- about a break for another half hour. We'll meet you maybe at 11:35. Maybe not.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-14-m0.u17	Dear colleagues, as predicted, two factions -- the EU and the Voice -- are taking a break for another half hour. That's why we start work at 12:05. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-14-m0.u18	Good afternoon, dear colleagues. Please take your seats, get ready for work. We've had a lot of breaks. Please get ready for work. Don't forget to put cards in slots. The procedure consists of David Georgiyovich Arahami. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-14-m0.u19	Good afternoon, colleagues. I have an offer, considering that we took very many breaks in the morning, and we were unable to work today, to extend our working time to the end of the day. Please support and vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-14-m0.u20	There is a proposal from the head of the "Serial of the People" faction in connection with a large number of interruptions to continue our work until the issues of the order of the day are fully exhausted. Can I put this proposal to the vote? Dear colleagues, I am putting to the vote the proposal to continue the evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine until the issues of the agenda are fully exhausted. Please support and vote. [[12:32:58]] For 229 Decision taken. Thank you. Show the factions, please. The People's Party – 226, "The Opposition Platform – For Life" – 0, "European Solidarity" – 0, "The Fatherhood" – 0, "For the Future" – 0, "The Voice" – 0, "The Trust" – 0, "the Non-Factional" – 3. Thank you. So let's get to the point. Dear colleagues, you are invited to consider the draft Act amending the Constitution of Ukraine (for the annulment of the legal monopoly) (registration number 1013). The report is given to the deputy head of the Committee on Legal Policy, Kostin Andriy Evgenovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-14-m0.u21	Dear Mr. Head, Your Honor, Your Honor, your colleagues! The bill proposes to remove from the Constitution the situation under which the representation of another person before a court is performed solely by a lawyer and the standards that provided for his implementation. As you know, the lawyer's monopoly on representation in the courts was introduced in 2016. A gradual transition to court representation was then foreseen only by a lawyer until 2020. In fact, citizens, businesses and public authorities had to hire lawyers to represent them and protect their interests in the courts. Bill No. 1013 provides for the abolition of this requirement, except in cases where a person is protected from criminal charges, where the legal monopoly will continue to operate. The Constitutional Court of Ukraine has accepted a bill amending the Constitution of Ukraine to abolish the legal monopoly in such a way that it meets the requirements of articles 157 and 158 of the Constitution of Ukraine. In adopting the decision, the Constitutional Court ruled that the amendments proposed in section I of the bill to the Constitution of Ukraine extend the possibility of representation before a court. The conclusion also states that the concept of providing professional legal assistance is not identical to that of representing a person in a court of law. Professional legal assistance is provided by lawyers, but the representation of a person before a court may be made by choice of a person as a lawyer or another subject. The amendments proposed by the bill enhance the ability of the person to exercise the constitutional right to defend himself through the exercise of such representation by not only a lawyer. The position of the Committee on Legal Policy since the beginning of its consideration of the bill is that regulation of the activities of the bar and the respective representative functions should be carried out not at the constitutional level but at the level of the relevant laws. The same legislative level of regulation of lawyers and lawyers is a world practice. The Constitution is not an act that can respond flexibly to the development of a lawyer. In doing so, the role of lawyers is of real importance primarily because of procedural legislation, not because of the status laws. In other words, the role of lawyers in justice should be defined by procedural codes: Civil trial, the Master's Trial, the Criminal Procedural and the Code of Administrative Justice. As a person who has worked as a lawyer for the rest of her adult life, I would like a lawyer to play a leading role in the justice system, but not by constitutional coercion, but by knowingly choosing a defender for his rights, as provided for in article 59 of the Constitution of Ukraine, which states that everyone is free to choose a defender for his rights. This bill, in order to remove all of these scarecrows, does not prohibit this bill from leaving the so-called monopoly of lawyers in procedural codes. But it will be ours with you, colleagues, choice and our responsibility, because a lot of professional lawyers are against anyone representing the interests of the people in the courts, because there are honest non-professionals and frauds among such grief-representatives. But so do many professional lawyers against the right to choose a defender freely becoming a citizen’s duty. Therefore, colleagues, the adoption of this very bill of the President will allow us, as Parliament, to regulate on our own the representation of persons in court at the level of procedural codes and to make the right decisions in today's social relations, which are changing very dynamically. The Committee on Legal Policy, commissioned by the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine at its meeting on 13 November 2019, considered this bill, the conclusion of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine, and decided to recommend that the Supreme Council of Ukraine approve previously submitted by the President as an immediate bill to amend the Constitution of Ukraine (as regards the repeal of the legal monopoly) (registration No. 1013 of 29.08.2019). Colleagues, please support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-14-m0.u22	Thank you, Andrey Evgenovich. Will there be questions for the reporter? You don't? Thank you. The National Deputy of Ukraine, Representative of the President of Ukraine to the Constitutional Court of Ukraine Fedir Volodymyrovich Venislavski, is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-14-m0.u23	Good afternoon, distinguished colleagues, distinguished national MPs, distinguished presidency, President Vladimir Zelensky of Ukraine, in full compliance with his constitutional credentials on September 2nd, passed a bill to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, which we are considering with you today, with registration number 1013 on the amendment to the Constitution of Ukraine regarding the abolition of the legal monopoly. The bill was sent to the Constitutional Court of Ukraine to conclude that it was in conformity with the requirements of articles 157 and 158 of the Constitution of Ukraine. The Constitutional Court of Ukraine, in its conclusion, said that the bill fully met the requirements of these provisions of the Constitution, and therefore there were no obstacles to the Supreme Council of Ukraine's consideration of the bill at this time. As a report from the Supreme Council Committee on Legal Policy has already said, this bill is aimed at expanding the ability of a person to obtain professional legal assistance for his own choice and not to be limited in choosing this assistance only from among lawyers. Of course, there are many professional lawyers who can provide professional legal assistance, but there are not many other legal professionals who can also provide professional legal assistance. And any limitation of a person's freedom of choice, from whom to choose a representative of his own interests, of course, is negative. Therefore, the President of Ukraine proposes that a person be removed from his duty to seek representation in a court of law only with a lawyer. At the same time, of course, there is a completely monopolistic right to represent the interests of another person by a lawyer in criminal conduct when a person is accused of committing criminal offences. This standard remains. I also want to draw attention to the fact that from the Constitution of Ukraine, from the Transitional Regulations, there is a position that only the prosecutor and solely the lawyer should have been representing the interests of the public authorities, the local self-government authorities in court as of 1 January 2020. Considering that this leads to overexpenditure from the state budget of Ukraine, we also need to be aware that the removal of this rule will allow local self-government authorities to take advantage of the representation of the interests of the courts by those who work in these public authorities, local government bodies as lawyers. So we ask you to support this bill and to approve it in advance at this plenary meeting of the Supreme Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-14-m0.u24	Thank you. Is there a question for the reporter? None. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the discussion. I'd like to ask you a question about the speeches by the MPs and the groups. Belkova Olga Valentinovna. Sergey Vladislavovich was involved.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-14-m0.u25	Dear colleagues, the honourable chairman! Our faction was sceptical about the changes that had made the previous call to the Constitution when they tried to establish a legal monopoly in the context of constitutional processes. We've already noted, if you raise our speeches, that this is a question that should be the exclusive competence of Parliament when it comes to any legislative initiative, when it comes to the involvement of lawyers directly in the proceedings, rather than regulating the matter by the Constitution. Fortunately, we've come to this, and now we're actually looking at the elimination of the legal monopoly, not just the key question that the Constitution is not going to regulate the issue of the legal monopoly, and that is going to be passed on to the criminal laws. We are in this position, and we believe that this allows, within the framework of the constant changes that are taking place in the global legal process, and in the context of the Ukrainian legal development process, the expansion or narrowing of these powers, depending on how far our citizens will receive appropriate assistance. Moreover, the possibility of accessing the legal aid of a wide range of people who are trusted and the person who employs them is a key principle that must be adhered to in the context of the changes made to the Constitution. This is where our faction will support these changes. We stand on this principle, and we will vote for these changes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-14-m0.u26	Bacunec Pavel Andryovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-14-m0.u27	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues! Paul Bakunec, Jove, Jaborishte. The Trust MP Group supports amendments to the Constitution of Ukraine regarding the abolition of the MP's legal monopoly. According to the legislation in force, only a lawyer can represent a person before a court, thus narrowing down the rights and capabilities of individuals and even organizations in order to carry out their representation before the courts. And as a result of the adoption of this proposed bill, the right of every person and organization to receive professional legal assistance not only from lawyers but also from others will be ensured. As with me in the district, as with you, the most respected seniors, I think there are many lawyers who have the opportunity, the appropriate knowledge to help in legal relations people with special needs or pensioners, or social groups of the population who have no funds to pay expensive lawyers. And just like the authorities in both the local and local governments are also thanking you, dear colleagues, for adopting this bill, because when you adopt this bill, you can save some budget spending, especially local budgets, so that you don't invest money in hiring expensive lawyers, and that money can be used to fix schools, hospitals, gardens, OSB roofs or other infrastructure things in our communities, in our communities. Therefore, the Trust MP Group proposes to support this bill, and the Constitutional Court has also approved these changes. I urge everyone to vote in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-14-m0.u28	Mother Grigory Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-14-m0.u29	Dear National MPs, the Opposition Platform for Life faction will not support change. I'll tell you what happened. These are not new changes to the Constitution, these are not new changes or new changes to the law. We're returning a model that was five years ago. Five years ago, lawyers had the right to represent interests, anything else, to participate in court proceedings. And when the law institute was introduced to replace lawyers, there was a chance for lawyers to become lawyers. A special procedure was put in place when a lawyer, a person who graduated from law school, received experience, an internship, obtained the right to pass exams for obtaining a certificate of legal activity, and, by defending him by passing a qualified exam, became a lawyer and was involved in presenting interests in the court or in protecting him according to the codes that had been cited earlier. I want to say that the problem at the time was not in part - time services, not in the good - quality services of lawyers to present their interests. The Institute of Lawyers has now created legal self - government. And when a person who thinks that a lawyer has not fully provided legal services, he applies to the Legal Council, which he accepts, to look into a complaint against a lawyer. The bill's authors said everything, they just forgot to say, and what would be the alternative to clarifying the situation of inadequacy of legal services to represent interests or inequitable services of representation of interests in court? What will be the penalty for persons with legal education? It was the drafters who forgot the bill. In our opinion, for the time being, if a quality bill is submitted to the Council on the issue of competition between the Bar Institute and lawyers who have not reached the status of a lawyer and have not obtained the right to engage in legal activity, then we can only consider. In this edition, the opposition platform for life cannot support the changes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-14-m0.u30	Thank you, Gregory Mikolaiovich. Lubinet Dmitry Valeriovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-14-m0.u31	Honorable Presidium, distinguished national MPs, MPs for the Future will support and vote in favour of the bill. We find it absolutely appropriate to abolish the legal monopoly. For us it's perfectly logical that if a person trusts the right to represent any lawyer and defend his rights in the courts, it is necessary to support it. That's the first one. And the second is why we're going to vote. It was this bill that led to the fact that the authorities of the state, the local self - government, with the full powers of lawyers, did not have the right to refer them to the courts to defend their rights. Some began to be released, obtained legal licenses, and most importantly, local government and state authorities began to lose mass in the courts. So let us allow the people who want to trust the protection of their rights in the courts to give them the opportunity to do so. The parliamentary group "For the Future" supports the presidential bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-14-m0.u32	Vakarczuk Svetoslav Ivanovich. Juršin Jaroslav Romanović.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-14-m0.u33	First of all, the electorate, now you and I have a vivid example of total disrespect for the Constitution. At first, three years ago, a law was passed that was not fully thought out. But this enables a gradual improvement in the quality of representation of people’s interests in the courts. Yes, the lawyer has a higher requirement. And so some lawyer who bought his certificate would not be able to represent the interests of a Ukrainian citizen. That's what was planned. Accordingly, the State has not been able to ensure that legal education is improved or that legal certificates are actually obtained by those who will act in your interests as citizens. Big companies, don't worry, they'll be able to provide quality legal representation. When the Constitutional Court had previously considered this rule, it said that it led to a higher quality, but it needed to work. What is now being proposed? It's banal to cut off things that are hard to work on, that is, not to work for the citizens and to make sure that the legal representation is quality, but simply to open up this rule that was not worked properly before. If it were just one change to the Constitution, perhaps it could be supported, yes, they corrected the error, although they did not guarantee quality. But now we have a lot of changes that don't in itself bring about improvements that don't guarantee a higher quality, but this is going to be declared another victory. So understanding that, on the one hand, the state is not ready for a monopolistic representation by lawyers, but, on the other hand, understanding that we're going to try again nominally to show this as a major disruption, that, here, lawyers from some university of the culture of the name of one cultural actor will be able to represent you in the courts, and this is a great gain of new power, we as a faction of belief -- the Constitution needs to be changed thoughtfully. Not to make changes tomorrow, which completely transform the relationship between central authority and local authority, but to demand it tomorrow, not to adopt the law, and then to decide three years later that the monopoly is bad, but to work thoughtfully and to explain what we want. That's why we don't support such chaotic movements, and we're going to hold on to these changes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-14-m0.u34	Majjkovich Mikola Romanovich. Knyazevich Ruslan Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-14-m0.u35	Thank you, Your Honor, Mr. Head, Your Honor. I do not wish to remind you now of the procedure for considering the inclusion in the agenda of the Constitutional Court, where there have been a number of violations. I don't think I should talk about it right now. I also don't want to remind you of the title of the bill, which is strange to me, which is the monopoly of lawyers. It's such a talkative thesis, but it shouldn't have anything to do with making changes to the Constitution. And what I want to talk about right now is that we're talking about right now, because we're talking about anything but basic. We are at the stage of the preliminary approval of the amendment bill to the Constitution, which discusses the conclusion of the Constitutional Court. I was surprised by the conclusion of the Constitutional Court. I'll explain why. The Constitutional Court, in fact, recognizing the conformity of 157 and 158 articles, said that the draft of the 16th year, which introduced the so-called legal monopoly, was in conflict with 158 articles of the Constitution, that is, restricting the right of access to justice. I wonder why it was not immediately before the Constitutional Court to say it in its conclusion that we would immediately correct and not allow what we have now. Because we have a very difficult situation right now, as we're talking about here, we're now in a situation where we want to make changes to the Constitution after this rule has come into effect, it's already in effect since January 1. And we don't know when these changes are going to happen and if they're going to happen at all, it's a very hypothetical situation. We're trying, in procedural codes, to adopt a law, a representation to replace, by going beyond the Constitution, a representation. I, by the way, don't know what the perspective of the law is, and it's obviously still under serious criticism. But in terms of what's going on right now, I'll tell you, all the authorities have been prepared, if this is about them, the local self-government authorities have been prepared for this, the budgets have been set aside, and now, in fact, this representation is actually happening. There's statistics like this, and I've learned literally before I've considered that there's no problem with that. Well, maybe we should wait, and even if the result is how these dens and practices work, we should decide if they should be removed. Because I'll remind you, dear colleagues, where this standard came from. This rule in Ukrainian realities appeared on the recommendation of the Venice Commission, which recommended that Ukraine establish a legal monopoly that is imperative in all countries of the European Union. There's no talking about these things at all. These apiori are understandable. On the contrary, we have tried to adapt our legislation for many years. Now we're trying to turn around again. So I think we need to think very carefully about how this rule is going to work, and only then do we have to make informed decisions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-14-m0.u36	Thank you. Olga Volodymyrna's wife.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-14-m0.u37	Dear colleagues, the best argument is statistics. So last year’s official statistics show that the number of citizens underprivileged seeking free legal aid has increased by a third. This suggests that because of the introduction of a legal monopoly, a third of Ukrainian citizens in need of qualified professional assistance could not obtain it because of an existing ban. In this regard, most of them had to turn to the authorities that provided free legal aid. If this norm had not worked, these citizens could have appealed to professional lawyers who, without legal testimony, could still represent the interests of Ukrainian citizens in the courts when dealing with the relevant cases. The second argument is world experience. Dear colleagues, in foreign lands, at the level of constitutions in any European state that is a model for us, there is no so - called legal monopoly. In principle, the issue of legal aid is regulated solely at the level of procedural laws or procedural codes. The third argument. All who have a legal relationship are well aware that there has been an increase in the artificial demand for legal evidence since 2016. As a result, instead of working effectively, those who are highly qualified lawyers have 20 to 30 years of professional experience, being lawyers at businesses, institutions, organizations, having to get legal testimonies, attending all kinds of courses, seminars to get points, and so on. It's an abnormal situation and it's an artificial situation that needs a response. Above all, article 55 of the Constitution provides for the right of citizens to legal aid and protection. If another norm of the Constitution questions this right, i.e. it questions the fundamental position of the Constitution of Ukraine, of course, that such a norm is subject to review, which we call for, and we propose to do now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-14-m0.u38	Thank you, Olga Volodymyrna. Ladies and gentlemen, the time for speeches by members of the MPs and groups is exhausted. Let us move on to the discussion of questions and speeches by the Ukrainian national deputies. Please sign up for the performances by the National Deputies. Trebushkin Ruslan Valeriyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-14-m0.u39	Ladies and gentlemen! Of course, I think that this bill needs to be supported because it allows for a more rapid solution of many issues. That's why I'm asking you to support him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-14-m0.u40	Thank you. Getmants Danilo Alexanderovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-14-m0.u41	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I am a lawyer, I have been a lawyer since 2004. I had a pretty wide legal practice in tax disputes in my past life, and I was consistently against the legal monopoly. And that's why. First of all, any monopoly is bad, any monopoly is a restriction on competition, and therefore a restriction on the process that affects the improvement of the quality of service. The other one. The United of Lawyers. What kind of organization is this? It is an organization that has shown that, unfortunately, today simply earns money on lawyers, providing them with courses to improve their qualifications by testing them by giving them testimonies. So these are organizations that are artificially created and make profits to those who are taking the lead today, which is also unfair. This, of course, has to do with corruption – and the handling of complaints against lawyers, and it gives testimony to new lawyers who claim to do so. And the last. A lawyer's testimony is never a guarantee of the quality of the service, never. We have a great number of lawyers in the country who have never been lawyers, and they provide services of much better quality than a lawyer with a witness. So, of course, I support this bill and I call on my colleagues to support it as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-14-m0.u42	Thank you. Katchura Alexander Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-14-m0.u43	Alexander Kachura, "Serial of the People" faction. In fact, I would like to say that when we sent an appropriate motion to the Constitutional Court to make the Constitutional Court say yes or no, I wondered whether a bill should be adopted, whether it should be amended to the Constitution, because I also worked for many years as a lawyer. When I began to associate with many of my colleagues, with legal companies, with legal associations, they all clearly said that there should be no monopoly in Ukraine – neither a lawyer nor any other private monopoly. When we vote for this bill today, we don't vote for lawyers, we vote for lawyers, we vote for ordinary people who defend their rights in the courts. It's alimony, it's property distribution, it's protection of business reputation. Believe me, for my professional work, I've met as highly professional lawyers who didn't have a lawyer's license, and I've met completely untalented, completely unaware of the material and procedural rights of lawyers who don't understand how they got their testimony. Therefore, I call today to vote in favour of this bill, to vote in favour of expanding the rights of citizens, and more precisely to return the rights they have been deprived of, which was exercised by the previous call. No monopolies, no citizens' rights, we vote in favour, no green button. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-14-m0.u44	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the discussion is over. Let's go to the vote. The closing statement is given to the deputy head of the Committee on Legal Policy, Kostin Andriy Evgenovich. Then we go to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-14-m0.u45	Dear colleagues, I hope you support this bill, which is proposed by the President of Ukraine, because this law repeals the only monopoly that exists at the level of the Constitution. And as my colleagues correctly pointed out, there is no European country in which a legal monopoly is established at the level of the Constitution. It's a matter of procedural legislation, it's a question that we're going to decide with you when we're going to pass this law with you. I ask everyone to support this bill and vote in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-14-m0.u46	Thank you. Dear colleagues, let us proceed to the vote, please take your seats. In accordance with article 155 of the Constitution of Ukraine, part of article 149 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Rules of Procedure, the draft Decree No. 1013/P1 on the prior approval of the bill amending the Constitution of Ukraine (for the annulment of the legal monopoly) for adoption in general. Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[13:06:29]] For 295 Decision taken. Orders adopted in general. Thank you. Dear colleagues, let's move on to. Show the factions, please. The People's Servant Party – 228, Opposition Platform - For Life – 0, European Solidarity – 0, Fatherhood - 21, Future - 15, Voice - 0, Trust - 15, non-factional - 16. Thanks again. Let's move on to the next question of order of the day. Dear colleagues, you have been invited to consider the draft Law (Registration No. 1028) amending article 85 of the Constitution of Ukraine (for advisory, advisory and other subsidiary bodies of the Supreme Council of Ukraine). According to article 149 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the issue of prior approval of the draft amendment to the Constitution is being considered in full discussion. The report is given to the deputy head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the Legal Policy of Kostin Andriy Evgenovich. Oh, I'm sorry, Lord Valery Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-14-m0.u47	Dear Mr. Head, Honorary Fellows, on September 3, the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopted a decree on the inclusion in the agenda of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of a bill amending article 85 of the Constitution of Ukraine (for advisory, advisory and other subsidiary bodies of the Supreme Council of Ukraine) and on its referral to the Constitutional Court to obtain the conclusion of the Constitutional Court on its conformity with articles 157, 158 of the Constitution of Ukraine. The Constitutional Court of Ukraine on October 29, 2019, by its conclusion of registration number 3B/219, which came to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, recognized the bill amending article 85 of the Constitution (for advisory, advisory and other subsidiary bodies) as number 1028, which corresponds to articles 157 and 158 of the Constitution of Ukraine. The Committee on Legal Policy at its meeting on 13 November considered this bill amending article 85 of the Constitution of Ukraine, together with the corresponding conclusion of the Constitutional Court. Thus, the draft of this Law amending article 85 of the Constitution of Ukraine proposes to supplement the specified article of the Basic Law, which establishes the mandate of the Supreme Council by a position whereby the Ukrainian Parliament may create within the limits of the funds provided for in the State budget for the exercise of its powers, advisory, advisory, and other auxiliary bodies. As discussed in this sessional room, and in committee meetings, the proposed changes are due to the need to consolidate the stated mandate of the Supreme Council in the Basic Law, which in turn will correspond to the provisions of article 6 of the Constitution of Ukraine, where it is established that the legislative, executive and judicial authorities exercise their powers within the limits established by this Constitution and in accordance with the laws of Ukraine. Honorary colleagues, in accordance with part five of article 149 of the Ukrainian Law on the Rules of the Supreme Council of the Supreme Council, may consider the matter and decide on the preliminary approval of the bill in accordance with article 155 of the Constitution provided that such a bill, at the conclusion of the Constitutional Court, meets the requirements of articles 157, 158 of the Constitution of Ukraine. It should be noted that the Constitutional Court has not expressed any warnings in its conclusion. I note once again that the Constitutional Court's conclusion established the full conformity of Bill No. 1028, article 157, 158 of the Constitution, without any objection to the text of its conclusions. Accordingly, taking into account the requirements of article 149 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the Committee of Legal Policy adopted a decision to recommend to the Supreme Council that the bill submitted by the President of Ukraine should be approved in advance of the amendment to article 85 of the Constitution of Ukraine (for advisory, advisory and other subsidiary bodies of the Supreme Council of Ukraine) (for registration number 1028 of 29 August 2019). Thank you. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-14-m0.u48	Thank you. Dear colleagues, will there be questions for the rapporteur? Is it? Please sign up for the questions from the national MPs to the rapporteur. Rules up to 3 minutes. Sergey Vladislavovich was involved.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-14-m0.u49	Scrooge word.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-14-m0.u50	Alona Ivanovna's starch.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-14-m0.u51	Good afternoon, good afternoon, dear colleagues. Alona's splinter, Fatherland faction. I asked this question the last time we considered this bill, whether it was sent to the Constitutional Court or not, and I have to ask it again. Please answer: What kind of advisory bodies are we talking about? For what purpose are the authorities, the powers, the functions of the Supreme Council not yet sufficient to carry out their legislative function, control function, and other functions? And why are such powers specifically given in such a way as to change the Constitution? Without answering that question, I do not understand why we are considering this bill. I think that bills have to solve specific problems for people or for the activities of the legislative body, which the Supreme Council does. For me today, this question is not solved. Please give me an answer. Perhaps you know her. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-14-m0.u52	Dear colleagues, the purpose of the amendment proposed by the bill is to establish an effective mechanism in the Constitution for organizing the activities of the Supreme Council. It is you and I who will create these advisory counseling or other auxiliary bodies if necessary. In fact, what are we talking about? The point is that it is the advisory body that can be formed by the Supreme Council when it votes in favour. So there's not going to be any automatic organ creation. We thus legitimize Parliament's mandate to form any body that Parliament will consider necessary. I mean, I don't see any threats here.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-14-m0.u53	Thank you. Krulko Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-14-m0.u54	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. I, unfortunately, did not understand the purpose of this bill introduced by the President of Ukraine. Do you, if you can, explain to all Parliament and, above all, to society, what is the purpose of the State budget of spending additional funds to create incomprehensiblely which advisory bodies? That's one question. And the second question. Explain why it was the President of Ukraine who spoke and spoke with the idea of helping the Supreme Council organize its work. Are we, by ourselves, unable to organize the work and create the organs that are needed for our work? Moreover, I want to tell you that Parliament has enough auxiliary bodies to work effectively. This is confirmed by the practice of many years of parliamentary work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-14-m0.u55	I will not deny that Parliament has a sufficient number of subsidiary bodies, but in this case it is not about any additional funds from the budget. The very situation of this law is that it creates within the limits of the funds provided for in the state budget. I mean, once again, the legislative initiative in this case aims to make the necessary changes to the Constitution in order for the functioning of Parliament to be optimized and we have the opportunity ourselves, we are not doing this for anyone, we are doing this to enable the Supreme Council to create if necessary, and this authorization is provided for in the Basic Law.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-14-m0.u56	Thank you. Question time's up. Thank you, Valery Ivanovich. The National Deputy of Ukraine, Representative of the President of Ukraine to the Constitutional Court of Ukraine Fedir Volodymyrovich Venislavski, is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-14-m0.u57	Honorable Presidium, Honourable People's Deputies of Ukraine! In accordance with his constitutional credentials, the President of Ukraine introduced a bill amending the Constitution of Ukraine with registration number 1028 on the addition of article 85 of the Constitution of Ukraine as a separate paragraph, which stipulates that the Supreme Council of Ukraine has the right to form advisory, advisory and other subsidiary bodies. What is the purpose of this bill that the President of Ukraine introduced? The purpose of this bill is to enable the Supreme Council of Ukraine, when it considers it necessary, necessary, appropriate, to form a certain advisory, auxiliary or advisory body. What kind of advisory, auxiliary, advisory body could this be? This could be, for example, the Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine or the Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the codification of legislation in some area. This may be some working group that includes not only the national deputies of Ukraine, but also legal professionals, who will work not on employment grounds, not on the basis of a contract of employment, or not on the basis of status, but because they have an interest in a certain area because of their scientific, professional and other interests, they want to join, for example, the problem that will then be addressed by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The Constitutional Court of Ukraine concluded in its conclusion that the bill does not conflict with the requirements of articles 157, 158 of the Constitution because it does not apply to the rights and freedoms of man and citizen and does not violate the other safeguards provided for in article 158 of the Constitution of Ukraine. In large numbers, this constitutional position does not automatically result in the creation of any new bodies of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. As the representative of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Legal Policy has already said, if we are with you people's deputies of Ukraine, we will consider it necessary to establish a particular body, and we will have proper constitutional powers that we do not have today. We cannot create an organ right now, because the Supreme Council of Ukraine, as the body of the State legislature, under article 6 of the Constitution of Ukraine, acts solely on the basis, within the powers and in the manner provided for in the Constitution of Ukraine. In other words, none of the provisions of the Constitution of Ukraine empowering the Supreme Council of Ukraine to implement does not have the right, whatever the law provides for additional possibilities, to conflict with article 6 of the Constitution of Ukraine. And so in order for us to have a hypothetical opportunity in the event that we are in the procedure provided for by the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, we decide to create some kind of body, we had sufficient legal basis for that. And it is proposed that this bill be adopted to amend the Constitution of Ukraine. So I propose that we all support this bill, to approve it earlier, so that we get some legal opportunity that is not available today in the Supreme Council. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-14-m0.u58	Thank you, Fedor Volodymyrovich. People's deputies please sign up for the factions of factions and MPs. No, there isn't. Krulko Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-14-m0.u59	Please pass the word to Sobolev Sergey Vladislavovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-14-m0.u60	Sergey Vladislavovich was involved.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-14-m0.u61	Dear colleagues, if the first bill of amendments to the Constitution was absolutely logical and was consistent with the international standards of constitutional law, unfortunately this cannot be said about the bill. All efforts by our colleagues to find out, so what happens is that these are advisory bodies that the Supreme Council cannot now create, give an example of at least one such advisory body. We have a law institution. We have a number of programmes that work together, including international programmes that have been working with Parliament for the past 29 years. I remember very well how in the first call, when real democratic parliamentaryism began to develop, these programs began to work, and many of you are participating in such programs. Why create and consolidate the right in the Constitution to form additional advisory bodies, we do not understand. Our faction will not support this bill. And we believe that there is no need to dissipate public funds or even funds from sponsors who would like to provide funding for special legislative projects for special legislative initiatives. It's all settled. If this is necessary by the funds of the Supreme Council, the corresponding Committees and Professional Laws Act, including the Law on the Rules, and if any amendments are needed, it is sufficient to introduce them into the relevant professional laws. We believe that Parliament is today sufficiently secured by scientific and expert evaluations and the ability to work worthy of the Institute of Law, in which, by the way, the members of the Presidium represented our Parliament. So I don't think this bill needs a vote for it, our faction won't vote for the legislative initiative. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-14-m0.u62	Thank you. Shahov Sergei Volodymyrovich. You're not going to perform?
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-14-m0.u63	Sergey Shahov, Luhanščina, Deputy Group "Trust". Dear colleagues, if Ukraine is moving towards Europe, consult with America, so hear. During 250 years of existence of the American Constitution, where only seven articles were adopted, 27 amendments were adopted. We made eight amendments to the Constitution in four months, if not more. Please tell me, what other constitutional bodies should be and the advisory bodies that you need to consult? How can rapists from the Supreme Council be cleaned up today? What advice do you need today when you have four assistants who receive a salary? 32 helpers today have the right to have every national MP. We heard from the reporter that we had to put in the spending budget. What kind of funds? How much more money do you need? How many more are there to employ best men, brothers, sisters, friends, neighbors? How much longer do you need to make normal decisions? The Trust MPs asked you? She asked the Conciliation Council yesterday to set up draft laws that would allow people to breathe normally in the Luhansk region. Prosecute 2048 on behalf of the House of Deputies – 25 rapists who rob the city. 100,000 people today have no right to say, get in touch with you. In three minutes, you can solve the problem of helping 100,000 people. Which one of you helped? We also demanded that Bill 2108 be put in place, which today prohibits the exclusion of health care, health care facilities, schools, children’s gardening from heating, electricity, and water. Do these laws need to be done? It's necessary. What kind of advice do you need? Go to Shahov, I'll tell you. Go to the Most High, he'll tell you about it. All the experts are sitting there, we'll tell you what to do. Dear colleagues, don't do anything stupid. 161 The Constitution of Ukraine contains 15 chapters. How many more changes does it take to change the Constitution to work properly? How many more consultants do you need and those who will tell you how to work? People chose us, people paid our wages, and we have to work professionally, not only by wiping our ass with soft chairs, but by going to people and knowing their problems, and solving them here in this Parliament. Thank you. Sergey Shahov, trust MP.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-14-m0.u64	Royal Natalia Yuriovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-14-m0.u65	Dear colleagues, with New Year's Eve you, with Christmas, with Basil. And I want first and foremost to wish prosperity and peace to our citizens, and for this Parliament we must move from promises to beautiful speeches to real and useful decisions. Dear colleagues, since we're going to be copying the Constitution, making any changes every week, believe me, the quality of people's lives will not change in our country. And if you really need advice today, the advice is that you lack the knowledge and confidence of your decisions, did you promise in the presidential elections that there will be people in our country, that you are all the decisions that matter to the country, that you will make through a referendum? And that's why we're addressing you, Your Honor, let's adopt the Referendum Act, not invent any advisory or advisory bodies, and go to a referendum. Because the question facing each of us, this question of the Earth market should only be solved in a referendum, and for that we have time with you, and the opportunity to adopt the law, to ask people, to hear the answer from them and to make a really useful and right decision for our country, is the first. The second decision and the referendum bill is 1123, and we ask the speaker to immediately put it into the room. The second decision. Dear colleagues, for the second year in a row, the Constitutional Court of Ukraine's decision to break the Constitution of Ukraine is not being implemented when we were denied the benefits to the black people, Afghans, veterans of the Great Homeland War, civil servants, pensioners. We won the two Constitutional Courts of Ukraine, but neither the previous government nor the Government of Potter does comply with the decision of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine. So before changing the Constitution, please implement the decision of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine first. And the third. Ladies and gentlemen, today we still need to pass through the current message of the day. Instead of talking to you about advisory bodies, we have to make social and economic decisions that allow people today to get a decent work plan, a pension, and pay real-time tariffs. Thank you for your attention. We don't support that.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-14-m0.u66	Thank you. The word is given to the national deputy of Seminian Oleg Valeriyovich, faction of the political party "Serve of the People". Olga's wife, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-14-m0.u67	Oleg Seminsky, 205 district, Chernigu. Please pass the word to Kiril Nesterenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-14-m0.u68	Sugari, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-14-m0.u69	Dear colleagues, first of all, I want to answer the faction "The Opposition Platform for Life" about the failure of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to comply with the decision of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine. I am responsible as the representative of the Supreme Council in the Constitutional Court, stating that the ruling you have made for the Supreme Council of Ukraine is contrary to the Constitution and the Act on the Constitutional Court of Ukraine. There is no need for any rulings in order to comply with the Constitutional Court's decision. Don’t manipulate legislation or encourage the Ukrainian Parliament to make the Constitutional Court’s decision by hand because of the Supreme Council’s will. This House will not take decisions that conflict with the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine. That's the first one. Second, about the auxiliary organs. Colleagues, of those MP factions that are not a majority, are apparently forgetting that today the only form of interaction between the public and parliament is interaction through committees. I want to tell you that as a doctor of law, I have repeatedly participated in working groups on committees. But, dear colleagues, maybe it doesn't matter to you, but with the salaries that professors and professors have at universities, I want to tell you that this job is free, free. Thus, the exploitation of knowledge by highly qualified professionals should take place on a paid basis. In this regard, we propose the creation of subsidiary bodies that will be powerful think tanks and allow them to provide and implement those ambitions, in the good sense of that word, the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the updating of legislation. And legislation in Ukraine needs a very substantial and extensive update, starting with the adoption of the new Labour Code and completing the revision in virtually all areas of legislation. With regard to the Institute of Law you were talking about. In view of the absence of a constitutional norm that would allow for the creation of appropriate parliamentary subsidiary bodies, the Institute of Law was created by the Supreme Council’s Governing Body and is called the basic institution, but is not essentially the subsidiary body of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I also want to point out that at the level of all European parliaments, there are analytical centres where professionals work on a paid basis because their professional level is worth it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-14-m0.u70	Prince Ruslan Petrovich, European Solidarity.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-14-m0.u71	Thank you. Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues! We are so happy about the fact that the Constitutional Court has not made any warnings to this bill, but I can imagine what warnings there might have been. More senseless bill, I don't think they've ever seen. Imagine they're getting a bill by the President of Ukraine that was introduced as an urgent first day of the Supreme Council's work on the subsidiary organs of Parliament, on the need to establish at the constitutional level such a right to Parliament, which for many years, in fact, throughout its Ukrainian independence, has been actively exercising this right and without the necessary changes to the Constitution. And not only the Parliament itself, but also the Head of the Supreme Council, who did what was right. Because if you remember the discussion when we were looking at this bill at the stage of the agenda session, then we were trying to convince it to be relevant in order to have some conditional filter that wouldn't allow for the inclusion in the order of the day of unnecessary or any such spam bills. Now we have a situation that, according to the Rules of Procedure Act, a committee is normally handling this, and we no longer have such a problem. The problem that was said today was that we have to create working groups, and we can't create them in the Supreme Council, because it's not enshrined in the Constitution. Friends, we've created and created them, and now the Head of the Supreme Council, Dmitri Alexanderovich, is actively using them. So I literally saw this week his orders to set up a working group on the People's Bill. Are you saying he broke the Constitution? No, he didn't break anything, he did it perfectly right within his powers and he has to do it, and there are no obstacles here. And the auxiliary bodies, which are individual legal persons in Parliament, will exist and exist. Friends, this is a legislative and constitutional spam that can't be allowed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-14-m0.u72	Vasilchenko Galina Igorovna Galina Ivanovna, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-14-m0.u73	Please pass the word to Rahmanin Sergei.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-14-m0.u74	Rachmanin Sergey Ivanovich. I see.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-14-m0.u75	Dear colleagues, in my youth as a military officer, I had a commanding officer named Berezowski, a senior flag of the nickname "Kula". This is one of the greatest philosophers I have ever seen in my life. And when his father-in-law asked in 77, "What would it take to make a difference?" He said, "Let's cover the tubes with gold." And when the mouthpiece said, "Why?" He said, "Well, first of all, solemnly, second of all, beautiful." And a banal wooden product immediately becomes a different form. This is about this bill that you're about to vote on, this is a wooden lump that you're covering with gold. Who's prevented from creating any organ? Who told you this should be recorded in the Constitution? Let's write in the Constitution that the leadership of the Supreme Council can go into the Supreme Council through five approaches and media representatives through one. And a banal walk is about to be celebrated. This will be important and beautiful. Besides, it's a completely meaningless thing, it can still theoretically be dangerous, because by establishing auxiliary advisory and boscious bodies, you give the right to create anything, covering it up with the Constitution. You know, I don't know if Berezowski's live flag is here, but I'm ready to find him. He's going to put more pressure on you in the Constitution than he does in your head. The only question is how it relates to the Constitution, because the Constitution is the Bible, not the comic book that I propose not to forget.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-14-m0.u76	Lubinet Dmitry Valeriovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-14-m0.u77	Honorable Presidium, distinguished national MPs! The parliamentary group "For the Future" will vote and support this presidential bill. The logic is once again, when the parliamentary group "For the Future" votes in favour, or "against," we use simple logic: the logic of creating more advisory bodies on the basis of the Supreme Council, in the conditions of the parliamentary-presidential republic, is perfectly logical. Control functions are increasing. I can tell you that before you is the head of the committee, which is the first in its ninth call with our colleagues, we are setting up an expert board of the Human Rights Committee, which will work free of charge from law enforcement organizations, which will help us develop draft laws, carry out their control functions. And this idea was supported by all the national MPs who work for us on the committee. Why doesn't the entire Parliament vote for this right now, for the MP's "Towards" group, it's completely incomprehensible and illogical. Our friends, we do, we increase the powers of each other, and those MPs who are in opposition, on the contrary, you will be more able to perform your control functions. So we call on everyone to vote and support the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-14-m0.u78	Thank you, Dmitri Valeriovich. Please sign up for the performances by the National Deputies. Royal Natalia Yuriovna. Ah, Jurchishin Jaroslav Romanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-14-m0.u79	Can I get out of here? Thank you. I have a brief message for our voters. In the process of this meaningless discussion with you, we have already shared a certain amount of money from the state budget. Now I'm not sure which one, but about a few thousand dollars. While there is no benefit in this discussion and in this bill, if it is not broken today, we will discuss it again in the same procedure, in fact there will be no. We are now in the process of ossification, and when we have an unresolved question about how to ensure the President's promise of peace in the country, yes, when there is no understanding when the government starts to work properly, we are spending a crazy budget on the Supreme Council to discuss what doesn't make sense. These examples, which have been cited, clearly show that there is no need for any change to the Constitution in order to create an adequate working group for any bill. And since the stars in the sky are not just born for the sake of light, they are likely to be created by just another opportunity under the cover of the Constitution to create renegotiations to which the budget will be involved, it is not known how to spend in the interests of, of course, those who will control Parliament. Parliament does not need any additional mechanisms to work qualitatively. It's an absurd, empty norm that just distracts you from more important bills. We stop all of this whispering and we start working on how to raise the salaries of teachers, how to provide quality health care for our citizens, and we don't think about how to find another way for the Supreme Council to optimize the costs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-14-m0.u80	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I think it would be right to mention the interruptions when we spend time in plenary meetings. You can do that in a position, personally I, I think, as well as the leadership of the Supreme Council, agree. Alona Ivanovna Shkrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-14-m0.u81	Thank you, colleagues. Alona's splinter, Fatherland faction. Colleagues, you see, we have an absolute right to know, and we are like a faction in Parliament, like national MPs, and Ukrainian citizens, what exactly is the idea of giving the Supreme Council the opportunity to create new advisory bodies? It's the only question that I can't get an answer from most of the Committee on Legal Policy, from the President of Parliament, from Mr. Venislavski, from the other deputies, I haven't been able to get it for months. This bill actually, we're not saying that it's bad, we want to understand the purpose of which specifically advisory bodies are missing today from the Supreme Council? Unfortunately, colleagues, you're contradicting yourself, because if Mrs. Sugirra, whom I highly respect, says that we can't create in the working group today the possibility of paying for the work of a high-level lawyer or expert, that's not true, because we have every committee the opportunity to take experts, to make them on an expert board, on a public council, and to pay for their work for the costs allocated to the Supreme Council's apparatus. We talked about this, by the way, on our profile committee. This possibility has never been used by the committees since 2015, if I am not mistaken. At the same time, your colleague, Mr. Venislavski, says that there will be no need for additional funds. So, colleagues, you know, I had a really cool opportunity in Cambridge to study how laws are written, just like public policy is done. This is the first step, as the public policy does, is to answer the question that we are trying to solve with these changes, which we are missing, that citizens are missing, that the Supreme Council is missing in order to work professionally, which body is not doing its job there today. And we still have to say, maybe we need to change the Institute of Law, maybe we need to reform it, maybe we really need an office of economic analysis. Great! So let's say we need this and that because there's no such thing as a bill, no amendments to the Constitution, no explanation of its purpose, discussing it for, really, many hours here, the Constitutional Court is also wasting time on it, and not understanding the end of the purpose of changing this particular policy, this policy. So, colleagues, as a product of the webbing then it was voted literally in the first week, we don't have the right to vote today without asking why and what exactly we want to create. And I really hope that until we get an answer to this question either from the President or his representatives, because it's a bill from the President, it's not a bill from the Parliament or some committee that lacks specific powers, I don't think we need to vote for it, but this answer needs to be given, maybe there's a much simpler way to solve the problem if there is such a problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-14-m0.u82	Nesterenko Kirilo Alexanderovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-14-m0.u83	Kirilo Nesterenko, Dnipro. The honourable chairman, honourable colleagues, one of the adversaries of the President's election campaign and myself was the openness of power to the people. This bill introduces the possibility of setting up, within the limits of the funds provided for in the State budget, advisory and auxiliary bodies of the Supreme Council. Making changes to the Constitution will involve a wide range of experts, experts, representatives of the public to agree on important decisions. The Supreme Council should become the most open and modern authority, not a club for the chosen. Personally, please support the Human Power Project. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-14-m0.u84	Kamelchuk Yuri Alexanderovich
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-14-m0.u85	Good day, dear colleagues, good day to the Ukrainians. I'm not very short on the subject. I would like to ask questions to all who work in government or in some way touch on the state enterprises involved in coal calculations. Friends, orders and, in other words, simple words, the request of the President of Ukraine to complete all debts to miners before the new year is not done. What's more, I'm sick and tired of hearing the "Centrenergo," "Krennergo", "The Woodbreadhead" saying they don't have money and someone doesn't count. I'm going to ask one simple rhetorical question in this, which is what we're looking at right now. Please tell me, everyone concerned, what other advisory bodies do you need to introduce in order to finally learn how to make decisions so that you don't have any debts on your mutual accounts? That's the first one. And who needs to reduce their wages so that they can think of a timely payment to miners whose debt is once again more than 1 billion dollars?
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-14-m0.u86	Gerasimov Arthur Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-14-m0.u87	Dear colleagues, Mr. Chairman, the honourable Ukrainians wanted to point out once again that the faction of "European Solidarity" would not support this bill. Even more, we will vote with red buttons against this bill just as we voted during the first vote, when we included it in the agenda and referred it to the Constitutional Court. In addition, I would like to point out that the Constitution, when you change the Basic Law of our State, think first of all not about what you want to do today and the benefits of today, but think about the Constitution as a law with which you don't live for a month, not a year, not a year, but a year, but with which you live many, many years. And finally. As you know, other changes to the Constitution that relate to issues of decentralization, and in the reality of centralization of full power in Ukraine today, they were removed from the agenda because very many procedural errors and even technical errors were made during the submission of this bill. Dear colleagues, you know, this is another proof that not even the word "turquoise" is left of the turbine, but the paws in which it was found. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-14-m0.u88	Shufrich. Oh, no, I'm sorry. The time for the speeches is over, let's go to the vote for the bill, for the ruling, excuse me. Dear colleagues, please prepare for the vote. Dear colleagues, please prepare to take your seats. In accordance with article 155 of the Constitution of Ukraine, parts of article 149 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Rules of Procedure put to the vote the draft Decree (Registration No. 1028/P1) on the preliminary approval of the bill amending article 85 of the Constitution of Ukraine (for advisory, advisory and other subsidiary bodies of the Supreme Council of Ukraine) for adoption as a whole. Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[13:49:46]] For 249 Decision taken. The decree has been adopted in general, thank you, Your Honor. Show the factions, please. "The Servant of the People" – 230, "The Opposition Platform – For Life" – 0, "European Solidarity" – 0, "The Fatherland" – 0, "For the Future" – 14, "The Voice" – 0, "The Trust" – 0, "the Non-Factional" – 5. Thank you. Let's move on to the next question of order of the day. Dear colleagues, please don't break up, there are literally two revisions, this is the second reading. You are invited to consider the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine 2020 on the Enterprise Development Fund (Registration No. 2589). The word is given for a report to the deputy head of the Committee on Budgets, Trukin Alexandr Mikolayovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-14-m0.u89	Honourable Dmitry Alexandrovich, distinguished colleagues, bill 2589 submitted by the President of Ukraine as an urgent matter. In accordance with article 116 of the Rules, the Committee on Budget Questions received proposals from national deputies grouped in a comparative table of ten proposals. As a result of such proposals worked out on the committee, the members of the Ministry of Finance, the Office of the President and the Court of Auditors are proposed in the final draft of the bill. First. To provide the necessary technical and legal clarifications as outlined in the Committee's conclusions on the preliminary consideration of the bill. Secondly, to provide for the law to be in force from the day following its publication, since the bill of 1 January 2020 had already passed. And thirdly, to supplement "The End of Position" with the mandate of the Cabinet of Ministers on a monthly basis from the date of entry into force of the relevant law, to approve the procedure for the use of the public budget funds provided for the operation of the Enterprise Development Fund, taking into account the provisions of the Development and State Support Act for Small and Medium-sized Enterprises in Ukraine. On the basis of the consideration of this issue, the Committee on Budget Issues has taken eight out of ten proposals into account and recommends to the Supreme Council bill 2589 to adopt, on second reading and in general, as a law that takes into account the proposals proposed by the committee, the final text set out in the comparative table before the bill and the introduction of the necessary technical legal and editorial rights as a result of its adoption. So please support the committee's decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-14-m0.u90	Thank you. Dear colleagues, wait. Alexander Mikolaiovich, editing, no, editing, it's second reading, there's no questions. Amendment number two, National Deputy Ivchenko. It was rejected. Are you insisting? Dear colleagues, please do not split just two adjustments that have not been taken into account. Dear colleagues, I am continuing this meeting 15 minutes before this matter is considered. Ivchenko Vadim Evgenovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-14-m0.u91	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear colleagues, you know, it's a nice initiative, but I'd like to make sure that these initiatives don't smell like corruption. Every entrepreneur, whether small or medium, has the right to go to the bank, to take credit peacefully, to repay the state can pay interest on it, and to quietly pay off the loans, to quietly channel these funds for the purposes it wants. What's going on Here you propose to choose those entrepreneurs by hand, to approve the Cabinet of Ministers' decree, and to issue them with funds. How will entrepreneurs be selected? Why would these entrepreneurs choose? We've been through this a long time. That is why we will not vote in favour of such a law. And you definitely need to change the possibilities for entrepreneurs, and you definitely need to change the funding approach, not because of what, let's say, in quotes, the "corruption clocks" that we can do with you here.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-14-m0.u92	Thank you. Alexander Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-14-m0.u93	I don't agree with your position, colleague. Please. Any small and medium-sized enterprise in Ukraine will be able to apply to a commercial bank or to a state bank to obtain a loan. In this case, there will be a procedure whereby the country can compensate the interest rate for small and medium-sized businesses. This procedure will be harmonized. If you've heard from my report, we're going to require you to write down a decree of the Cabinet of Ministers within a month where all these approaches to the selection and compensation of interest rates will be settled. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-14-m0.u94	Vadim Evgenovich, are you insisting on your right? No, what does it mean again? And this is the second one, so wait, we're going to go. 4 Amendments – Ivchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-14-m0.u95	Dear reporter, I understand what you're talking about. It's just going to be a human factor, because they're going to accept documents, whether it's the Ministry of Finance, or in other bodies that you're going to implement, they're going to accept documents, some commission is going to choose certain entrepreneurs. We're going to offer you an option when you satisfy all the entrepreneurs, because banks won't look at political colors, banks won't look at whether a deputy or there, I don't know, a relative of a deputy, or other representatives, they'll look at how an entrepreneur will pay off the loan. And believe me, it's the right thing to do -- to put this money into state banks, and these state banks are going to launch a loan or microcredit programme for entrepreneurs. So that would be the case. That's the way it is.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-14-m0.u96	Thank you, Vadim Eugeneovich. Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-14-m0.u97	The position of the committee on the right, which was given by the national deputy, is not taken into account. And as for your general comment on the bill, that's exactly how you describe the mechanism behind which this bill is going to work: commercial banks and banks that have state ownership will choose or give or not lend to small and medium-sized businesses. This bill will help reduce interest rates effectively in the use of credit funds. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-14-m0.u98	Thank you. Dear colleagues. Don't you insist on voting? No, it's not. Thank you. Dear colleagues, let's go to the vote. The procedure is Gerasimov. Gončarenko Alexiyyovich, please turn the procedure on for a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-14-m0.u99	Thank you. Alexei Hotcharenko, Clothing, European Solidarity. Dear colleagues, you know, there's usually a unique thing going on right now. For the first time in the history of Ukraine, a draft budget change was introduced by the President of Ukraine in the year before that year. So right after we've been adopted, we've already been changed, it's a phenomenal organization of work. One. The other one, in fact. We're offered under 5 percent, well, it's going to be a crazy business new, it's going to be 5 percent, and it's going to give the state, for example, under the DWP, where we have 13, well, let's say it's now down to 11 percent. What kind of business this is, it's very interesting. And last but not least, it's all under "Go back and stay." But what is really going on against small entrepreneurs? The RRO is introduced, the absolute fiscalization of everything is introduced, the entrepreneurs are spanking, and they're told, but we're going to give you loans that no one really needs.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-14-m0.u100	Dear colleagues, it's not a procedure, it's a performance. So, Your Honor, if you follow the procedure next, I'm sorry, but I'm going to have to refuse. Dear colleagues, let's move to a vote of law. Please prepare for the vote. I am voting on the proposal to adopt a second reading and, in general, with the necessary technical and legal regulations, the draft Law amending the Ukrainian Law on the State Budget for Ukraine 2020 on the Enterprise Development Fund (Registration No. 2589). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[13:59:27]] For 261 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Dear colleagues, the morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed. Let's see the factions.
