ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-01-m0.u1	Good morning, dear fellows! Good morning, media officials! I'm so glad to see you all here today. First of all, I'd like to welcome you, today's anniversary is the 29th anniversary of the All-U.S. referendum that declared our nation's independence. And I think it's a holiday for us. [[Applause]] Not just today, but every day when we realize that we live in an independent state. Dear colleagues, let's get to work. Please invite the national MPs. I understand that we now have some restrictions on access to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Some colleagues haven't arrived yet. But we have 30 minutes to speak from the MP factions and groups, so we have a proposal to open meetings now, sign up, and then we'll come out of what's going to happen both in the street and in the hall. Do you have a deal? Dear colleagues, please prepare for registration. I'll remind you. Jaroslav Ivanovich, I will certainly remind you, there is no Vlasenko, yes, and I will remind you of the button. And I remind you that registration takes place with a green button is the first one on the left, as always. Are you ready to register? Please register. I'm going to finish the show and put on a mask. [[10:12:54]] There are 222 Ukrainian national deputies registered in the hall. The meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear colleagues, in accordance with article 25 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Regulations, we have 30 minutes to address authorized representatives of MP factions and groups with proposals, announcements and messages. Please sign up for the performance. And I'm really talking to everyone and whoever's got the disease, and luckily for this fate, put on your masks. Gnatenko Valeriy Sergiyovich. Boyko Yuri Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-01-m0.u2	Dear Mr. Speaker, distinguished national MPs, last month we have the main priorities for Parliament. The first is, of course, the fight against the pandemic, because it has already come into almost every family. And it has to be done, not to consider when quarantine is going to be, or not, but just to make concrete decisions: by increasing the funding of doctors, by increasing their wages, by increasing their insurance, by buying extra drugs, by equipping hospitals with oxygen, because people are just suffocating. We need to make decisions on the support of people who lose their jobs as a result of the pandemic, on tax breaks for business, because people are really waiting, including those on the street before the Supreme Council. All these things, they have to be reflected in the budget for next year. When we saw the draft budget put into the hall, it became clear that it was not responding to the challenges that the state is facing today. In the worst traditions of the past years, it has been repeating trends in increasing the financing of power structures, reducing or freezing social benefits. And our political power "The Opposition Platform for Life" requires that this bill on the budget be reviewed and the budget is turned back to the people, not to officials and to various kinds of offices that have been bred throughout the country. The third issue that Parliament owed in this year's resolution is the end of the conflict in the eastern part of the country. For us, the situation between Azerbaijan and Armenia must be a lesson when the conflict was described as being active and thousands of people were killed. When the army stands near the army, the shooting begins sooner or later, we must prevent it. We support a truce that is, fortunately, still in operation in the country, and we believe that this is the basis for further political negotiations within the framework of the Minsk Treaties and the Minsk negotiating group mechanism. But what have we seen this year? We've seen the talk, the staff of the horde and the process for the process, we're definitely against that approach. Our political power requires moving forward towards peace because it is the desire and demand of all citizens of our country. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-01-m0.u3	Batenko Taras Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-01-m0.u4	Dear Dmitry Alexanderovich! Dear colleagues, my friends! Society is nervous about the uncertainty that we are experiencing today thanks to the government, thanks to the authorities. We want to have a country of intelligence, not a country of intellectual lokdown. The more we heard from Mr. Stephen’s Minister of Health yesterday, the quarantine of the weekend did not justify itself and should be lifted. So where is the intelligence of the government and the department of profile? What is the readiness of hospitals for the total dropdown that awaits us? If we have people dying under the H.E.L.D. during the blackout, like we did in the Jovkow district hospital in Lviv. Friends, when you want to do something, I'm talking about the grandeur and the government, and the President's Office, and you have to say that the International Monetary Fund is the easiest answer to all the questions in this room. Only having the will and willingness to make decisions can bring us closer to solving the issues that the country is facing us in Parliament. When we're told that we need to adopt a bill on the work of NABU, because it's a condition for our cooperation with the IMF. And about the RRO, we can't go into concessions because it's also an IMF condition. Where is our political will? Where is our independence? Do we make our own and right decisions for this country? The situation in the country will become a form of vassal addiction. So about the RRO, we insist that the working group take into account the requirements of the Save FOP and raise income limits to divide them into groups, increase the marginal amount of income that registers use. And this compromise in the hall we can reach within the working group that's already working today and vote on it. As for the state budget, which we will soon consider in the session hall. We want to hear clearly from the government that the united communities will not lose the money they have this year, that they will survive in the difficult year 2021. It's the excise of a "gun" from fuel and not in the form of a subsidy, as the government can tell us, but in a direct respect of excise duties. We also urge local budgets to leave land tax at Ukrzalznice. What will be the size of the hedge fund in 2021? How long will it take a complete lockdown, how will it turn out for the economy, who will calculate it, and who can honestly tell the country? As far as criminal responsibility is concerned. We know that article 366 of the Criminal Code has been punished, not for top officials, but for rural deputies and heads of village councils. We know that the Constitutional Court has declared this article unconstitutional and we have been compromised by the working group created by Dmitry Alexanderovich Razumkov. So I think we should work within this compromise, go out and vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-01-m0.u5	Kulinich Oleg Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-01-m0.u6	Good afternoon, Mr. Head! Dear colleagues, distinguished voters! On October 25, we had a local election, we had a newly elected united territorial community, and so many questions are now raised in the heads of OTG, representatives of local self - government agencies, and members of our group directly. The new district councils formed, the property of the former district councils went to their balance sheet, and so the very clear and specific question is, what will happen to the district hospitals, what will be their status as service providers? There the majority of the branches were simply closed in connection with this misunderstanding reform. How will they be financed? What's more, we've got hospital districts, it's a mess. That is why we would like the Cabinet of Ministers to pay first attention to this issue and give a specific explanation to the local authorities. Also a very important question that is now being asked by representatives of local governments, the heads of OTG, is the work of family doctors. The problem is that family doctors do not work in equal conditions in rural areas or in cities. A family doctor in a village can't make declarations with two thousand patients, there's just not that many people. And his working conditions: the pharmacies are closed, there is no transport connection. Therefore, the Cabinet of Ministers must be promptly introduced by adjusting the equity ratios for family doctors in order to make it work properly in the country. We also have a huge number of references to the members of our trust group from the heads of OTG regarding fuel excises. This resource is very important for local governments, it's budgeting for most OTGs, it's funded by a lot of programs, it's infrastructure projects, it's road repairs, it's public transport repairs. That is why we have submitted the corresponding rights to the Code of Budgets, and we would like to see this rule work in 2021. And we hope that all the factions and groups will support our initiative. Well, another very important question is the RRO question, it's the FOP question. It seems to me that in the face of a pandemic, we are simply obliged to support small businesses, to support our entrepreneurs, not to patch holes at their expense. I think we should fill the budget not by putting pressure on small businesses, but by using VAT-trafficking. I'll give you a statistic that the state loses up to 60 billion dollars a year. And there's a sad situation where, in general, the state compensates for 10 percent of the non-existent VAT. So let's be honest, and we're going to have to patch up the holes at the expense of dealing with the smuggling of customs, and not all of us are still in order, at the expense of fighting the strikes, but not at the expense of the private entrepreneurs who are now under the Supreme Council and honestly and fairly demanding their rights.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-01-m0.u7	Sergey Vladislavovich was involved.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-01-m0.u8	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues! I don’t think the Supreme Council remembers such a new year. If the key issue before was just budget issues, now to go to New Year's holidays without solving three issues, namely: budget, FOP issues and the question of reloading the rules that the Constitutional Court found unconstitutional, Parliament has no right. The first question is no doubt the question of FOPs. Today we're going to be looking at three bills of so-called small business support. Why do I say "so-called"? Eight thousand -- that's great, three thousand -- defaulting on loans is great, 15 billion, and according to Minfin, 20 billion, which will go to small business support -- is great. But if we don't make the decision to postpone, because I don't see any other decision. If Parliament has not been able in six months to listen to the proposal of the Fatherland faction and other factions, and to review the standards that actually stop small and microbusiness, we now have one option: to delay the implementation of the norm, which, as of 1 January, will destroy those wonderful things that we are even voting on today. In fact, a small business can't handle it. And so the proposal of our faction, despite the fact that we have prepared an alternative to the Presidential Bill on the RRO and the support of the FOPs, we see that the only possibility is to delay the introduction of these norms. The second position is the position of criminal responsibility for a lie, a deliberate one, stressing the lie in the declarations, and the alternative to which the consenting group, which consists of all factions, has emerged. I think it's the only way we can work out the President's project and build on a draft agreement group. And go to a version that will allow you to open an electronic declaration as of January 1st and open up responsibility, including criminal for unreliable intentional data. And the third is no doubt a budget issue. Without the creation of a special anchor fund, our faction will not vote for this budget, because it is not possible to save doctors, teachers and all those on the forerunner today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-01-m0.u9	Dear Mikola Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-01-m0.u10	Good afternoon, distinguished Ukrainians, good afternoon, distinguished colleagues. Last week, according to our schedule, there was a week of electoral work, and I had many meetings in 162 constituencies. My performance will consist of three parts following the results of these meetings. The first is small businesses and entrepreneurs. The second is OTG and their budgets. And the third is land issues. With regard to entrepreneurs, four meetings were held in the four districts of the district, the old districts, and I have come to the following conclusion, and I recommend that all my colleagues listen to him. For most entrepreneurs, the pandemic has created very big questions about the future of their business. So I think it's necessary to cancel the introduction of the RRO for most non-risk product groups. In addition, the so - called risk group of goods and, in particular, the textiles need to be reviewed. There were also many questions about what was left of goods and all that. As far as I am concerned, the proposed laws completely address these issues. The second part of the OTG budgets is that I have met with almost a majority of the communities. And I would like to ask the Supreme Council to leave the so-called excise, because the budgets of local councils and communities today are suffering a lot. In addition, I have been asked by several communities to return the so-called infrastructure subsidy, which is important for many new communities. Many of the right things in the community were done on the basis of this subsidy. And the third is about the land and the activities of the State Department. We all know that the President has signed the Land Transfer Order, but in places where the Administration of the Dergeokadastr is very often trying at the last minute to allocate to the incomprehensible citizens areas of the land. My proposal and appeal is to prohibit the transfer to the communities of the Land Deployment by the State Department. Thank you for your attention. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-01-m0.u11	Fedina Sofia Romanovna. Hončarenko Alexyyyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-01-m0.u12	Alexei Hotcharenko, European Solidarity. Dear friends, dear Ukrainians! Today the biggest problem in the country is the COVID-19 pandemic. Today thousands of Ukrainians are sick. And first of all, I want to wish the fastest recovery to all who are sick, but unfortunately, people are dying. And they don't just die from the virus, they die from lack of oxygen, they die from lack of electricity in hospitals. It's just a nightmare! What is the answer? And the government only responds with one line of meme. Do you know what this authority did? She promised to enrich the people of Ukraine. We were able to enrich Zelensky’s environment and enrich the folk folklore. All this "gas girl" stuff, "ship pines," "unsmoked coconuts" and all that stuff, these "plums" and all kinds of taboos. Now we have a new meme -- "intelligent lockdown." Of course, this is the best conclusion about the work of this power -- it's a complete intellectual lokdown, which, by the way, is a nocdown, and we've been in it since the end of the spring of 2019. And this is the huge and biggest problem that is in the state today. Of course, the best thing to do is the intellectual impeachment of this power. By the way, even with the very term "intelligent lockdown," the authorities support and emphasize that all the lokdowns that have been introduced, including the lockdown of the weekend, they are completely pointless, they have no sense. Now, so they finally want to get to the intellectual elbowdown. You don't have to come up with memes and new names and write "slices," you have to finally do tests, you have to provide oxygen, you have to supply drugs, you have to provide electricity to the hospital -- simple things. But the authorities don't. What does the authorities do instead? And the government is engaged in one thing: repression against opposition. And again yesterday, we learned that the Cave Court issued permission to search the "Primary" TV channel. This is the very main problem that exists in the state. You know, everything in Zvenitsky: they're stealing from Big Construction, and we're going to search Direct. Says Umanski, who steals from the scrolls, let's go to Direct. We've got an oxygen disaster, we've got beds, we're going to Direct TV. We have a disaster in every direction in the country, a budget like this hole we're going to on Direct TV. Because that's the only thing this authority needs to do is to shut up all those who tell the truth about what this authority is doing. Dear friends, this is not going to work. And if you don't bring this society to an intellectual impeachment, you'd better really turn your mind on, sit down, write your statements and get out of here, and the country will rebuild. I'm sure it will, and you won't stop your freedom of speech. And I wish everyone the fastest recovery. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-01-m0.u13	Umerov Rustem Enverovich. Dear colleagues, I would like to address you immediately, after the closing of the speeches by MPs and groups, a 30-minute recess will be announced. I'd like you to meet the leaders of the MP factions and groups in my office, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-01-m0.u14	Dear Head, my dear colleagues, the temporary occupation of Ukrainian lands by Russia has lasted for the seventh year. Russia is persecuting Ukrainian citizens for political, ethnic, and religious reasons. During this time, 111 of our citizens are illegally deprived of their will. The entire aggressor state is persecuting 130 Ukrainian citizens, most of them 93 people are Crimean Tatars. Our citizens in Russian prisons are in inhuman conditions. As a result of Russian aggression in Ukrainians who have become hostages of Moscow, 186 underage children are left without parental care and attention. These are scary numbers. Nevertheless, we do not yet have the only body to coordinate the work of freeing our citizens. In this connection, the proposal to establish an interdepartmental focal point to free Ukrainian citizens who were deprived of their freedom as a result of armed aggression. As a faction of Voice, we will address the President of Ukraine, the Cabinet of Ministers, the Committees of the Supreme Council, the Attorney General's Office, the Authorized Supreme Council of Ukraine with human rights, special services for the establishment of such a coordination centre. We need a clear understanding of how the release process takes place, who forms lists for exchange, who is responsible for the negotiation process and the compilation of these lists. We need to keep in constant contact with the families of political prisoners, to understand whether they are provided with legal and material assistance, or to inform the families of political prisoners about the liberation talks. It is also a human rights issue. And when you go to the Supreme Council, you see a lot of people who now demand that the FOP issues be settled. We have to think about them. And it's very important that we address this issue of FOPs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-01-m0.u15	Thank you. Dear colleagues, a 30-minute recess is announced, until 11:05. The leaders of the MP factions and groups, please meet in my office.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-01-m0.u16	Please invite the people's deputies to the hall. There'll be a few announcements now. Dear colleagues! Dear colleagues! Dear colleagues, there was a meeting. You're going to go to the people on the street right now and tell them what we got out of the meeting with. Don't you want to know? There was a meeting of the heads of the parliamentary factions and groups, leading the Parliament. It has reached the following decision: at 12:00 I now give a task to the committee of profile immediately to gather together and, coming out of those bills that are registered, to draft an additional bill, the so-called bill "d", to resolve the crisis that we unfortunately see with you not the first day on the street that deals with the FOP issue. This was agreed upon by all the MPs and groups. Once again, everyone. I hope that after the committee's decision, I will receive a letter from all the MPs and groups on the application of the ad hoc procedure and on the subject at today's plenary meeting, and it will be voted on as a basis and as a whole. If there's no objection. There's no objection, is there? The committee, please meet at 12 o'clock and hold your meeting. All necessary materials and prior arrangements, which should be a bill, with MP factions and groups, have been agreed upon. We'll see the finals after the session. Do you have a deal? And now we're going back to our work. Please invite the national deputies to the hall. We must now support the draft Order on Change in the Order of the Day of the Fourth Session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the Ninth Call. Please invite the national deputies to the hall. No discussion. [[B in m in s a l in]] Oh, the show. As long as the people's deputies are gathered. Shahov Sergei Volodymyrovich. Break with a replacement for the performance.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-01-m0.u17	Sergey Shahov, trust MP. Dear colleagues, you may see what is happening on the street today. Do you hear people at all when you're going to the districts, but you're talking to your parents? In the 91st year, our parents went under the handle to vote happily in favour of a referendum of an independent state. This is what the speaker mentioned today. Today, what would have been the result if they had known what would happen to our nation and how it would be brought to grips: war, famine, depression, and cold. They abuse teachers, doctors, miners. Abuse of pensioners, of every person. They led to an epidemic, and today they brought the state into a state that no longer could be stopped. Why are European states today, our partners taking care of small, medium and large businesses, taking care of people, giving tax benefits? And our Kabmin today is putting into trouble every entrepreneur who today is under Parliament who is ready to break down our parliament. Please tell me, in a terrible dream, did our ancestors see what was happening in our country, in an independent state, democratic? We demand that immediate attention be paid to pensioners, teachers, doctors who took everything they could and did not add, until one year later, we will consider today their wages. To our receptions in the Luhansk region, and throughout the country where the mines are located, women with children are required to pay people their wages for six months. Coal comes from Africa, Russia, from the mines in that area. Who's to say that today, six-year-old miners don't get paid a salary, there's nothing to get their pensioners drugs for? We demand immediate removal from office of the head of the military-civil administration of the Luhansk region, who burned alive the people who destroyed the Luhansk region for 22 billion dollars. We demand that we remove today from the position of Minister of Energy. We demand that we withdraw from the position of health minister, who has proved in six months a situation in a country that does not build what our partners give us today. The Turks are giving out hospitals with all the equipment today, but the anchor fund is destroyed and stolen today. We demand that these actions be carried out immediately. Thank you. Sergey Shahov, Luhanščina, Deputy Group "Trust".
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-01-m0.u18	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please prepare for the vote. Take your seats, prepare for the vote. I would like to vote on the proposal for the adoption of the entire draft Order amending the agenda of the fourth session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the ninth call (registration number 3050a-10). Ready to vote? Ready? Please support and vote. [[11:13:16]] For 276 Decision taken. Orders adopted in general. Thank you. Dear colleagues, let's move on to the next issue of the agenda. This is the draft Law on Electronic Communications with the Proposals of the President of Ukraine (since 28.10.2020) (Registration No. 3014). Presidential proposals (registration number 01-1/904). The next Rules on this subject. This is a statement by the President's spokesman. Then there's the question to the reporter. Then there's the committee head's report and statements from the MPs, and the vote. No questions? The representative of the President of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine, Venislavski Fedir Volodymyrovich, is invited to attend. Please, Feder Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-01-m0.u19	Dear Mr. Head, the distinguished national deputies of Ukraine! On September 30, 2020, the Supreme Council of Ukraine approved the Electronic Communications Act (project registration number 3014). This bill was not signed by the President of Ukraine and, in accordance with article 94 of the Constitution, returns to the Supreme Council for reconsideration with the following reasoned observations and proposals. First. Contrary to article 92 of the Constitution of Ukraine, which established a list of issues that are defined solely by the Law of Ukraine. The law refers to the order in which certain regulations are established, not by law, but by regulations. In particular, it is the order of access to information posted on an electronic regulatory platform and to land areas, and infrastructure, for the deployment (creation) and operation of electronic telecommunications networks. Also, planning and developing your own electronic communications networks. Second remark. The President of Ukraine notes that the law approved by the Parliament does not require the ownership of electronic telecommunications networks and services in Ukraine, which may lead to the exercise of such activities by natural and legal persons registered in offshore jurisdictions by a resident of the country, as recognized by the Supreme Council of Ukraine as a state-aggressor, and to the corresponding damage to Ukraine's national security. Taking into account the external and internal conditions defined by the Ukrainian National Security Strategy, the President sees the need to preserve the existing approach to determining the ownership structure of designated entities. In addition, the President of Ukraine considers it unacceptable to disregard legal situations that require urgent action by the Ukrainian authorities in the event of threats to national security, economic well-being and human rights. This applies particularly to consumer information and electronic communications services. This is not in line with the first and second parts of article 32 of the Constitution of Ukraine and the rules of criminal procedural law, which state that, in the interests of national security, economic well-being and citizens’ rights, information, including telecommunications networks, is allowed. Third. Some comments relate to the granting of the right to a regulator in the areas of electronic communications and radio spectrum to make decisions that are related to implementing documents. There is no order for the adoption of such decisions, no requirement for implementing documents, no time limit for the submission of such decisions, and no order for the protection of the rights of applicants. In addition, the law contains a number of technical shortcomings, such as the characteristics of law enforcement and their application to the provisions of this law. Making changes to state-of-the-art targeted programs that have lost their relevance refers to the invalid names of the Organizations of the Treaty of Ukraine with the European Union, the non-existent paragraphs of the individual articles of the law. In view of the above, the President of Ukraine proposes to amend the Ukrainian Law on Electronic Communications in order to bring it into line with the Basic Law of the State, to remove existing gaps and shortcomings by returning to the Digital Transformation Committee for further development. Please support the President's proposal. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-01-m0.u20	Dear colleagues, we agreed with you that questions, and then we come out of factions, and then we move on. That's the way it is. [[B in m in s a l in]] Well, then there'll be no questions. No! No! I'm telling you again. You didn't vote for that. We're not asking questions, we're not speaking from factions right now, because these are the President's proposals, there's no speeches here. If the apparatus has made a mistake and given such information, then I will find out why. In 15 minutes, it's a question to the reporter. Sign up: 1 minute -- question, 2 minutes -- answer. Eugene Nina Petrovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-01-m0.u21	Please pass the word to Ariev Volodymyr.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-01-m0.u22	Arjev Volodymyr Igorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-01-m0.u23	I have a question about the third paragraph of the President's remarks, because something in this regard is going to blow away Belarus from there. Because direct access to telecommunications networks without court decisions and without any reason, but simply automatic, is a violation of all human rights and norms. So why is the President doing this to me? That's how Lukashenko's regime liked it, is that how you want to copy Lukashenko?
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-01-m0.u24	Thank you for asking. In fact, there is no problem with this point in the President's comments and suggestions, because the President does not propose to establish a non-judicial or non-constitutional procedure for accessing telecommunications networks. The President merely notes that article 32 of the Constitution provides for access to information in the interests of national security, public order, economic well-being and human rights. And the order of such access is determined by valid procedural legislation, including the President does not deny that it will continue to be as it now exists. So there's no problem, and that's just manipulations that have nothing to do with the President's proposals and observations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-01-m0.u25	Eutusek Sergey Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-01-m0.u26	Thank you, Mr. Head. Sergey Eutuszek, Equinox, Fatherland. I have a question for the reporter. Since the bill was approved in the district and there were a number of violations, including the Rules and the Constitution of Ukraine. I would like to ask the rapporteur how much he realizes that article 47 of the Constitution's Rules, according to which decisions are to be taken after discussing what cannot be done within a reasonable period if the table of amendments is given on the same day. Article 102 of the Ukrainian Rules, which also determines that a permanent discussion is to take place during the second reading, and it is also impossible, including a valid one, and article 117 of the Ukrainian Rules. Here are a number of articles of the Rules, the Law of Ukraine, which violates the bill, including individual articles of the Constitution of Ukraine. How do you understand and think we have to break the Rules and the Constitution here? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-01-m0.u27	Thank you for asking. With regard to the procedure for reviewing the bill in the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the procedure of the Rules was followed during the consideration and this law, I want to remind you, was not accepted, as you say, by the turbines. He praised the way in which all the proposals and comments that had come from the subject of the legislative initiative were discussed, and the President’s violations had not been seen in order to consider the bill. If you are referring to possible violations in the future, we cannot predict how the Supreme Council of Ukraine will address the President's proposals and observations and how they will be taken into account in the future decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-01-m0.u28	Fedina Sofia Romanovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-01-m0.u29	Please give the word to your colleague Volodymyr Ariev.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-01-m0.u30	Arjev Volodymyr
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-01-m0.u31	The President's representatives are already very fond of accusing everyone of manipulation. But read what the third paragraph sounds like and what is underneath it. But on the other hand, I have another question. Would you please tell me what happened at the President's Office that we were unable to formulate our proposals specifically for this bill so that we can now vote on specific proposals rather than return this basic, thorough bill to the committee right now? Because at some point they're very vague and we're going to make decisions again and we're going to have to go back a hundred times. Couldn't you make a round table and clearly, normally, with the participation of profile associations to determine what exactly doesn't like the President's Office and avoid those formulations that can be interpreted as encroachment on human rights and freedoms?
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-01-m0.u32	Thank you for asking. I want to point out that neither the Constitution of Ukraine nor the Law on the Rules of Procedure of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, nor any other legal and regulatory act, define the requirements for the content of the President's proposals and observations with which he returns the law to the Supreme Council for reconsideration. In this case, the President of Ukraine has formulated precisely the problematic aspects of the Electronic Communications Act, which he believes need to be further developed. And the Digital Transformation Committee is working on those, I'm sure, provisions of the law that have challenged the President of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-01-m0.u33	Misogyn Yuri Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-01-m0.u34	Please pass the word to Maxim Bujanski.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-01-m0.u35	Buzansky Maksim Arkadyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-01-m0.u36	Dear Mr. Fedore Venislavski, last time we passed this bill, you didn't say in any way that there might be something there that we can't support. You've been in favor. Now you're saying there's some kind of observation, looking at which we should send this bill for further work. I'd like to ask you. Are you sure that you know exactly this time that you are right, that it will not happen in a week or two, that you will say again in this rostrum that there is a point to be corrected? Yes or no?
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-01-m0.u37	Mr. Bujansky, thank you for your question. I want to say that the right of veto under article 94 of the Ukrainian Constitution applies exclusively to the President of Ukraine, and no Ukrainian national deputy has the opportunity to justify the relevance or invalidity of this veto right. I'm just going in as a representative of the President, and I'm convinced that the President has applied his veto right perfectly to this bill. Because of my conviction, as an expert in constitutional law in Ukraine, there are certain points in this law that, on the one hand, pose a threat to human rights, human rights and citizens' freedoms in a way that is not defined by law, as required by article 92 of the Constitution of Ukraine, but the law provides for the possibility of the adoption of legal regulations. On the other hand, it's a matter of national security that concerns the sphere of the President's authority. And the President, in full compliance with his authority, returns this law with his reasoned proposals, observations for reconsideration. Whether the Supreme Council of Ukraine will allow any mistakes or violations to be reconsidered, it is up to us, including you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-01-m0.u38	Vitatrovich Volodymyr Mihajlovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-01-m0.u39	Please hand over Arthur Gerasimov.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-01-m0.u40	Gerasimov Arthur Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-01-m0.u41	Dear colleagues, dear Ukrainians! On December 1, 91st, the Ukrainians made their choice for independence and freedom in this country. Seven years ago, on December 1, Ukrainians massed against the totalitarian regime of Yanukovic. And now we see that almost all the steps taken by the Zelensky team and its own team are aimed at bringing back here a totalitarian state that will be governed solely by the laws of force and the laws of force. This is what we see in this law, and we see it in what issues are not included in the order of the day by the Zelensky team in the Supreme Council. For example, these are the laws of opposition 4296, 4299 on targeted use of COVID funds. This is 4339 on what should be a competition with international observers, with international experts to the Constitutional Court. This is also how everything in this state is done today. And I have a very simple question for the reporter. Why does the Zelensky team build a totalitarian state in Ukraine?
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-01-m0.u42	Thank you, Mr. Arthur, for your question, which has nothing to do with this bill that I'm reporting on. But I would like to point out that there is no position in this bill, I would like to say, in these proposals, that the President's comments on the 3014 bill have no position to reduce the democratic gains of our state, to return to some, as you say, totalitarian state. In the present case, it is a matter of strict non-compliance with the specific rules of the Constitution, to which the President has drawn attention. Next, the Supreme Council of Ukraine, taking into account these observations, proposals, I think, will correct the shortcomings and problems of this bill, and we will really be able to propose to the Ukrainian society a completely adequate and truly working law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-01-m0.u43	Bondar Mikhailo Leontijovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-01-m0.u44	Please hand over Arjev Volodymyr.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-01-m0.u45	Arjev Vladimir Igorovich
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-01-m0.u46	I still want us to have a professional discussion. You know, to say that you have nothing to do with this bill -- but your faction voted in favour of it in the majority. And this bill has gone a very difficult way, and it's been the result of a lot of very compromises, taking into account different thoughts, because it's fundamental, and it determines the direction for the next years of the whole sector. And your President himself has stated that digitization of the country is one of his main tasks. You're stopping her today. In no way did the President's Office participate in the drafting of the bill at any stage. And when we had a tough discussion, including with professional associations, there was no voice message from the President's Office, and now all of a sudden, something didn't like it. We're not sure if we send it back now, the President's Office won't say anything's wrong. You're ready to make a round table.?
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-01-m0.u47	Thank you for asking. I would like to stress that the President of Ukraine, Vladimir Zelensky, fully supports the need for legislative regulation of electronic communications services. This bill is generally supported by President Zelenski. He thinks the bill is progressive enough, quite compromising. But given the obvious inadequacy of the Constitution of Ukraine of the individual provisions of this law, which I have already mentioned. That is, the inadequacy of the individual provisions of article 92 of the Constitution of Ukraine, the inadequacy of article 32 of the Constitution of Ukraine need to be further developed in order to ensure that we do not have any problems in the process of law enforcement and that no public authorities can speak of any shortcomings in this bill. So let's work together to make a quality law and give it to Ukrainian society for quality application.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-01-m0.u48	Majestic Mikola Romanovich, last question.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-01-m0.u49	Please pass the word to Vladimir Ariev.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-01-m0.u50	Arjev Vladimir Igorovich
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-01-m0.u51	Yeah, I'll keep going, I've got one more minute. But, Mr. Venislavsky, I understand that you are the President's representative in the Constitutional Court, not in the Supreme Council, and that is why you now have to defend this idea, although it is not the Constitutional Court. But the President's proposals, you can read them yourself, are too general. If he supported the bill, he had to make it clear that he did not like it. And here it is possible to view this as an attempt to give the security services full control over communications networks, such as paragraph 3. I would like to emphasize once again that we can talk about changing the text of this bill in the committee. But how many more vetoes will be imposed when there's no specifics, I don't know. Excuse me, step out of the intellectual lockdown.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-01-m0.u52	Thank you for asking me another question. But I want to point out that in paragraph three, which you're talking about right now, there's no regulation that applies to the services at all is the first. The other one. The president can determine for himself the subject who represents his position on a certain veto right. No one can tell him who is to report at the rostrum of the Supreme Council. And fourthly, I want to say that in these proposals and remarks by the President, clearly there are those issues that can be effectively addressed by the profiling committee that this bill will be working on in accordance with the President's proposals and observations. So by working together, we will ensure a normal law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-01-m0.u53	Thank you, Feder Volodymyrovich. Please have a seat. The vice president of the Digital Transformation Committee Fedienko Alexander Pavlovich is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-01-m0.u54	Good afternoon, dear fellows! So on September 30th of this year, the Ukrainian Law on Electronic Communications was passed. However, the President of Ukraine returned to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the Law on Electronic Communications and proposed that the prescribed law should be amended in order to bring its provisions into line with the Basic Law of the State, to remove existing gaps and shortcomings. According to the mandate of the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Digital Transformation considered at its meeting on 20 November 2020 the proposal of the President of Ukraine to the Supreme Council of Ukraine on 30 September 2020 of the Ukrainian Law on Electronic Communications. The committee examined the validity of the Ukrainian President's proposals to the Ukrainian Law on Electronic Communications and decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine to support the proposals of the President of Ukraine and to amend the Ukrainian Law on Electronic Communications (Registration No. 3014) to work on the Digital Transformation Committee. Colleagues, in order for the committee to be able to carry out its task and develop the prescribed law, to take into account the President's proposals and to submit an amended bill for Parliament's consideration, we need to finalize the relevant decision of the Supreme Council. I would like to remind you that this is one of the laws that the European Union expects, and that, by the way, has been mentioned in letters from representatives of the European Union. The law confirms Ukraine’s intention to join the European Union and the adoption of which is necessary for the implementation of the Association Agreement between Ukraine and the European Union. In particular, I would like to point out that over one year had been working on the bill. All the representatives of the public environment were involved from the small players in this field who provide their services in small villages, these are FOPs, in the big sector. We have taken into account the balance of interests, without first violating the security of this country. And the main issues that we use are, however, the Constitution of Ukraine and active legislation. So I would like to support this decision and send the bill 3014 to the committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-01-m0.u55	Thank you. Questions to the committee. There will be two questions. Sign up for questions, five minutes. No questions to the committee? We can go to the vote. Dear colleagues, I have rightly understood that we are now sending this bill for further work to the committee, yes, such a conclusion? Did everyone hear him? Is everyone ready to support him? Please ask the people's deputies to the hall. Alexander Pavlovich, please sit down. Ready to vote? I am voting on the proposal to refer the Ukrainian Law on Electronic Communications to the Committee for further development with proposals by the President of Ukraine from 28.10.2020 No01-01/904 (Registration No. 3014). Ready to vote? He's on his way to work. Please support and vote. [[11:39:24]] For 298 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, please don't break up. Here are three questions about the shorter feed times for alternative feeds. I'll put it to the vote right away, okay? I would like to vote on the proposal to shorten the deadlines for the submission of alternative bills to the draft Social Support Act of insured persons and caregivers for a period of restrictive anti-epidemic measures to prevent the spread in Ukraine of acute respiratory disease COVID-19 caused by SARS-COV-2 (registration number 4429). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[11:40:25]] For 315 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, I am voting on the proposal for the inclusion in the agenda of the draft Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Tax Code and other laws on social support for taxpayers for a period of restrictive anti-epidemic measures introduced to prevent the spread in Ukraine of COVID-19 acute respiratory disease caused by SARS-COV-2 (4430). Please support and vote. [[11:41:14]] For 321 Decision taken. I am voting on the proposal to cut the deadlines for the submission of alternative bills and to prepare the necessary conclusions for the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Tax Code and other laws on social support for taxpayers for the period of restrictive anti-epidemic measures introduced to prevent the spread in Ukraine of acute respiratory disease COVID-19 caused by SARS-COV-2 (registration No. 4430). Please support and vote. [[11:42:01]] For 316 Decision taken. I am voting on the proposal for the inclusion in the agenda of the draft Act amending article 28 of the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine for 2020 (registration number 4431). Please support and vote. [[11:42:33]] For 325 Decision taken. I am voting on the proposal to cut the deadlines for the submission of alternative bills and to prepare for the first reading and the necessary conclusions of the committee of the draft Law amending article 28 of the Ukrainian Law on the State Budget for 2020 (registration number 4431). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[11:43:12]] For 309 Decision taken. The next issue of the agenda is the draft Act amending the Code of Masters of Ukraine on the elimination of legal collations in the requirements of the statute of limited and additional liability societies (registration number 3497). It is suggested that this issue be considered in a simplified manner. Please support and vote. [[11:43:43]] For 271 Decision taken. The National Deputy of Ukraine, Oleg Anatoliyovich, is invited to attend. The Cabal? Cabal Volodymyr Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-01-m0.u56	Dear colleagues! I'll briefly tell you what this law is, this law on the right of owners to dispose of their property. So that owners can freely sell their shares to other owners. And so that other owners can buy them freely, just like it does in all civilized countries. In fact, these changes have already taken place. In 2018, the Law on Economic Societies was passed and various obstacles were removed in this law, such as mandatory guidance in statutory documents of which parts, in which numbers and to whom they should belong. Why was this done? In order not to get in the way when other shareholders who are against the sale of particles to other owners are unable to block it. And that's how it works in the whole civilized world. But when the Law on Economic Societies was passed in 2018, there was such a legal conflict, because this law was passed, and it was not reviewed in the Code of Masters. This law that we're currently considering, it's very short, it just aligns the Master Code with the House Society Act. So, colleagues, please support this law. The law is really very technical, I'll be grateful for your votes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-01-m0.u57	Thank you. The chairman of the Committee on Economic Development, Mr. Dmitry Andriyovich, is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-01-m0.u58	Thank you. Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues! This bill really removes the disharmony and a certain conflict that exists so far between the Code of Masters and the Special Law on Society with Limited Additional Responsibility. This coalition leads to the fact that, as my colleague Tsabbal rightly said, the acquisition and transfer of property rights into parts is somehow impossible in the case of unscrupulous participants in one or another society. This problem is known, the problem is understood, and this bill solves this problem. Thus, the committee at its meeting reviewed the draft law, as well as the conclusions of other committees. In particular, on the issue of integration with the European Union, which noted that it does not conflict with Ukraine's international legal obligations in the field of European integration. I considered the conclusion of the Committee on Budget Affairs, which stated that it could take effect according to legislation and not burden the state budget. And the conclusion of the anti-corruption committee, which noted that the bill met the requirements of anti-corruption legislation. Therefore, according to the discussions of the National Deputies, members of the Committee on Economic Development decided to recommend a draft Ukrainian Law amending the Ukrainian Code of Masters on the removal of legal commissions in the requirements of the statute of societies with limited and additional responsibility for the consideration of the Supreme Council and the outcome of the first reading to adopt it on the basis of shortening the deadline for the submission of comments and proposals by half. Thank you very much. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-01-m0.u59	Thank you, Dmitri Andryovich. Please write from the MP factions and groups: two in, two in, and two in, against. Ironborn Jaroslav Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-01-m0.u60	I give the word of Volodymyr the Cabal.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-01-m0.u61	Cabal Volodymyr Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-01-m0.u62	Dear colleagues, I will ask you once again to uphold this law. In fact, we are very many and very quick souls, and in this convocation, and in previous convocations, we adopt different laws. And one of our tasks is to correct the disagreements that then arise in fact. That's exactly what we're doing right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-01-m0.u63	Fedina Sofia Romanovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-01-m0.u64	Please pass the word to your colleague Stepan Kubi.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-01-m0.u65	Stephen Ivanovich of Cuba.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-01-m0.u66	Dear Lord Chairman, dear colleagues! This bill is really necessary, it's designed to solve an existing coalition, which is what the committee head and legislators were talking about. Second block. Part of the mandatory requirements for the statutes of VAT associations, which is that in the documents of the listed associations some of the statutory capitalists may be subject to legislative procedures as discussed today. Third block. It should be noted that the GNEU says that only information about: first, the full and short-term appointment of the association, second, the authorities of the association and the competence, third, the order of entry and exit of the association. And such an approach is not in line with part four of article 57 of the Codex Masters. At the same time, the Committee on European Integration notes that the law must be harmonized in general as well as the Code and the Association Act with Directive 2017/1132 of the European Union. I think that between the first and second readings we can change and then vote for this bill. "European Solidarity" supports the bill in its first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-01-m0.u67	Thank you. Chess? Shahov Sergei Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-01-m0.u68	Sergey Shahov, trust MP. Dear colleagues, they changed the names of the streets, decommunized all over the country. Today, people are being killed by these changes and changes in passports. And the laws remained at that time, the reports remained at that time, and the bureaucratic machine was still running. Of course, the "Trust" MPs will support this bill, but we need to work on it. In this case, which is now in our country, we need to review all the old bills -- we live in the 21st century, like in the Stone Age. You'll see what politics does today: they only play politics and don't think about laws at all. Look at the elections that took place. Today our colleague, Anton Kiss, is destroyed in Odeščina, who has gained 5.20 percent, has been completely lowered to 4.98 and is not thinking about such laws. Today the problem in the Kyiv region of Our Land, today the Jury is fighting: 4.35, made 4.95. The government is fighting only for politics, not for people and for entrepreneurs who are now behind the walls of parliament. Dear colleagues, we demand today to review many of those scrupulous bills that are rusty to work for the Ukrainian people today, for the sake of the future of our country, for the sake of our children who are currently in trouble at Lokdown. Thank you. Sergey Shahov, trust MP.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-01-m0.u69	Thank you. Please, everyone who wants to speak? Prepare to vote. Ready to vote? I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Law amending the Ukrainian Code of Masters on the Elimination of Legal Collisions in the requirements of the statute of limited and additional liability societies (register No. 3497). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[11:53:11]] For 290 Decision taken. Do you need to shorten the deadlines for preparation for second reading? We can set it up. According to part two of article 116 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules, I am voting on the proposal to cut back on half the deadlines for submission of rights and proposals, and to prepare for the second reading of bill registration number 3497. Ready to vote? Please support and vote. Abbreviations. [[11:53:57]] For 280 Decision taken. The next issue of the day’s agenda is the draft Act amending certain legislative acts to ensure equal opportunities for mothers and fathers to care for their children (registrations 3695, 3695-1). It is suggested that this issue be considered in a simplified manner. Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[11:54:32]] For the 250. Decision taken. Dear colleagues, is there a proposal for two authors to speak, a committee to speak and we have voted to 12, no objections? It won't. The National Deputy of Ukraine, Bardina Marina Olegovna, is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-01-m0.u70	Good afternoon, Ukraine! Good afternoon, colleagues! Today, at a time when Ukraine faces a series of trials related to coronary disease, economic situation, constitutional crisis, I want to talk to you a little bit about the benefits. About the benefits and the most important thing in life, probably every Ukrainian and Ukrainian, about our births, about families, and about the right of father and mother to parenthood. To your attention today in Parliament a bill from the Biarric Partnership Initiative, initiated by the First Lady, a bill that supported the Interfractional Union of Equal Opportunities, which brought together some 90 deputies from different factions. The bill actually refers to opportunities for a father to be equal with a mother in raising children, in caring for children. What do we propose by this bill? The first is to take an extra vacation at the birth of a child, which can be used by the father of a child, for up to two weeks. The other one. Today, in legislation, the right to parenthood is derived from the right of the mother. We want to balance the rights of a parent to care for a child and allow men on a level with women to take a parental leave for up to three years. Similarly, for men of many childhood families or families with children with disabilities, having the same opportunity as for women to take additional leave. So our bill is called upon to settle the rights of a father equal to the right of a mother to care for a child. I very much ask you, colleagues, to pay attention to this bill and support it. The Special Committee, the Ministry of Social Policy, responded favorably to our bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-01-m0.u71	Thank you. The National Deputy of Ukraine, Black Dmitry Sergiyovich, is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-01-m0.u72	Good day, dear fellows, the honourable presiding officer! I bring to your attention an alternative bill. You know, the definition in the Constitution of equality between women and men shows the exit of the Ukrainian State and civil society to the European and world levels of gender problems. Yes, equality of human rights and freedoms, regardless of gender, is defined and guaranteed by article 24 of the Ukrainian Constitution. However, the achievement of Ukraine’s Basic Law on Gender Equality between Men and Women remains unresolved. A significant part of this is the problem of the social sphere, where social rights are realized, that is, the violation of the principle of equality between men and women in access to the social distribution of benefits and guarantees that require immediate legislative settlement. The main novelty of this bill, as well as the main one, is the introduction of a new type of leave – leave at the birth of a child for up to 14 calendar days, which will be given no later than 2 weeks from the birth of a child and will be paid at the expense of the employer. Only 1 employee of such a person — a husband whose wife has been given birth; a father of a child if he is not married to a child’s mother; a grandmother or a grandparent; or one of the full - time parents of a child who is actually in charge of her. Authorization to determine the order of leave at the birth of a child is proposed to provide the Cabinet of Ministers. In terms of differences in basic and alternative bills, GNEU concluded that the proposals presented in the alternative project are more systematic than the changes introduced by the main project. So, honourable colleagues, in view of the above, I ask you to support the bill that I have introduced, because it is more complex and on the basis of which a professional and quality document can be prepared for second reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-01-m0.u73	Thank you. 30 seconds from the committee and we move on to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-01-m0.u74	Ladies and gentlemen, the Committee on Social Policy and the Protection of the Rights of Veterans is grateful to the authors for drafting the bills and, having considered them at its meeting, recommends that the Supreme Council adopt Bill 3695 as a basis without shortening its terms of reference. Since the GNEU concluded that the alternative bill contains, reproduces part of the provisions of the basic bill and leaves these rules relevant, it has additional observations.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-01-m0.u75	Thank you, Galina Mikolayevna. Dear colleagues, please prepare for the vote. I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Act amending certain legislative acts to ensure equal opportunities for the mother and father to care for the child (registration number 3695). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[12:00:26]] For 301 Decision taken. No, they're the basis. 12:00. There's a break until 12:30. I remind you, during this time, there should be a meeting of the Committee on Tax, Financial and Customs Policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-01-m0.u76	Ladies and gentlemen, please invite the national deputies to the hall. We're starting our work.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-01-m0.u77	Dear colleagues, back to our work. The committee, I understand, held its meeting, but more documents are being prepared, so we're moving on to the next issue of the agenda. You are invited to consider the draft Law amending article 5 of the Law on Humanitarian Aid (registration number 3527). We need to consider this under a reduced procedure. Please prepare for the vote. I would like to vote on the proposal to consider the draft law outlined above under the reduced procedure. Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[12:41:44]] For-195 Decision taken. The National Deputy of Ukraine, Laba Mikhailo Mikhailovich, is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-01-m0.u78	Good afternoon. The bill proposes to amend article 5 of the Law on Humanitarian Aid, which gives the Council of Ministers of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, the district, Kiev and Sevastopol City Administrations the recognition by humanitarian aid of up to 12 tons of cargo in valid positions of the law is now up to 3 tons. As practice has shown, local executives are better equipped with information about humanitarian aid providers and can make decisions on their own and more expeditiously regarding the recognition of humanitarian goods. Taking into account the needs of the population of specific regions, as well as the task of reforming local self-government and the territorial authority in Ukraine, which will in turn reduce time for bureaucratic procedures. If we talk about decentralization, it's a certain decentralization of powers, and district government administrations can actually make decisions more quickly and more quickly. Because the first in Ukraine to start helping medical institutions (the purchase of drugs, masks, equipment, tests) to overcome the COVID-19 acute respiratory disease epidemic caused by SARS-COV-2 was charitable organizations that had stockpiles of this product, which they received as humanitarian aid from other countries. In order to ensure operationality in the decision on the recognition of cargo by humanitarian aid, it is proposed to extend the authorization of district administrations and enable them to decide on the recognition of such humanitarian aid for cargo to 12 tons on site. According to statistics, most of the loads imported into Ukraine as humanitarian aid are medical masks, medicines, clothing, shoes, food products that do not exceed 12 tons.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-01-m0.u79	Thank you. The chairman of the Committee on Social Policy and Veterans’ Rights, Trelyakov Galina Mikolayevna, is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-01-m0.u80	Dear Chairman, distinguished national MPs! At its September 2nd meeting, the Committee on Social Policy and Veterans’ Rights considered Bill 3527. The proposed extension of the authority of the local executive authorities, giving them the right to recognize the humanitarian aid of up to 12 tons, as Mr. Michael Laba pointed out, is now 3 tons. On our committee, we noted that, to date, local government administrations have not yet established a system to monitor compliance with the granting of permits for such humanitarian goods, cargo, and certain risks of imports into Ukraine, such as humanitarian aid for the sale of goods free of charge to the State budget of proper taxes and congregations. At the same time, the Ministry of Social Policy, which today grants such permits, does not have an effective system of control to which such humanitarian goods are distributed. At the same time, local communities today have the most potential to control the use of humanitarian cargo. As a result of the discussion, the committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft Ukrainian Law (3527) to be adopted as a basis. And commissioning a committee to prepare a bill for second reading, taking into account that the Ministry of Social Policy has supported this idea as a whole and suggests for second reading to consider recognition by the humanitarian aid of up to 5 tons to be considered by the local authorities, respectively. Please support the committee's decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-01-m0.u81	Thank you. Please sign up: two in, two in, two in factions. Suffritch Nestor Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-01-m0.u82	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. Dear colleagues would certainly like to support an increase in the possibility of receiving humanitarian cargo from 3 tons to 12. You're getting a lot of suggestions, I think. But my little experience of working in this room doesn't just say that as the load increases and the tonage increases somehow the customs revenue decreases. How can that be? So you're telling me about zero bets, and I'm telling you that under 12 tons, you don't always get humanitarian goods. And here comes the elite alcohol, and there come things that don't have anything to do with the humanitarian goods, especially with Cartier labels and stuff. Therefore, dear colleagues, we have a very responsible and cautious attitude toward this matter. I want to ask you a feedback question. Where are 100 billion dollars of what was smuggled exactly a year ago? Just a year ago, you said we won the smuggling, there'd be 100 billion dollars. "Where's the money, Zin?" So we're very careful about this question, we're afraid that we're going to see very clear old schemes with new ones, and in this case, green faces already. So we urge you to be careful about supporting this bill so that it is not actually a covert smuggling. We're on humanitarian aid, but not on budget. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-01-m0.u83	Rudik Sergey Jaroslavovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-01-m0.u84	Dear Ukrainians! During my national career, I was able to observe how the system of granting and distributing humanitarian aid, which, in its direction or purpose, would help the poor, improve, and improve. Back in the year 96, I was the head of the Ukrainian Ministry of Nationality and Migration, then I worked for three years as deputy mayor of Kiev, then I worked as head of the Ukrainian State Committee on Nationalities and Migration, then as head of the State Agency for Land Resources, and under official duties, of course, had something to do with the decision-making, to whom and how to give it. Everyone said it would get better and better and better. And as a result, the juice packs, the clothes, I don't know, it's a trifle. And in large numbers, more than half of what we were given humanitarian goods from abroad was in markets, wholesale markets, and stores. It's all been crucified by the same authority. And here's the genius proposition: and let's give our genius district administrations (you know who's in charge) four times more to manage the process, because three tons per area and one district administration -- that's not enough. Not enough for you to, well, double up, explain? I understand that COVID, I understand that we have to make quick decisions. Society, in the absence of time, I will talk later about the consequences of this bill. Let's stop at a figure of 6 tons, and we're not going to push forward, it's going to become them. We're going to vote yes on the first reading, but we're going to suggest that the second reading reduce this to six tons. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-01-m0.u85	Yvchenko. The zimbaluk Mikhailov.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-01-m0.u86	Honorable Chairman, Honorable Presidium, Honorable Colleagues, and all those who watch and hear us! I thank the drafter. We had a very lively, professional discussion at the committee meeting. And whoever worked in local authorities and local self-government knows very well how to work with international partners, ask them to help hospitals, schools, other educational institutions, and then, if this cargo is more than 3 tons, drive with a bow to the Ministry here, to the Cabinet of Ministers and wait months for their master's decision. Excuse me, if the Cabinet of Ministers is today appointed by a majority and the President, and the head of the ul-mistress is appointed by the Office, who do you not trust, a respected society? We think we should support this legislative initiative, vote in the first reading, and the "Fatherland" faction will support it, and let's have a discussion before the second reading. Because when a truck takes 10-12 tons today, international partners don't understand why Western areas offer the same partners: let's divide it into 3 tons because we don't have to go and waste valuable time. And today, this cargo, I'm sorry, can be controlled, there's a customs office, there's a regional customs office, there's border guards for that, so finally there's a commission in charge that makes a collegiate decision. Let's split up. I'm sorry, I almost said flies and chops. Thank you. The Fatherland faction supports this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-01-m0.u87	Thank you. Kubi Stepan Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-01-m0.u88	Dear Mr. Head, honourable colleagues, this bill cannot be accepted; I want to support the committee's position because there is no economic justification in the accompanying documents. The second is that the lack of economic justification affects the budget. Third. When the load comes, we're talking about getting, the second we're talking about saving, stockpiling, distribution, target use. So on this side, we can't provide at the local level, and we're increasing these goods, which are going to totally violate the revenue part of the budget. The other one. When we bring this bill up, we see that the main document is the forecast of the Ministry of Health for the second wave in the autumn of 2020. The fall is over. And when I looked at the scope of the bill, 32 positions we expand the humanitarian field of transport accordingly. You can't accept that today. Enough today is the position that in article 1 of the Humanitarian Aid Act is a type of charity and must be addressed according to circumstances, objective needs, supporters' consent. When we talk about natural disasters, in the case of natural disasters, epidemics, environmental, technological ones, the central authority of executive power ensures the formation of state policies and can make special decisions in a given variety. It needs to be sent to the committee for work, and three tons is absolutely enough to do this work. "European Solidarity" will refrain from voting as economically unfounded and which has an impact on Ukraine's budget cuts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-01-m0.u89	I can see it from Voice, I can see it from Trust. Then we go to the vote. Now there are two arguments and we vote. Please invite the national deputies to the hall. Cabal Volodymyr Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-01-m0.u90	Dear colleagues, Voice supports the purpose of this bill to facilitate the introduction of humanitarian goods into Ukraine. But unfortunately, the way in which this goal is decided, which is proposed in this bill, is simply to increase the ability of the district authorities to agree that the cargo is humanitarian from 3 to 12 tons, this way, frankly, is thoughtless and unacceptable. Why is that unacceptable? Because we all know that there are so many of these consents now, as they say, on the knee, that it's not clear what the motives are. And they're imported as a humanitarian cargo of things that are not at all a humanitarian burden: clothes and other things, brand clothes and so on. If we go up to 12 tons, now we're going to start with other things -- cars there, technology as well as humanities. The Voice faction won't support this bill. But I hope if he's still supported, the second reading of the mechanisms will work. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-01-m0.u91	Thank you. Shahov Sergei Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-01-m0.u92	Dear colleagues, today in the good work of the barrel is a drop of tart. It's like a normal bill, adopted to get humanitarian aid, it's all very well prescribed, but there's a foundation, there's a bomb that can explode at any moment. Please tell me, we're out of smuggling in the state, we're going into budget, is there transparency on the borders? Today there's a huge smuggling on every side. And this law will allow you to smuggle anything under cover today's humanitarian aid. So our group is not going to support this bill and we're going to vote with a red button until there's order on the borders, until the budget is full of the loads that come in. Without the change of seats today, the sum does not change: let the ships bring relief aid to our country today, and the main thing is to be properly distributed.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-01-m0.u93	Let's go to the vote. Ready to vote? I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of a proposal by the committee to take into account the proposed clarifications when preparing for second reading in accordance with article 116 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Rules of Procedure, the draft Act amending article 5 of the Ukrainian Law on Humanitarian Aid (registration No. 3527). Please support and vote. [[12:58:52]] For 226 Decision taken. Show by factions. Let's move on to the next question of order of the day. You are invited to consider a draft Act amending article 2 of the Ukrainian Act on State Social Assistance to Persons with Disabilities and Children with Disabilities on raising children with disabilities affected by explosive objects, the size of State social assistance (registrations 3573, 3573-1). It is suggested that this issue be considered in a simplified manner. Please support and vote. [[12:59:47]] For 228 Decision taken. Deputy Minister of Social Policy Vitaly Volodymyrovich is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-01-m0.u94	Dear Chairman, distinguished national MPs! A bill prepared by the Ministry of Social Policy aimed at strengthening the social protection of children with disabilities affected by explosive objects. According to article 10, section 3, paragraph 4, of the Ukrainian Anti-Action Act, "On Anti-Urban Activities in Ukraine" states that children with disabilities are being affected, but Ukraine's Anti-Navigation Act and "For State Social Assistance for Persons with Disabilities from Childhood and Children with Disabilities" are not defined the size of such an increase. The bill stipulates that the extent of state social assistance to children with disabilities affected by explosive objects increases by 50 percent of the fixed level of assistance for children with disabilities. Thus, the average increase will be up to 500 bracelets depending on the child’s disability and permanent care. A request for support.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-01-m0.u95	Thank you. Natalia Juryovna Kraljevska is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-01-m0.u96	Dear colleagues, the military conflict on Donbas has been going on for six years, and this is a huge tragedy for the entire Ukrainian people. These are thousands of dead, wounded, thousands of people who have become people with disabilities. And we certainly welcome at last the idea of the government to increase payments to people with disabilities. But we find it totally unfair and socially discriminatory to approach the Cabinet of Ministers, from which the law will increase the level of state social assistance only for children with disabilities under 18 years of age, not for all those who have received and are now in a position to be disabled. I don't think any of us will argue today that the key to social support for the victims of the explosions should be not the age of the individual, but the result of his disability. Therefore, to prevent social injustice and to increase social protection, and to support all civilians with disabilities who have suffered from explosive objects, including children, we have prepared an alternative bill to which we are supposed. First of all, it's to set up a 50 percent increase in state social assistance with disabilities from childhood and children with disabilities, for all persons with disabilities who have suffered from explosive objects regardless of age. And secondly, you propose that this bill enter into force only on July 1st, 21st. We suggest that it enter into force from the moment it is adopted. Therefore, we ask you, Your Honor, to adopt our alternative bill and to establish the same promotion for all affected people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-01-m0.u97	Thank you. The chairman of the Committee on Social Policy and Veterans’ Rights, Galina Mikolayovna Trelyakov, is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-01-m0.u98	Dear Chairman, distinguished national MPs! With regard to the project (registration number 3573), the bill proposes that public social assistance for children with disabilities under the age of 18 who are affected by explosive materials increase by 50 percent. We really are a warring country. And for children, unfortunately, explosive materials have the meaning of playing with these materials. And we have to protect those kids who happen to be playing with them. The Cabinet of Ministers took such an initiative. The bill has been in force since July 1st, 21st, because there's an extra amount of money in 21st year, it's going to be 391,000 dollars. And the implementation of the act will require additional expenditure from the state budget accordingly. The Committee on Social Policy and the Protection of Veterans' Rights, in an effort to protect as many of our citizens as possible, including from explosive materials, first of all, wants to protect and allocate funds to protect our children. And the committee on the outcome of the review and discussion of the draft legislation at its meeting decided to recommend to the Supreme Council Bill 3573, submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, as a result of the first reading, to be adopted as a basis. Please support the committee's decision. And thank you to the Royal Natalia Juryovni for drafting an alternative bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-01-m0.u99	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please sign up: two for, two for, two for, three for, two for, two for, one for, two for, two for, two for, two for, two for, two for, one for, two for, two for, two for, two for, two for, two for, two for, two for, two for, two for, two for, Cimbaluk Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-01-m0.u100	Mikhailo Cimbaluk, Fatherland. Honorable Chairman, Presidium, Honourable People's Deputies! In fact, a very positive legislative initiative and government as well as an alternative bill is expanding the scope of action. It's not just the children who got disabled as a result of explosive examples or substances, but also all the other categories and adults who became disabled for that reason. I also agree that it should not be introduced on July 1st, but that it should be taken into account until the budget is adopted on the second reading, so that the law will take effect from the day of its adoption. All of this can be translated into a second reading. The Fatherland faction also supports the government bill, and if it's not accepted, we'll vote for an alternative. I'd like the session room to support this initiative. And indeed, at a time when Russia is at war with Ukraine, this topic will unfortunately be relevant even after Ukraine's victory in this war, because the exchange will take decades. Thank you. The Fatherland faction will vote in favour.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-01-m0.u101	Arjev Vladimir Igorovich Irina Volodymyrna's character.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-01-m0.u102	Honorable colleagues, as a result of Russian aggression on Donbassa, war that lasts for more than six years, are, in fact, now part of the five most replaced countries in the world after Afghanistan, Syria, Laos. Over the years, 128 children were killed by mines. Sorry, 128 children were injured and 35 children were killed. And obviously this figure isn't perfect, it's not accurate, because as long as a large part of Donbas remains occupied, we don't know about the complete crimes of the Russian Federation and the fully controlled fighters there. In fact, the worst part is that the Russian Federation uses mines on Donbassa that are banned by the Ottawa Convention. And after the release of 70 percent of the Russian Federation-occupied territory by our military, our Security Service found there this undeniable evidence of the crimes of the Russian Federation -- the mines are anti-personnel mines banned by the Ottawa Convention. Obviously, we will vote in favour of the bill that we are considering today. Obviously, we have to increase not only the wages of children affected by mines but also strengthen the implementation of the Law on Humanitarian Exchange, strengthen our cooperation with NATO-block partners in the European Union so that our mines can work more professionally. In fact, let us not forget that in the last five and a half years of Zelensky’s presidency, no meter of Ukrainian land has been released. On the contrary, there's a retreat of the Ukrainian army to other positions, and every meter of land that's in the Syrian zone, the diversion groups cancel and cancel. And this is actually a danger to more than 200,000 children who are now living in a zone near the collision line.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-01-m0.u103	The alien Boris Viktorovich. Shahov Sergei Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-01-m0.u104	Sergey Shahov, Luhanščina, Deputy Group "Trust". Dear colleagues, surely we must all support children with disabilities today. But why are we not speaking for mothers who are single today? Why was Luhanskina forgotten today, where 600 families are poor and poor in neighbors, in dormitories that were left without their homes during a terrible fire? Which I talked about three months ago from this rostrum, which is going to be such a disaster. Why are mothers today who raise their own children and who do not have them today under online learning mode, to whom do children lead? Why should the State — and we are with you today — be assigned to these positions in order to solve these problems? I was raised by my own mother, and there were two of us, and I remember how we too were plagued in all our homes, and there was no help. Therefore, our task today is not only to support, vote with all factions, opposition and coalitions, but our task is to do our utmost to draft legislation and to support today all those who expect our help. Thank you. Sergey Shahov, trust MP. We will support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-01-m0.u105	Coltunovich Alexander Sergiyovich. Don't insist. Don't insist, I see.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-01-m0.u106	Please pass the word to the Royal Natalia Juryevna. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-01-m0.u107	Royal Natalia Yuriovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-01-m0.u108	Dear colleagues, once again, I would like to emphasize that this is certainly an important bill. But in order for it to be fairer, we today need to index this payment not only for children under the age of 18, because war does not ask the age of a person who has suffered today. And if the child gets only up to 18 years of overtime, and after 18 years, this payment is going to be twice as low, it's going to be very unfair, and it's going to be a small cost today from the budget. And we can make this decision to give a little bit of support to people who, unfortunately, haven't seen any support from the state in six years. So, your honorary colleagues, we're either asking you to support Bill 3573 in the first reading, and we're going to work on it for the second reading, by expanding it today for those people who need the support of the state, or by adopting Bill 3573-1, and you can immediately adopt it in the first reading and in general because there are payments that are indexed for all the people who have suffered. We also turn to the government today. Dear Government, the sixth year we have fought in the East, the sixth year is not passed by law on the support of people affected by fighting, the sixth year is ignored by the rights of children affected by fighting. We ask you to immediately create and join that working group that was set up in Parliament and agree on a bill to receive and protect people. You can't hide your head in the sand and make no decisions about peaceful citizens affected by combat. So either this bill in the first reading, or our bill in the first and in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-01-m0.u109	Thank you. Samantha Anatolyevna Bobrowska Then there's Ruddick, and then we go to the vote. Please invite the national deputies to the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-01-m0.u110	Good afternoon, Solomia Bobrowski, Voice faction. In support of previous colleagues, I would like to give you a few more figures that we don't know or forget. First of all, remember that every year of war costs us almost ten years of exchange. During the seventh year of the war, you can calculate how long it will take for us to engage in full exchange. What's more, I'll remind you of the figures: 1.6 million hectares in Ukraine are actually replaced, of which 700,000 hectares are only in controlled territory. And of the 700, 560, that's in the Donetsk region. Moreover, since the beginning of the war 234 military personnel have been killed by replacements, more than 1,000 injured. And more than 977 civilians were killed, more than 1.5 thousand injured. Thus, such a bill is extremely important and really needs to be changed to a second reading in order for it to enter into force, not as of July, but immediately. That's why the Voice faction will support the government bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-01-m0.u111	Thank you. Rudik Sergey Jaroslavovich. Then we vote. Invite the national deputies to the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-01-m0.u112	Dear colleagues! So I listened to Galina Mikolayevna Trelyakow, carefully reading the names of the two bills: both basic and alternative. And I don't have a puzzle. Says Galina Mikolayevna: "To play with explosive objects, children play. " In the title of the bill, I read that there is neither a word nor a word about war, nor anyone who has solved it, nor about mines, nor about loss. There is, in fact, a bill that our group normally supports essentially. But, society, write in essence. But, society, write the truth. Write what is today, the result of the war with Russia is that children are killed, and they have to pay money after they are exposed to danger, when their hands, legs are torn off, and that should be not 500 dollars, but the cost of living. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-01-m0.u113	Thank you. Let's go to the vote. I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Act amending article 2 of the Ukrainian Act on State Social Assistance to Persons with Disabilities and Children with Disabilities on raising children with disabilities who are affected by explosive objects, the size of State social assistance (registration number 3573). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[13:16:34]] For 321 Decision taken. Thank you. Dear colleagues, would you please tell us about the results of the committee meeting? Is there a letter? Please, Vjačeslav Ivanovich, if possible. For a moment, the leaders of the MP factions and groups may approach the rostrum. Dear colleagues, we are now moving on to the next issue of the agenda: this is draft Law registration number 3039a. This is a draft law amending the Ukrainian Tax Code on the value added tax rate for individual transactions for the period of implementation of the Agreement between the Government of Poland on the granting of loans under the terms of the related aid and other matters of government debt. The head of the Committee on Finance, Tax and Customs Policy, Danilo Alexandrovich, is invited to attend. Who's going to insist on the papers? Nina Petrovn Yuzanin. Do you have the number? 5th?
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-01-m0.u114	Dear colleagues, I have an amendment that I spoke about from the rostrum when we considered this draft law in the first reading. The point is that the Polish side or the Polish producer that will be a party to this contract is exempt from paying taxes, and we've talked to you about that. But we have the word "releasing," which is exactly what the Agreement provides for, is replaced by "zero bet." So we were talking about that the budget of Ukraine would be for this Polish producer to reimburse a certain amount of payments from the budget, and they would not allow that. Unfortunately, the Ministry of Finance didn't have a specialist to pay attention to, and the committee, by the way, didn't insist on looking into those standards. And it turned out that my amendment was rejected, and that was the opinion of the Ministry of Finance at the committee meeting, and that text remained.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-01-m0.u115	Thank you. Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-01-m0.u116	In fact, we discussed this amendment. We supported the position of the Ministry of Finance with reference to the text of the Agreement, which does not use terminology, of course, the Tax Code, and it says, "The goods, works and services financed under the Contracts are exempt from any tax, customs and other congregations or compulsory payments established by Ukraine." So according to the Ministry of Finance, this doesn't include direct taxes, so the rate right here is 0 percent appropriate. Thank you. The committee's position is to reject the amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-01-m0.u117	Do you insist on voting? No, you don't. We can cross. We're through. Your third was, wasn't it? No, I told you, Vadim Eugeniovich. All right, no one's insisting on the papers anymore? No, you missed your third turn, and Nina Petrovna was 5th. Let's get to the vote, please prepare. Ready to vote? I am voting on the proposal to adopt a second reading and, in general, with the necessary technical and legal regulations, the draft Law amending the Ukrainian Tax Code on the value added tax for individual transactions for the period of implementation of the Treaty between the Government of Ukraine and the Government of Poland on the granting of credit under the terms of the related aid and other matters of government debt (registration No. 3039a). Prepare to vote. Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[13:26:53]] For 304 Decision taken. Thank you, the law is passed in general. Dear colleagues, a moment of attention. Already signed by a committee called today's bill, registration number 4439-d. He's checking in right now. A letter was received signed by all the MPs and groups on the application of the ad hoc procedure for the consideration of the bill. This bill is about settling the situation around small businesses and the so - called situation around the FOPs. There is a proposal to consider this bill now. The following arrangement was reached with representatives of all the MPs and groups. Now from the committee and from the authors, since the authors are members of the committee, the speaker is Železniak Jaroslav Ivanovich. Then by procedure, we now vote for it, given up to two minutes each faction for the performance. And then we go to the vote. But once again, I remind everyone, they agreed that they would support everyone so that it wouldn't be like last time. Is there no objection? I'm betting on the voting procedure described above. Please support and vote. As far as the bill is concerned, registration number 4439-d. Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[13:28:47]] For 324 Decision taken. The National Deputy of Ukraine, Železnyak Jaroslav Ivanovic, is invited to comment on a bill amending the Ukrainian Tax Code and other Ukrainian legislation on the liberalisation of the use of accountancy registers by single taxpayers and the cancellation of the mechanism of compensation to buyers (consumers) for complaints of violations of the established order (4439-d). From the committee, please give the authors four minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-01-m0.u118	Dear colleagues, we've been watching people in Parliament for more than three weeks. We can agree with them, we can argue, but these are the people who are now standing under the Supreme Council building at a time when they're losing their profits, because as long as they're here, most businesses don't work. And it is our duty today to vote on the changes that, in part, I emphasize here, can partially remedy the situation. The bill that is being passed today is not that that will fully satisfy those who have gathered to satisfy all those who have insisted on full fiscalization in the Ministry of Finance. I am sure that many colleagues, including my committee colleagues, will not be satisfied with this bill. But politics is the art of compromise. And I am very grateful to all the heads of factions and groups, I emphasize, to all the heads of factions and groups who voted in favour of these laws, who were against them, who stood up, who represented the coalition and the opposition that you have put your interests below those of our citizens today, including those that have gathered under Parliament today. Today, a compromise text has been introduced that has been supported by all factions. And there were such heated discussions on the committee, but all the colleagues allowed this bill to be adopted. Because January 1st is going to be soon, and we have to solve the situation. Let me explain once again what this bill, the bill "d" of the Supreme Council, is a committee that worked with the President's Office, along with the Cabinet of Ministers, along with part of the representatives of small and medium-sized businesses and other professionals. First. We vote in favour of transferring fiscalization to January 1st, 22nd. The other one. We're canceling the cashback by this law. Third. We do what we really should have done a long time ago and a few years earlier: we attach all limits to the minimum wage, including the limits of fiscalization. Now it's not up to us to depend on these limits, it's up to us how we work. If the economy goes up, the limits go up. We're making changes to the list of risk groups and we're actually leaving very little. I understand that part of the street might be okay with it or not, but it was a compromise. And we're canceling a lot of fines. A large number of fines that were most confusing for entrepreneurs. And I'll remind you: no one will cancel the quarantine until the end. Dear colleagues, I understand that this text may not like it, and I don't like it either. But this is a compromise. And that's why I'm asking you to show that in times of crisis, while Parliament needs to support people, we are capable, like today's heads of all factions and groups, of putting aside our own ambitions and finding compromise. That's why I and our Voice faction will support this bill. Please vote on the basis and in general with appropriate technical and legal refinements. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-01-m0.u119	Thank you. Now all factions, from bigger to smaller, as always. Arahami David Georgiyovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-01-m0.u120	My colleagues, we have indeed had such broad discussions and battalions on this point: how do we combine the desire of the state to control the limits that we have raised for all small entrepreneurs, and, on the other hand, how do we simplify their lives so that they can work with dignity and dignity. A working group worked for two weeks. Today we've finally come to a decision. This decision is not ideal for either side. But this is a solution that unites the hall today, which is a compromise, which is actually for a small, really small business, creates absolutely simple conditions of existence, and for the big business that is now disguised as FOPs, let's admit that so much, it makes it more difficult. I am not saying that this prohibits, but it makes it much more difficult, and there are appropriate tools in the state to control this activity. Please support this bill and vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-01-m0.u121	Thank you. Coltunovich? Coltunovich Alexander. Royal Natalia Yuriovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-01-m0.u122	Dear colleagues, it's a strange situation where, unfortunately, in a year's time, Parliament cannot adopt a quality, professional, anti-crisis bill that actually supports people today. Today, during a quarantine crisis, tens of thousands of entrepreneurs from every corner of our country came under the walls of Parliament to defend their rights: the right not to earn, but the right to survive in our country, the right today to protect their families and their children, the right to work today to survive. So tell me, why are we continuing to experiment? Why do we continue to excite people today? If there is a Bill 4439-1 registered today, which meets the requirements of those people who are under the walls of parliament, which today, as an anti-crisis plan, would give millions of entrepreneurs in our country a normal way to survive this crisis. Unfortunately, we never expected the government's anti-crisis plan, nor our economic support programs, nor our producers. Unfortunately, we did not expect any adequate policy from the government this year in our country. So let us be with you in making decisions that will really help people. Bill 4439. Yeah, my colleagues here said it was a compromise. But this is a compromise between the MPs, it's not a compromise between the FOPs, between the people who are standing under the walls of Parliament today, among the millions of entrepreneurs who are working today to survive. So we need to unite the efforts of the hall in order to accept the choice that will give our people the opportunity.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-01-m0.u123	Nina Petrovn Yuzanin.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-01-m0.u124	Honorable colleagues, respected Ukrainians, respected entrepreneurs! Since July, you and I have been working on the standards of those draft laws that would remove this flood of wrong rules that were going to apply to you. And unfortunately, we haven't shown our colleagues to the fullest extent that you can only be protected by the adoption of those bills with which you go out to the walls of Parliament tomorrow. We've talked to you about how delaying the use of cashiers is not the norm you support. And you explain why. But to date, there has been such a situation that colleagues in this room have been able to prove to each other that, in fact, the risk groups of activities that are defined by the laws of 128 and 129 are not so. And that's very good. It's a good thing you heard us and you'll continue to work with your national defenses to prove them clearly, to show them how difficult it is for you to work. I'd like to address everyone. Look, our country missed the introduction of cashiers. Cashiers are a requirement of the last century. The future century has set new challenges for us. The fight against the pandemic has reached such a level that it is so important for each family that we let each family survive, make money to buy basic drugs. So the compromise that is now in Bill 4439-d, of course, does not personally frame me as author of 3853-1, does not accommodate many, many people. But I hope this is the beginning of a path of understanding with your national deputies. Dear entrepreneurs, I'm asking you to understand.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-01-m0.u125	Sergey Vladislavovich was involved.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-01-m0.u126	Dear colleagues, I don't know who's in the situation, but the Fatherland faction is in the most difficult situation. We have a perfectly balanced bill 4339-1, but we understand perfectly that all attempts to vote it, those that were even in the last plenary session, ended in nothing. The attempt to draft a bill of simple deferral, unfortunately, ended with the fact that the key faction did not add votes, I mean, "Serve of the people." Now we find ourselves in a situation where there are many days left when the situation can be rectified. What are we actually correcting, let's be honest at least now? We're correcting the situation in order to make a link between the minimum number one and the third group, that's a good thing. Enough? No, but that's good. We're correcting the situation because for a year it's a good one, but unfortunately, everyone who's more than 1 million 250 is subject to the general rule. That's not the best option. And last but not least. Does this project provide further opportunities for negotiations? In my opinion, if there is no project, it means that the situation is in a dead end. The existence of this bill allows for at least further movement. Clearly, we will not stop at that. Clearly, we have an author's bill and, I'm convinced that the copyright bill, not just our faction, will lead to the hall returning to it. But now you have to take at least half a step to move forward, I think back to total fixation already.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-01-m0.u127	Thank you. Voice. There are no wanters. Batenko Taras Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-01-m0.u128	Dear colleagues! I want to say that our "For the Future" MP group was from the very beginning with the FOP. We've supported everything that's smart, that we think it might make it easier for the pandemic to survive, and so that the FOP doesn't die in this situation. We were one of the initiators of the registration of draft laws: 3853-1, 3853-2 3993, which are fully operational today's microenterprises. But we were certainly not heard in this session hall, along with other representatives of the MP factions. But we understand that we need to compromise. We have to give today a chance to make an agreement in this session room. We have to say total fiscalization today under the pandemic -- no. We have to tell microenterprise that they won't die, and we're gonna give them a chance to survive and not just survive, but make money. And obviously, the price of compromise is, for me, not very high. We could normally have fought on, but there was no decision in Parliament today. Some higher income limit, to which FOP II and IV groups should not apply RROs, is important. Under pressure from entrepreneurs and MPs, the use of RROs has been extended to such activities as the implementation of goods, the provision of services through the Internet, the retail trade of used goods in shops, the implementation of textiles, details, and equipment for motor vehicles. And it is important that we continue this fight. Because it's only a one-year extension. During this period, we will continue to convince the authorities of the inadmissibility of destroying small and medium-sized businesses in such an uneasy period of fighting the pandemic. And today we're voting for this boundary of compromise then, in the near future, it's expanded. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-01-m0.u129	Thank you. Colleagues, here comes Bakunec Pavel Andryovich. Then we move on to a direct vote in favour of the law. This is a discussion we're going to have, and we're going to vote after the speech.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-01-m0.u130	Paul Bakunec, Zovkovščina, Jaborovščina, MP group "Trust". Dear Mr. Head, the distinguished nationals who sit here, under a dome lit in a warm room. I want the cry of warm hearts and cold lips, cold on the streets of protestors, and these protestors are FOPs, small entrepreneurs are our main country. Let their cry reach your hearts in this warmly lit hall under the dome. Today we need to meet our FOP, our entrepreneurs, today we need to hear and listen to the request of people who are at the heart of every area of our country. And at this difficult time, at the time of the pandemic, we need to take sides with the base of our country -- our FOPs. We, members of the Trust Group, will support this bill "d", which has been developed to resolve the consensus and this crisis in order to delay the application of the RRO for another year. There will definitely be a working group, and we will be drafting a new bill next year to take out the scrolls and the smuggling, but to go meet those people who sell on our markets like that in chains, in booths and in markets. And today I urge all of us to become arbitrators between the government and between our entrepreneurs, to vote on this bill, let it be the first step to meet the foundation of this country, to meet our entrepreneurs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-01-m0.u131	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we are about to proceed to the vote, please take your seats. I'm going to put the vote in the agenda now, because we didn't vote in favour of the ad hoc procedure. We are now voting for inclusion in the agenda, then on the basis and then on the whole. Is there no objection? None. I'll bet you a vote on the proposal to include in the agenda of the bill registration number 4439-d. Please support and vote. [[13:47:45]] For 323 Decision taken. I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Act amending the Tax Code of Ukraine and other laws of Ukraine on the liberalisation of the application of accountancy registers by single taxpayers and the abolition of the mechanism of compensation to buyers (consumers) for complaints concerning the violation of the established order of settlement transactions of part of the amount of fines applied (registration number 4439-d). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[13:48:37]] For the 320. Decision taken. I am voting on the proposal for adoption in general with the necessary technical and legal regulations of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Tax Code and other Ukrainian laws on the liberalisation of the use of accountancy registers by payers of a single tax and the cancellation of the mechanism of compensation to buyers (consumers) for complaints of violations of the established order of settlement transactions of part of the amount of fines applied (registration No. 4439-d). Ready? Please support and vote. [[13:49:30.]] For 319 The decision has been taken, the law passed in general, with which I welcome you, your honourable colleagues. Thank you. Next question of the agenda. This is a bill on State support for investment projects with significant investments (register No. 3760). A member of the Committee on Economic Development, Marchuk Igor Petrovich, is invited to the rostrum. Is anyone going to insist on the readouts? On the bill of lading? Eugene Nina Petrovna. What are you going to insist on, Nina Petrovna? Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to talk to you for a moment. Sit down?
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-01-m0.u132	Dear Mr. Head, since this draft law has changed considerably in its essence before the second reading, perhaps the reporter will tell us now that we have significant investments that industries can make in investment projects. And then I'll go after the repairs, I have a lot of them.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-01-m0.u133	Are you going to insist on all of this? Amendment number two, Eugene Nina Petrovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-01-m0.u134	Dear colleagues, we have a bill called: State support for investment projects with significant investments. My amendment was to exclude the words "significant investments." Since we predicted that investments could be less than 30 million euros or 20 million euros that had already emerged in the draft law, we offered one million. And so I thought it was important for the drafters to understand and understand what sectors of the economy needed support and what we would be developing in Ukraine. So I'd like to exclude the words "with significant investments."
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-01-m0.u135	Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-01-m0.u136	Thank you for asking, Nina Petrovna, for the offer. But significant investments in our bill are the own or shared investor's funds that it invests in investment objects in the process of implementing the investment project and in significant investments. We've reduced the amount from 30 to 20 million euros. This is the position of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-01-m0.u137	I'm betting vote number two, aren't I? Don't you insist? Sobolev, number three.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-01-m0.u138	Sobolev, number three. I think that's actually the basis of this bill -- whether this support is provided to all investments, or whether this support is provided indirectly to so-called significant investments. My amendment is precisely in keeping with the definition of what kind of investment, which cannot be an investor, is being expanded in the body of the law. And the word "significant investment" doesn't answer anything at all, it allows for any possibilities. And so my amendment, I would like to put it to a vote, is to clear the word "significant," and then in the body of the law, to determine what we believe to be "investment" from which the real support of the state is coming. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-01-m0.u139	Do you insist on voting? I'm betting on the vote number 3 of People's Deputy Sobolev, she's been rejected by the committee. Please identify and vote. [[13:53:56]] For-103 The decision is not taken. Don't you think he's insisting? Victor Vasilovich, 4th edition.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-01-m0.u140	Dear colleagues, I want everyone to understand a bill that seems to be talking about supporting large investment projects. In fact, the adoption of this bill can damage the interests of national industrial enterprises in the first place. What are we talking about? If someone comes to Ukraine, invests 20 million euros and creates 80 jobs and essentially builds one small factory, he gets 15 years on taxes, on land, the state compensates him for infrastructure, on the Internet, on electricity, and so on. And in fact, because of such projects, for example, someone comes to a so-called investor, builds small businesses, invests 20 million euros and destroys 5-7 similar Ukrainian businesses, because our Ukrainian enterprises will be uncompetitive. They'll pay all the taxes, they'll pay the wages and so on. We suggested, my papers say that let's give the same conditions to Ukrainian businesses. If they invest 20 percent of their book value, give them the same benefits, and then it's competitive.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-01-m0.u141	Do you insist on voting? Mr. Bondar, do you insist on voting? Do you insist on voting? It's the vote number four for the Bondar People's Deputy. Please make up your mind, vote. [[13:55:42]] For 111 The decision is not taken. Amendment number five, People's Deputy Froll. Are you insisting? Edited number 7 of the Kulinich. Are you insisting? Don't insist. Amendment number 10, National Deputy Sobolev. Don't insist. 11th, Sobolev. I can't see. Don't insist. 12th Sobolev. Are you insisting? Please 12 revisions, National Deputy Sobolev.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-01-m0.u142	Dear colleagues, I think it's a key norm of this law to separate what's called real investment from real investment. My paper suggests a complete and exclusive list of things that cannot be considered an investment. For example, this law cannot extend to investments that are state investments. Secondly, this law cannot be extended to investment if investors are people who are subject to international sanctions, including arms trafficking, people, drugs and so on. These investments can't be considered to be profitable investments that are supported if they're investments from countries that are subject to international sanctions and so on. So the definition that is suggested, and I've seen, in many colleagues, it's, it's exhaustive and it's not allowing this definition to be manipulated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-01-m0.u143	Committee position, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-01-m0.u144	In fact, if you've studied our bill carefully, it's where most of the time everything you just said is happening. We also impose rather serious restrictions, which are quite widely revealed in article 7, chapter III. So our committee's proposal is to reject this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-01-m0.u145	I see. Thank you. Vote number 12 of Soboljev’s national deputy is put to the vote. Vote please, Your Honor. [[13:58:16]] For 105 The decision is not taken. Amendment 13, Sobolev. Don't insist. Amendment number 15, Sobolev. He insists. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-01-m0.u146	Dear colleagues, if this were what the reporter said, or as the committee has defined, in front of my report, it would be "partially counted" or "calculated in other revisions." Unfortunately, we are now in a situation where we are told that this is counted, but it is not. So I insist that in the future, all the changes that are rejected by the committee, I emphasize, they can't be taken into account if they're rejected. In this case, 15 were included, because it defines not only the full list of what is invested, and what is protected by the state, but also, again, it broadens the concept of what is significant investment, but what is investment. Because you could call it a big investment, and this investment comes from offshore jurisdiction, this investment goes from a country that's under sanctions. That's why I insist on my right.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-01-m0.u147	I see. Thank you. Vote number 15 of the Soboljeva People's Deputy. Please vote. [[14:00:00]] For-98 Unfortunately, the decision is not taken. Amendment number 16, Royal. Don't you insist? He insists. Please turn on Natalie's mic.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-01-m0.u148	Dear colleagues, we are proposing an alternative model for supporting investment projects at all, and we are advocating a policy of state protectionism today. Because first of all today we have to protect our national producer, support those people who are investing in our country today, protecting jobs, paying wages, surviving not for the support of the state today, but despite everything that's being created in this room, in the government and in the country at large. So our proposal is to start with a comprehensible project and determine that the applicant may be Ukrainian or foreign. And create a separate order of support and protection for today's Ukrainian investor and Ukrainian manufacturer. Thank you for your attention. Please support Amendment 16.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-01-m0.u149	I'm betting on the vote number 16. It's not supported by the committee. Please identify and vote. [[14:01:26]] For-76 The decision is not taken. 17 law, Timoshenko. Sobolev, 17 lashes.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-01-m0.u150	Sobolje, Fatherland. It's also a very important right that defines, so who can be an investor in our state. As it's written in an active edition, which is given in the second reading, it may be a legal person who is not registered in Ukraine, who has no special investor status, which you continue to refer to in the text, and you exclude individuals who are the easiest to verify, who are very easy to see if they are under sanctions. You've ruled them out for some reason. My editorial predicts that if this is a legal person, even a foreign one, it should be registered, according to your standards, in Ukraine. If it's a natural person, it can also be an investor and it's very easy to check for "dirty," "tiny" money. And I think that's exactly the standard that corresponds to our agreements that we signed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-01-m0.u151	17 law. I'll bet you a vote. Please identify and vote. [[14:03:00]] For-95
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-01-m0.u152	The decision is not taken. Next line is number 18, Yvchenka. Is he insisting? Yes, please, Ivchenka microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-01-m0.u153	Thank you, Mrs. Helena. Dear reporter, I don't understand how a table was created either. Those corrections about what you just said from the rostrum are somehow rejected. So the amendment speaks of, for example, state or local budget security for connecting "key" buildings, buildings, institutions, investor communication to heat-, gas-, water supply networks and so on and so forth. You say it is. My readjustment is rejected. I ask you, if the idea is repeating itself by text, you have to write it either partially or editorially. Then we'll figure out what's going on. And so it turns out that the table isn't ready. That is why we now insist on voting on each amendment. And this edit of mine is talking about the following. How can a few legal persons be made by one applicant, please tell me? So I suggested that I replace a few with a "unification of legal persons" or, I don't know, cooperatives there. Well, it says "unification."
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-01-m0.u154	Thank you. Vote number 18 of national deputy Yvchenka. Please identify yourself and vote. [[14:04:37]] For-98 The decision is not taken. Amendment number 20, National Deputy Bondar. Will you insist? Please. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-01-m0.u155	Dear colleagues, this bill is going to destroy the Ukrainian industry in an orderly manner. Let me explain on my fingertips. There are manufacturers, for example, someone making juices, someone making pasta, someone making ketchups. Tomorrow an investor visits a Turkish, Chinese or some other, opens an enterprise, takes 20 million euros, builds a factory. His equipment will be released from excise duty during the sweeping. His equipment, which he imported, will be mounted on land, which the state practically gives him free of charge with taxes, downsizing, and so forth. For 15 years, he's given no taxes, no taxes. And it essentially starts working instead of all the similar Ukrainian producers, because it's already competitive, it's already cheaper to pay taxes. And this is Ukrainian politics, is that support? We suggest that you give the same conditions to Ukrainian manufacturers. If our industries are bringing equipment at 20 percent of the book value, give them the same tax terms, customs.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-01-m0.u156	Thank you. Vote number 20 of Bondar's national deputy. Please identify yourself and vote. [[14:06:11]] For 116 The decision is not taken. Amendment number 21. National Deputy Yvchenko, do you insist? Please. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-01-m0.u157	Colleagues, I want you to hear your colleague Victor Bondar. He faithfully said that in order for the national manufacturer to be competitive, today we should give him some support, both direct and indirect. Indirect support is when it can completely reorganize its operations by purchasing new equipment and becoming competitive in this context in world markets. If this is, for example, more than 20 percent of the book value of such an enterprise, why not benefit if it is, for example, 20 million dollars, and so on, not to benefit such enterprises? Why did we forget them, colleagues? Why? My turn 21, she's talking. And I don't understand, I'm proposing that the term "recreation" be replaced by "renovation, restoration, modernization, capital repair." Instead of 65 in the right hand side, you include this in the edit text. So the 21st is negative, and the 65th is partial. Bad job with the table.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-01-m0.u158	I'm betting on the vote number 21 of the national MP Ivchenka, rejected by the committee. Please identify and vote. [[14:07:47]] For a hundred and The decision is not taken. 22 Admissions, Eugene. Are you insisting? Aren't you going to insist on what you're doing? 23rd Amendment, Eugene.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-01-m0.u159	Dear colleagues, we are now going through the glossary of this bill. This is the definition of all the terms that will be further detailed in the text. And now that my colleagues have all stressed that the reporter is confident that everything is properly done in the table, I'm telling you, read it, please. You haven't even been able to figure out what investment is. Not considering my amendment, you're not saying it's going to be an investment. It's portfolio investments, it's stocks, it's money, it's equipment, what is that? You know, from the fact that you haven't even given up the ability to make the requirements and criteria for including investment costs into the Cabinet of Ministers, you're already assuming that it's going to be some kind of so-called investment that you're going to call investment. I think the basic things you're missing to then manipulate within this law if it's accepted.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-01-m0.u160	Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-01-m0.u161	Actually, Nina Petrovna, if you read carefully the terms used in our bill, it says that we consider significant investments to be our own or invested investor's funds. So I don't see any problems here, so to speak, about all the comments you just said. These are the very costs. And what's more, money is very easy to control and very easy to account for, so we define it as our own or the cost involved.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-01-m0.u162	I'm betting on 23 votes, rejected by the committee. Please identify and vote. [[14:10:21]] For 104 The decision is not taken. 24th, Ruššin. Are you insisting? Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-01-m0.u163	Rustling. Dear colleagues. It's a gun. It's a Voice faction. One of the main advantages of foreign direct investment is that with them there are new technologies that are very much lacking in the world right now, and that's exactly what we don't see in this bill. So the definition proposed by the project is fairly limited and covers only investments in money assets, leaving behind other types of investments such as intangible assets, corporate and intellectual rights, and other than monetary, material assets. So please accept this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-01-m0.u164	I'm betting on the 24th vote, rejected by the committee. Please identify and vote. [[14:11:40]] For-97 The decision is not taken. 25 lashes, Ruššin. Are you insisting? Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-01-m0.u165	Let me remind you what the Ministry of Economics has told us, where one of the main problems is the wear and tear of our core assets. And again, we're restricting a potential investor to invest in the way he wants to, he or she, or a foreign corporation, or our Ukrainian investor wants to do it. I think these restrictions are useless in any case. Please support the amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-01-m0.u166	I'm betting on the 25th edition of the Rušišin. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[14:12:38]] For-97 The decision is not taken. Lichmann. Don't insist. It's a royal one. Don't insist. Have you moved on? Twenty-seven.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-01-m0.u167	Dear colleagues, about 27 amendments. The project's proposed definition of "investment" is too limited and covers only investment activities in monetary assets. And we think that there's a kind of investment that's out of focus -- not material assets, corporate, intellectual rights, and other than money, material assets. And so the amendment proposes to establish that investments are going to be incurred by an investor: money assets, not material assets, corporate and intellectual rights, other intangible and material assets. Dear colleagues, we need to support our national producer first today. We need to support those who are still in the blue: those who did not give up, did not break, did not leave the country. So we do propose that this bill be recast primarily for protection.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-01-m0.u168	I'm betting on the vote number 27. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[14:14:19]] Z-71 The decision is not taken. 28 axles. Don't insist. 29 readjustments. Thirty lashes. 32nd, 33rd. Kulinich. Batenko. Are you insisting? Thirty-four.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-01-m0.u169	Colleagues, for the third time now, will be about the same as what Mr. Ruššin and other colleagues have just said. And once again, we probably won't hear the answer from our respectable reporter. But then you want to get votes for this law by voting the third time for a virtually identical amendment with yellow cards. If we haven't reduced or cleared up the concept of "significant investment," we're still manipulating that concept. And we're proposing that significant investments be made not only with money assets, I repeat, but also with other types of investments that have already been called -- such as intangible assets, corporate, intellectual rights other than money, material assets and so on. With this right, we will define it in accordance with the rules of the Code of Taxation and the Law of Ukraine on Investment. I ask that our reporter on the rostrum comment on these questions, our amendments, not just stand silent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-01-m0.u170	Committee position, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-01-m0.u171	I want to explain why we're proposing to focus exclusively on money. But because intangible assets and everything else, intellectual property, it needs a lot of expertise in determining the fair value of such assets. In order to minimize abuse and avoid wrongdoing again, we suggest that we focus on the cost. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-01-m0.u172	Thank you. Vote number 34 of the Batenka People's Deputy. Please vote. [[14:16:49]] For-93 The decision is not taken. Amendment number 35, Fraud. Don't insist. 36. Don't insist. Amendment number 40, Bondar. Is he insisting? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-01-m0.u173	Dear colleagues, the "Serve of the People"! I'm talking to you all the time. Listen to what I'm talking about. Tomorrow, any foreigner comes in, spends money, the state compensates him for a third of his expenses, makes up for building a road to his factory at the expense of the state, building water lines, electricity lines, and so on. And our manufacturers have to look for the money themselves, run around banks, and under a frenzy of modernization. He's bringing in Turkish, Chinese or something, equipment -- he's being released from VAT. Ours aren't getting fired. He's getting a 15-year tax exemption. That's absurd. Give our manufacturers similar conditions. We're going to suggest, if our production, our industry is invested, for example, in a million dollars, let's say it's 28 million dollars. On the 20th, if he drives 20 percent new equipment by 6-8 million, give him the same conditions as foreign investors, then he'll be equal, he'll be competitive.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-01-m0.u174	Vote number 40 of Bondar's national deputy. Vote please, Your Honor. [[14:18:33]] For-126
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-01-m0.u175	The decision is not taken. 41 lashes, Jujanina. Are you going to insist, Nina Petrovna?
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-01-m0.u176	Dear colleagues, now you've heard it coming out. So a foreign investor has to come to Ukraine, register an enterprise, put money into an account, and then pay for some equipment, because the kind of production starts with the basics. It doesn't make any sense. Option two. Ukrainians who have established a new business and have registered have to reassurance their responsibility under an investment agreement and invest in money. So I'm going back to my esteemed reporter. Look, you'll see how many observations there have been about what kind of investment they should be. I think you're wrong about money right now. This should be the list set up by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Because you're not the only one who takes the law. He has to work as a law on investment activities in Ukraine. We do not do this under any of the individuals you already know and write for them.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-01-m0.u177	Thank you. I'll bet you 41 votes. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[14:20:13]] For the 180. The decision is not taken. 45 lashes, Ironman. Don't insist. 49th, Bondarenko. Don't insist. 50th Sobolev.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-01-m0.u178	[[Unheard]]
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-01-m0.u179	And you sat there again, Natalia Yuriovna. What's your deal, 43rd, huh? Royal Natalia Yuriovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-01-m0.u180	Dear colleagues, this project provides for the definition of the term "investment project with significant investments", which immediately introduced criterion 30, and has now changed nearly 20 million euros. Well, we suggest that we focus on the support of a domestic investor and define different criteria for both Ukrainian and foreign investors. What about those investors who spent a million, 2, 5, 10, 15, 20 a year or two ago? Now they're told, good-bye, you don't have any support, no protection, you don't need it anymore. But it is these people that the country is still surviving today that taxes are still coming into our budget. So, Your Honor, it's not fair for you to be a foreigner, everything, and for our domestic producers, nothing. We insist on the criteria for our domestic manufacturer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-01-m0.u181	43 Amendments to the vote, please identify and vote. [[14:21:54]] For-74. The decision is not taken. Next line, Bondar, 53rd. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-01-m0.u182	Dear colleagues, once again, imagine this bill does not allow our Ukrainians to take 20 million euros somewhere and invest in Ukraine today to start doing this enterprise. And even if he does, he's going to do the "durilovka" himself again, and he's going to spend money abroad to go as a foreign investor and build an enterprise. But I repeat, by opening one enterprise, we close five others that already exist. The other one. The Kabin will determine who will be given the right to build such an enterprise, and this will still have to be signed with Kabmin. And if I'm in opposition today or I don't like it, I may never be able to sign this government agreement and get these benefits to the tax collector and so on. And on the contrary, if they're going to crush some opposition who has something to do with industry in Ukraine, they're going to start some Turk, a Pole, a Chinese, someone else, they're going to give him green light, they're going to exempt him from taxes, they're going to encourage local authorities to give this law free, essentially 50 percent of the land, and they're building it roads, electricity networks.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-01-m0.u183	I'll bet you 53 votes. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[14:23:29]] For 1052 The decision is not taken. Rustling. You don't insist, do you? Thank you. It's a royal one. Don't insist. Can we vote? One direction? 67? 67, Sobolev. What's the readjustment, Natalia Yuriovna?
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-01-m0.u184	Sobolen. You already gave me your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-01-m0.u185	67, Soboljev, yes. I'll be back.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-01-m0.u186	Dear colleagues, the question is as follows. There's, I think, a man of forty in this room who came from IT and creative technologies. Tell me, please, if investment in IT is in creative technology, if investment from the world's engineering companies or any other. Why do you forbid it? Do you want Ukraine to become a washhouse, where all the dangerous productions will be exported, where rivers and air will be polluted? Our proposal, it's not just my proposal, I looked, almost 20 MPs are suggesting that we focus on advanced technologies, on global companies that have proven themselves in other countries of the world, not on yesterday. My suggestion is that 67 revisions should include those standards that you have excluded.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-01-m0.u187	Sixty-seven axles. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[14:25:31]] For-103 No decision taken, no correction counted. Dear colleagues, who's going to insist on the readjustments? Look, we have 4 people: Natalia Yuriyovna, Bondar, Koltunovich, Yvchenko. Let's take two minutes and get to the vote. Dear colleagues, okay? Okay, two minutes. It's a royal one. Victor Vasilovich, we'll be going like this by tomorrow. Three minutes. You have more rights than that. One, Coltunovich. Yvchenko was, 2, yes. Yeah. Look, we've got people. No, dear fellows. So how much? You did. Two minutes, Natalia Yuriovna Royal.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-01-m0.u188	Dear colleagues, the honourable ones are present, we can certainly make this decision now and under a reduced procedure, and without amendment. If they take it that way, for a little bit of what we've done, then there's no questions. Why spend time in the first place? But if we want to do a real investment climate with you, let's face it, today we have to protect all that still works in our country, all that still gives people jobs and pays taxes and wages. Colleagues, or you don't understand the magnitude of the economic catastrophe in which our country will be in almost the next few weeks, or let us still make a constructive and professional decision to support our national producer today. And that's why our main goal of the opposition platform for life was to divide the investors of Ukrainians, the investors of Ukrainians who have already invested money in our economy, who are now struggling alone with the crisis, with the pandemic, but paying people taxes and wages, and create conditions for foreign investors who are willing to invest money in Ukraine. Today, too, Ukraine can benefit from its traditional markets. In this bill, you limit the right of some States to invest money so that our country can cooperate with those with whom there is traditional economic ties. And this is also a major obstacle to building an effective economic relationship. So "The Opposition Platform for Life" insists that this bill be sent to work on, work on, and make a decision that will actually save the economy.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-01-m0.u189	Thank you, Natalia Juryovna, for your constructive and professional approach. Dear colleagues, I'm about to say what we've agreed on. Batenko – 2 minutes, Bondar – 3 minutes, Shufrich – 2 minutes, Ruššin – 1 minute, Yvchenko Sergey Vladislavovich, you spoke. Two minutes. Sobolev – 2 minutes, Yvchenko – 2 minutes. Coltunovich is one for confirmation, right? No one's going to insist anymore? I can't hear you. Two minutes, Jujanina. No, dear fellows, if all the adjustments are made, then let's go. That's impossible, but we agree on one thing, and then you say no again. So, let's do some repairs. Bondar, 70 lashes. Bondar Victor Vasilovich. Not from here, 70 revisions. Arthur Volodymyrovich, let's do it constructively. You've just voted for the FOP for another procedure, but nothing bothered you. Are you going to insist on all of this? 70 lashes, Bondar. Out of the way. For procedures, as colleagues ask.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-01-m0.u190	Dear colleagues, I want you to understand. The logic of the law is that if you're Ukrainian and you have a Ukrainian industrial enterprise to get the same preferences, taxes, benefits as a foreigner who comes and builds an enterprise, you have to either sell your business or come up with a new legal entity behind the codon, make it look like a foreign investor, you're going to look like a foreign investor. To come to Ukraine, to your business, to your factory, no matter what you do -- juices, pasta, ketchups or anything else -- to take away a new area of land, bury, bury your previous project, the previous plant, because it will be uncompetitive. And build a new factory all over again. When you build it, you'll get the same benefits as the Turks, the Chinese, the Poles, and so on. Then you can build an enterprise, get tax benefits, the state for you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-01-m0.u191	Thank you. The vote is number 70 of Bondar's national deputy. Please identify and vote. We're going after the amendments. [[14:32:19]] For 1052 The decision is not taken.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-01-m0.u192	I understand correctly, Nina Petrovy, that 10 minutes is, and you'll let go of your paperwork if you do? You've got 10 lines. Once again, dear fellows. Batenko, three minutes. Bondar, two minutes, you just said. Coltunovich is the right thing to do. Yvchenko is 2 minutes. Shufrich is 1 minute. Two minutes, sorry, two minutes. The engine is two minutes. Soboljev is 2 minutes. Then there's confirmation. But how many of you are there to confirm? Up to ten for confirmation. Is that how everyone works? No one's going to add? Okay. Batenko, three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-01-m0.u193	I'll get in faster. Dear colleagues, we find that this bill does not withstand criticism, because it actually kills a domestic producer. But my amendment, 327 amendments, is one of the most fundamental ones to which I want to refer to the House of Parliament and the attention for which you can vote. I propose paragraph 6 of the fourth part of article 7 of the bill, the words and the figures "10 and more percent" to exclude. What is it? The amendment, my friends, provides for a complete ban on the implementation of an investment project with significant investments and the provision of State support under this law for all legal persons whose direct or indirect owners are residents of the aggressor country or the aggressor country itself. The editorial, accepted as a basis, my friends, anticipated this opportunity to participate and receive state aid when the share of the aggressor country in the company is up to 10 percent. We, the "For the Future" MP, find such a provision in this bill unacceptable in terms of war. It's actually an aggressor country that's going to have benefits from our country. Is that called "investment nanny"? So I ask you to put this amendment to the vote. And I want society as a whole to see the results of the roll-call vote in this parliament, which supports the "investment babysitters" under which the hidden aggressor country with its 10 percent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-01-m0.u194	Can I have your number again, Taras?
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-01-m0.u195	Amendment 327.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-01-m0.u196	327 requests that a national MP be put to the vote. 327 votes in favour. 327 on the table. She's taking into account. 327 is the vote of the Batenka People's Deputy. Please identify yourself and vote, Your Honor. She's taking into account. 327. [[14:35:51]] For the 110. The decision is not taken.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-01-m0.u197	Thank you. Thank you, Olena Constantine. Bondar, two minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-01-m0.u198	Thank you, Your Honor. I want to say one thing: this bill would actually have a goal to make money actually flow into the industry in Ukraine, into Ukrainian businesses. In summary, you will have no powerful foreign investors, no one interested in entering this bill. In fact, he does not decide anything for them. It's the same complex bureaucratic mechanism that exists in the state today and so on. This is a law that will allow Ukrainian apherists to register companies, in the form of a law through Kabmin to extend their contracts to open factories, and in fact to create new offshore zones inside the country. Because you're going to get Ukrainian jurisdiction, you're going to get a legal person who's tax-free, you're going to get tax-free, you're going to get a tax-free import of equipment, and so on. There is no penalty if this so - called investor leaves Ukraine, he does not fulfill his obligations. But it will work without taxes, without VAT, without customs, and so on. There are no insurers who will not enter large foreign jackals of economics who will come to destroy purposefully Ukrainian businesses. And who's to say that big monsters, big economics, 20 million-euro industries, won't enter the Ukrainian market, don't do the simulation they built the factory, they'll start deamping themselves. In a year, two close dozens of similar competitors in Ukraine and then leave, from Ukraine and nothing, there are no fines for them. And they're going to start in the free market from Germany, France, Poland, Turkey, China to drive their products after they destroy our businesses. My papers talked about giving the same conditions for Ukrainian businesses. If you tell an investor that he has brought money and benefits to tax, land, and so on, give the same conditions to your businesses. Perhaps they too will find cheap funds, bring equipment, create hundreds of jobs, and work for Ukraine. Why don't you want to hear it?
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-01-m0.u199	Thank you. You'll get confirmation later. Engine, two minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-01-m0.u200	Dear colleagues, I'm a little bit of a total sum. We've already had some sort of "no" in the local government. I had a personal experience working with them. We brought in Austrian investments. And I have to tell you, it didn't work. And more than that, when it comes to the worthy firms that we would like to see in Ukraine, they have a very signed fee in many of them, where they have no right to work with the local authorities to solve their investment projects in the event that this country is related to any small area of corruption. So this isn't going to work. Next thing. When we, you see, have taken on the very understandable meanings of the law to help and not to help, this blurry and ambiguity, the inaccuracy of such a position is nothing more than building a playground for corruption. And here the official will determine who will be subject to this law in the future and who will not be subject to it. I would also like to point out that the mechanism for implementing this law is inconvenient later when it is adopted. I think most of me, at least in private conversations, have agreed that this bill does not have a realistic future. We're actually creating a non-lifely law, a rule of law that will not be viable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-01-m0.u201	Thank you. Šufrich Nestor Ivanovich, 2 minutes of the performance.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-01-m0.u202	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the honourable chairman! In fact, the investment was well mentioned here, and I had the impression that the baby - sitters ate their babies because neither the baby - sitter nor the investment. Now, frankly, I have a question, a question like this. Please tell me, what is the difference between Ukrainian investors and foreign investors, and why is this discredit? Are we going to have to force domestic businessmen again today to appear in Ukraine in another iposa? So it's, at least, non-patriotic, in a good way, and irresponsible. So we're protecting not national interests, but we're creating some additional conditions. And, of course, my firm belief that no investment in Ukraine will come until we resolve the main issue in our country -- the issue of peace and stability. That's what President Zelensky promised us, and that's what our colleagues in the "Serve of the People" have told us, that peace will come over the course of the year. It's the second year. They say it's going to be in the President's first box, probably the last. Dear colleagues! As an experienced politician, I want to tell you that there is no better investor than the Ukrainian people. So make it investmentable. Raise his income, our pensioners, who created our industry and created our economy, raise your pensions at least 3-4 times as much as we did. And then we're going to talk about what is "new blood" in our economy, and that's our citizens' money. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-01-m0.u203	Yvchenka, two minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-01-m0.u204	Vadim Yvchenko, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear colleagues, this bill is called State Support for Investment Projects with Significant Investments. What do investors, colleagues, and Ukraine face today? It's bureaucracy and it's corruption. And of course, my rights were designed to help them get the most out of the bureaucrats: these are licenses, these are connections to the right networks, this is land formation, this is technical documentation. This is all that the State can do to help. A change of purpose. That's all the State has to do to help the investor. And it doesn't matter if it's an investor from abroad or a Ukrainian investor. And right here, colleagues say, we have a lot of industry in Ukraine today, and there is no industry in this law. There's no way in this law that our businesses can change directly, buy new equipment, buy innovations and be competitive directly, and we'll protect the Ukrainian manufacturer. Yeah, we're looking at someone else who'll come and invest tomorrow. What about the luggage that is in Ukraine today, which is filling the Ukrainian budget. Colleagues, and you should really consider all the possibilities, you should really sit down on the committee and see what the Ukrainian manufacturer needs, what we can do if we involve foreign investors, investors and so on. And we need to understand that bureaucracy is the main thing that needs to be cleaned up today when investment is made. And that's what my changes were all about. Unfortunately, you haven't adopted any amendments, and today this law is a little bit of a "castrate" when investment is made with a significant amount.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-01-m0.u205	Thank you. Now Sobolev is two minutes away, then 10 of Yuzanin's licenses for confirmation. Then we go to the right-hand side, one to Koltunović and six to Jujanina, if I'm not mistaken. Yeah? Two minutes, Sobolev.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-01-m0.u206	Sobolje, Fatherland. The logic of the birthright and my birthright was actually the following. It's a very clear definition of "investor." Secondly, it is clear to define and establish the concepts that represent investments that are within the limits of the law and then exclude such investors from the list, with absolute guarantees that such investors cannot enter the country. Because yes, we need investment, not at any price, and not at all. The third question is what we actually understand with support. If all the burden lies on the state, and that's how it's built -- budget losses, state investments directly on the network, infrastructure and everything else -- that law will never work. Because you're taking an investor to talk to a corrupt official who gets corrupt as soon as he sits at the table and sees a bunch of money that should come to him, not his country. That's why our rights all made it impossible for us to do so, and they predicted to clearly distinguish which guarantees are States, and what guarantees are the return on these investments, if it's a good investor. And that's why parts of the rights that are not paradoxically accounted for -- I don't know what they're doing -- but even the drafters of the bill counted those allowances as off-limits. Part of the right is counted, part of the no, the body of the law itself has actually become a composite puzzle, which eventually won't come together because it won't work. And that's why I think that's why we have to move it back to the second.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-01-m0.u207	Thank you. Nina Petrovna, the ten rights you insist on. Why don't you give me 10 minutes, and after that vote? What difference does it make? It's a license plate.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-01-m0.u208	74 – First amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-01-m0.u209	74.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-01-m0.u210	I'm continuing what our colleague just said. In fact, the honourable reporter, you didn't actually make that "investment nanny" that would guarantee the investor the custody of the state. Let's take the basic question. Once the project has been approved, the investor must prepare a contract. I made an amendment to make it easier for the investor to be independent of the authorized body and the employee of the body, so we need to create such a special simple form, since you understand what an investor should be asked to do and what commitments you make to an investor. You even did not take into account the typical form of a special investment contract established by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Why did you do it? Why are you doing this "swimming" between investors and the government? What they can write except for the default one.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-01-m0.u211	74 Committee revisions are not supported. Please identify and vote. [[14:48:27]] For a hundred and The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. Next item.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-01-m0.u212	Ladies and gentlemen, I now address you on the following occasion. Duration of the investment project.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-01-m0.u213	Number number, Nina Petrovna?
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-01-m0.u214	Amendment 80. Please tell me that the investor showed up, but he doesn't put $30 million right away. He signed off on his obligations, put in some amount of money, and began to purchase equipment. And this is where the state starts, in terms of securing its liabilities -- it gives it benefits from the state. He doesn't pay VAT, he doesn't pay taxes, he doesn't pay taxes. Can you please tell me when the state will stop its investment? Not all the money has been invested by the investor, but the state has already fulfilled a 30 - percent investment commitment? Why did Amendment 80, which would limit, reinsure, insure a public investment, why did the 80 amendments not count?
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-01-m0.u215	I'll bet you 80 votes. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[14:49:56]] For 104 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. Next amendment, Nina Petrovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-01-m0.u216	92 revisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-01-m0.u217	92nd.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-01-m0.u218	And now, colleagues, we told you on the first reading that an authorized institution -- it can't be some new run-of-the-mill enterprise subordinated to the Ministry of Economics. Why are we creating a new state-owned enterprise that will function as a state in an investment agreement? We were saying that I suggested that such an organ be just a special department of Mineconomy. What's wrong with you or what's new? Why create a new state enterprise to serve as a state?
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-01-m0.u219	Ready to vote? 92 revision of the committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[14:51:03]] For 104 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. Nina Petrovna, next line.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-01-m0.u220	149th. Now, colleagues, please understand what the state must provide at the expense of government funds or local budgets. And here's the weird thing. So the investor says that I want to build a factory in this field. So the state has to provide all the infrastructure completely at its own expense. I wrote the amendment to make it a partial or complete construction, that is, maybe it's a state investment, that the state's share of the investment is even more than 30 percent if an investor in the dunes wants to build a new factory.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-01-m0.u221	I'll bet you 149 votes. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[14:52:14]] For 104 The decision is not taken. Nina Petrovna, next line.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-01-m0.u222	Next 205. Dear colleagues, now the main thing. You know what kind of activities we're going to support and invest as a state's resources in this investment project? I made an amendment to make it apply to all of the activities classified in Section C of Quad 009, which is the processing, which is the very kind of activity and industry where the highest added value is created. But the great cunning took place here again with the revisions and to the second reading, except that they did not clean up all the nonsense that was proposed, they added several new species. For example, mining for the purpose of further processing and/or the enrichment of useful fossils, a complex farm.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-01-m0.u223	I'm betting on the 205 vote. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[14:53:42]] For 101 The decision is not taken. Next amendment, Nina Petrovna. 236th.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-01-m0.u224	236. Colleagues, I'm going to add some more to the last amendment. Courier activity, this is New Mail, and Glovo needs that kind of support. And the resort and recreation areas, the mountain resorts will be developing in Ukraine. I welcome you, exactly the kind of activity we need to support. Turning to 236 amendments, it refers to this: What about the investor who should create jobs in Ukraine? So before that, there were 150 jobs a year. We counted with you that this should be a big, big business. Now 80 have been made throughout the five - year period, and at what time should 80 jobs be available — unknown. For five years, the investor does not pay taxes at all, holds 10 or 2 or 3 employees, and for only five years, he collects 80 percent and starts paying VAT and EUSR. Such privileges will be granted to new businesses. I'm against it.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-01-m0.u225	I'll bet you 236 votes. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[14:55:11]] For a hundred and No decision taken, no correction counted. Next amendment, Nina Petrovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-01-m0.u226	237. Another important detail about hired workers. It turns out that the average wage requirements now look like the average wage should be 15 percent higher than the region's average wage for this type of activity. Do you think this is the right approach? We've always calculated that this salary has to be higher than 2, 3 times than in the region. You just put it in. What does 15 percent mean? Is that up to 10,000 11 dollars or 1 thousand 500 dollars? That's all this incentive to create jobs.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-01-m0.u227	I'll bet you 237 votes. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[14:56:19]] For the 180. The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. Next amendment, Nina Petrovna. I'm going to continue the session 15 minutes before the end of this question or how long it will take. Next amendment, Nina Petrovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-01-m0.u228	Then I don't want to keep my colleagues, I'm the last amendment I'm going to make to support 313. But I just want to let you know that "investment" is not "investment," it's a big hole in the budget, and the opportunities for foreign investors, and for crafty others, you make it quick to implement these projects. Because you know that it's like "investment," and an investor came with a contract to "investors," and she says, "I'm not comfortable with the terms of your contract, because there's no typical form, go fix it." The investor went to rule. Knowing how our executive authorities can abuse an investor, he has to come a second time, the second time he will go through all the procedures of agreement, and he and the second time he may not make it the way the officials want him to.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-01-m0.u229	Thank you. Nina Petrovna, 313, yes, correct, did you say? I'll bet you 313 votes. It's not counted by the committee. Please identify and vote. [[14:57:53]] For 104 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. Dear colleagues, Nina Petrovna has 6 confirmation licenses and Coltonovich has 1 minute and 3 confirmation rights. Nina Petrovna, will you speak for him or can we just put him to the vote? Or, come on, I'll give you two minutes, if you don't mind, and we'll go straight to the vote. Is there no objection? Nina Petrovna is two minutes. Coltunovich is one minute and nine licenses for confirmation. Do you have a deal? It's a Southern.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-01-m0.u230	Dear colleagues, all the adjustments I've made to support myself, now I'd like to put mirror, contrasting standards to confirm. Amendments 203 and 204 are the kind of activities I've just talked about. You know, big investments in those kinds of activities that are now being written down, it just seems to me like bullying. It's pushing even active businesses in Ukraine to find a way to register new and especially interesting to invest 20 million euros and get 5 plus 5 years of infinite tax exemption in Ukraine. Not enough land purchases outside of competitions, beyond the beloved conditions that only exist in Ukraine, and so on. So let's do 203 and 204. 233 is the creation of at least 80 jobs. What's the standard? That's funny. We talked even when. In the past call we said that benefits can be given at least when 150 jobs are created. And these should be created jobs in the second year, such as jobs, and not in the fifth to 80 jobs. 251 revisions. I want the MPs in the room to confirm that you think that the big, big investment is no longer 30 million, but 20 million instead of making it acceptable for Ukrainian businesses. That's why. Another 254 and 479 amendments, I won't comment on them in a matter of time. Please place it for confirmation.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-01-m0.u231	Thank you, Nina Petrovna. Coltunovich is a minute, then we go to the vote. Please invite the people's deputies to the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-01-m0.u232	Thank you, Mr. Head. Good day to you all! I'd like to point out that 328 is accounted for, so please put it on confirmation, and 329 and 330 are partially accounted for. I want to talk to our fellow MPs about what really creates discriminatory conditions for domestic producers and industrialists. But if we're talking about stimulating foreign direct investment and you're looking at financial and economic justification. That's just how two lines are written. And I want to tell you that there were supposed to be numbers on the flow of foreign direct investment into the national economy. We're actually stopping foreign investment from the countries of BRIX, SND, SCO, etc. That's why I'm asking you not to support the three amendments that I've called for, and in general this bill, unfortunately, needs work to be done to ensure that Ukrainian citizens, domestic operators of economic activity, are at the top of the national economic policy. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-01-m0.u233	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please invite the national deputies to the hall. Let's go to the vote. I'm going to put all the changes Nina Petrovna, Alexander Sergiyovich, has been talking about to the vote. They're considered by the committee. I'll bet for confirmation. And after that, we will vote in favour of the law as a whole. Please invite the national deputies to the hall. Ready to vote? 328 revisions, Coltunovich placed, counted by committee. I'm betting on her confirmation. Please support and vote. [[3:02:32]] For 231 Decision taken. Let's see the factions. The Committee's 329 revisions are included in part. I'm betting on confirmation of that editorial that was marked by the committee. Please support and vote, 329 revisions. [[15:03:00]] For 235 Decision taken. The next 330 committee reads partially. I'm betting on confirmation. I'm betting on the vote on the proposal for confirmation in the paper that was marked by the committee. Please support and vote. [[15:03:26]] For 232 Decision taken. Edit is confirmed. I'll bet you 203 votes. The committee is supported. I'm betting on her confirmation. Please support and vote. 203 correct. [[15:03:50]] For 225 The decision is not taken. 204 correct. I'll bet you a vote. Please support and vote. For confirmation. [[15:04:13]] For 225 The decision is not taken. Edit is not supported. 233 axles. The committee is supported. I'm betting on her confirmation. Please support and vote. [[15:04:39]] For 228 Decision taken. Edit is confirmed. 251 law. The committee is accounted for. I'm betting on her confirmation. Please support and vote. [[15:05:05]] For 224 The decision is not taken. Edit is not supported. 254 axles. The committee is accounted for. I'm betting on her confirmation. Please support and vote. [[3:05:30.]] For 231 Decision taken. Edit is confirmed. And the last amendment is 479. The committee is accounted for. I'm betting on her confirmation. Please support and vote. [[15:05:53]] For 226 Decision taken. Edit is confirmed. Dear colleagues, let's move on to voting for the law as a whole. Ready to vote? Quiet in the hall. Dear colleagues, a minute, please. If we vote, we'll have the law, not the law. Wait. Wait. I'll give my word to the committee head. No objection, dear colleagues? Dear colleagues, I'm going to explain the situation right now that, as I understand it, is the position of the committee. Yeah? You can say it, and then the hall will be defined. I can hear you. If there's a balanced bill, let's give it to the committee head.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-01-m0.u234	Colleagues, considering that they were not supported by some of our colleagues for confirmation, were completely balanced by the law. This law, if it's adopted in this way now, as it is, it just won't work. So we'd like to vote for the second reading of this law again, to work out, to find a common language with those colleagues who didn't vote, and to put it back in the room.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-01-m0.u235	No, there won't be any discussion here, dear colleagues. I'm voting first on the committee proposal, and then we're going to vote for the second. Right? Dear colleagues, no objection? None. I am voting on the proposal for adoption in the second reading and in general with the necessary technical and legal rights, the draft Law on State support for investment projects with significant investments (registration number 3760). Please vote. [[15:10:46]] For-44 The decision is not taken. I am voting for a proposal to refer to the Committee for a second reading of the draft Law on State support for investment projects with significant investments (registration number 3760). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[15:11:26]] For 245 Decision taken. Thank you. I declare the plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine closed.
