ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-02-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national MPs! Good morning, media officials! Please prepare for registration. On numerous occasions, I remind you that registration takes place by clicking on the green "for" button on the first left. Well, you asked. Are you ready to register? Please register. [[10:09:44]] There are 244 Ukrainian national deputies registered in the hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Ladies and gentlemen. Wait a minute. Dear colleagues, September 2nd the world marks the 75th anniversary of the end of World War II. This war overtook many continents, many nations, and claimed many lives, brought much distress. In Ukraine alone, 8 million are considered dead. And I'd like to remind everyone that we've been through different stages in our history, but we've always won it. And I'm sure that's what's going to happen next. And now I propose to honor all those who died during this terrible war. [[A Minute of Silence]] Please sit down. Dear colleagues, in accordance with article 25 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Regulations, we have on Wednesday up to 30 minutes to make speeches by national deputies with proposals, announcements, and messages. Please sign up for the performance. And while the registration is taking place, I'd like to welcome our colleague Bogdan Viktorovich Kitzak to his birthday. [[Applause]] Wish him success and always move forward and help his native region of Zitomirsk. Gristuk Roman Pavlovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-02-m0.u2	Samantha Bobrowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-02-m0.u3	Samantha Anatolyevna Bobrowska
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-02-m0.u4	Good afternoon, dear fellows! I have an open application from the members of the Interim Investigations Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to conduct parliamentary control over the attacks on Catherine Gandzük and other public activists during the 2017-2019 period on the trial of Sergey Sternenk. So, we, members of the Interim Investigations Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to carry out parliamentary control over the investigation of the attacks on Catherine Gandzük and other public activists during the 2017-2019 years, claim that the prosecution's and court's will in the case of the attacks on Sergey Sternenka has reached its historic maximum. Last week, the Supreme Court denied Sergey Sternenk a case concerning an attack on him in Kiev, arguing that one of the parties -- the wife of the dead assailant Kuznietsov -- lived in Odessa. Yesterday, August 31, another attack took place during the first preparatory session in Odessa on Sergey Sternenko. The possibility of another attack with the attackers of the attacks on Sergey Sternenka is a direct result of the transfer of the trial from Kiev to Odessa. During the meeting, prosecutors demanded that the precautionary action of Sergey Sternek be taken into custody. According to prosecutors, the reason for replacing the precautionary measure is the lack of authority and guarantees to visit Sergey Sternenko in court. At the same time, Sergius Sternenko’s willingness to take over was expressed by some 10 Ukrainian national deputies, as well as by respected public figures. And yesterday our colleague Roman Lozinski was present at the Odessa trial. We believe that the Office of the Attorney General and the Supreme Court will or willfully promote further politicization of the case, creating favourable conditions for the implementation of the political order. The referral by the Supreme Court of the case of the attack on Sergey Sternenko to Odessa from Kiev is a convenient contracting party to the attacks on Sergey Sternenko, likely involving officials of the Odessa local authorities. Attempts to attack Sergey Sternenka continue to take place even under the building of the court. In fact, by their actions, the Supreme Court and the Office of the Attorney General of Ukraine put Sergei Sternenk at risk and contribute to a biased trial by judges who are likely to be influenced by potential attackers. We call on the Supreme Court and the Attorney General’s Office to stop the fraud in Sternenk’s case and return the case to Kiev. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-02-m0.u5	The miller. Oksana Vasilovna's owl.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-02-m0.u6	Hello, everyone! Oksana Savchuk, All-Ukrainian Freedom Union, I represent the city of Ivano-Frankivsk. Today, I want to talk about an important issue that concerns putting cities in so-called red zones. Ivano-Frankivsky is now part of the red zone, as are several cities throughout Ukraine. Our children were unable to go to school or to visit kindergartens, although we are fully prepared to accept them. We have also done our utmost by means of local self - government and city authorities to prepare all the education, prepare all the preschool facilities so that parents can give their child and go to work peacefully. We still can't figure out where we got these numbers from, because the numbers we have are absolutely in conflict with the commission's decision to take Ivano-Frankovsky to the red zone. Under Decree 712, the fullness of beds for the red zone in hospitals should be about 70 percent. Today in Ivano-Frankovsky, 35 percent. The number of patients is also estimated at 100,000. So we have 234 patients per 100,000 population, which is a solid indicator of the orange zone. We repeatedly asked Minister Stephen to take our objective indicators and review our decisions. Today I am turning from the entire community of Ivano-Frankivsky to review the unjust decision that our city has taken to the red zone, because the number of patients does not match the figures shown by the Ministry of Health. We have repeatedly called for this decision to be reconsidered. All of Ivano-Frankowski is out, the entrepreneurs are out. People understand that if they are not allowed to work again now, they will not be able to support their families. The main budget is small and medium-sized business in our city. That's why I'm calling from this rostrum today, and I'm telling you this: Ivano-Frankivsky is not a red zone, Johno-Frankivsky is a blue-yellow color of our country, and we don't have any red color in us.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-02-m0.u7	Please, National Deputy Frez Irina Vasilovna, faction of the political party "European Solidarity".
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-02-m0.u8	Please give the word of Volodymyr Váterović.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-02-m0.u9	Vladimir Vjatrović, please, the faction of the political party "European Solidarity".
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-02-m0.u10	The question of when World War II began in Ukraine long ago turned from historical to political. Regrettably, the answer to that question is not always known even to the top highlanders of our nation. No less important is the question of when the war ended. Indeed, exactly 75 years ago, on September 2nd, the birthright of Umanščina, Lieutenant General Derevyanco, signed under the instrument of surrender of Japan, which ended World War II. A war that lasted six years and one day. The war that has become mankind’s greatest tragedy. Ukraine found itself at the very heart of this terrible war. She was deprived of her statehood after the defeat of the Ukrainian revolution and became a battlefield between Nazi Germany and the Communist Soviet Union, which sowed destruction, death, robbery, deportation, and mass killings. Ukraine lost 10 million people in the war. Ukrainians died on the front, died in concentration camps, were victims of Holocaust, repression, and were killed during barbaric punitive operations to destroy villages and cities. Yet, Ukraine has made a huge contribution to the world’s victory over Nazism. The Ukrainians became the first to give military reprisals to the aggressors back in March 1939 in Carpathian Ukraine. Seven million Ukrainians fought Nazism in the lava of the Polish, American, British, and, of course, the Red Army. In the wake of the war, the Ukrainian rebel army raised the flag of the struggle for independence. The fight against the UPA was a continuation of the Ukrainian revolution and inspired descendants who eventually gained independence in 1991. Never again is the main lesson that mankind has learned from this war. No one ever has the right to wage war with impunity. And this rule should apply not only to Milosevich or Hussein but also to Putin. The war between Ukrainians and Putin has lasted longer than World War II. Today, Russia has not only unleashed aggressive wars, has annexed Crimea, has occupied parts of Ukraine, Georgia, Moldova, but has also taken up Stalin’s mythology and has spent enormous resources on its propaganda in Ukraine and the world. To stand and conquer Ukraine must demonstrate determination, consistency and national unity. In a policy of memory based on the truth of the past and the liberation from Russian propaganda, the strengthening of our army, the active diplomacy that helps to unite free nations to protect peace and security. On this momentous day, we must bow low to all those who defended Ukraine then, in World War II, and those who today defend Ukraine with weapons in their hands. Because only where the dead are remembered are those who are willing to protect the living. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-02-m0.u11	People's MP Natalija Igorovna, faction of the political party "The Opposition Platform for Life" is invited to the floor.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-02-m0.u12	Ice cream, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-02-m0.u13	Let's do it. People's Deputy Frost, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-02-m0.u14	Good afternoon, Vladimir Moroz, 59 constituency, Donetskina. Today, I would like to express my opinion on the cancellation of the local elections in Donbas. At its meetings on August 8 and 30, the CEC adopted an anticonstitutional decision on the inability of the organization of the first elections in 18 OTG in the Donetsk and Lugansk areas. Following this decision, the CEC violated the rights of 500,000 Ukrainian citizens to choose and be elected. The right to organize their own lives and control citizens’ finances. Personally, I consider this a bold violation of fundamental human rights. In recent years, during my vacation, I have been associating very often with people from Marina and the Watcher. These are the OTGs of my district where people have been deprived of their right to choose and to be elected. Our people want to choose people by their own discretion, taking into account their personal qualities as leaders, whom they know very well, people who know the problems of the region well and who will contribute to the improvement of people’s lives, and the return of peace to their homes. If the President said that our priority was to establish peace in Donbas, who could be more interested in this than people who have been suffering from combat for six years. They are already satisfied with those leaders whom they appoint without their consent, and when they turn to them, they see misunderstandings and unwillingness in their eyes to listen to their problems. Those people who are now in charge are not interested in the further development of Donbas. They are now assigned, tomorrow they will not be there, those people will not raise children, they will not live there for the rest of their lives. I want to tell you that these cities have kindergartens, schools. That is, children can go to school, and adult voters cannot vote in them. Such frustrations and double standards apply to 26,000 Marjina OTH voters and 22,000 Wüszard OTH voters. I would like to point out that there has been no bullet in the city of Wüszar in all the years of the war, but there is no election. Last year the elections took place three times in such areas: two tours -- presidential and one -- parliamentary elections. The security situation at the time was much worse, but it did not stop anyone. When we needed votes for the President, we let people vote. When it was necessary to form a majority in the Council, these people were needed by the State and no one was concerned about the safety component. Guys, let's go! President, give people the opportunity to vote in these territories, don't break the Constitution.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-02-m0.u15	People's MP, Anton Eduardowicz, MP's Party for the Future.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-02-m0.u16	Anton Polyakov, 206 District, Political Party for the Future. Dear colleagues, we now mention very often the events in Belarus, but I have to say that we have no less terrible incidents in Ukraine. On this Monday, a peaceful rally was held in Montenegro under the walls of Montenegro's district administration of the Smolin Thorobret factory and the Irvatsi Torfobret factory "Chernigovtorf". This action was in advance agreed with the city council, with the district government. But instead, should we have imagined a year ago when we voted in favour of this House, that one of the officials would be hiding abroad from Nazgardia and from the service dogs? Because the Governor of Chernigovishte, head of the Chernigiv district government, proved to be exactly the kind of official who hides abroad, who has not even gone out to the people who have not delegated any of his deputies. The police were present, and the Dialogue and Reconciliation Service attended the rally. Everyone was shocked because in the last six years of the events in Maidan, this was the first time that the door and all the doors of the Montenegrin District Administration had been closed. Because Mr. Prokopenko is a self-piarist and nothing but doing his Facebook articles is doing anything. I understand you can turn to him now, but the responsibility lies with our President, President Zelenski, who signed the decree on his appointment. So I am addressing you, Mr. Vladimir Aleksandrovich, please note your governor, the head of the Chernigian District Administration, who is not working as a boy, as a coward hiding outside the National Guard, who is not performing his duties, who is incomprehensible about what he is doing in his post. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-02-m0.u17	The word is given to the people's deputy, Jury Ivanovich, the faction of the Political Party "The Opposition Platform for Life".
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-02-m0.u18	Thank you, Your Honor, Ruslan Alexiovich. Ladies and gentlemen, last week the Supreme Council of the Ninth Council celebrated its first anniversary of its work, celebrated modestly, with no loud statements, but with an unexpected confession. The head of the largest parliamentary faction has confessed to the whole country that the Supreme Council is a toxic brand and that it brings little to the average citizens except trouble. I think he meant, in terms of the toxic brand, that he was referring to the faction of the Servants of the People, that crazy green printer that was producing, not laws, but legislative spam. That's why the "People's Servants" ratings are falling today and President Greensky's ratings are falling. Instead, the ratings of the opposition platform for life are increasing because it is our party that advocates the interests of the average citizens and protects them from the vagaries of "servics." Yes, according to recent polls, Ukraine is confident that it is "The Opposition Platform for Life" that offers the most thoughtful and realistic solutions to end the military conflict at Donbassa and establish peace. The Ukrainians are convinced that it was our party on the adoption of the Law on Earth that advocated the interests of ordinary people. Therefore do not judge, ye servants, all the Supreme Council according to your deeds. This applies not only to MPs from the parliamentary majority, but also to President Zelenski himself, who in his election programme promised and described Ukraine his dream of getting a decent pension, not a heart attack from a utility bill, but instead brought the country to poverty and the people to begging. What do we have after a year of green power? Cascading tariff increases, land sales, signing of the Memorandum with the EU, the International Monetary Fund, which strengthens the external administration. Such a country was built by respectable "ministers" within a year of their cadence. The Supreme Council, because of the "green" majority, has turned into a toxic brand, but nothing but grief and beggary has brought its electorate, has the right to continue its destructive anti-national activity. Ukraine will finally have a parliament to defend, not the interests of the United States, the International Monetary Fund, the EU, but the interests of the Ukrainian people. The Ukrainians are already tired of rechargeing power, and they want to have the power that will be most valuable to the peace, prosperity, social, economic prosperity of the Ukrainian people. And the opposition platform for life has already proven that it advocates the interests of the entire Ukrainian people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-02-m0.u19	Please, Kostenko Roman Vasilovich, the Voice faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-02-m0.u20	Dear fellow citizens! Recently, Ukrainian media have released reports of the potential involvement of our intelligence services in the detention of the so-called Wagner unit in Minsk. According to a journalist, the purpose of the operation was not to detain Russians in Belarus, but to redirect them to our territory for arrest and trial. Yet, as a result of the actions of individual officials, it seems that this special operation was disrupted. This is a very serious accusation. The existence of such incontrovertible messages is causing real damage to the image of our nation, creating risks to national security, and cannot be without proper response. Officials have already issued formal objections, but their content is frankly inadequate to the level of the charges. We have to say that we have many questions about both the position of power and a number of details in the journalist version. All of this needs to be dealt with. Society should have a clear answer as to what happened in Minsk, what happened at the President's Office, whether there was a treason, and if there was, who would be the traitor. For this answer to be trusted, it must be prepared by Parliament, because only Parliament today can really control the President and it is the parliamentary commission that society can trust. So we're initiating the creation of a temporary investigation committee to investigate published facts. If the version with the collapse of the special operation is to be partially confirmed, the culprits must be punished, and if not, the fairies must be corrected, otherwise they will become bricks in the foundation of a greater lie. Under the TSC, national MPs will be able to establish the truth, eliminate threats, and inform Ukrainian society. I call on colleagues and other factions to join in forming this commission. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-02-m0.u21	Thank you. National Deputy Aresonkov Volodymyr Yuriovich, Deputy Group "Trust".
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-02-m0.u22	Jaroslav Ruščišin, "Golos", Lviv. Good afternoon, dear colleagues. I'd like to say a few words about trust. Trust that is built from investor to our country.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-02-m0.u23	I'm sorry, I invited Mr. Aresonkov. Aresonkov, he's standing by, and I haven't even seen you on the list. No, no, it was a joke. Ah, Osadchuk does, doesn't he? I'm sorry then, because. Vladimir, I'm sorry, because you didn't say anything. Okay, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-02-m0.u24	This is also the case in the Cabinet of Ministers: incomprehensiblely full, unpredictable decisions, and so forth. So it's about trust. The investor’s trust has been built up for years in our country. And in this direction we need not only to be non-corruptional and the courts have to work properly, but we need to be predictable. And this unpredictability is what I wanted to talk about today. We, on the one hand, thank you also, are helping our enterprise to keep it on its feet during the pandemic, but with the other hand we are beginning to get it. And the first thing is that these are forgeries that are used in calculating color for a particular community in the pandemic. And today, Ivano-Frankowski confirmed that this is happening, it turns out, not just in Lviv, when all the filled beds are taken from all the sick, but not just the COVID-19 pandemic, this time. And the second thing we did was unforeseeably ban the entry of foreigners into Ukraine for a fixed term. But they cancel all their autumn armor at all the hotels. If we continue to work this way, we will not survive, our business will not survive this pandemic. So I call on the Cabinet of Ministers to predict, to make legal decisions, and most importantly, to cancel the Ordinance banning foreigners from entering Ukraine, because Lviv has actually failed the tourist season on this day. And it's not just about Lviv, it's about all of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-02-m0.u25	Thank you. Please, Aresonkov Vladimir Yuriovich. I'm sorry. I just went in the wrong direction on the list. I already called the Council. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-02-m0.u26	Vladimir Aresonkov, Deputy Group "Trust", Žitomirščina. Dear colleagues, distinguished viewers! The topic of my speech will be a very important question -- the state in which our Ukrainian education and science system is today. September 2nd. Yesterday we or many thousands of Ukrainian families were sent to school, to preschools, and to other students. And I have two pictures in front of me. The Kyiv school, where there's a cup of champagne for parents under the sun, where 200 grand a year can be allowed to organize a high level of education, give children everything they need today. And in front of me, my native police schools in the rural area, where the district leaders were looking for a grader yesterday morning to get on the road so that they could get by by bus to these rural schools. Where the situation on yesterday was the lack of tools to fight COVID and so forth. And the question is not that I have something against private education or against conditions that have provided single families to get quality education for children. The question is that each year, in addition to deepening social dispersion in the state, there is a widening gap between the quality of education that children can receive in Kiev, in Dniper, in Kharkiv, and in rural areas in Polissa, or in other villages. And this process continues. I'm speaking to our colleagues today from the Education and Science Committee. My colleagues are extremely authoritative and powerful, and we need to raise the question out loud today about the state of general secondary education, and not just about raising teachers' wages. Look, decentralization -- and the reform that we are successfully implementing today -- is a positive, I'm counting. But I'm afraid that the decentralization of education that can happen. And look, today there's a practical change in the function of methodological services, and today we're talking about the fact that the institutions of district postgraduate education, which have ensured a higher professional qualification, are also questioning their work. Yeah, well, decentralization in education should be very smart, or we could lose even the positive qualities that we had in the system that we had before. So I want us to talk out loud today about both Ukrainian education and science.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-02-m0.u27	The word is given by Kucherenko Aleksija Yuriovich. Please. Prepared is Šufrich Nestor Ivanovich. And that will be the final performance for today.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-02-m0.u28	Alexy Kucherenko, faction of Fatherland. Ladies and gentlemen, dear Ukrainians, I want to remind you of the simple truth. What Is Audition? An audit is by definition an assessment of either a person, or an organization, or a system, or a process, or an object of management. Any manager, any manager, takes his first step just because of a serious audit of the management system. It's an axiom of government, including primarily government. President Greensky promised to conduct an audit with his team over the first 100 days after his inauguration and only then to start a dialogue with society on the country's development strategy. We've taken this positive, but it's been almost a year and I want to ask, where do you want to look at the results? I remind you, on August 28, last year, a house collapsed in Drogobych, and eight people were killed. The President was promised to conduct a full audit of the housing fund. Where do you see the results of this audit, please? Two and a half months ago in Kiev, a house broke into Poznaki and five people were killed, tens of them wounded. Where are the results of this investigation? And can Ukrainians feel calm and secure in their homes? In the winter, we were told that tariffs were high even at a low price for gas. That's why the government of the Pottery has gone. Can you ask where the result of the review of these tariffs is? And why have the Ukrainians so far not received an estimate that they can look forward to? Where is the Ukrennergo audit that visited, the company, the licenses and the technical conditions on the green tariffs that we all pay through the budget or through the tariff? Where are the other studies? And I'm now drawing your attention to Kiev's problems. And exactly a year ago, in September, the government announced that it would conduct Kiev's audit. Where are the results of this audit? You don't see the traffic collapse that Kiev is sinking into today? You don't see a systemic infrastructure crisis in Kiev? Don't you realize it's getting hard to live here? And at that time, we continue to spend budget money -- taxpayers' costs. So, ladies and gentlemen, give us the results of your audit. And without that, all your pre-election slogans, all your soldiers will be seen as a series of bites and other promises that will lead to nothing. Think, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-02-m0.u29	National MP Schufrich Nestor Ivanovich, faction "The Opposition Platform for Life", please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-02-m0.u30	Thank you. Dear Chairman, dear colleagues! We need to face the truth. We have embalmed 65 billion dollars in this room that were concentrated in the Coronation Fund. There's no money now. The doctors don't need it. Three of our colleagues are now ill, and I wish them recovery and a better return to this hall. At the level of illness, we are the second profession, the national deputies of Ukraine, more than 5 percent of us are already sick, and we are preceded by doctors. I'm low on them. I'm sorry for all of us that we've deprived them of enough funding and we've wasted the wet money that has been concentrated in this room, by our vote. And we need to prepare for what awaits us. And we all realize that there is a very difficult situation ahead of us that there is no money to overcome. Once again, it seems that roads are paved and no roads, no treatment. It's September 2nd. Six years ago, negotiations were launched to sign the Minsk Accords. Then the Minsk Accords were written in February 15th in a set of actions to implement them. You know, I understand my opposition to Peter Dusty and Peter Dusty. But I can't understand what my problem is with you, "green servants of the people." What's the problem? You said you were a peacemaker. Not the Congress of the United States, not the Bundestag, not the Russian Duma, not the Parliament of France, and we, the Supreme Council of Ukraine, have to adopt those laws that will bring peace back to our country. As for the ostrich, we put our heads in the sand, and we put feathers in the sand. You know, I'm not talking about feathers, I'm talking about other places. Today I urge all of us to focus on the main issue: bringing peace back to our country. There's not enough time left. Yes, there was a criminal decision on June 29th, 14th, when they actually got out of the Truce and the Truce and tried to fight. Tens of thousands of people have died, the ruined economy, the poverty of our citizens is the price of a criminal decision to fight. So are you Dusty or are you Ze-command? I want to ask you again, are you ostriches or are you for peace? If it's for peace, don't be afraid of it, do it! Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-02-m0.u31	Dear colleagues, we've been required by two MP factions to take a break with a replacement for the performance. People’s MP Alexeiyovich Honcharenko is invited to attend. Please, Alexeiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-02-m0.u32	Alexei Hotcharenko, European Solidarity, Clothing. Today I am very happy and pleased to say my native region, Odessa, because today is Odessa City Day. And I want to welcome everyone to whom Odessa is something important in their heart -- that's all to settle down, that's all to Ukrainians, and that's a lot of people around the world. Why? There's a town I can see in my sleep. Indeed, there is a city that we all see in our dreams. Those who were born in Odessa or grew up, whether they were studying, or those who entered the very blue in the world of the Black Sea, or those who saw the Odessa streets, or who tasted the Odessa kitchen, or those who read Olesh, Bagritsky, Kataieva, Pushkina, Ahmatov, Zvanecki, or those who listened to Utosova, Oystrakh, Botvinov, or saw the exhibitions of Borovsky, Reichelhaus – many, many people who love this city, and, indeed, this city is something very important to them. So today I welcome to Odessa City Day all the Odessa, all the Ukrainians and really millions of people around the world, because Odessa is our pearl whose name is known all over the world. For people who have watched the legendary Odessa Film Studios at least once, they will never forget our city. Sadly, many trials have also occurred in our city. During World War II, heroism earned the name of the hero city. In 2014, Odessa again experienced another experience and then protected Ukraine. And this is very important. So today I want to welcome the hometown of Odessa with the City Day, to wish you all the best. And on behalf of our entire team, we're sure that everything is best in Odessa and has gone forward, the best in the future. Long live our Odessa, live and prosper! Happy Odessa City Day! Hello!
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-02-m0.u33	Alexiyyovich, you're very fond of the positive performances, you know. Please, Your Honor, we've finished the discussion, we've finished the break, we've moved on to the agenda.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-02-m0.u34	Dear colleagues! The bill (registration number 3913) is a bill amending certain laws of Ukraine concerning the establishment of military and civil administrations. It is suggested that this issue be considered in a simplified manner. Please prepare for the vote. Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[10:48:59]] For-187 Decision taken. The chairman of the Committee on Public Authority, Local Self - Government, Regional Development, and the construction of Kornienko Alexander Sergiyovich is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-02-m0.u35	Dear colleagues, dear Ukrainians, the draft Act amending some of Ukraine's laws on the establishment of military and civil administrations has been developed in relation to the need to ensure the universality and continuity of power guaranteed by the Constitution of Ukraine, local self-government in individual territories in the context of the next stage of administrative and territorial reform. The draft law proposes to amend the laws of Ukraine on military and civil administrations and on local self-government in Ukraine, which introduce the possibility of establishing military and civilian administrations of united territorial communities. This is based on the fact that the Central Electoral Commission is unable to ensure the preparation and conduct of local elections in individual territories. The Committee considered the proposed draft Law at its meeting and approved the decision to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, in accordance with part one of the first article 21 of the Supreme Council Rules, to include the prescribed draft Law in the order of the day-to-day fourth session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the ninth call, and in accordance with part one of the first part of article 114 and part two of article 116 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, on the basis of the first reading, by shortening the deadline for the submission of proposals and amendments to it in preparation for the second reading. To take into account, when preparing the draft for second reading, in accordance with part one of article 116 of the Supreme Council's Rules of Procedure, proposals, amendments to corrections, clarifications, deletions of errors and/or contradictions in the text of the bill of other structural parts of the bill or other legislative acts that were not considered in the first reading and correspond to the subject of legal regulation of the bill. Third. Ask the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to announce in accordance with the first part of article 116 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine at a plenary session during the consideration of the bill on the need for proposals and amendments for corrections, clarifications, the elimination of errors and contradictions in the text of the bill, other structural parts of the bill and (or) other legislative acts that were not subject to consideration in the first reading and correspond to the subject of legal regulation of the bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-02-m0.u36	Thank you, Alexander Sergiyovich. Well, you acted like an author and both from the committee, didn't you? You had four minutes. You're on at 2. Thank you, as always, for your economic attitude toward our day. Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss this issue? Please sign up: two in, two in. The word is given to the National Deputy Nikolainek Andrija Ivanovich, a faction of the political party of the All-Ukrainian Union of Fatherland. Please. A riot, please, a national MP.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-02-m0.u37	Good afternoon, dear colleagues. Fatherland will vote against this bill. I'll explain why. Because to our conviction, according to our analysis, if this bill is adopted, it creates the basis for an arbitrary rescission of elections. This would contradict 38 articles of the Constitution of Ukraine, which would contradict article 25 of the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights, which would contradict article 21 of the United Nations General Declaration of Human Rights. With the adoption and with the prospect of adopting this human rights legislation, which refers to the right to choose and to be elected, the right to free and fair elections will be enshrined in the "bolo" of political purpose. How different this is from what all the predecessors have tried and done to today's President is nothing. That's why "Paternity" insists that human rights are indivisible, that human rights are the right to choose and be elected, the right to free elections. We urge those who want not only to be on the floor but in the work of the people's servants, but not the executive council, not the President, to vote against this bill, because it contradicts international law, the law of Ukraine, and it contradicts the national interests of Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-02-m0.u38	The word is given to National Deputy Rahmanin Sergey Ivanovich, faction of the political party "Golos".
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-02-m0.u39	Dear colleagues, the war will not end tomorrow, the invasion will not occur tomorrow, in order for reintegration to take place, we will need years, and as long as we live in the realities that are there. The Central Election Commission, based on the findings of the Ukrainian Security Service, the United Nations Operation, the Ukrainian Security Service, has determined that, unfortunately, elections cannot be held in part of the territory. We can argue how fair or unfair this decision is, but it has already taken place. And anyway, even though the mechanism of military civilian administrations is not flawless, it's better than disorder or anarchy. And on the basis of this, we need to give people the opportunity to receive services and to seek solutions to the problems that arise. They're talking about rights. We must not deprive our people of the right to address our problems. We're in the fork when the new organs of local self-government can't be chosen, and the powers of the old are exhausted. Then we have what we have. We need to create a mechanism that will make a decision in this situation. This bill is not irreprehensible, I hope that it will be corrected to the second reading procedure, but the initiative is perfectly logical. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-02-m0.u40	The word is given to the People's Deputy of Moroz Volodymyr Viktorovich, faction of the Political Party "The Opposition Platform for Life".
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-02-m0.u41	Please give Natalie to the Jury of the Queen.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-02-m0.u42	Natalia Juryovna Kraljevska, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-02-m0.u43	Dear colleagues! On behalf of 500,000 voters, people who live all six years along the line of separation, on behalf of people who do not know what war is, on behalf of people who have not betrayed, believed in Ukraine, people who have believed in you, elected this Parliament and elected the President -- give them their right to vote in your country -- give them their right to live in a peaceful country, a country that needs them. What are you doing? You are today dividing people into real and unreal people, those whom you can trust and those you cannot trust, those you give the right to vote and those you deprive of the right to vote. Dearly beloved, but not for long, you will begin to divide people in color or in any other way. You can't do that. You can't do that. You can't do that. You can't do that. You can't do that. And tomorrow you don't like the inhabitants of Lviv or Uzhgorod, Kharkiv or Odessa, and tomorrow you'll also be disposing of them. Today, by violating the Ukrainian Constitution, in our beloved country, you deprive people of their right to choose their local authority. Therefore, "The Opposition Platform for Life" requires this Parliament to protect people's rights, vote today for the right to vote, and to listen to the reports of the CLTC and the military and civil administrations today, and this law is by no means supported. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-02-m0.u44	Please Zinkevich Jan Vadimovna, faction of the European Solidarity Political Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-02-m0.u45	Please give the word to Ruslan Knazevitch.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-02-m0.u46	Ruslan Petrovich Knazević, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-02-m0.u47	Thank you for giving me your word. Dear colleagues, I am deeply convinced that the main problem with this bill is that it is based on a thesis that is conceptually unfaithful. If you read clearly what's going on, it's about that if the Central Electoral Commission has established the inability to organize and conduct local elections in these areas, then this is where military and civilian administrations should be formed. But I'm pointing out to you that the Central Election Commission has not decided on the impossibility of appointing local elections this time. This time, on the basis of appropriate submissions, she found that it was impossible to hold the first elections of the united territorial communities at the same time as local councils, as provided for by the Constitution. But that doesn't mean in any way that the Central Election Commission, after a short period of time, the average time, or a little bit longer, if there are such conditions, and that could be a month or two, doesn't again assign the first election to another date. Because it's not another election that the Supreme Council has once every five years, it's a completely different kind of election that the Central Election Commission can continuously appoint if there are conditions for that. And here's the basic theory that if she found that in the next election, the military-civil administration has been operating for five years, and the Central Election Commission, even if it is, can't appoint an election, it's wrong. Moreover, this is in direct contravention of both the laws of law and the Electoral Code, which we have recently adopted. So I think we need to take our time, and it's good that 116 will do it, but to think that maybe in these areas, the local self-government authorities that were still elected in the 15th year, they can exercise their powers in accordance with the Constitution. Instead, if such conditions were to be created soon, the first elections would be held there. This kind of formulation makes it impossible to do it theoretically for five years, which would be a violation of the Constitution. These things take a lot.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-02-m0.u48	Are there any other speakers? Polakov, Shahov. Then we go to the vote. Please invite the national deputies to the hall. Sergei Volodymyrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-02-m0.u49	Yesterday was September 1, and our children went to school. But the heart suggests that the outbreaks from WHO can literally cancel elections throughout the country within a few weeks. They say "yellow" lines, "red" lines today. The other one. Since when can the C.E.C.C.P.E.P.E.P.E.P.E.P.E.P.D. From what date has Ukraine been transformed into a totalitarian state by abolishing elections throughout the country? Where does the President look? Ruslan Homczak is our authority today, commander-in-chief of the Armed Forces of Ukraine, who said that elections could be held throughout the country? The two governors of Lugansk, Donetsk, are thieves. And anyone who supports this bill will also steal the votes of our entire nation. "No" to this bill! "No" is for the Ukrainians to be deceived today! All Ukraine is free, all Ukraine is democratic, and we must take care of people today, not politics.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-02-m0.u50	Polakov Anton Eduardoovich. Out of place, turn on the microphone. And we'll vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-02-m0.u51	Anton Polyakov, MP Group for the Future, Montenegro. Dear colleagues, I join Sergey Volodymyrovich, because it is not clear how the Servants of the People could have promised to hold an election in Donbas in an uncontrollable territory this fall, if you can't secure an election in a controlled area. Why did you choose the deputies there? Why did you choose the President, and why couldn't you choose local self-government? Why does the president go there to Bahmut to buy candy at the store and say that everything is okay and people can't choose their own local authority? And I'm joining Sergey Volodymyrovich again, but I'm going to tell him that stealing the governors is not only there, but also in many other areas, including Montenegro. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-02-m0.u52	Dear colleagues, let's go to the vote, prepare for the vote. I'm betting on the voting proposal for acceptance as a basis. Any more questions? I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of a proposal by the committee to take into account the proposed clarifications when preparing for second reading in accordance with article 116 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Rules of Procedure, the draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine concerning the formation of military and civilian administrations (registration number 3913). Is everyone ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[11:04:00]] For 240 Decision taken. Thank you. Let's see the factions. The next issue of the agenda is the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation on the establishment and liquidation of district public administrations in connection with the establishment (registration) of areas (registration number 3975). It is suggested that this issue be considered in a simplified manner. Please support and vote. [[11:04:44]] For 219 Decision taken. The National Deputy of Ukraine, Bezgin Vitaly Yuriovich, is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-02-m0.u53	Honorable Presidium, Your Honor! It's actually a very simple and short bill that contains one key rule. So historically, the local government administrations of their time were formed by the President's decree, then they went to the Constitution, and then they came into existence a profile law on local government administrations. But it turns out that we don't have any legislation that says what to do with RDA, actually, if we change the administrative system and who has the appropriate powers. As you and I well know, the last five years Ukraine has gone to create a new administration and has actually done so in July of this year. Now the question is, instead of 490 districts, we have 136 and we need to reorganize. To our conviction, because RDA is directly the authorities that represent, including executive power, it would be absolutely right and consistent to give the necessary authority to the government, that is, to allow the government, under exhaustive conditions, if the administrative and territorial system changes, to establish and eliminate district government administrations. Actually, this is the norm contained in this bill, which we, in particular, and members of the committee ask you to support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-02-m0.u54	The word for the report is given to the head of the Committee’s subcommittee on the organization of state authority, local self - government, regional development, and the construction of the city of Kornjienk Aleksandr Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-02-m0.u55	Thank you. Dear colleagues, as the bill is small and, in principle, in a single sentence called, the committee at its meeting on September 1, 2020, in accordance with part one of the first article 21 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Rules, proposes to include the prescribed draft law in the agenda of the day-to-day session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the ninth call, and in accordance with part one of the first and part two of article 114 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Rules of Procedure, as a result of the first reading, to accept as a basis and as a whole, taking such proposals into account the committee's text. In the title of the bill, replace the word "accounting" with the word "reorganization." In section 1, paragraph 1, paragraph 1, the second paragraph reads as follows: "The creation and reorganization of local government administrations in connection with changes in the administrative and territorial system is carried out by decision of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine." Paragraph 5 reads as follows: "The procedure for carrying out actions related to the creation or reorganization of local government administrations is determined by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine." In the second paragraph of paragraph 2 of section I, delete the word “accounting”. In the second paragraph of paragraph 1 of section 2 and the word "creates, reorganizes, eliminates" replaces "creates, reorganizes according to the law". In the second paragraph of paragraph 3 of section I of paragraph 1, replace the words "appropriate legal acts" with the words "Concerning Local Government Administrations." Paragraph 1 of section II, paragraph 2, reads as follows: “In the month since the date of entry into force of this law, ensure the adoption of the legal instrument provided for by it with the determination of the succession of property, rights and obligations that belonged to local public administrations as legal persons of public law that are terminated as a result of the reorganization.” In the event of the adoption of the bill as a whole in the Supreme Council of Ukraine, it is proposed that a committee be appointed when preparing the text of the law for signature by the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to undertake, together with the Chief Legal Authority of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, its technical and legal work. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-02-m0.u56	Please sign up: two in, two in, and no in, from the MP factions and groups. Bacunec Pavel Andryovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-02-m0.u57	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs! Paul Bakunec, Lvivščina, MP group "Trust". The question of the completion of decentralization, namely, the creation of unified territorial communities, the authorization of new district councils, and the special authorization of district administrations in major areas, are now very relevant. At the same time, they are very complex and controversial. The most important thing, though, is that this process of decentralization will still be regarded as such without any change in the Constitution. I would like to emphasize that people on the scene have long been waiting for this hall to be divided so that we can share the clear powers that will be vested in the boards of the new united territorial communities, which will be vested in the district councils in the major areas and which powers will partly remain in the administrations of these new major areas. This bill is intended to give Kabmin the right to determine the transfer procedure. And we don't know who Kabin's going to determine the transfer procedure -- whether it's local administrations or local councils. But when the reform took place in recent years, everyone promised that property would be transferred to local communities. Therefore, the "Trust" MP group in general will not generally support this bill in the second reading until it clearly sets out these limits: what authority will be given to local councils, which are given to administrations and to whom local property will be transferred. We want it to be passed on to local councils. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-02-m0.u58	Juršin Jaroslav Romanović.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-02-m0.u59	Please pass the word to Roman Lozinski.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-02-m0.u60	Roman Lozinski.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-02-m0.u61	People's choice, people of Ukraine! Roman Lozinski, the Voice faction. All that applies to district government is what needs to go back in time, and that's what's going to go back in time according to the government's concept and plan of action, according to the concept of decentralization as a reform that's been going on for years. And we understand very well that today this law does not eliminate the RDA, and that is not a good thing. That's bad, because the RDA is looking at how the hands of the President's Office are still in place. Those who call themselves into the cabinets, those who dictate to the communities, and those who will always be a barrier to the development of communities. Not those who control development, but those who actually go into people's pockets take the money out of there, and those who will just terrorize further decentralization communities. How many district government administrations did we have? It was 490. The bill is now proposed to create a basis for the first step towards eliminating the whole and forgetting such a fact, such a phenomenon as district administrations, to reduce their number to 136 in the first step. The Voice faction and I will support this step. Of course, there are things that need to be improved right now. But we all have to understand that this bill does not change anything at the moment until the district state administrations go into the past, until the communities take full advantage of all the resources, all the powers, for which decentralization was launched. With the Voice faction, we support the total elimination of district government administrations and the independence of financial communities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-02-m0.u62	Nikolainko Andri Ivanovich. Sergey Vladislavovich was involved.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-02-m0.u63	Dear colleagues, we do not understand the logic of our colleagues, who say: “But we have promised that there will be performances that will create united communities, district councils. And that's what we guarantee them. And now we say, but we leave the district government not in this number, but in this smaller number. So we create executive organs in areas or don't we create? Why do we cheat on each other? The Fatherland faction insists that appropriate decisions be made to allow this practice to end when unelected officials form budgets, in fact, conduct general observations of these areas. That's why our faction is taking a firm stand against this bill. We insist that the district government departs in the past. In order for the newly elected regions, the newly elected communities to form solely executive bodies that will shape fiscal, land and any other policy in place. Isn't that what everyone was promised? And now again, we're leaving these rudiments behind because of some transitional moments. But there are still district administrations in Zaporozhye until now, where the whole area is a united community. You offer this extension only within the larger so-called district administrations. Don't vote for it. And this will enable us to settle the question once and for all: the one who chooses local authorities and forms executive bodies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-02-m0.u64	Suffritch Nestor Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-02-m0.u65	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. So, have all the presidents been in this room? The people of Ukraine also felt how it felt to be president of the Ze-command. And now I'm reading, "Everybody is Ukraine." That's what they say, right? Got it. Who told me about the people? I heard something like this: "Let's ask people how to unite." That is how people curse you after you have been united, reduced, optimized, and reformed. And you're going to feel it all on October 25th. So now I don't want to believe it anymore, and people are saying that because of the coronavirus, they're going to postpone the election. Because no one will choose you anymore. People need to go to a hospital for 200 kilometers. It's 150 kilometers to the school. Well, is that okay? It seems that you do not have children or parents. I wish you all health. But there are other people besides you and me who need to go to the hospital, not Feofania, and who have to go to school through three villages after your reform. Well, to be honest, I thought you were still going to listen to Grandpa Lenin -- and all the power of the people. Yeah, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Few, however, have been calculated that after this optimisation, administrations are not enough, so more is needed. It won't help! Don't fool people, it won't help you. Go back to the people with your faces. And the time has come to apologize for what you have done, stressed, and picked up over the year. Today you must remember that you are servants of the people, not of the people, your servant. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-02-m0.u66	Still willing to speak out of motives are there? A speedboat, Knyazevitch. Then we go to the vote. Please invite the national deputies to the hall. Anna Constantine's speedboat.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-02-m0.u67	Dear colleagues, a perfectly logical bill, but I would like to remind you how you, under specific MPs or under specific local elites, cut into areas that people now need to travel 100 miles [150 km] at a minimum to get to the district center. Or to get some help, they also need to go crazy distances. I would like to remind you that the historic city in Kiev, Preyyaslav, was simply rejected because some deputies did not want there to be another area. So, you know, given how we listen to people and how we take into account the opinion and desire of communities, I think that such bills are not supported.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-02-m0.u68	Thank you. Knyazevich Ruslan Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-02-m0.u69	Thank you, Mr. Head. I'm not going to repeat myself now about the arguments that have been made, I just want to ask. Please tell me about the subject entrusted with the authority to create and dispose of district administrations, and why is the Cabinet of Ministers here? You're kidding!? The author of the bill came out and said, yes, the President created local government administrations in accordance with the Constitution after the adoption of the Constitution, but we now believe that this is our view that the authority to eliminate is not available, so they should appear in the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Guys, you just passed the Military Civil Administration Act. You didn't think about it when you passed that law and gave the President the power to appoint, create and eliminate military and civilian administrations? You had no doubt about the constitutionality of these things. Now you're saying it's unconstitutional. I realize that some people are afraid, perhaps the President is afraid to take political responsibility for such decisions. But it's okay, he's an ideologue of administrative reform. Let him make such decisions, let him exercise his constitutional powers. And in this way, our faction will not vote because this bill clearly contradicts the Constitution in this part. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-02-m0.u70	Thank you. Let's go to the vote. Take your seats, please invite the national deputies to the hall. I'll bet you a vote. Questions immediately. Is the committee offering a foundation as a whole? No, it's not. I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislative acts on the establishment and liquidation of district administrations in connection with the establishment (registration) of areas (registration number 3975). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[11:20:38]] For 223 The decision is not taken. I am voting on the proposal to return the subject to the law. on the return to the Committee to prepare for the re-reading of the draft Act amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine concerning the establishment and liquidation of district public administrations in connection with the creation of (lying) areas (registration number 3975), the re-reading of the first reading. Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[11:21:30.]] For 245 Decision taken. Thank you. The next issue of the agenda is the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation on the exemption from payment of court fees in connection with the prosecution of administrative offences (registration number 3424). It is suggested that this issue be considered in a simplified manner. Please support and vote. [[11:22:09]] For 226 Decision taken. The National Deputy of Ukraine, Dmitry Sergiyovich, is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-02-m0.u71	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues! Allow me to present Bill 3424 on amending some Ukrainian legislation on the exemption from payment of court fees in connection with the charge of a misdemeanour. The bill is intended to remedy an unfair situation involving artificial restrictions on access to justice resulting from a change in the legal position of the Supreme Court and the aging of individual laws. Over the years, the accusations of decisions made by authorized authorities to involve a person in administrative responsibility were free of charge. But on March 18, this year, the highest judicial body, which should primarily protect the rights and freedoms of citizens, based on the sole intention of artificially reducing the number of appeals in this category by covering exclusively technical obsolescence of individual rules, came out of a permanent approach to the right of application, which, by the way, formed itself several years ago, and decided that now, in the event of a complaint, the Ordinance on the imposition of administrative penalties in the form of a fine of 17 fines must first pay 420 fines in order to obtain a chance to review the legality and legality of such a ruling by the court. Our bill is fairly simple and provides for a purely technical replacement of an outdated category of "State Customs" for a new "court assembly" in article 288 of the Code of Administrative Violations. That parallel duplication of the principle of exemption from the payment of such categories of cases by the court at all stages of the proceedings in the Law on the Judicial Assembly. The bill removes any corruption risks, losses to the state budget and is recommended for adoption by the Professional Committee and the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-02-m0.u72	Thank you. A member of the Committee on Finance, Tax and Customs Policy of Allahverdiev Irina Valerievna is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-02-m0.u73	Honorable Presidium and National Deputies of Ukraine! Your point is to consider and take a decision on a bill to amend some Ukrainian legislation on the exemption from payment of court fees in connection with the indictment of administrative offences (registration number 3424) (from 4 May of the current year). The main purpose of the bill is to remove unfair attitudes towards citizens and create artificial barriers to access to justice by the Supreme Court. In particular, it is suggested that individuals be released from court fees in connection with charges of administrative offences. At a meeting of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Tax and Customs Policy on 9 July this year, the bill was considered and recommended to the Supreme Council of Ukraine to accept it as a basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-02-m0.u74	Thank you. Please sign up: two for, two for, two for, three for factions. Anna Constantine's speedboat.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-02-m0.u75	Dear colleagues, the MP's Group for the Future supports this bill, because it makes absolutely sense because even today we have administrative fines smaller than the court's for handling this case in a court of law. So I think it's necessary to support this bill and maybe if there's some nuances, make adjustments between the first and the second readings. The parliamentary group "For the Future" supports it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-02-m0.u76	Aresonkov Vladimir Yuriovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-02-m0.u77	Dear colleagues, sometimes deputies, when they evaluate a bill or a bill and refer to the findings of the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration and sometimes talk about the formal conclusion or some classical cliché. And very often, the science-expert department makes observations, as I see them, are absolutely right and fair. And this bill just confirms when there are virtually no comments from our main experts. On the contrary, they point out that the Order on Administrative Violations does not comply with the established system today and prevents citizens from exercising their rights to appeal against administrative offences. So I would like to listen to the conclusions of our experts and experts. And I would like everyone to support this bill. Trust Group will do it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-02-m0.u78	Fedina Sofia Romanovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-02-m0.u79	Please pass the word to your colleague Knazevitch.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-02-m0.u80	Knyazevich Ruslan Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-02-m0.u81	Thank you, Sofia Romanovna. All problems with the judicial assembly began in the Supreme Council after the issue of the judicial congregation was taken away from the Committee of Legal Policy and Justice and passed on to another committee, where, unfortunately, there is no expert, and they refer to the judicial congregation as a normal tax, which by definition is not. Now, my friends, a representative of the committee has come out and said that we have a Supreme Court obstructing access to justice. Do you have any idea the value of such statements in any democratic country? What's going on? The point is that the Grand Chamber of the Supreme Court, and I remind you that according to the changes to the Constitution, it is the Grand Chamber of the Supreme Court that has the right to interpret the laws, to interpret the difference between the State's customs and the court. And we need to have a serious discussion, and we need to think about how to get out of this situation, because there really has to be a government duty on the same committee, and there's a judicial assembly on the other. And maybe even a joint session should be held, along with experts, to think about how we should proceed, and how we should approach the judicial assembly, which, I remind you, is one of the beacons of our Association Agreement and the IMF Agreement, which has recently been ratified by the government and the President has signed. And if you want that kind of way, thinking that we have the Supreme Court in the Great Court person is the one who is obstructing access to justice, getting a result, you're going to have serious problems, because the courts will rely on the practice of the Great Court, not on this bill, and we'll get to the fact that there will be a serious difference in court decisions. This will not lead to the desired outcome, but will further confuse the situation. This bill can't be adopted in this way, you really have to put it in a long box and have a professional discussion, but a discussion at the hands of experts, not those who have no idea what a judicial congregation is and never have been in court. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-02-m0.u82	Papiev Mikhailo Mikolaiovich. Will there be more speakers? Germano Vasil Ivanovich. Your colleague asked me to pass on the word. Who will be speaking, Papiev? Papiev Mikhailo Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-02-m0.u83	Thank you. Please give the floor to the national deputy German Vasil Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-02-m0.u84	That's funny. Germano Vasil Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-02-m0.u85	Dear colleagues, dear colleagues! Germano Vasil Ivanovich, "The Opposition Platform for Life". First of all, I would like to say that really our platform, our ideology shares the concern of the authors of this bill. We have problems with access to justice, and the further, the narrower a person's ability to go to court to defend a violated right. And that's why the nature of this bill is something that's to be supported -- that's the first. At the same time, I would like to emphasize and agree with my colleague at the Committee on Legal Policy that there is no need to increase the categories, the legal categories of government duty and the court. State Customs and the Judicial Assembly are completely different categories of access to justice. It's a matter of government duty, which means it's dependent on the amount of fines. You can see that by now the state is using fines to fill the state budget, because production is all on the table, there is no income except for tranches and fines they can't take anything by imposing 150 thousand fines for administrative misconduct. And so by supporting this bill, together with that, we ask before the second reading to work substantively and solve the issue unilaterally, to unify the very understanding of access to justice through the judicial assembly and through the State Customs, I mean, whether it's a reduction or a separate category. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-02-m0.u86	Thank you. The motive is Nikolainka. After that, we're the Gethmans, and we're going to the vote. Invite the national deputies to the hall. Andrew Ivanovich Nikolayenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-02-m0.u87	The Fatherland faction will support the bill as one that restores relations, intelligent relations with the state. Because it looks like it's already been pointed out by my colleagues, it's a good idea when in order to charge an administrative fine, which often happens to be unfairly imposed in terms of 10, 20 or even 100 or 200 dollars, you have to pay 420 dollars in the court. At the same time, another element that's important is that we think that in this way, often our law enforcement officers, especially patrol officers, will be more, let's say, more intelligently to avoid stimulating and intimidating citizens, because you can't go to court anyway, because it's too expensive. Well, as this initiative goes on, you can put in practice, I think it would be wise for the court to have the court to pay the person who loses it, or return it to the person who paid it in the beginning. I think that would be wise, too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-02-m0.u88	Thank you. Getmants Danilo Alexanderovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-02-m0.u89	Dear colleagues, thank you for supporting all the factions in the hall today on this bill. And I want to point out and point out that this is about one very important thing: removing the restriction to justice, access to justice. Today, citizens are required to pay a tax or a court fee in excess of a fine. We restrict our fellow citizens to access justice. It's not about looking at the content of the judiciary or the customs, we're not doing any reform, we're removing this violation of the rights of our citizens. So I propose that the House adopt the law as a whole, if that is the will of our deputies and it is supported on the basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-02-m0.u90	Thank you. Let's go to the vote. Ready to vote? The committee was the decision taken — on the basis of which a proposal was now made — as a whole. Which of the factions is against? One, two. Let's put it on the base. I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Law amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine regarding the exemption from payment of court fees in connection with the charges of administrative offences (registration number 3424). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[11:35:48]] For 315 Decision taken. Then it is suggested that the preparation period for the second reading be reduced. According to part two of article 116 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules, I am voting on the proposal to cut down half the deadlines for the submission of rights and proposals and to prepare for the second reading a bill (registration number 3424) amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine regarding the exemption from payment of court fees in connection with the prosecution of administrative offences. Please support and vote. [[11:36:34]] For 269 Decision taken. Thank you. The next issue of the agenda is the draft Act amending chapter III of the Act on Amendments to the Ukraine Act on Change to the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for 2020 (registrations 3692, 3692-1). It is suggested that this issue be considered in a simplified manner. Please support and vote. [[11:37:10]] For 245 Decision taken. The National Deputy of Ukraine, Tretlyakowa Galina Mikolayivna, is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-02-m0.u91	Ladies and gentlemen of the national council, the honourable presiding officers! On April 15, in amending the State Budget, you and I suspended the financing of active employment promotion programmes, as well as the cost-effective information and analysis system of the State Employment Service, which provides activities and payments at the expense of the Fund of the National Compulsory Social Insurance Fund in case of unemployment. At the same time, the unemployment rate of 19.08 increased by 81.6 percent. At present, this percentage is 77 percent. So we've stopped funding active programs and we don't fund them. The bill proposed to your attention proposes that the funding of active programs be unlocked and that the employment of unemployed persons be activated. Thus, by the end of this year, the remaining 322 million funds could be directed towards: the organization of unemployed entrepreneurial activities – 19.7 million, the vocational training of unemployed – 144 million (planned to 254 per year), the organization of public works (this is an additional job creation), the issuance of vouchers for education – 2.9 million, which will allow for the payment of 283 unemployed, compensation to employers of a single social contribution – 92 million, and compensation to employers for the cost of the work of VPO – 21 million. In addition, we can pay off the total debt for financing the information system, which is 9.3 million, which accounts for unemployment insurance in electronic divisive mode, and provides interaction, exchange of data with the Pension Fund and verification of payments with the Ministry of Finance of Ukraine. As a result of the committee's consideration, it is recommended that the bill be adopted as a basis and as a whole. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-02-m0.u92	The Royal Natalia Juryevna is invited to the floor on the alternative bill 3692-1.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-02-m0.u93	Dear colleagues, I am addressing the entire room and I very much ask you to put aside politics now and to make a balanced and professional decision. Because, unfortunately, in April months, when we all passed anti-crisis laws, it was decided here that by quarantine, we would stop payments, a number of social benefits from the Social Insurance Fund. And I just want to say to you, who hasn't made a payment in the last five months: it's a one-time benefit to the victims, it's a child's insurance payment that was born with disability due to an injury to the production or occupational illness of her mother during pregnancy, it's a pay-as-you-go treatment in the rehabilitation wards after the transfer of diseases and injuries, it's a one-time unemployment payout for the organization of unemployed entrepreneurs. Dear colleagues, right now we still need to renew these payments and make a fair process of counting and supporting people. Why I passed an alternative bill and why I'm asking you right now, colleagues, pay attention to why it's important to vote an alternative. Because in the first, main, bill is being renewed only one payment is a one-time payout for unemployment. In my bill, we're renewing all the payments that have been stopped. And the Ministry of Social Policy, especially I've been talking to the minister, they've been supporting my bill because it's the right thing to do today to correct this mistake and renew all payments to people. Because that's what it is. Well, why were they stopped and people are suffering from it today? So I ask you very much to vote in favour of Bill 3692-1 so that we can renew all payments to the people and so that the funds can work peacefully while quarantined, but also carry out all our obligations to the people. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-02-m0.u94	Thank you. The chairman of the Committee on Budget Affairs, Oblivious Lesia Valentinovna, is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-02-m0.u95	Thank you. Dear Dmitre Alexandrovich, distinguished national deputies and invited! The Committee on Budget Issues, at its meeting on July 17, reviewed Bills 3692 and 3692-1. The bill proposes to amend paragraph 5 of the Final Provisions Act of 553-IX amending the Law on the State Budget for 2020, which defines for the period of quarantine the exclusive cost of the Social Insurance Fund and the General Compulsory Social Insurance Fund for unemployment. Bill number 3692 proposes that the social and unemployment funds be allowed to spend on information and analysis systems, as well as to expand the list of unemployment fund insurance payments. The alternative bill 3692-1 generally violates the quarantine period for the implementation of the expenditure specified by the funds. GNEU of the Supreme Council of Ukraine does not deny the possibility of adopting the bills, but the need to obtain the conclusions of the government is also noted. In turn, the Ministry of Finance expressed its position in favour of Bill 3692. As a result of the review, the committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council draft Law No. 3692 to adopt as a basis and as a whole a law introducing technical and legal clarifications related to the proper drafting of the bill. If the bill is adopted by a committee, together with the Chief Legal Authority of the Supreme Council, it should provide the necessary clarifications regarding the decision taken by the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-02-m0.u96	Thank you. Please sign up from the MP factions and groups: two in, two in, and two in, against. Cimbaluk Mikhailovich. Ivchenko Vadim Evgenovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-02-m0.u97	Yvchenko, Fatherland. Colleagues, "Fatherhood" registered bill 3032 on the full recovery of the Social Insurance Fund payments. Colleagues, these are people and families who have lost a breadwinner, they have medical supplies, they have people with disabilities who have direct insurance payments, they have children with disabilities -- the same. Today it is the rehabilitation of such people. These are all the funds that go through the fund. But some people today just want to take this fund under their control. It doesn't work and it makes up different things. By blocking direct payments through the Social Insurance Fund for those categories that I mentioned, they're offering to renew only one category -- unemployment. Yes, we have to do this because during the pandemic, we lost more than 500,000 people. Yes, we need to take the basis. But, colleagues, let's restore justice. Let us restore all payments to those in need between the first and the second readings. I see they just want to bury the funds once and for all. And I saw, when we were taking changes to the budget, half of the funds that were going to fight the pandemic were directed at the wrong target. Colleagues, only 16 billion out of 66, were sent to the Ministry of Health. Think about it. We're going in the fall. We're going in the winter. So in the first reading, we accept. In the second reading, we will propose changes and ask for the support of appropriate adjustments. And the more complex bill, I'll say, is the 1st. And if we voted on it as a basis and in general, it would be nice. But for now, we're going to vote for both of them in the first reading. And I ask that we understand clearly who wants to raid the funds and why they need it. Let's think about people. The human-centred approach is the main one today. And the health and value of man. Human health and life are the main things in the Constitution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-02-m0.u98	Bacunec Pavel Andryovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-02-m0.u99	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs! The position of the "Trust" MP is that we always support all the social bills of all our colleagues, regardless of the factions from which they are submitted, the main thing is that they go to the benefit of our people. This bill, 3692, proposes to supplement the Final Positions of the Ukrainian State Budget 2020 with provisions relating to the enlargement of social funds. So we just want to expand the direction of spending the money that you and I used to limit to the pandemic in the spring and to make the money go first to the needs of SOVID. The bill, in principle, has no direct impact on the budget, but restrictions on social expenditure have been introduced with a view to sending the money to the Kovadian funds in the first place. The members of the Trust Group want to point out that we are ready in the first reading to support both of these bills with their legal elaboration and improvement in the second reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-02-m0.u100	Ioffe Yuliy Yakovich. Royal Natalia Yuriovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-02-m0.u101	Dear colleagues, please listen to each other. What are you saying now? That we don't have to make all the payments. These are legal payments, these payments are prescribed by law. And then, when you and I realized that quarantine, which is inconceivable, what will happen next, is how the country will live. As an emergency mayor, you accepted it then -- limit the payout, stop it. Today we understand that the payment cannot be suspended for more than five to six months. Who are concerned with these payments? This is the payment of a child born with a disability. Your Honor, who are you dispossessing today? This is the payment of one - time assistance to the victim, to his family, and to those who were kept in the custody of the deceased. Ladies and gentlemen, who are you going to save money on today? I understand you can talk about the budget and everything else. First of all, it's small money. Second, they're the most vulnerable people. Why are you at the expense of children with disabilities who have just been born, these babies who will receive this payment, at the expense of families of people who have died, today you're telling us about the economy of the budget? It's kind of like, you know, bullying people. And they're not the kind of money you have to talk about in the first place. These are the legal payments of the people, repeat these payments, they've been suspended, and let the people continue to receive their legal payments. I understand when there are global projects that need to be discussed and there is nothing to talk about. We've stopped the payment, it's been a while. If you decide to cancel it, then cancel it and tell people the truth, and so people are waiting for all these months, waiting for their legal money. So I'm asking you very much to think about and vote for our alternative bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-02-m0.u102	Thank you. Bondar Victor Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-02-m0.u103	Dear Dmitre Alexanderovich, dear colleagues! These two bills are extremely important because they allow for the normal functioning of the Social Insurance Fund and the National Social Insurance Fund to be restored. In fact, the point is that these structures today cannot function properly because at the end of last year, the government was conducting a budget sequestration, in fact, reducing all costs, wherever possible, and hitting on the very defenceless, by someone who can't come to the rally and stand up for himself. These are people who lose their jobs, people who have social problems that need help. Today, these funds have taken away the opportunity to help, taken away the opportunity to work full - time. They don't even have the ability to spend just on their current maintenance. To ensure the normal functioning of computer systems, information systems, databases, and technology upgrades. So that they can make timely payments, help and entrepreneurs, and those who are forced to quit their jobs, and those who have social problems. This club of problems solves this bill -- to remove these restrictions, to lift these prohibitions. So our future parliamentary group will certainly support this bill and the second bill, which is proposed, because it offers even more opportunities to help people, to help the underprivileged, to help the business that is losing its capabilities today. And this bill is extremely important. That is why we appeal to the Hall to support, vote, and give the State and State structures the opportunity to provide adequate assistance to low - income citizens, families, and those who have lost their jobs or lost their jobs. Thank you. We'll support it.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-02-m0.u104	The motive is Rachmanin, I see. And Pauline. Then we go to the vote, right? Pavlenko Rostislav Mikolajovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-02-m0.u105	Thank you, Your Honor, Dmitri Alexanderovich. Dear colleagues, "European Solidarity" always supports the restoration of social benefits. We will support this decision. But it is important to keep in mind the other. Medical insurance has not yet been resolved. Since April, "European Solidarity" has proposed an appropriate bill, but it should be placed in the agenda and supported and voted. And according to teachers, this is also the case with the bills that relate to increasing payouts for teachers regarding their health insurance and the provision of protection and protection services for teachers and students. So that social protection is complex so that we can really solve the problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-02-m0.u106	Vasilchenko Galina Ivanovna
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-02-m0.u107	Galina Vasilchenko, Voice faction. Honorable fellow members of the national MPs, a venerable Presidium! The Voice faction will definitely support this bill, because it provides for incentives for micro-enterprises, such as stimulating business start-up by giving unemployed disposable payments so that they can organize a proper micro-business. I also want to point out that we are always looking more strategically and in advance, and in July, in particular, I registered with my colleagues from our faction a bill that was proposed by the COVID Foundation to predict the help of microbusiness. Unfortunately, he wasn't supported at the time, but now we're happy that the authorities finally realized that at least something needed to be done in order to support the microbusiness and start moving in the right direction. So, of course, we support and continue to work on initiatives that help small, medium-sized businesses. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-02-m0.u108	Ready to vote? All those who wish to speak? Please take your seats, prepare for the vote. The committee also offers a foundation. Who's against it? "Paternity." Who else? I know enough. I'm asking who's against it. I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Act amending Chapter II of the Final Provisions of the Ukrainian Act on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on the State Budget for 2020 (Registration No. 3692). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[11:56:14]] For 316 Decision taken. Show the factions, please. The Servant of the People – 220, "The Opposition Platform – Life" – 0, "European Solidarity" – 25, "The Fatherhood" – 13, "For the Future" – 15, "The Voice" – 17, "The Trust" – 16, "the Non-Factional" – 10. Dear colleagues, there are two minutes left until recess. I'll call it a break until 12:30. Please don't be late.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-02-m0.u109	Please invite the people's deputies into the hall. Are you ready to work? Dear colleagues, the next issue of the agenda is the draft Administrative Procedure Act (registration number 3475). It is suggested that this issue be considered in a simplified manner. Please prepare for the vote. Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[12:35:09]] For 203 Decision taken. Deputy Justice Minister Banchuk Alexander Anatoliyovich is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-02-m0.u110	Dear fellows, dear Head, distinguished national MPs! I want to introduce you briefly to the draft Administrative Procedure Act (Registration No. 3475). This bill has a long history. The relevant projects with the appropriate subject of regulation have already been submitted to Parliament for consideration by six such projects. But the specialty this time, and we hope that at this historic moment, we will still be able to implement this mission with you and adopt the law because. Why were the past six times unsuccessful? Because we already have legislation in different areas, in land, environmental, social, pension, which regulates citizens' relations with the state differently. And this law, its primary purpose, is to determine the only rules of relationship between a person and a state and to become a foundation. Because this requires part two of article 19 of the Constitution, article 40 of the Constitution requires that the right of citizens and the guarantees of citizens be given to the State so that the application is considered and given a reasonable answer. And here's to the implementation of these provisions of the Constitution, to implement European standards in this area, and to prepare an appropriate draft law. Although the bill is initiated by the Cabinet of Ministers and the corresponding Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Justice was only the site that brought together representatives of executive authorities, especially scientists from all major legal centres – Kiev, Kharkiv, Odessa, Lviv, representatives of the judiciary, representatives of analytical public organizations, our international partners are experts from the EU and the German Fund for International Legal Cooperation. So this work is important to us, and this project is the result of this group's work at the moment. So please support this project as a basis. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-02-m0.u111	Thank you. The chairman of the Committee on Public Authority, Local Self - Rule, Regional Development, and the construction of Larissa Mikolayovna Bilozer is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-02-m0.u112	Dear Sir, distinguished national MPs, present! In presenting the position of the Committee of Public Authority, Local Self-Government, Regional Development and Urbanization, I would like to point out that this bill submitted for government consideration is aimed at ensuring the rights and legitimate interests of citizens in relation to government. The law is universal, socially important, although extremely complex, it only applies to individual acts. These issues are particularly relevant to Ukraine, since most of the relations between executive authorities and local self - government bodies, their officials with citizens, or are not regulated by legislation, or are governed by regulations. It affects both people and business, and it takes into account the point of view, the right to be heard, the right to access materials, the grounds for refusal and its complaint, the involvement in decision-making. The subject of the bill is individual matters, business matters. It is always easier for an investor when there is a law that clearly regulates common procedures. Following the adoption of this law, a number of administrative laws will also need to be reviewed, which regulate the procedure differently in order to meet the requirements and standards of the EU. I also want to say that, compared to progress in other directions in public administration (meaning administrative services, decentralization), the issue of administrative procedures remains unresolved at present. It should also be borne in mind that there is no such law in the territory of Ukraine and of the former Soviet Union in Russia and Ukraine alone. This law has a 20 - year - old destiny and was submitted six times to Parliament, and in 2009 there were not even enough votes, and in 2019 it was voted in the first reading and recalled. In November he was further developed by Minust and Mincifre, and he is balanced and balanced. I'm informing you that we supported this bill on the profile committee on June 17th. The conclusions of GNEU, the Committee on Integration of Ukraine from the EU were taken into account. Colleagues, the committee reached a conclusion to recommend to the Supreme Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-02-m0.u113	Thank you. All decisions of the committee are handed down. Let's move on to the discussion. Please sign up: two in, two in, and no in, from the MP factions and groups. Rušin Jaroslav Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-02-m0.u114	Pass the word to Roman Lozinski.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-02-m0.u115	Roman Mikhailovich Lozinski.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-02-m0.u116	Dear colleagues, in fact, 80 percent of the MPs in this House have been elected for the first time, and this bill, more specifically, has been discussed both in Parliament and around Parliament's debates for years. So first of all, to my profound belief, it's a very wrong decision to consider such bills in a simplified way, because they provide for really very profound expert discussions, not philosophical discussions. And they're predicting a real understanding of government policy, because it's a matter of both public service and local self-government, and it's not really millions of Ukrainians, it's tens of millions of Ukrainians. What am I talking about? I'm talking about a bill that regulates administrative procedures, which essentially regulates the relationship between the state and every Ukrainian, between what services they serve as they do. In particular, the state can finally become a service in the end for its citizens, not by football in the offices, by stimulating somewhere to pay for what citizens should have received for years. The bill finally regulates a number of concepts such as the addressee, the applicant, the prosecutor, the witnesses, the experts. Finally, you don't have to say go into 306 offices in Vasa or Wala and talk to her, settle your question. And it's going to be very clear, it's regulated, who's responsible and who's ultimately responsible for people's rights, and what's the responsibility of bodies, if they do their jobs unprofessionally, unfairly and most importantly, if they do it ineffectively. Decision - making is also regulated. The content of administrative acts and many other concepts are regulated. The Voice faction and I support this bill in the first reading. He needs work, including legal work. But finally, the state has to become a service to the Ukrainians and this bill about it.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-02-m0.u117	Venislavski Fedir Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-02-m0.u118	Dear colleagues, this bill that we are considering with you today is very important and essential because its adoption comes directly from the Constitution of Ukraine. All lawyers and lawyers also know perfectly well that citizens must do what is provided for in the Constitution, the laws of Ukraine, and no one can be compelled to do what is not provided for in the Constitution and laws. The relationship of Ukrainian citizens, the relationship of legal persons with the authorities of the state, the local self-government authorities today do not have legal regulations at the level of the law, rather than a legal law. And it is the law that proposes to bring the relationship between those who provide administrative services and those who receive them to the level of the law. First of all, Ukrainian citizens are recipients of such services. Everyone knows perfectly well that there is article 55 of the Constitution, which guarantees every human being the opportunity to address the authorities of the local government. Such relationships, they must be regulated at the level of the law. And this law, it's a long-awaited law, and it's the right thing to do, it's the right thing to do, it's the right thing to do, and it's the right thing to do. So we ask you to support this bill in the first reading. Of course, this bill, like other bills, has some flaws. The main scientific and legal administration, the scientific and scientific management, pointed to some of these shortcomings. I think they'll be removed by the second reading. But the fact that this bill is very necessary, there is no doubt about it, so we ask that this bill be supported in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-02-m0.u119	Gerasimov Arthur Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-02-m0.u120	Please pass the word to Ivanni Klimpush-Cincadze.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-02-m0.u121	Klimpush-Cincadze Ivanna Orestovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-02-m0.u122	Dear colleagues, indeed, the bill on how to organize approaches to administrative procedures is extremely necessary and is long overdue. At the same time, that bill that we are discussing with you today in the first reading room, it is very framework, very general and too raw to be proud of the administrative procedure that is being proposed today. For example, the law has a large number of standards that are virtually impossible to implement. For example, it is pointed out that the issue between the administrative authorities regarding competence is settled by their agreement with the principle of effectiveness, unless otherwise provided by law. It is completely unclear how such a situation can be implemented in practice. Or the bill also contains administrative assistance procedures, which are completely blurry in nature, and it would seem much more logical to create a clear system of relationships between the relevant authorities, not to indicate such a blurry norm. So in the first reading, "European Solidarity" will support this bill in view of its need and necessity. But at the same time, we urge everyone to work really substantively on its work to make sure that this administrative procedure is not decriminal, and we have actually arranged our relationship with the state as citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-02-m0.u123	Alona Ivanovna's starch.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-02-m0.u124	Thank you. Alona's splinter, Fatherland faction. Dear colleagues, dear Ukrainians! In fact, an administrative procedure is actually an attempt to resolve the citizen's relationship with government authorities, with officials, to do the service state and the service state. You know, every human interaction today with the state, and we know it all well, it's stress again, stress again, stress again, it's chaos, potential bribes, potential bureaucracy. Instead of solving your question, you will have paper transfers, internal instructions, obstacles, and negative consequences. We understand that very well. Between an official and a citizen today is a wall of paper, a wall of special internal procedures, and a wall of answers to why they cannot help you, not why and how to help you better. The question is whether this bill will help resolve this issue. To my conviction, without the reform of the government, which is now overturned, this bill will not be able to help. And unfortunately, the reform of public service and government is really down today. Bill 2260, which depoliticizes the public service in various bodies, is not signed by the President today, is not promised or signed for more than 7 months, which directly violates the Constitution. Competitions for public service are not being held today, and you know it. And there is no trust in those assignments that take place without a competition today. Clearly, then, the concept of the bill is needed. And, of course, the idea of the bill is correct. But unfortunately, today, this bill is the only one that doesn't settle all the chaos that's going on. Besides, you know, there are bills that have bad karma. And this bill is one of them. It is really the fifth time it has been transmitted. But it is not accepted simply because there is no political will, but because the quality of the text of the bill is very contradictory and very bad. The 12 pages of the comments were given by the scientific and scientific authorities. The bridge association commented. And Kabmin, unfortunately, was not working on this bill with the co-ordrians or with the profile committee. It's unacceptable, colleagues. I'm asking the Kabin to submit drafts of a much better quality and to work with the deputies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-02-m0.u125	Thank you. All those who wish to speak? Aresonkov, Germany. Two more minutes of motivation, then we go to the vote. Please invite the national deputies to the hall. Aresonkov Vladimir Yuriovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-02-m0.u126	Dear colleagues, the opinion of the "Trust" MP group in the vast majority coincides with the thought of the colleagues who spoke. We really recognize that the basic idea that is put into this bill is to establish the only requirements for the implementation of procedures that relate to the realization of the rights of every private person in relations with the State, and to obtain relevant documents, permits, licences, and so forth. Therefore, it is important to settle the matter. On the other hand, we also point out that the issue and its settlement may at the same time conflict with those points that are regulated by a large number of existing bills. And this is about the state budget of Ukraine, about licensing, about economic activity, and so on. Therefore, we support the idea that the second reading should be carefully worked out and eliminated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-02-m0.u127	Germano Vasil Ivanovich. Then we vote. Please invite the national deputies to the hall. Germany.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-02-m0.u128	Dear colleagues! Germano Vasil Ivanovich, "The Opposition Platform for Life". I'll tell you, this bill is a brother-in-law of a bank bill, remember, when it was removed from the jurisdiction of the judicial institutions to monitor the operation of the banking system of financial transactions. Today, through latent form, it is essential that government administrations decide on matters, including solely judicial execution functions. Here's what we're talking about. In order to cover up all this lawlessness and unconstitutionality, citizens are referred to as being involved in administrative decisions. You see where the people are? Look, where's the administrative justice? The administrative justice that today’s authorities have broken through the reform of the judicial system is essentially mutilated.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-02-m0.u129	Let's go to the vote. I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of a proposal by the committee to take the proposed clarifications into account when preparing for the second reading, in accordance with article 116 of the Rules, of the draft Administrative Procedure Act (Registration No. 3475). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[12:52:14]] For 290 Decision taken. The next issue is the bill amending the Ukrainian Law on Temporary Investigations Commissions and Temporary Special Commissions of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to ensure proper working conditions for temporary investigators and temporary special commissions of the Supreme Council of Ukraine (registration number 3681). It is suggested that this issue be considered in a simplified manner. Please support and vote. [[12:53:00]] For 229 Decision taken. The chairman of the Committee on Rules, MPs and the organization of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Kalchenko Sergey Vitaliyovich, is invited to attend. Give me four minutes from both the authors and the committee. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-02-m0.u130	Honorable Presidium, distinguished national MPs! The Committee had before it a draft law amending the Ukrainian Law on Temporary Investigations Commissions and Temporary Special Commissions of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the provision of adequate working conditions for temporary investigators and temporary special committees of Parliament, which had been introduced by the national members of the regulatory committee. The regulatory committee also considered the conclusion of the General Scientific and Scientific Administration on Bill 3681. The purpose of the bill is to ensure proper conditions for the work of temporary investigators, temporary special commissions and their secretariats by amending the relevant articles of the law. In particular, the bill provides that the work of a temporary commission of inquiry, a temporary special commission, may be provided by specialists from the number of law enforcement officials, the Supreme Council of Ukraine's apparatus, employees of public authorities, other state bodies involved or deployed to ensure the work of the commission (investigative commission, special commission) with the consent of the heads of these authorities and other state authorities and (or) experts. It is also suggested that it should be determined that there are no more than three experts involved in the work of the commission of inquiry, a special commission, that civil and legal contracts be concluded. As I said before, the Regulatory Committee has taken into account the conclusion of the General Scientific and Scientific Administration of Parliament. In particular, he pointed out that the text in the section of the bill relating to the amendments to part one of article 5 of the Law on Temporary Inquiry Commissions, the temporary special commissions of the Supreme Council, did not wrongly exclude the words "secretariat of the commission of inquiry", which the need to exclude was noted in the comparative table of the bill. And taking that into account, the committee proposes editorial clarifications of paragraph 1 of the draft law. This is: "In the second sentence of the first part of article 5, replace the words "secretariat of the commission of inquiry" with the words "employees of the law enforcement agencies, the Supreme Council of Ukraine's apparatus and other specialists who need to be involved to ensure the work of the commission of inquiry under the conditions provided for in articles 26 and 27 of this law." In summary, the regulatory committee decided to recommend to Parliament the result of the first reading of the bill to be adopted on the basis and in general, taking into account the drafting of paragraph 1 of the draft law. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-02-m0.u131	Dear colleagues, is this a matter for discussion? Sign up for the performance: two for, two for, two for, two for the factions. Klimpush-Cincadze Ivanna Orestovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-02-m0.u132	Please pass the word to Alexia Potter.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-02-m0.u133	Alexeiovich Honcharenko
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-02-m0.u134	Alexei Hotcharenko, European Solidarity. This is the right law and our faction will support it. But I'd like to say something else. When we talk about temporary commissions, it's a very important tool for parliamentary control, and we really need it. But why, then, do I have a simple question to ask you, is it still not up to the question of creating a temporary commission of inquiry on the situation with the Wagnerians? I mean, not the famous German composer Richard Wagner, but this is about those "vagnerians" that Ukrainian Valkyrie-style security forces were supposed to transfer to Ukraine to give a witness here to judge them for fighting Ukraine in the so-called "DNR", "LNR," and actually just like Russian mercenaries. And these people. There was a really brilliant special operation developed by the Ukrainian Special Forces, and at the last minute, it was poured into the highest leadership of the state. Our security forces have prepared a brilliant operation. Only they didn't check the offices of the Bank and the people sitting in them. And one of the people sitting there passed this information on to the Russian security forces. After that, the Wagnerians were detained by the KGB of Belarus in Minsk. After that, you know, there were all these "maybe we'll give them to Ukraine." And then, of course, Lukashenko gave them to the Russian Federation, Putin. This operation was completed. And there could be things that would go into textbooks all over the world that we'd all be proud of. It's very surprising that today we're told that this operation wasn't planned at all, and that's what the SDS and GUR do. And I'd like to look at them when we publish in the near future documents that prove that this operation was being prepared. So we need an immediate interim commission of inquiry for parliamentary control to find out who the exiled German Cossack who leaked this information to the Russian Special Forces. We're demanding the TSC as a matter of urgency.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-02-m0.u135	Eutusek Sergey Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-02-m0.u136	Thank you, Mr. Head. Sergey Eutuszek, Equinox, Fatherland. Dear colleagues, a brief tour of the past call. In this vocation, I remember very clearly and vividly how the faction of Fatherland, particularly the leader of Timoshenko, who was the first author of the bill on the creation of the interim commission of inquiry, fought until the last to make this bill a law, in principle, we voted on it. But at the same time, we received a veto from the then president for the bill. Today’s calling was able to pass this law, and it has become effective. I want to say right now that it's you and me here in this session room that we've created a temporary commission of inquiry that has produced very real results from the first few days of our lives. This is a commission that started studying tax evasion from the first days, this is a commission that, together with experts, with members of the commission, saw what was going on with corruption in the Naftogazi NAK is a commission led by Ivan Ivanovich Krulko. And I also want to say that in these two components, we didn't get into the budget, if we talk about Naftogaz NAC, in 2019 alone, 47 billion dollars. And when you talk about VAT, about VAT, every month, up to 3 billion dollars were also washed out of it. I want to tell those people right now, the answer to the question, who's asking -- where to take the money in Ukraine -- this is where to take the money. It is this kind of temporary commission of inquiry that must work, act corruptly, and immediately bring corrupters to justice. Fatherland votes in favour, and we ask for the support of the Hall to improve the work of the interim commission of inquiry.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-02-m0.u137	Thank you. Suffritch Nestor Ivanovich. Anyone else will want to speak? Aresonkov. Then we go to the vote. Please, Nestor Ivanovich, one minute. Invite the national deputies to the hall. Now Nestor Ivanovich Šufric, then Aresonkov. Nestor Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-02-m0.u138	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. With Odessa's day dear friends! In fact, my favorite city celebrates its day. And you know, we're going to show principle today, and we're not going to vote for this law, at least our faction. I was one of those National Deputies of the Supreme Council of the Ninth Call, who called for and demanded the adoption of the Law on Investigative Commissions. And what do we have? I didn't happen to start today by saying hello to the famous Odessa. By the way, I was expecting someone else to mention this holiday, but he's got "vagres," betrayal in his head. Betrayal took place! And we know that from the diapers of Dusty, that was treason. And by the way, we haven't investigated the circumstances of this case, we're not investigating them. We were not able to create an investigation commission to investigate the murder of more than 50 Odessa residents, who are celebrating their day today. That's why we're not voting today. We need to be principled before ourselves. And we need the money for investigators today. We're investigators. If we are not afraid, if we have a spirit, strength, and consistency, we are now able to investigate crimes in our country. Unless we're given "somewhere on the top," and even if it's beyond the ocean, we're not given different notes, instructions, suggestions that you can't give up. In these circumstances, therefore, the commission of inquiry does not work. And it's really a betrayal already in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-02-m0.u139	Aresonkov Vladimir Yuriovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-02-m0.u140	Vladimir Aresonkov, trust MP. I want to confirm that our group has fully supported a bill that has already taken effect, has become the Law, the creation and operation of temporary investigators or temporary special commissions of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. But the question is, honourable colleagues, who can't take all the nuances into account, and life shows that sometimes bills need to be redrafted so that they can be put into practice. And directly, the mechanism for involving officials, representatives of executive authorities, law enforcement agencies to work as temporary special and investigative commissions, the mechanism for paying them for their work, and so on, this will all be regulated in this bill. The Trust MPs will vote for him and invite everyone.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-02-m0.u141	Samantha Anatolyevna Bobrowska and we vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-02-m0.u142	Dear National Deputies! I would like to remind everyone that the national language and, in particular, the working language in the session hall is the Ukrainian language. Of course, today in Odessa the great festival, and I would like to remind, in particular, the right faction that sits on our right hand, that, by the way, Odessy is more than 200 years old and it starts not by flying the Russian Empire in the south, but it's much older. That's right, you know. Surely we welcome the Odessa with their City Day! When we go back to the bill, we have a number of questions. We are ready to vote in the first reading. In particular, the presence of law enforcement agencies at meetings or within the secretariat of the TSC raises the issue. We're ready to work, but in the first, we support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-02-m0.u143	Thank you. Let's go to the vote. Ready to vote? First question. The committee also offers a foundation. Is there any objection? Okay. I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Temporary Investigations Commissions and Temporary Special Commissions of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to ensure proper working conditions for temporary investigators and temporary special commissions of the Supreme Council of Ukraine (Registration No. 3681). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[13:06:01]] For 299 Decision taken. I am voting on the proposal for adoption as a whole, taking into account the Committee's proposals and the necessary technical and legal regulations, the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Temporary Investigations Commissions and Temporary Special Commissions of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to ensure the proper working conditions of temporary investigators and temporary special commissions of the Supreme Council of Ukraine (Registration No. 3681). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[13:06:52]] For 281 Decision taken. The law was passed in general. Thank you, Your Honor. Show me the factions, please. "People's Servant" – 214, "The Opposition Platform for Life" – 0, "European Solidarity" – 24, "Fatherhood" – 14, "For the Future" – 7, "Voice" – 0, "Trust" – 13, "non-factional" – 9. Decision taken. The next issue of the agenda is the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation on the calculation of workers' electronic work (registration number 3623). It is suggested that this issue be considered in a simplified manner. Please support and vote. [[13:07:42]] For 236 Decision taken. Deputy Minister of Social Policy Vitaly Volodymyrovich is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-02-m0.u144	Thank you. Good afternoon, Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs! Your opinion is proposed by the draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on the calculation of workers' employment by electronic means. The bill is designed for the purpose of calculating the work of workers in electronic form, as well as defining the legislative conditions for the automatic assignment of pensions at an age through the individual's personal electronic office on the web portal of the Pension Fund's electronic services. That is, three months after the adoption of this law, new social services will be introduced, particularly for persons who are entitled to a pension. An electronic workbook will enable authorized authorities to assign pensions automatically to a person without recourse and document collection for all his work. So this is going to be like in many civilized countries -- Britain, Estonia and others. This gives the State the right to inform about the possibility of receiving a person’s pension and its calculated size. But in this case, a person will have the right to choose to improve the size of his calculations: either he will provide information about his employment by the year 2000, which is not currently in the State Register, or he will postpone his retirement with the possibility of increasing his employment after continuing his work. Information is being filled by both the employer and the person directly insured through the Pension Fund web portal. I note in particular that the original paper workbook is passed on to the employee as an official document. If the employee is willing, the employer will continue to keep it in order. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-02-m0.u145	The word is given to the Head of the Committee on Social Policy and Veterans’ Rights to Galina Mikolayivna Trelyakowi. Please, Galina Mikolayevna.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-02-m0.u146	Dear Chairman, distinguished national MPs! The Committee on Social Policy and Veterans’ Rights considered the draft bill on July 1, this year, and the Ukrainian National Deputies supported its objective. The electronic bill will allow for the accumulation and storage of information on the conclusion of the employment contract, the acquired insurance period, the automatic application of the person, the appointment of pensions at the age of retirement, and the confirmation of the worker’s primary position in the periods of his education, internship, issuance and processing of invalidity letters, and so on. Thus, for example, in the assignment of a pension, as the deputy minister said, there will be no need for an additional person to address and contact a government official for the purpose of assigning a pension. The bill has been prepared since the time of the previous government, read and quality. I would like to point out that the rules of the government bill do not provide for a one-minute waiver of work books in paper form as soon as they are adopted. The bill establishes a transitional period of 5 years, during which information from workbooks will be transferred to the register of insured persons. Thus, the insurance system of the citizens they acquired prior to the adoption of this law will not be lost. He's been supported by quite a number of steakholders, such as the Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority, the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Digital Transformation, the Committee of the Supreme Council on Environmental Policy and Use. Committee position: As a result of the discussion, the committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council draft Ukrainian Law No. 3623 on the basis of the first reading. Please support the committee's decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-02-m0.u147	Thank you. Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss this bill? Please sign up: two in, two in. The word is given to the national deputy Vasilchenko Galini Ivanovni, the faction of the political party "The Voice".
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-02-m0.u148	Please pass the word to Ironman Jaroslav.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-02-m0.u149	Ironman Jaroslav Ivanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-02-m0.u150	Dear colleagues, good afternoon. You know, it's probably one of those bills that's been waiting a long time for both employers and workers. We've recently done a great deal with you -- we've canceled a Soviet book of accounting that many people have complained about. And that's what we have to translate online if we want to. And this bill -- although it's not my initiative, but a colleague -- is a logical step forward when we translate those possibilities from paper to electronic. I really like the approach of the drafters to cancel this book. They allow either the employee to leave the book and keep it if it is convenient for him to live in a city where he does not, unfortunately, have the Internet or is used to it. But at the same time, those young people or young people who want to go into electronic format are able to continue to keep this electronic book as their workbook. Who's ever done anything to help form a pension through an electronic office is understood that now so much data that has been introduced in recent decades is still online. So this is a logical step. And in the future, when a person retires, it's going to be much faster and more comfortable, and more correctly, to translate their work records right from the electronic form from the electronic register proposed by the bill. So, of course, the Voice faction and I, as a person who supports the electronic transfer of all public services, will support this bill, vote it, and work on it, preferably by the end of the year, to work for our citizens. Thank you to the drafters for the initiative.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-02-m0.u151	The word is given to the national deputy Klimpush-Cinzadze Ivanni Orestovni, the faction of the political party "European Solidarity". Nina Petrovn Yuzanin.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-02-m0.u152	Honorable Presidium, Your Honor! The faction of the European Solidarity political party, both now and in the past, since 2016, has been supporting and working to improve the regulation of labour relations, including the introduction of such an electronic form of labour accounting. In other countries, by the way, there is one special body that coordinates the interaction of all public authorities with regard to the exchange of information and the transfer of databases. In this case, the bill, such as a portal for merging and merging databases, proposes a register of insured persons who form and manage the Pension Fund. This register should include the possibility of keeping work books, entering into a contract of employment, calculating the insurance system, assigning pensions, and other services to be provided by the State to its citizens. At the same time, with all the positives that are now being put in place, we understand that there will be a great, detailed work to be done on filling this register with missing data in all the registers that are now being drawn up in the executive branch. So I think that if you do this, it's only going to have to be implemented qualitatively. And in the bill, there are a number of comments to the bill that are made. As far as I'm concerned, it's the only and always the only database: there's no link to the State Department's findings, which does database analysis and database protection, and there's no willingness to industrialize them. Without this, no such automation can be performed. That is why we support and work to ensure that this service works well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-02-m0.u153	The word is given to national deputy Vlasenek Sergey Volodymyrovich, faction of the political party "All-Ukrainian Union of the Fatherland". Cimbaluk Mikhailovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-02-m0.u154	Mikhailo Cimbaluk, Fatherland. Dear Chairman, distinguished national deputies, representatives of the Cabinet of Ministers! So it seems that the government has solved all the problems, and all that's left is to transfer the work books from paper to an electronic database, even though something really needs to be done. But is it on time? Speaking of a bill that we think should be considered now and immediately, the faction of "The Fatherland" passed 169 bills, of which 60 were rejected for unknown reasons, and 11 would not even reach the session hall because of the committees. Positives, of course, are the electronic basis for the calculation of work, for the promotion of qualifications, for the learning. But what are the risks? The colleagues here spoke in part about them. Unfortunately, the State is not yet in a position to guarantee the protection of personal data. And when a single system is being created that will be implemented by all working citizens, do we today, the same Cabinet of Ministers and we, as legislators, guarantee the protection of all personal data? Next thing. The transitional period of the bill is proposed for five years. These are all working citizens who today have paper books to do work on, and they have to ask for all of the data to be transferred from paper to electronic media. Imagine what this "workbook on smartphones" is going to be really working, and what is going to be the queues. And, I'm sorry, there's only one thing left to do today. The legislative initiative is interesting, necessary. But is it on time? Let's think about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-02-m0.u155	All those who wish to speak? Let's go to the vote. Please invite the national deputies to the hall. I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Law amending certain Ukrainian legislation on the calculation of the employee’s work in electronic form (registration number 3623). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[13:19:48]] For 283 Decision taken. The next issue of agenda is the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Tax Code and certain Ukrainian legislative acts to encourage the development of the electricity sector in Ukraine (Registration No. 3476). It is suggested that this issue be considered in a simplified manner. Please support and vote. [[13:20:23]] For 231 Decision taken. The chairman of the Committee on Finance, Tax, and Customs Policy, Mr. And from the committee and from the authors for four minutes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-02-m0.u156	Thank you. Mr. Head, respectable colleagues! Bills 3476 and 3477 are linked, so I will report immediately to both of them. These are changes to the Tax and Customs Codes. Bills, without exaggeration, are a future revolution in the automobile sector of Ukraine. Today, developed countries invest enormous resources in electricity, and their citizens receive discounts, subsidies, and tax benefits when buying electric cars. The electricity market is growing rapidly, and competition among manufacturers is growing stronger with each year. If we now support these two bills, Ukraine can become a very serious player in the world market. What are we talking about? The point is that if, for example, tomorrow we vote as a basis and not as a whole, not tomorrow, but after a month-and-a-half, these two bills, then the world car concerts will not choose China or Poland or Slovakia but will come with investments in Ukraine. In our country, there is sufficient industrial potential to produce electric motor vehicles. The possible effect from the launch of full-scale electricity production on our nation's economy is very significant. We also solve another serious problem. According to WHO, Ukraine comes first in terms of air pollution mortality. Therefore, the adoption of these bills is a requirement of time. They are supported by all Ukrainian auto-producers, professional associations and have positive conclusions from the Mine Economic Development, Mini-Infrastructure and the Committee on Finance, Tax and Customs Policy. Projects 3476 and 3477 provide for such legislative changes. Release VAT and equipment, and complete for the production of electricity by 31.12.2028. Free from taxation of revenues from vehicles, electric motors, batteries and chargers made in Ukraine until 31st 2033. Give the Ukrainians who buy electric cars a tax discount from the VAT from 01.01.2026 to 31.12.2030. Freed from the congregation for compulsory state pension insurance of the physicists who buy electric cars from 01.01.2026 to 31.12.2030. Continue the exemption from VAT on electric vehicles until 31.12.2025 Establish a share of public car purchases of at least 50 percent of the total number of vehicles purchased by 2030. Dear colleagues, going to the world markets, building modern, comfortable and environmentally friendly cars, which are enjoyable and safe to drive, all of this is possible in Ukraine. All you have to do is create the right legislative field, and the market will work. I ask you very much to support the first reading of Bills 3476 and 3477. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-02-m0.u157	Thank you. Honorable Colleagues, Needed Discussions, Can We Vote? Discussion? Sign up: two in, two in, and two in, against, from the MP factions and groups. Ironborn Jaroslav Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-02-m0.u158	Please pass the word to Galina Vasilchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-02-m0.u159	Vasilchenko Galina Ivanovna
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-02-m0.u160	Galina Vasilchenko, Voice faction. Ladies and gentlemen, the Voice faction will support this bill on the basis of the first reading, because this market has been waiting a long time for settlement and, in particular, to stimulate the production of electric cars in Ukraine. But we have a number of observations, and we will definitely be working on a major revision of the bill by the second reading. In particular, there is definitely a need to add restrictions on imports from the aggressor country, as we had in many other previous legislation. In addition, the Bills contain a large number of U.N.C.S. codes and there is a great danger that good intentions will not eventually lead to things that have nothing to do with manufacturing, namely, electric vehicles or imports of the relevant dams. That is why we will carefully analyze all these codes and make appropriate suggestions for avoiding such risks. In addition, we lack financial and economic justification for indicators to compensate for losses to the state budget due to the fact that, indeed, a large proportion of the benefits are largely foreseen both for duties and VAT and VAT. That is why there is a need for appropriate justification for compensators so that Ukraine’s State Budget does not lose out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-02-m0.u161	Katchura Alexander Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-02-m0.u162	Alexander Kachura, "Serial of the People" faction. Of course, colleagues need to support this legislative initiative and all the next legislative initiatives that will allow Ukraine to attract investments that will take the yoke out of the neck of investors, who have already repeatedly applied for the leadership of the state, wanted to invest, but who will have such tax burden to develop some innovative products. So we have everything in our country: we have talented people, we have the best engineers known all over the world, we have powers and a place to put businesses. So it's clear. For example, a colleague of Lab's, there are already projects in his district that will be invested by foreign investors, and this is creating jobs. And that income tax that we are today. A colleague says: "Where's the economic justification?" We cancel, it will be compensated by paying the EES, the tax on the income of natural persons who will be paid competitive wages officially, to the state budget is the only way to develop the economy. Ukraine must become a global hub in which foreign companies and Ukrainian companies will be able to create innovative enterprises. So let's support this bill. For electricians, I, by the way, own an electrician. And are we in the past or are we in the future? Let's vote for the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-02-m0.u163	Nikolainko Andri Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-02-m0.u164	My colleagues, Fatherland, will certainly support the bill. I'm very happy for my colleague, who's just been performing, who has this electrician, but this is the vast majority of Ukrainians. And we need to make sure that electricians, and especially not premium segments, can buy as much as possible. The electricity market by the 30th and 40th years is estimated at 58 million units sold worldwide, and it's going to be more than half of all cars that will then be produced. And if we can't fight for a car market for regular internal combustion engines, frankly, we have to say that we lost this game, then we can definitely compete for electric cars, where the electric motor is simpler, and we're definitely a country where the significant deposits of natural resources that we need to produce batteries. In fact, there is a machine base. I hope that the new ministry will be able to work and work for new productions by working. There's a lot of attention between the first and the second reading that it's not just some code that's gone wrong, it's some that don't exist, it's some that's something else about electric cars. So we're going to focus on that in the committee. I think we're going to solve these issues, especially in the second bill that deals with customs. It should be said separately that public transport, the electricity that is now being produced and can be produced in Ukraine, should receive such public support. And not Belarusian Mazes we have to take, but the Lviv production buses, which today are experimental, including in Kiev, should be on all the roads of Ukraine. And it's going to be both ecology and jobs and budget taxes. So let us support the first reading and work hard. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-02-m0.u165	Vitatrovich Volodymyr Mihajlovich. Eugene Nina Petrovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-02-m0.u166	Honorable Presidium, Your Honor! Thank you, indeed, to the entire copyright team, for consistently continuing to support and develop such an area as the use of electric cars in Ukraine, and we will try to implement electricity in Ukraine. It seems to me that everything will now depend on the effectiveness of the control bodies, both the State Tax Service and the Customs Service. Indeed, a number of preferences need to be given to certain areas in order for Ukraine to make full use of its logistics skills and to build up areas that will be able to provide high added value in Ukraine. We know that in the past we have lost the ability to do so in large-scale assembly in Ukraine, which has been claimed by many well-known companies. Now we know that at Zakarpatta we have exactly the objectives of the ready-made course, the site to build the same Volkswagen car, and we need to use it as quickly as possible, because we lost time in the large-bonded assembly and all the companies left Ukraine. At the same time, however, all of this has to do with the general policy of authority regarding the resolution of all issues that, including those under the Supreme Council today. So I hope that by the second reading, the law will be prepared very quickly, and we will be sure to leave behind the place of the manufacturer who will compete accurately with other well - known manufacturers in the world. So I would like to leave it there without any particular objection to the paragraphs that have been proposed. What's more, tax incentives are one of the mechanisms to get wages out of the shadows. So all of this in the complex can really have a big positive effect on Ukraine as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-02-m0.u167	All those who wish to speak? Lubenec, Shufrich. Then we'll move on. But you have a lot of hands in one faction rising. Can one man raise his hand? Germany. Then the Lubinian and we move on to the vote. Germano Vasil Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-02-m0.u168	Dear colleagues, Germano Vasil Ivanovich, "The Opposition Platform for Life". I would only like to warn you that our history of legislation has long been similar. Remember, from the '80s, when they thought they were an investor who came from abroad -- 50 or more dollars, and they were tax-free, and so on and so forth, and so on and so forth for 10 years. And only seven years later, they woke up and found out that it was torture. You see, what is the competition if these conditions for importing here or operating a haba market in Ukraine with regard to electric cars are out. You'll be back in a year or two, and you'll see what's going to happen, what's going to happen to Ukraine, what's going to happen to Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-02-m0.u169	Lubinet Dmitry Valeriovich. Then we vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-02-m0.u170	Honorable Presidency, distinguished national MPs, citizens of Ukraine! Of course, the MP's Party for the Future supports the bill, but only on the first reading. Can we explain why? The bill proposes to introduce substantial tax benefits for taxpayers who import electricity into Ukraine or produce it in Ukraine. So if we've listened carefully to all the previous speakers, everyone says industry, manufacturing, and we certainly support it. So why don't we change the format of the second reading and give real benefits to electricity manufacturers in Ukraine? For example, we have AutoZAZ in Zaporez. This is an incredibly unique industrial site for similar manufacturers. So let's say, if we talk about manufacturing, creating additional jobs, that's exactly what we're going to do in the law: those who are going to produce electric cars in Ukraine should have these benefits. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-02-m0.u171	National MP Kulinich Oleg Ivanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-02-m0.u172	Thank you. Dear colleagues! The Trust MPs will support this bill because it is extremely important to the country under these conditions. This is the bill of authorship of our colleague Robert Ivanovich Gorvat, who is in pain for the country, who is in pain for Carpathia, for his region. It's investments, it's jobs, it's taxes, it's budgets -- it's what's important to our country in a crown crisis, in a global economic crisis. These things need to be done, they need to be stimulated, they need investments to enter the state, they need to be stimulated, they need to develop an economy, they need to create jobs, and it's the only way we can get a strong European state with a working economy and strong local budgets. So we're going to support the bill and we're going to develop a given branch. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-02-m0.u173	Let's go to the vote. Please take your seats, prepare for the vote. Ready to vote? Please support and vote. Wait, wait, I didn't. I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Law amending the Ukrainian Tax Code and certain Ukrainian legislative acts to encourage the development of the electricity sector in Ukraine (Registration No. 3476). Please support and vote. [[13:38:04]] For 316 Decision taken. Thank you. Announcement. In accordance with article 60 of the Ukrainian Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I report on the expulsion from the parliamentary faction of the political party "Slut of the People" in the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the ninth People's Deputy of Ukraine, Leros Geo Bagratovich. The next question is the order of the day: 3477. Is there a need for discussion? We can vote, right? I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Law amending the Ukrainian Customs Code to encourage the development of the electricity sector in Ukraine (registration number 3477). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. Based on the base. [[13:39:16]] For 308. Decision taken. Thank you. Let's see the factions. Dear colleagues, the next question is the draft Order amending the Appendix to the Order of the Supreme Council of Ukraine "On the Celebration of Commemorative Dates and Jubilee in 2020". No discussion. I am voting on the proposal for adoption as a whole, taking into account the Committee's proposals and the necessary technical and legal regulations, the draft Ordinance amending the Appendix to the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Order on Determining Memorial Dates and Jubilee in 2020 (registration number 3638). Please support and vote. [[13:40:09]] For 318 Decision taken. Thank you. The next question is the draft Resolution on Parliamentary Hearings. Can we have a discussion, too? I would like to vote on the proposal for adoption in the entire draft Resolution on Parliamentary Hearings on "Problems for Ukraine to implement decisions of the European Court of Human Rights" (November 11, 2020) (registration number 3847). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[13:41:01]] For 330. Decision taken, thank you. The next issue of the agenda is the draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on the provision of higher education museums (registration number 2588). Needed Discussion? This is Constanceevich Irina Miroslavovna. It's a second reading. I mean, are we gonna go straight? We can vote. I am voting on the proposal to adopt a second reading and, in general, with the necessary technical and legal regulations, the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation on the provision of higher education museums (registration No. 2588). Please support and vote. [[13:42:04]] For 326 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Dear colleagues, the next question is the draft Law on Building Production in the Market (2698). Can we vote? You're not going to insist on the papers? I am voting on the second reading proposal and in general with the necessary technical and legal rights of the draft Law on the Provision of Building Products on the Market (registration number 2698). Please support and vote. [[13:42:51]] For 322 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. The next question is the draft Act amending article 3 of the Ukrainian Act on State Social Assistance to Persons with Disabilities from Childhood and Children with Disabilities on raising persons with disabilities from Childhood Care Allowance. Without discussion, can we vote without rights? I'll bet you a vote. This is the second reading of the Draft Law on Amendments to Article 3 of the Law on State Social Assistance to Persons with Disabilities and Children with Disabilities on the Promotion of Persons with Disabilities from Childhood Care (Registration No. 2031). Please support and vote. [[13:44:01]] For 330. The law is passed in general. Let's see the factions. "Serve of the People" 218, "Responsible Platform for Life" 18, "European Solidarity" 23, "Fatherhood" 16, "For the Future" 12, "Voice" 18, "Trust" 14, "non-factional" 11. Decision taken. The next issue of the agenda is the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation on the transfer of corporate rights to administration (registration number 3435). It's the first reading. Needed Discussion? It is suggested that this issue be considered in a simplified manner. Please support and vote. [[13:44:54]] For 244 Decision taken. The National Deputy of Ukraine, Oleg Anatoliyovich, is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-02-m0.u174	Dear colleagues! According to article 36 of the Prevention of Corruption Act, persons authorized to perform functions of state or local self-government are obliged, within 30 days of their appointment or election to office, to transfer appropriate shares and corporate rights to them. In accordance with part three of article 36 of the Law, such shares can only be transferred by means of a contract for the management of shares with licensed traders with securities or a contract with companies for the management of assets for the creation of a venture investment fund. At the same time, the Securities and Stock Market Act prohibits a licensed trader from making a contract to manage securities with a client less than 100 minimum wages, that's 472,000 dollars. There's a situation where a national MP, a minister, any other person who's chosen or assigned to office, having shares, a stock package of less than 472,000 dollars, can't hand over his shares to the government. If he does not transfer to the management of the stock, he will receive an investigation and an act of NAMK. In case of transfer, the National Securities Commission of the Stock Market is taking appropriate action for the licensed trader who has accepted such shares. It is proposed that the law amend to allow the transfer of such shares accordingly if the transfer of such shares is provided for in the Prevention of Corruption Act. This bill is called.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-02-m0.u175	Thank you. The chairman of the Committee on Anticorruption Policy, Radina Anastasia Olegovna, is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-02-m0.u176	Good afternoon, dear fellows! The Committee on Anti-Corruption Policy considered the bill and recommended that the Supreme Council of Ukraine approve the bill on the basis of, in general, colleagues. It's a simple, short norm that we should be able to, including ourselves, meet the requirements of the Anti-Corruption Act in good conscience. We need not only to impose punishment but also to make proper conditions in practice for good and proper conduct. That's why, colleagues, we don't see the need to put this simple question aside for two readings. And we're asking you to support it as a whole. Thank you very much, colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-02-m0.u177	Thank you. Dear colleagues, is it necessary to discuss whether we can vote? Let's vote, it's a technical question. I'll bet you a vote. And on the basis and in general? I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislative acts on the transfer of corporate rights to administration (registration number 3435). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[13:49:01]] For 287 Decision taken. I am voting on the proposal for adoption in general with the necessary technical and legal regulations, the draft Law amending certain Ukrainian legislative acts on the transfer of corporate rights to administration (registration number 3435). Please support and vote. [[13:49:32]] For 296 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, there is an offer. We've got about nine minutes, ten minutes to go over ratifications, if they don't insist on talking, vote. [[B in m in s a l in]] Will they? The next law? Then I go on for 15 minutes. Another law is 3552. No, it's 15 minutes according to the Rules, Arthur Volodymyrovich. And then the ratifications will be voted on. 3552. It is suggested that this issue be considered in a simplified manner. Please support and vote. If we're done, I'll close. [[13:50:40]] For 234 Decision taken. The National Deputy of Ukraine, Nataluha Dmitry Andriyovich, is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-02-m0.u178	Thank you, Mr. Head. Dear colleagues, in order to save your time, it's very simple what this law is about. Before we were convened, in our previous call, there was a commission on the privatization of state utility property that carried out parliamentary control and oversight of the privatization of these objects. Unfortunately, this commission has been eliminated and these functions are de facto placed on our committee. But this law is called upon to de jure these functions, i.e. legally establish the right of the committee to perform all the functions that the commission has performed before. In particular, monitor the arrival of funds from privatization. In particular, control the performance of the contract of sale. In particular, prepare and pre-examine the issue of the release and appointment of the Head of the State Property Fund, call him into the hall with a report and so forth, and so forth. It's not new. That's actually what was before, but we want to make it more effective. So that's exactly what the bill is about. On the committee, if I'm not mistaken, it was unanimously supported, because all factions will be involved in the process of this parliamentary control within the committee. And according to us, as in the committee's request to you to support it as a basis and as a whole with technical legal development. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-02-m0.u179	The chairman of the Committee on Economic Development, Mr. Muchan Aleksy Vasilovich, is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-02-m0.u180	Ladies and gentlemen, the Committee on Economic Development on July 1, 2020, reviewed the revised draft of the Ukrainian Law on Changes to the Law on Privatisation of State and Municipal Property (regarding parliamentary control of the privatization of state property) (registration number 3552) and decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine that it be accepted as a basis and as a whole as a law on technical and legal processing. The bill proposes to amend the Ukrainian Law on Privatisation of State and Municipal Property (for the exercise of parliamentary control over the privatization of state property), such as the definition of control functions and appropriate powers in the area of privatization of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, which refers to the issue of privatization of state and municipal property, and the establishment of a ban on auctions for the sale of large-scale privatisation sites for a period of quarantine, instead of halting the whole process of privatization of large-scale privatization objects, as envisaged by the law. The adoption of the bill will enhance the effectiveness of the work of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, to which the issues of privatization and its real role in the performance of functions and powers in the implementation of the integrated control of the operation of the State and municipal property fund and the privatization process in the State will ensure timely and qualitative analysis of the use of State authorities and local government authorities and their officials on matters of privatization. The Committee on Economic Development requests that Bill 3552 be supported and adopted as a basis and generally as a technical law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-02-m0.u181	Thank you. Needed to Be Discussed? Please sign up: two for, two for, two for, three for factions. Germano Vasil Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-02-m0.u182	Please give the floor to the national deputy, Koltunović.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-02-m0.u183	Who's to be handed over to, Coltunovich? Coltunovich Alexander Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-02-m0.u184	Thank you. Dear Mr. Head, the distinguished national deputies of Ukraine! I'm a member of the Economic Committee, and I remember when, about a year ago, I came to us, if I'm not mistaken, a representative of the President saying, well, look, there's a commission that doesn't need to be privatized anymore. And when we have absolutely logical comments that we're going to write in those legislative changes that we're going to make, and that was exactly my proposal that we should put it on the committee, so now, a year from now, we're going back to what you voted in the turbines exactly a year ago. What do we have now? We now have a new list of objects that are not to be privatized, and it is likely to be voted on. Of the 1,436 objects remaining, there are 219, or 6.5 times less objects that are not privatized. Many of them deliberately go bankrupt, and some of them have already been created special commissions to give them away for nothing. Therefore, parliamentary control of the relevant identity committee is exclusive. And that's why we're going to support this initiative. But those who then, a year ago, were aspiring for this idea, write an appearance with respect, or at least repent purely to yourself that you then made a fool of yourself, that because of you, we are today forced to correct mistakes, and in fact, such mistakes are more than enough. So, of course, after privatization, we're going to go with you to consider large and small privatization. And we have nothing to do there, because we need to create new jobs, new businesses, instead of embalming what wasn't created by us. That's not what you colleagues started decommunization, which has been in power since you were 14, 19 years old. It is therefore necessary not to privatize, but to strengthen State control, including by the State. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-02-m0.u185	Klimpush-Cincadze Ivanna Orestovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-02-m0.u186	Please pass the word to Kubi Stepan Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-02-m0.u187	Kubi Stepan Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-02-m0.u188	Dear Mr. Head, the Presidium, the honourable colleagues! What I'm saying is, clearly, we need to strengthen the Supreme Council's control over privatization issues. I want to remind everyone that when we introduced small privatization through the ProZorro system, we showed that there is a real price, there is real revenue, there is real competition, both at the level of utilities, what property is being sold and at the level of central authorities and the big privatisations that we wanted to do. At the beginning of the last call, we quickly and in the short term cancelled the Supreme Council's supervisory function of privatization to restore and restore effective work. Now I'm going to talk about legal reasoning that, for legal reasons, the bill is in conflict with the Ukrainian Law on Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, and there is a note by GNEU about illegal hearings of the report of the Fund of Holding on a subcommittee. If we're talking about a committee and there's a matter of a subcommittee, then we can't pass functions on to a subcommittee because it's against several laws that have been properly voted on in this room. But at the same time, I want to say that the issue of privatization is very important, and it should go to the legislative level with the confirmed procedures and the law that we want to vote on today. The "European Solidarity" political party will hold, but when adjustments are made between the first and the second readings on the law that the GNEU noted, we support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-02-m0.u189	Thank you. Ivchenko Vadim Evgenovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-02-m0.u190	Yvchenko, Fatherland. Colleagues, we are finally restoring real parliamentary control over privatization. I am confident that the Committee should address the issue of privatization and the consequences of privatization. I want to remind you of the words of the German Minister of Economy directly, who saw the stock markets fall directly into the hands of German companies and, together with the head of the Government of Bavaria, he said: "We will never sell our businesses to foreign investors in such a situation." Never! Colleagues, and you, instead of saving the last one today, going through this coronavirus and then doing privatisation, you've cut down the list dozens of times, the list of enterprises that are not allowed to privatize. It's not enough that you've taken away the full influence of the Supreme Council on this. The Supreme Council has yet to accept this list. The government can adjust one way or another. But now, as representatives of the people, we have no influence on this list. Not enough, if you don't know, I'll tell you, the government is already proposing to privatize scientific institutions with entire property complexes. And it's not privatization anymore, it's a market. A bazaar for the priceless purchases that we can use peacefully and then maybe sell at the highest price. So remember what our foreign partners are saying today and what they are doing in their countries. I welcome this bill, of course. Fatherland will support him. And let's return parliamentary control to the list of enterprises. Let's finally get it out here, confirm it, and make sure no one steals anything. Thank you. And I support this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-02-m0.u191	Thank you. Are they still willing to speak? There's a Voice. Jaroslav Ivanovich Železniak. Yes, please. Turn on the microphone with a motive, and then we'll go to the vote. Please invite the people's deputies to the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-02-m0.u192	Dear colleagues, I remember when during the preparatory group we discussed whether or not we should leave the privatization commission. And this is a technical step, but it's the right one. But I would like to remind our colleagues that, for good reason, state-owned enterprises are often called "the clockwork." The problem is that it is a nurse to politicians and officials. Including many of our colleagues talking about how state-owned enterprises are systematically the source of corruption, primarily political corruption. So the only possibility that all developed countries have come to, and I hope Ukraine will come to, is to privatise. It's not a sale, it's a privatisation, but it has to be done. We need to reduce the number of state-owned enterprises and leave them strategic, and everything else -- hotels, resort bases, etc. -- to sell on honest, transparent terms. For politicians to come here to change people's lives, not their lives at the expense of state enterprises. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-02-m0.u193	Thank you. Are there not yet those who wish to speak? Please prepare for the vote. Invite the national deputies to the hall. I can't hear you. You support, yes, Nestor Ivanovich? Now, we're getting there, we've moved on for 15 minutes, it's okay. Ready to vote? The committee's proposal, both on the basis and in general. Is there no objection? No, I'm fine. I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Act amending the Law on Privatisation of State and Municipal Property (on Parliamentary Control of Privatisation of State Property) (Registration No. 3552). Please support and vote. [[14:04:24]] For 285 Decision taken. I am voting on the proposal for adoption in general with the necessary technical and legal rights, the draft Law amending the Ukrainian Law on Privatization of State and Municipal Property (for parliamentary control of the privatisation of state property) (registration number 3552). Please support and vote. [[14:05:00]] For 279 "To" - 275. Thank you. Decision taken. The law is passed. 279. Decision taken. The law was passed in general. Dear colleagues, it was an offer to go through ratifications if there was no discussion. I am voting on the proposal for the adoption of the draft Law on the Ratification of the Agreement on the Joint Production of Audiovisual Works between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of Canada (register No. 0040). Please support and vote. [[2:05:52]] For 318 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. I am voting on the proposal for the adoption of the entire draft Law on the Ratification of the Treaty between Ukraine and the Kingdom of Morocco on Legal Assistance in Criminal Matters and Extradition (registration No. 0041). Please support and vote. [[14:06:28]] For the 320. Decision taken. The law is passed in general. I am voting on the proposal for the adoption of the entire draft Law on the Ratification of the Treaty between Ukraine and the Kingdom of Morocco on Legal Assistance in Civil and Commercial Matters (Registration No. 0042). Please support and vote. [[2:07:01]] For the 320. Decision taken. The law was passed in general. I am voting on the proposal for the adoption of the entire draft Law on the Ratification of the Treaty between Ukraine and the Kingdom of Morocco on the Transfer of Convicted Persons (Registration No. 0043). Please support and vote. [[14:07:30.]] For 321 Decision taken. Next question. I am voting on the proposal for the adoption of the entire draft Law on the Ratification of the Treaty between Ukraine and the Kingdom of Jordan on the Transfer of Convicted Persons (Registration No. 0044). Please support and vote. [[14:08:03]] For 321 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. I am voting on the proposal for the adoption of the entire draft Law on the Ratification of the Treaty between Ukraine and the Hashimite Kingdom of Jordan on mutual legal assistance in criminal matters (registration No. 0045). Please support and vote. [[14:08:40]] For 322 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. I am voting on the proposal for the adoption of the entire draft Law on the Ratification of the Treaty between Ukraine and the Hashimite Kingdom of Jordan on the Extradition of Offenders (registration No. 0046). Please support and vote. [[14:09:15]] For 324 Decision taken. I am voting on the proposal for the adoption of the entire draft Law on the Ratification of the Treaty between Ukraine and the Hashimite Kingdom of Jordan on mutual legal assistance in civil matters (registration No. 0047). Please support and vote. [[14:09:47]] For 323 Decision taken. The last question is the draft Resolution on Parliamentary Hearing Recommendations on "Organization of the Anti-Spare Battle in Ukraine. Problems and ways to solve them." It is suggested that this question be asked without discussion. I'm betting on a motion for adoption in the entire draft Parliamentary Hearing Recommendation on "Organization of the anti-missile fight in Ukraine. Problems and ways to solve them" (registration number 3600). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[14:10:37]] For 316 Decision taken. Thank you, Your Honor. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed.
