ParlaMint-UA_2020-08-25-m0.u1	Good afternoon, distinguished national MPs! Good afternoon, media officials! I've even missed that formulation. It's good to see you all. Please take your seats, get ready for work. Honourable National Deputies, in line with the proposal made by the President of Ukraine in accordance with part two of article 83 of the Constitution of Ukraine, on the convening of an extraordinary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the ninth call and in accordance with article 11 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine regulations today we hold an extraordinary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the ninth call. Please prepare for registration. As always, I remind you, registration takes place by clicking on the green "za" button, the first one on the left. Are you ready to register? Not all of them. Are you ready to register? Please register. [[11:04:46]] There were 254 Ukrainian national deputies registered in the hall. The next session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the ninth call is publicized. [[The National Hymn of Ukraine]] Dear colleagues, first of all, I would like to welcome you all to the festivals that we celebrated the day before -- the Day of the State Flag and the Day of Independence of Ukraine. Hello. I wish you would never forget who and why we work with you in this room. Today's our two colleagues' birthday. This is Igor Sergiyovich Vasiliev. [[Applause]] And Alexander Olegovich Kunicki. [[Applause]] I wish you success, health, and new victories. Thank you. Dear colleagues, the order of the day of the non-commissioned session is given to all of you and offered. However, there was a meeting with representatives of the MPs and groups, and the position was reached that there would now be three minutes from the MP factions and groups, and then we're going to work on the bill. Please sign up from the MP factions and groups, three minutes, to 3 minutes. The great Sergey Anatolyovich. Chess? Shahov Sergei Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-08-25-m0.u2	Sergey Shahov, Luhanščina, Deputy Group "Trust". Dear colleagues, two days in a row, we celebrate the independence of our country, which our parents held 29 years ago. For what? So that some two governors could step on the throat of the President of Ukraine, who was elected in 2019? The president of Ukraine is driving across borders and says that we have 29 days of peace. The Speaker of Parliament arrives in the Luhansk region and sees that we too have peace. He goes to all the villages, villages, and the caravan meets him. And some of the two governors of Donetsk and Lugansk region committed war, depriving 500,000 Ukrainians of their right to vote. In 2015, 500,000 Ukrainians who voted in 2014 elected a guarantor of the Constitution of Ukraine, Vladimir Zelenski. So who's right today -- who's canceling the election and leaving the rights of constitutional citizens of Ukraine in the Lugansk and Donetsk regions, and today is cheating on the Ukrainian people, today is misleading the Central Electoral Commission, saying that there's a war going on in Severodonetski and Lysichan? When did you say that, please? I'm addressing everyone in this room. When will this vachanal end? Today, in the accounts in Severodonetsk 200 million dollars, in Lysicánsk 167 million dollars. They came to power today to rob, and they became princes. Some two governors should not be allowed to rob Ukraine and leave the voting rights of Ukrainians. Today, in the Luhansk region, there is a vacchanal, a drug trade, and a field of cannabis. Today, the trade in living organs, digs, and the destruction of factories, where the last is cut out. They're bullying miners. There's no water in Lysicansk, and they sell water for cash at LNR. When will this end? Donbas demands that the governors be removed immediately and investigated. An investigation into a fire in the Luhansk region and the bodies were lying in Smolyan’s, and no one was punished. Make a full audit of the government budget, in which billions of dollars were stolen. And they also punished for misleading the President of Ukraine, who speaks of peace, and punished those who are doing war in our country today. Thank you. Sergey Shahov, Luhanščina, Deputy Group "Trust".
ParlaMint-UA_2020-08-25-m0.u3	Please, National Deputy Coltunovich Alexander Sergiyyovich, political party "The Opposition Platform for Life."
ParlaMint-UA_2020-08-25-m0.u4	Thank you. Dear Ruslan Alexiyovich, distinguished national MPs, distinguished voters! We all understand with you the obvious reason and the main point that we're being gathered for today in this session room is the question of raising minimum wage. Obviously it's a really bright idea, and it's logical, but we're looking at today, what are the economic preconditions for increasing the minimum fixed income. And they're actually, unfortunately, crying. We see a drop in GDP by 11.4 percent (in the first half of the year and in the second quarter), we see a drop in industrial production by more than 8 percent, a fall in exports by more than 6 percent, a fall in agricultural production by almost 12 percent and so on, and so on, an increase in government debt, a rise in tariffs and many other things. There are no economic preconditions for an increase in wages today. This means that without economic social reforms, they become antisocial. We're talking about the need to create economic preconditions at the first stage, and at the second stage, it's important to raise wages. Because what is today's increase of 277 dollars? The nominal salary, the minimum wage, 5,000, that means there's actually going to be a little more than 4,000 dollars. It's extremely small, it doesn't solve poverty in the country. So our party has registered an alternative bill of Royal authorship, which plans to increase to at least 7,000,500 dollars in the first stage and gradually increase. By doing so, we have specific economic laws that will allow us to increase the production of industrial products, agricultural production, increase the volume of exports and, most importantly, increase the productivity of work within the country. Because without the productivity increase, the increase in the wage fund will lead to inflation, and this will be reflected in the increase in the cost of production, and as a result, in prices for goods and services produced inside Ukraine. Of course, we support that initiative, which is still offered at the minimum wage, because it's some kind of bonus. But again, as of today, it is very important to increase the minimum fixed income in order to stimulate the internal consumer market in order to give impulses to local producers, producers of goods and services inside the country. Without that, there is no future in our country for these people who live here. Because 28 years of independence in Ukraine is 63.5 percent of GDP since the 1990s. This year, it is estimated to be 60 percent. If we keep going like this, we can get to zero. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-08-25-m0.u5	Thank you. The word is given to Jurchino Jaroslav Romanovich, a faction of the political party "Golos".
ParlaMint-UA_2020-08-25-m0.u6	Please pass the word to Solomia Bobrowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-08-25-m0.u7	Samantha Bobrowski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-08-25-m0.u8	Glory to Ukraine! Dear colleagues, you know, the day after we celebrated independence, it seems to me that we should mention our friends, the Belarusians, who also get their independence in Minsk, Brest, Bobrujski, Phinehas, in all the other cities of Belarus. I'm sure many of you have been watching and watching during the night and day as the Belarusians go out. I know that many are concerned about the consequences of these protests, which is normal. And of course, it's primarily about Russian interest in this trail. But anyway, don't you think it's definitely their path, the Belarusians, to determine who to choose, who to associate with, not to be beaten, tortured, raped and kept in the WHO for how many days? I'll remind you that more than 7,000 detainees, more than 76 people have disappeared, and these are just things that come to us over the Internet that can be accessed. Remember, some of you remember the fourth year of a very active phase, we remember the 14th year, we know what it's like to fight for change and throw off this repressive regime. And it seems to me that, first of all, we should be supporting our brothers' friends today in their desire to come to the elections again and not to acknowledge, particularly the Ukrainian Parliament's election on August 7. Any intimidation on the ground is certainly sick propaganda from Moscow. And I'd like to encourage the Belarusians not to be afraid to keep going out. I just want to remind you of the names of those who are now in public access, but who are no longer with us today and are not in Belarus. Alexander Tarajkowski. According to the investigation, he was killed by an unknown device explosion. But the video shows that he's got nothing in his hands, and you can see him falling from a gunshot. Constantine Shishmakov is a member of the electoral commission who refused to sign the forged protocol and was found dead. Suddenly, it turns out that it was just a suicide. Nikita Kristov’s body, who was found a few days ago, refuses to betray relatives and offers to keep it in a closed bag. It's already been guessed, it's probably a suicide, too. You know, there's a motion in Parliament for a non-recognition of elections in the Belarus Parliament. And I urge you to put first or second September into the agenda of the day's vote, and I call upon the Committee, finally, to make a decision on foreign matters and register another statement so that Parliament can jointly adopt a decision. It seems to me that we should show solidarity with the Belarusian brothers and friends today, because Mikhailo Ziznevsky was one of the first to lay down his life for our freedom. And to remind you, Michael Ilina, a man, a Marine who died, was a Belarusian, blowing himself up on a mine. The glory of Ukraine! We support you with our Belarus friends. Alive Belarus!
ParlaMint-UA_2020-08-25-m0.u9	Batenko Taras Ivanovich, MP's Party for the Future. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-08-25-m0.u10	Good day, dear fellows, dear friends! The parliamentary group "For the Future" joins those greetings that are echoing on the 29th anniversary of Ukraine's state independence. We believe that every senior deputy who joins our MP's Party for the Future thinks that independence must be chosen and defended every day. To choose and stand up for hard work, for, as the great John Franco wrote, to work as a boss, not as a servant before the world, to work to become masters, not servants of someone on his own earth. And we see this big non-professional work that, unfortunately, is being demonstrated today by new faces, the non-professional work that government officials are demonstrating in the face of today's prime minister of Ukraine, who can't cope with any crisis and no challenge facing Ukraine today. We care about a lot of things. Ukraine’s citizens may be concerned about how the Coroner’s disease is spreading today. We note that Ukraine today is in a trinity, in the first trinity of countries in Europe as COVID-19 increases, and in the twelfth city among countries in the world after the same increase. We understand that the government is unable to provide effective mechanisms to combat proliferation. And today we've been listening to the health minister about the possibilities, the little financial opportunities that the Ministry is currently choosing in a small state budget to support our medical field, our health care professionals, even if there are some possible supplements for them to stand on their feet. I think today is the critical state of the Ukrainian economy. During the first six months, Ukraine’s economy fell by 6 percent, and the Ukrainian industry is generally even more active than could be expected. During the first six months of the decline of the Ukrainian industry, 8 percent of the population was lost, and it is estimated that the year could make up all 12 percent. It's the most, it's one of the biggest declines in the entire period of Ukrainian independence. And I think the Ukrainian government doesn't answer these questions, how do we deal with this economic crisis. At the same time, we see in the order of the day the authorities' intentions to raise the minimum wage, even though these authorities' intentions are purely electoral. We see in the order of the day a desire to increase the debt held, the country's external debt. In doing so, the first tranche of the European Union’s assistance will be extended only if our external obligations are fulfilled. This is a satisfactory result of the implementation of programmes agreed with the International Monetary Fund, that is, the sale of Ukrainian land at no cost, the continuation of the destruction of the country’s medical sphere, the reduction of schools, and the ban on tax liberalisation. These things cannot be allowed by the Ukrainian Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-08-25-m0.u11	Please, National Deputy Klimpush-Cinzadze Ivanna Orestovna, faction of the political party "European Solidarity". Gerasimov Arthur Volodymyrovich. Yesterday's noun. We welcome you again, too.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-08-25-m0.u12	Dear Ukrainians, yesterday the March of Ukraine’s defenders gathered tens of thousands of military personnel, veterans, volunteers, volunteers, the families of Ukraine’s fallen supporters, and simply concerned citizens. All those to whom Ukraine owes its existence and the opportunity to celebrate its 29th anniversary of independence. This march showed that Ukraine is someone to protect against the Russian invasion, and this march showed that Ukrainian forces are capable of unification when internal enemies threaten to rematch their surrender. On the eve of Independence Day "European Solidarity" supported a memorandum of unity between the Ukrainian forces. We call on all Ukrainian forces, all patriots to join in signing a memorandum and unite, because the threat to statehood is now very high and they're not joking with independence. On August 28th, there will be a meeting of foreign political advisors of the Norman Four, where Russia will first try to trap Ukraine. The latest information indicates that Ukraine is being forced to review, among other things, the Supreme Council’s decree on local elections without delay. So "European Solidarity" requires Mr. Green's clear answers about the planned negotiations on Donbas' special status and the local elections this fall. By the way, it is very evident that on Independence Day Vladimir Zelensky never dared to assign the title "Heroy of Ukraine" to the dead morph of Jaroslav Žuravl, who was thrown above the government's leadership in the battlefield. "European Solidarity" on the other hand calls for the title "Heroy of Ukraine" to be assigned to Jaroslav posthumously. This is vital not only for his family but also for Ukraine as a whole. Now for the current sitting. Why do you think Mr. Zelensky called an alternate session of the Supreme Council in the days leading up to the full work of Parliament? Perhaps for the immediate response to the Coronavirus epidemic, as our faction demanded? Because in recent weeks, Ukraine has crossed a 100,000 - infected mark. The answer is no. Maybe the authorities are finally willing to accept the European Solidarity Proposal for Life Insurance? Again, no. Maybe Greensky wants to create a TSC to investigate potential treason among his immediate environment, because for a week, society has been discussing the collapse of a massive operation from the arrest of the "vagners" who fought at Donbassa. But the Commander-in-Chief ignores published facts and prefers basketball and mail delivery. Did Zelensky want to ask about the events in Belarus, the beating of peaceful demonstrators, and the accusations against Ukraine? Neither did I. Greens gathered meetings to show the minimum for the pyar before the local elections. In general, an increase in the minimum wage is good, but let's not forget that the incompetent authority "spent a hole" in the budget for 300 billion. All of this proves the administrative ignorance of power, which requires us to unite in behalf of Ukraine. It's time to correct their mistakes. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-08-25-m0.u13	Please, Vlasenko Sergey Volodymyrovich, faction of Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-08-25-m0.u14	Good afternoon, dear fellows! First of all, I wanted to support those in Belarus who now demand fair and fair elections. Secondly, of course I'd like to welcome all of us on Independence Day. What is Ukrainian independence? Ukrainian independence is the welfare of Ukrainian citizens, it is a normal standard of living, it is the arrival of Ukrainians from all over Ukraine and life here, and the work for Ukraine. Does one bill today have anything to do with these questions? Absolutely not. On the contrary, we are offered a completely different agenda – we are offered the order of the day of independence of Ukraine. In particular, Bill 0055 tells us that we must carry out the Memorandum of Understanding with the International Monetary Fund. Every person in this session room who votes in favour of ratification 0055 will vote in favour of the Memorandum with the International Monetary Fund — a disgraceful, absolutely anti-Ukrainian memorandum. We are also invited by this bill today to intervene in Ukraine's completely internal affairs, in particular, requiring us to give to foreigners our main state, ten of our major state-owned enterprises, and to pay disproportionate wages to so-called independent members of the supervisory boards of these enterprises. Instead, Ukrainian citizens barely get enough money to survive. We are required, contrary to the decision of the Constitutional Court, to hand over control of the Supreme Council of Justice and then of the judicial system to international speculative circles. We are being asked to take any influence from the Ukrainian State on participating in international drug purchases while we have a coronavirus pandemic, and at a time when the law enforcement authorities have not yet resolved where Mrs. Ulyana Suprun has shared the funds paid in the 17th year for the purchase of drugs. We are required to intervene in a judicial branch of authority. We are required to cut off pieces of Ukrainian sovereignty and pass it on to the benefit of third parties. This bill cannot be voted on. Nor can this bill be voted on because, in accordance with the International Contracts Act, if an international treaty is proposed for ratification, which requires the adoption of new or changes to the applicable laws of Ukraine, the draft laws are submitted for consideration by the Supreme Council together with the draft law on ratification and are adopted at the same time. No laws directly provided for in the memorandum have been referred to the Supreme Council, so this bill is a watershed for those who are truly, independent, sovereign and consummate Ukraine and those who will give Ukraine to any international speculators. Those who vote for it are the traitors of Ukraine! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-08-25-m0.u15	Please, Alexander Kachura, the "Serve of the People" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-08-25-m0.u16	Alexander Kachura, "Serial of the People" faction. Dear colleagues, the distinguished Ukrainian people, one of the key issues we're going to ask today is that we raise the minimum wage to 5,000 dollars. Our faction fully supports President Zelensky's initiative. We think it's necessary and, more than that, now we're being told that not at the time of the minimum wage raise, let's wait another 10 years, let's say, people will be begging and the genius things that colleagues on the air are talking about, they're saying that, as it is, in the cleaning room there's going to be the same pay as in the school principal, there's going to be a few times different, you don't have to raise wages, don't do that. We think raising minimum wage is the way to social justice. This is stated in the Constitution of Ukraine. Ukraine is a social and legal state. And we're going to do everything we can while we're in this room, so that the level of welfare of citizens goes up every day. If you take information from the Ministry of Education, the subsistence minimum for working persons is just over 5,000,149. So we're going to have to increase further the minimum wage to 6, then to 6.5,000 dollars and then to a further comparison of wages to Europeans. But this can only be done in a complex that reduces the tax burden on entrepreneurs. I personally find it a mistake for the Supreme Council to decide on the fiscalization of small businesses that we took while there were no coronavirus pandemics until the economic crisis hit. We need to do everything we can now to ensure that the small entrepreneur feels the minimum burden on the payroll of his employees so that there is no problem in managing his business so that law enforcement and control bodies do not pressure him. This is the only way to have a childish enterprise. It's the only way to keep our jobs from shrinking. This is the only way to preserve our nation. That is why we support this decision today. But we need to develop a model, with all the political factions, a tax review for entrepreneurs. It's too high. And we have to make a political decision to free entrepreneurs from the yoke that today is in the tax system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-08-25-m0.u17	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we've finished speaking from factions and groups. Let us take a look at the agenda issues put forward for the next session.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-08-25-m0.u18	Dear colleagues, please prepare for the vote. Dear colleagues, you are invited to consider the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the State Budget for Ukraine 2020 (registration numbers 3963, 3963-1, 3963-2). It is suggested that this issue be considered in a simplified manner. Please prepare for the vote. Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[11:32:56]] For 240 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, the Minister of Finance of Ukraine, Marcenko Sergey Mihajlovich, is invited to speak.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-08-25-m0.u19	Honourable Dmitre Alexandrovich, distinguished national deputies and present, you are now invited to consider the draft Ukrainian Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the State Budget for Ukraine 2020, developed on the initiative of the President of Ukraine. The project provides for a phased increase in the minimum wage and a set of 5,000 dollars from September 1st. This will maintain the ratio between the size of the staff member’s official salary at the first rate and the minimum wage of 44.5 percent in the current year. In order to implement the initiatives outlined in the draft change to the State budget for the 20th year, there is an increase in expenditure of 4 billion dollars on economics, government debt costs of 3.5 billion dollars. This is due to the deviation of the actual national currency rate in relation to foreign currency compared to the forecast set out in the 2020 budget. A review of the government budget’s income projections in connection with the increase in the minimum wage from September 1 to 5,000 dollars. So the revenue is going to be increased by 500 million dollars. In particular, it's a tax on the income of natural persons -- 400 million dollars, a tax on added value -- 100 million dollars. The bill is balanced. Implementing the proposed changes will stimulate consumer demand growth and improve the quality of life of citizens by raising the income of the working population. In addition, conditions will be created to detune the wages paid in envelopes. The EU's revenue will increase by 1.7 billion dollars. But the protection of the labour and social rights of citizens will be improved. Thank you for your attention. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-08-25-m0.u20	Thank you. Please give the floor to submit your bill to the co-author of the bill of alternate, national deputy of Ukraine to the Royal Natalia of Jurijovni.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-08-25-m0.u21	Dear fellows, the honourable ones are present! Well, it's very symbolic that we're starting work with you in the new season, you might say, on social issues. But the most important thing we have to do is make the decisions that will really help people today. What's proposed is "The Opposition Platform for Life." What can't be done by raising the minimum wage and not providing adequate pensions to people. You create a colossal social gap when the minimum wage is almost three times higher than the minimum wage. That's why we're asking you to consider urgently the issue of pension review, the increase in today's minimum pension. And we're also talking to the President, we're ready to give him written bills that have already been registered in Parliament to also consider them urgent. We are ready to meet for the next session in order to consider simultaneously raising the minimum wage and increasing pensions in Ukraine. And the second question that we want to draw your attention to is that the main thing today is not just to raise the minimum wage, but today the main thing is to ensure an appropriate increase in the salary of the staff member of the first tariff level of the single tariff grid, because today you have all leveled up. We don't care what the person's fare is today, everyone gets the minimum wage. We need to put in order and pay a fair wage and a just pension. That's why we need to raise the minimum pension, the minimum wage and the minimum wage at the same time, and the calculation of all tariff charges. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-08-25-m0.u22	Thank you. The National Deputy of Ukraine, Zimbaluk Mikhailovich, is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-08-25-m0.u23	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs, citizens! Mikhailo Cimbaluk, Fatherland. Is it necessary to raise the minimum wage in the state? That's right. Is there an economic basis for such an uplift? Here's a question to the government, and it's a shame that there's no Prime Minister who should finally talk about his agenda. Our alternative bill to the Presidential Bill 3963 deals with complex issues related to raising the minimum wage, but it protects the interests of the budgetary sectors, the small and the medium-sized enterprises, and identifies additional sources of budget income to finance the costs associated with this adoption. Increasing the minimum wage to 5,000 dollars will have a double impact on the economy of our state. It is our bill that we propose that the first tariff charge in a single tariff grid should be equal to the minimum wage, not the minimum wage. Let's move away from the equation. Next thing. We're proposing that our bill just stop manipulating these tariff charges and that the breakup be at least 10 percent. We suggest where to take the money. We still have to tax those big salaries that over 75,000 dollars, that's both supervisory boards, and others that the Cabinet of Ministers will take this thing into account. We understand that today's supported bill will be the President's. The Fatherland faction is ready to support it in the first option, but not in general. And to the second reading we are.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-08-25-m0.u24	Thank you. The chairman of the Committee on Budget Affairs, Oblivious Lesia Valentinovna, is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-08-25-m0.u25	Thank you. Dear Dmitre Alexandrovich, distinguished national deputies and invited! The Committee on Budget Issues considered Bill 3963 and Alternative Bills 3963-1 and 3963-2, submitted by the President, amending the State Budget Act 2020 to raise minimum wage. The committee has been working on these bills taking into account the conclusions of the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration and the Ministry of Finance. In particular, Bill 3963 is balanced by budgetary indicators, although there are currently risks to the implementation of the general fund's income over the years. According to the Ministry of Finance, alternative bills will lead to a substantial balance of government budgets. In doing so, Bill 3963-1 does not have a complete implementation mechanism, since it does not contain changes in the budgetary indicators, and Bill 3963-2 does not provide most of the explanatory notes, they are reflected in the related Bill 3998. The individual provisions of alternative bills are legally invalid and cannot be subject to the State Budget Act. Therefore, in the light of the consideration of this issue, the Committee on Budget Issues recommends to the Supreme Council, on the basis of the consideration of Bill 3963 and Alternative Bills 3963-1 and 3963-2, on the first reading of draft Law 3963, to adopt as a basis and as a whole, as a law with regard to technical and legal rights concerning the clarification of budgetary indicators in accordance with Law No. 769 of 14 July. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-08-25-m0.u26	Thank you. Please register by faction: two for, two for, two for, one for, one for. Shahov Sergei Volodymyrovich. Bacunec Pavel Andryovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-08-25-m0.u27	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs, dear Ukrainian people! On these days, I welcome all of us to Ukraine's Independence Day. Is there a need to increase wages? Absolutely, yes. The Trust MP group unanimously supports the idea of raising the minimum wage. That's right, that's necessary and that's logical. There's only one question: How long? It's only 277 bucks. It's an absolute mess. Today, prices are rising monthly. The tariffs are reviewed quarterly, and the bracelet is cheaper. And against this background, the total minimum wage is faster to look like a dry cleaner than to fund the lives of our people in our country. At the same time, we all remember that some government officials, especially members of the supervisory boards of state enterprises, receive millions of bonuses each month. It is not normal for the whole country to work only on the millions of salaries of several officials in this country, while today district hospitals, city hospitals, schools, kindergartens are not fully provided with individual protection. And in autumn, in a week, all of us, our children, have to work at school to learn. It's not normal. I would like to stress that the Trust MPs support an increase in the wage of the minimum wage. However, we demand that the authorities make adjustments and reduce these ghastly salaries of officials to the level of professional doctors, teachers ’ professionals.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-08-25-m0.u28	Labunsky Angelica Victorian. Ivchenko Vadim Evgenovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-08-25-m0.u29	Vadim Ivchenko, Fatherland. Colleagues, according to 2020, the first half of the decline in production -- minus 9.6 percent, the decline in agriculture -- minus 40.2 on account of the poor yield of early grains. Colleagues, this economic policy run by the government, leads to economic and social collapse. Just think, in the light industry, we have a fall -- minus 16.9, in the woodworking -- minus 11.3, in the metallurgical production -- minus 14.2, in the machine building -- minus 22.2, in the automerge is minus 30.8. Colleagues, they're telling us about the pandemic and they're telling us, it's at the expense of the pandemic. And I'll say it's a cynical deception, because the fall in industrial production started last year, and the government hasn't done anything to clean up those stones that prevented the development of industrial production in Ukraine. Instead, we are told about 500,000 jobs. Colleagues, it's also a lie to create. Instead, more than 500,000 people have already lost their jobs. You're offering us some news today. So last year we had $400 billion, this year we already have 642 billion, and the next year you're offering $755. You're driving the country into a debt pit. And for the minimum wage, I'm going to say, it's very cynical when we raise wages rather than raise all the other tariff charges. Let's join the minimum wage and raise everything else. "Paternality" in the first reading will vote. And we have rights to second reading on this very point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-08-25-m0.u30	Juršin Jaroslav Romanović. Ironborn Jaroslav Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-08-25-m0.u31	Everyone in this room would like the Ukrainians to receive a higher salary for their honest work. Me, too. But this law is not about wages, it is primarily about raising taxes and congregations. If you're a small FOP, you'll be paying 260 more a month for a single tax in the next few months. The only social contribution will increase first by 60 dollars, and a year later by 400 dollars a month. The real estate tax is increasing. For an apartment 100 meters, you will pay 770 dollars more. Did we promise such help to those whose income is now or is it zero, or is it a negative that still holds jobs? By the way, jobs. This law shortens jobs. This will cost the employer 340 dollars a month to maintain one place, and then 200 dollars a year. And it doesn't matter to a person what kind of salary you put on paper -- 5, 10, at least 100,000 dollars if their jobs are cut and they don't get paid. Dear colleagues, this law on populism. Because populism is to raise the tax base when the economy falls, when hundreds of billions of holes in the budget, when unemployment falls, industry. You know, we did the Independence Day yesterday. Ukraine has low wages for 29 years because of the shadow economy, the pressure on business, and populism. So the author combined all these problems at the same time. And our faction for this populistic pre-election agony will not vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-08-25-m0.u32	Please, the Fed Sofia Romanovna, the political party "European Solidarity". Nina Petrovn Jujanin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-08-25-m0.u33	Honorable colleagues of the Ukrainians, does the Supreme Council have the right to consider a draft law that violates several laws itself, including the Supreme Council Regulations Act of Ukraine? The question seems strange, starting with the legislative initiative that the President has become, not the Cabinet of the Ministers of Ukraine with certain calculations, and with justification, there is a need to raise the minimum wage right now, precisely by covering the deficit that arises. Because it looks like it's all over the top: we need extra payments -- we'll find them by reducing external debt. This means that the budget sequence we spent the day before was made wrong. Again, you didn't calculate the macroeconomic indicators to make us believe you. We don't believe you. And now, when we look at all the problems at the microeconomic level, the employer has to pay more, while the productivity of the work has not changed, the market environment has not changed, and the economy continues to decline. Is it possible to raise additional pressure on business in the economic downturn? What choice do they have? Increasing prices for goods, for services, but the purchasing power has not changed. So the solution is to set people free or to go into the shadows. That's what you're proposing by these laws. So our political party, the faction of European Solidarity, will vote in the first reading only if we adopt direct standards for reducing tax pressure on business before the second reading. Only then can we conduct these novels. And that's not going to work, business can't pay anymore, and the pressure can't take it anymore.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-08-25-m0.u34	Thank you. Desiring to speak out of motive is Batenko. Who else is there? Royal, Batenko. Then we go to the vote. Please invite the people's deputies to the hall. Natalia Yuriovna, turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-08-25-m0.u35	Dear colleagues, "The Opposition Platform for Life" supports this bill, it supports it because it understands that today when people need everything they can give and support people. We have to solve this question. But unfortunately, it's, you know, it's a decision when "with a sheep at least a hairy hook," that's what you do. Because, yes, it'll help people a little bit, but it's a question of social protection for people that won't solve it. And that's why we're addressing the President, the Speaker, all the factions of Parliament. Social protection issues need to be addressed in a comprehensive manner, pension reform needs to be reformed urgently, and people today need to actually index pensions, and there is a need to provide an indexation of the calculations of the entire tariff network, and then people will actually get a raise in salaries. Only a complex solution today will help our country. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-08-25-m0.u36	Batenko Taras Ivanovich. "Trust" stood up. Batenko Taras Ivanovich, then we go to the vote. Take your seats, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-08-25-m0.u37	Colleagues, this bill is a big lie. Without tax liberalisation, it's a lie. 277 bracelets plus, when it was promised 6.5, they just didn't specify when, for people, ordinary citizens, without a pension index, is the spit before the election. Do you want to raise your ratings before the election? On the contrary, I believe that this bill will further lower your rating. I think it's real fraud and we urge immediately, our MP group for the future, to raise the minimum wage at least above the minimum wage. Promise 6.5 – give people 6.5 together with a change in tax legislation. Where will you find the funds? My colleagues are talking about it. On the basis of what increase in tax revenues in a situation of falling into a crazy economy to 8 percent when we are actually increasing the country's government debt, we are increasing the government debt today by ratifying various bills? Don't fool people, really increase citizens' income. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-08-25-m0.u38	Thank you. Let's go to the vote. Please take your seats. I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine 2020 (Registration No. 3963). Ready to vote? Ready? Please support and vote. [[11:55:31]] For 326 Decision taken. The factions. I am voting on the proposal for adoption in general, taking into account the Committee's proposals and the necessary technical and legal remedies, draft Law 3963. Please support and vote. [[B in m in s a l in]] Three factions against? No, it's not. I bet. Dear colleagues, let's put it this way: we vote, you want to do more – do it, make the law, we vote again, we do it better. From the first one, let's raise the second one, raise the law. Please support and vote. [[11:56:21]] For 295 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Let's see the factions. "Serve of the People" – 231, "Response Platform for Life" – 26, "European Solidarity" – 0, "Fatherhood" – 0, "For the Future" – 12, "Voice" – 0, "Trust" – 15, non-fractional – 11. Thank you. Decision taken. The next issue of agenda is the draft Act amending article 6 of the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine 2020 (registration number 3659). Please support and vote. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. Please support and vote. [[11:57:14]] For the 250. Decision taken. The vice president of the Committee on Budget Affairs, Truhin Alexander Mikolayovich, is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-08-25-m0.u39	Dear colleagues, in order to implement the decision of the Supreme Council, the Committee on Budget Affairs has prepared for the re-reading of Bill 3659. The committee, along with the Ministry of Finance, has worked on the proposals made by the National Deputies and the corresponding changes are presented to you. The Committee's letter contains the main differences between the amended bill and the government bill. In particular, the amended bill provides, firstly, for the law to be supplemented by a new article 6 p.m. 1, in which the issue of the granting of State guarantees on a portfolio basis in the 20th year is comprehensively settled, thus taking into account the committee's decision to a systematically binding bill of 3598. Secondly, not including the amendment to article 6 of the State Guarantee Act to ensure compliance with the debt obligations of Ukrhydroenergo and its exemption from the provision of insurance and the payment of guarantees. Thirdly, to supplement the law with a new article 16 prima. 1 on the granting of the right to MINFIN to carry out, as decided by the Cabinet of Ministers, a superplanned DDP with further acquisition into government property, which will allow for the launch of a mortgage market for young families. Therefore, in view of the above, the Committee on Budget Issues recommends to the Supreme Council Bill 3659, which has been finalized in a new edition, prepared by the committee together with Minfin, as a result of a review of the re-first reading, to be adopted on a basis and as a whole as a law incorporating technical and legal amendments to clarify the budgetary indicators in the appendix of the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-08-25-m0.u40	Thank you. Minister of Finance Marcenko Sergey Mihajlovich is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-08-25-m0.u41	Ladies and gentlemen, it is very important that our country succeeds in this crisis. It's economic now, because the coronary crisis caused the economic crisis. And it's important for us to have your support for such bills as 3659 to find support in the hall. As a result of the drafting of the bill, it is proposed that this bill be supplemented by rules that provide legislative grounds for implementing financial and credit support mechanisms for business support, expanding the ability of entrepreneurs to invest credit in banking institutions to support in times of crisis or post-crisis for the implementation of new projects. In addition, the bill proposes to introduce a mechanism aimed at developing mortgage lending. According to previous estimates, more than 650,000 families today need a solution to housing issues. More than 50 percent of citizens live in overcrowded apartments and houses, and about 70 percent of the housing fund is outdated and inadequate. Promoting increased demand for new housing will increase the volume of construction. At the same time, according to previous estimates, the building work multiplier for economic growth is about 7, which in turn will increase demand in the adjacent sectors of the economy, reduce unemployment, reduce social tension. It should be noted that during the imposition of quarantine restrictions many countries of the world have introduced similar mechanisms of state support — FRAN, Spain, Britain, France, Italy, Austria, Norway, Denmark, Sweden, Poland, and other countries. Please support the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-08-25-m0.u42	Thank you. Please register by faction: two in, two in, two in, against. Osadchuk. The Cabal?
ParlaMint-UA_2020-08-25-m0.u43	Please, Tzabal.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-08-25-m0.u44	Cabal Volodymyr Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-08-25-m0.u45	Dear colleagues, the Voice faction and on the first reading, when we failed to adopt this law last time, it has consistently advocated that the State should be able to provide guarantees on the portfolio basis of small and medium-sized business. Why is this necessary? Because during the coronavirus, small and medium-sized businesses remained on board state support. In fact, the state can only support big business because the process of issuing State guarantees is very complex. And no bank will ever take on this complex process to lend credit to a small enterprise, and these small enterprises, because of the crisis, need this state support. For the first time, we were unable to accept this law. Why? Because at the last minute, rules were introduced into the text of this law, which had no bearing on the granting of State guarantees. But now on the committee today, at 8 a.m., the text of the law was finalized, these standards were removed. And that's why our faction, the Voice faction, supports this bill. And I urge the whole room to support this law and finally start helping small and medium-sized businesses. It's been September, and we've been quarantined for more than six months. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-08-25-m0.u46	The alien Boris Viktorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-08-25-m0.u47	Boris Adjective, "Trust" group. The bill is complemented by article 6, paragraph 1, of the Law on State Budget 2020 by new sub-items, according to which, in the 20th year, the Cabinet decided and the Committee on State Budget Affairs agreed. The budget is expected to provide additional State guarantees. The proposed innovations are diverse and therefore require separate consideration. Regarding the granting of State guarantees to secure the debt obligations of Prat "Ukrhidroenergo". The money will allow us to continue active work on foreign investment and to implement projects to build appropriate hydroaccumulative power stations. We fully support the need to take steps to stimulate the state direction. There are some observations about the content of the legislative provision, particularly regarding the fact that the "Ukrohenergo", as decided by Kabminu, may be relieved of the obligation to provide property and other security for the enforcement of observations by the State. Second item. Regarding the collateralisation of debt obligations in respect of the portfolio of loans of creditors. The very idea of encouraging banks to lend micro, small and medium - size enterprises is worth supporting. The practical implementation of this initiative will allow increased access to credit resources by the owners. It is also important that the focus of this state support will be small and medium-sized enterprises, which are particularly affected by lack of access to credit resources. In doing so, this direction of support has some advantages, since the introduction of State guarantees on a portfolio basis will allow such support to be implemented by small and medium-sized businesses, in fact, without additional costs.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-08-25-m0.u48	Cimbaluk Mikhailovich. Vlasenko Sergei Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-08-25-m0.u49	Dear colleagues, what is this law really about? This law on two things: firstly, that the Cabinet of Ministers, in agreement with the Parliamentary Committee, be able to issue State guarantees and secondly, is the question of "Urgdroenergo" and 5 billion. As far as the process of issuing guarantees is concerned, I don't remember, frankly, maybe the senior colleagues will correct me, but I don't remember any law that would clearly, by name, speak of state guarantees, much more about state guarantees without bail, without any collateral, without any guarantees on the part of the recipient. This is the first time. But I also have a question. Tell me, please, do we have that nuclear energy is the cheapest energy that's loaded at 100 percent that we're currently funding at 5 billion hydropower? Tell me, please, what do we as a state not export electricity, which means that we have too much electricity, that we don't give it to our own citizens at normal cost? Instead of directing these 5 billion dollars to fight the coronavirus to direct these 5 billion dollars to support social standards, to direct these 5 billion dollars to support that small and medium-sized business that is now suffering both from the coronavirus and from the global financial crisis, we're allocating these funds, we're allowing the state budget to guarantee this loan. So maybe we could use this money some other way? Once again, at a time when the country has cheap electricity and it's enough to provide both its own economy and its own citizens. And I want to remind you that the previous law was passed in violation of the Rules, because the three factions demanded that it be voted in the second. passing it on to a second reading vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-08-25-m0.u50	Comer Natalia Igorovna. Scroak by Mikola Leonidovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-08-25-m0.u51	Honorable Presidium, respected citizens of Ukraine, respected colleagues! First of all, I'd like to join you in saying hello to Independence Day, but let's say just one digit. You know that today only two countries -- Ukraine and Zimbabwe -- have not reached the level of real gross domestic product in 1991. This is to help us understand what we have achieved in our years of independence when we are greeted with something. As far as Bill 3659 is concerned. We will not vote in favour of this bill. We were looking at it in factions today. If the previous bill was to be supported by our faction on the principle of "bad sheep at least fur klocks," then the bill cannot be supported because it has the following definitions. Minfin has the right to issue an RBP over the amount (no restrictions) defined by the State Budget Act to replenish a state mortgage facility. We need to understand that we are living with you in the parliamentary-presidential Republic, we need to understand that Parliament has its own control function, and that now the completely unprofessional government of Smigal is pushing us into other debt, is pushing us to take further steps towards depriving Ukraine of its real independence, is pushing us forward with the following bills on strengthening the external administration of our state, it is unacceptable. The country can't go through debt exclusively, the country has to protect and build its economy, the country has to start a real industrialization of its own state, the country has to go back to the really normal education system that was in our country, which allowed serious professionals who had demand throughout Europe, throughout the world. That's why our faction won't support the bill and urges everyone to do so.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-08-25-m0.u52	Thank you. The motive is Yatzenko. And then we go to the vote. There are no more who would like to speak? Invite the national deputies to the hall. Jacenko Anton Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-08-25-m0.u53	Thank you, Your Honor, Mr. Speaker. Dear colleagues, we are now seeing a very sharp drop in GDP, we are seeing a cut in investment, and in any normal country, the state has to give guarantees first and foremost to businessmen, and the development of markets. That is why this law must be adopted. And, yes, there may be some warnings there, but what I'm saying is that it's a normal practice when the state stimulates investment. So I think we need to support this so that business will finally, they say, continue to function. So let's support it, colleagues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-08-25-m0.u54	Thank you. Let's go to the vote. Please invite the national deputies to the hall. As long as the national MPs meet, I say, the committee proposes a foundation and a whole. Who's against the whole thing? Ready to vote? I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Act amending article 6 of the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for 2020 (registration number 3659). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[12:12:33]] For 255 Decision taken. How many factions are there against? Two factions against. Abbreviations. I'm voting on the proposal to cut half the deadlines for the submission of rights and proposals and prepare for the second reading of the bill, registration number 3659. 3659 d.o.b. Please support and vote. [[12:13:17]] For the 250. Decision taken. Thank you. The next issue of the agenda is the draft Order to announce a contest for a better sketch of the great State Herb of Ukraine. Dear colleagues, it is proposed that this draft order be declared urgent and that the time limit for the decision be reduced. That's not what you wrote. Alternatives don't apply unless I'm wrong. It is suggested that this issue be considered in a simplified manner. Please support and vote. [[12:14:11]] For 257 Decision taken. Needed to Be Discussed? Yeah. Then I give the floor to the head of the Committee on the Organization of Government, Local Self-Government, Regional Development, and the construction of the city of Kornyenek Aleksandr Sergiyovich. Give me four minutes, both from the authors and from the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-08-25-m0.u55	Dear colleagues, good afternoon! I welcome once again all Ukrainians to Independence Day, with Flag Day. And on that day, on the first day of the beginning of the 30th anniversary of our independence, we are looking at such a moving draft of the decree to announce a contest for a better sketch of the great State Herb of Ukraine. We can talk for a long time about the importance of the meaning of the symbols to the state, as they seem to us to be investing in it. I would like to refer to the Constitutional Court of Ukraine, our esteemed constitutional body, which, in one of its decisions, stated that State symbols are a confirmation of the existence of a state, its sovereignty and its authority. So, my personal opinion, I think that my fellow Members of Parliament, talking about the inadequacy of state symbols, the inadequacy of their consideration or the inadequacy of adopting legislation about them, I think, is talking about the inadequacy of the existence of our state. So I believe that the Supreme Council will not have that kind of conversation, and we will support that determination. The history of the question is known to all. Several contests were held. They ended up with some results. There is an opportunity now to gather the winners of those contests and update this idea. According to article 11 of the Constitution, the State promotes the consolidation and development of the Ukrainian nation, historical consciousness, traditions, and culture. The national emblems of Ukraine are the State Flag of Ukraine, the State Herb of Ukraine, the State Hymn of Ukraine. According to the 20th article, the great State Herb of Ukraine is established on the basis of the small State Herb of Ukraine and Herb of the Zaporezki Army. The main element of the great State Herb of Ukraine is the sign of the princely state of Vladimir the Great, the small State Herb of Ukraine. We all know that. However, only the laws of Ukraine establish the procedure for the use and protection of State symbols. The committee and I propose to support this decision, and you are all familiar with its text. Thus, in considering the draft Decree 3994, the Committee on the Organization of Government, Local Self - Rule, Regional Development and Urbanization today adopted the following decision at its meeting. First. Recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, in accordance with part three of article 138 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Rules of Procedure, a draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine declaring a contest for a better sketch of the great State Herb of Ukraine (registration No. 3994 of 18 August 2020), submitted by the national deputies of Ukraine Z Umumkov, Stefanchuk, Kornienk, Klock, Zagorujko, Black, as a result of the consideration to be accepted as a whole. The other one. In the event of a draft decision on the outcome of the review as a whole, propose to the Supreme Council of Ukraine to entrust the committee in preparing a corresponding decision at the signature of the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to undertake its technical and legal work in conjunction with the Chief Legal Authority of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-08-25-m0.u56	Thank you. Sign up for the factions for the performances: two for, two for the opposite. Cimbaluk Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-08-25-m0.u57	Mikhailo Cimbaluk, Fatherland. Please give the word to a colleague by the faction of John Krulk.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-08-25-m0.u58	Krulko Ivanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-08-25-m0.u59	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. First of all, I welcome the entire Ukraine with Ukraine's Independence Day, which we celebrated yesterday. We're in the 30th year of independence of Ukraine, and right now we've decided to have a new sketch of the great coat of arms of Ukraine developed. I'd like to pay attention, so look, I'm speaking under the State Herb of Ukraine Trident, the coat of arms of Vladimir the Great Prince of the Age. The coat of arms under which our Ukrainian soldiers defend national independence in the east reflect Russian aggression with their coat of arms on their chests. This is the same coat of arms that Ukrainian athletes have chosen for Ukraine’s Olympic prizes, the coat of arms that united Ukraine. Each area has its own back. Each city has its own coat of arms, which shows the specifics of the region, the specifics of the city. But the Trident State Herb is concise and complete, bringing them all together. I want to remind you of a short story. Right here on the left, where the "Serial of the People" faction is sitting, were the Communists. There were many of them. And that's why Trident wasn't confirmed as the only State Herb, because they wanted to wash the state symbols and stick the Soviet in the big coat of arms. Then the question was put off. There are no Communists in this room right now. That's why we have an offer in the Fatherland faction. Let's start on Monday and we'll initiate this process. We are collecting signatures for amendments to the Constitution in order to establish Trident as a sign of the Princely Age as the only State Herb of Ukraine. Not the small, not the large, but the State Herb of Ukraine, which unites Ukraine rather than splits it apart. Here's our offer. And let's get together on this one. Nor do we find new topics that are unifying but unifying to Ukraine. We don't need new discussions about the coat of arms. We still have a lot of questions to settle. Let's raise the real minimum and the people's pension, and the coat of arms is cleared up. We have one coat of arms that has brought us all together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-08-25-m0.u60	Melanik Victo Nichiporovich Batenko Taras Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-08-25-m0.u61	Dear colleagues, I believe that this Supreme Council decree bears an important symbolic act, since the following year will be a year 30 years from the proclamation of Ukraine's state independence. As we know, the small State Herb of Ukraine, Prince Vladimir the Great's Trident, was accepted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine in early February 1992, and it was a time of serious compromise, which was then between the so-called national communism and the then national democracy. We have in 30 years, obviously, a national democracy has finally won over national communism. But I, however, believe that we should not limit ourselves to the desire to have a beautiful, elegant, harmonious, which will be proud of all the Ukrainians who are scattered millions around the world, the great State Herb of Ukraine, which will be the foundation of the princely coat of arms of Vladimir the Great. Do not limit yourself to this heraldry. And I'll tell you more, don't limit Parliament to that. I believe that Parliament, as a higher legislative body, can participate actively in this by making clear the criteria in its decision and by participating directly in the competition commission. Why do we only address this decision to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine? I believe that Parliament, at the same level as the competitive commission, could help its representatives, along with the serious heroes of our Ukrainian Heraldic Associations, which today in Ukraine is headed by Andry Grecilo, to work on this exquisite great State Herb of Ukraine until Ukraine's 30th anniversary of state independence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-08-25-m0.u62	Thank you. Fedina Sofia Romanovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-08-25-m0.u63	Please give the floor to Volodymyr Váterovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-08-25-m0.u64	Vitatrovich Volodymyr Mihajlovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-08-25-m0.u65	Good afternoon, dear fellows! We have an alternate session, unfortunately not about the fight against the pandemic, unfortunately not about the defence of Ukraine, which opposes Russian aggression, and not even about the support of the neighbouring people of Belarus, who are now fighting for democracy. We're considering the decree on the big coat of arms competition in Ukraine. Let me remind you, this is the fourth competition that will be held, if we vote now, fourth since 1991, 96th, 97th, 2007, 2009. And a little bit more of the story that my colleague John was talking about. Really, where did the idea of the great herb come from? And it came from the fact that the Communists really didn't like Trident as a nationalistic symbol, and they wanted to add something to it, I don't know, maybe sickle and hammer. In fact, isn't the present Trident a great coat of arms? This is the coat of arms we've been borrowing since the time of Russia, this is the coat of arms that became state during the Ukrainian Revolution of 1917-1921, under which the soldiers of the army of the Ukrainian People's Republic, the Ukrainian rebel army, fought by modern soldiers of the Ukrainian Armed Forces. What kind of Witnesses are we now? Someone thinks you can turn Independence Day into a bunch of pop dances, someone thinks you can trample a flag on Independence Day, someone wants to flip a flag on a fan show, someone wants to change the hymn, someone wants to change the coat of arms. Colleagues, we have no right or right to do this. These are the symbols that we got from our ancestors. And our mission is to save them and give them to their offspring. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2020-08-25-m0.u66	Leros Geo Bagratovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-08-25-m0.u67	Dear friends, surely the coat of arms of Ukraine is one of the symbols of the independence of our nation. It is a good thing that we have found time to consider the matter today. But unfortunately, we haven't been able to find time to consider the issue of the creation of TSCs as to what, perhaps, representatives of the President's Office have committed treason. I very much want the coat of arms of Ukraine to symbolize our independence. But I would very much like to ask the Chamber to include this question at the next meeting regarding the consideration of the establishment of a temporary commission of inquiry on the question of possible treason by the representatives of the Office of the President of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-08-25-m0.u68	It's from Bilozer. Then we go to the vote. There are no more who would like to speak? Invite the national deputies to the hall. Larissa Mikolayevna.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-08-25-m0.u69	Regrettably, despite 29 years of independence, the issue of Ukrainian symbols is governed only by the Constitution and solely by regulations, regulations. And we've only got one piece of legislation that's become valid, that's the State Hymn Act. I would like to point out that neither the coat of arms nor the flag has yet been approved by the Ukrainian Parliament. And in 29 years, nine of them failed to pass the laws on detainees, and they remained bills. Therefore, the Constitution does contain a great coat of arms, and it must be supported so that we may be able to vote on the Law on the Day of Assembly in January and decide on an ambitious goal to vote on the Law on the State. And it takes political will, support for all parties and MPs, because we need a constitutional majority of 300 votes. Trust Group will support this decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-08-25-m0.u70	Thank you. Let's go to the vote. Please take your seats. I am betting on the vote on the proposal for adoption in general with the necessary technical and legal regulations, a draft Decision on the announcement of a contest for a better draft of the great State Herb of Ukraine (registration number 3994). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[12:27:39]] For 279 Decision taken. Thank you. Let's see the factions. "Serve of the People" – 217, "Resistance Platform for Life" – 19, "European Solidarity" – is 1, "Fatherhood" – 0, "For the Future" – 13, "Voice" – 8, "Trust" – 13, "non-fractional" – 8. Dear colleagues, next question is the agenda. Announcement.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-08-25-m0.u71	Dear colleagues, according to article 60, prime. I report to the Supreme Council regulations on the establishment of the 9th Interfractional Parliamentary Union of the Parliamentary Agrarian Council in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The National Deputy of Ukraine, Bogdanec Andrija Volodymyrovich, was elected head of this association.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-08-25-m0.u72	Thank you. The next issue is the draft Law on Ratification of the Memorandum of Understanding between Ukraine as Borrower and the European Union as Creditor and Credit Agreement between Ukraine as Borrower and National Bank of Ukraine as Agent of the Borrower and the European Union as Creditor (to receive Ukraine's macro-financial assistance to the European Union of up to EUR 1 billion 200 million) (registration No. 0063). It is suggested that this issue be considered in a simplified manner. Please support and vote. [[12:29:09]] For 249 Decision taken. The report is given to Ukraine’s finance minister, Marcenko Sergey Mihajlovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-08-25-m0.u73	Honourable Dmitre Alexandrovich, distinguished national deputies and present, you are now invited to consider a bill on the ratification of the Memorandum of Understanding between Ukraine and the European Union and the relevant Credit Agreement for Ukraine's macro-financial assistance to the European Union of up to 1.2 billion euros, which, according to the Ukrainian Law on International Agreements, have been submitted to the Supreme Council by the President of Ukraine. On 25 May 2020, the European Parliament and the Council decided on the possibility of providing exceptional macro-financial assistance to the countries of European neighbourhood policy, including Ukraine, to support efforts to deal with the effects of the crisis caused by the spread of COVID-19. Such a decision has opened the way for our state to obtain a 1.2 billion euro premium with two 600 million euro tranches under the new EU macro-financial assistance programme. The interest rate is acceptable and will not exceed 2 percent. The maturity of the loan shall be no more than 15 years. The memorandum of understanding sets out the preconditions for allocating funds. In particular, general conditions: compliance with commitments agreed between Ukraine and the IMF; ensuring the independence of the Central Bank and making progress in the implementation of the EU Association Agreement, including a deep and inclusive free trade zone; special conditions for the allocation of the second aid tranche; and the implementation of measures agreed upon by the parties to implement structural reforms. The European Union’s assistance is very important in terms of reducing the economic activity of our state as a result of quarantine. Thank you for your attention. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-08-25-m0.u74	Thank you. The report is given to the head of the Committee on Integration of Ukraine with the European Union Klimpush-Cincadze Ivanni Orestovni.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-08-25-m0.u75	Dear Mr. Head! Dear National Deputies! The Committee on Integration of Ukraine with the European Union, at its meeting, discussed the draft Law on Ratification of the Memorandum of Understanding between Ukraine as a Borrower and the European Union as a Creditor and a Credit Agreement for Ukraine's macro-financial assistance to the European Union of up to EUR 1 billion 200 million. The agreement is indeed subject to ratification by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The draft law proposes to ratify this memorandum and the Credit Agreement. These agreements have determined that the macro-financial assistance can be granted to Ukraine through two 600 million euros each, a period of at least 3 months between the grant. The first tranche is possible after the acquisition for Ukraine of the validity of the international treaties and the achievement of the satisfactory outcome of the programme agreed between Ukraine and the International Monetary Fund. A prerequisite for receiving a second tranche under the new EU macro-financial assistance programme of up to 600 million euros is the implementation of a series of agreed-upon measures, including ensuring the independence of the Central Bank and progress towards the implementation of the Association Agreement, including a deeper and comprehensive free trade zone. The expected repayment period is 10-15 years. And the interest rate on the new program for up to 15 years is projected to be 2 percent. The committee considers it appropriate to ratify the Memorandum of Understanding and the Credit Agreement. And this decision of the committee is fully in line with the conclusion of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-08-25-m0.u76	Thank you. Please sign up: two for, two for, one for, one for, two for, two for factions. Oddzuk Andri Petrovich. A cabal, huh? Who? Andrew Petrovich or Vladimir Volodymyrovich? Cabal Volodymyr Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-08-25-m0.u77	Dear colleagues, this memorandum really needs to be ratified. And I want to remind everyone that this money was one of those, let's say, one of the sources of funding that we were counting on when we went out on such a high budget deficit in March/April when we were making it a sequester. But I also want to remind you that when we did this sequester, we went out on such a high deficit, even though we did re-set up incomes that are now not up to $30 billion, I'm sorry. I have a question for the Ministry of Finance and others. Okay, we're going to ratify this memo right now, but we're still going to have a little bit of, let's say, the holes in the budget that we're going out of now. What will be our next course of action? What else do we need to do? In what way will we cover the difference? Because of the lack of expenditure, as we can see, 50 billion dollars or something else? This is an important question that, I hope, the Ministry of Finance and the Cabinet of Ministers will give us all an answer in September. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-08-25-m0.u78	Thank you. Please, Klimpush-Cincadze Ivanna Orestovna, faction of European Solidarity.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-08-25-m0.u79	Dear Lord Chairman, dear colleagues! I hope that everyone in this room, except that there are groups of friends of the Colomaic Default, is aware of the need to receive macro-financial assistance from the European Union of up to 1.2 billion euros. Unfortunately, this is critical for the totally underprivileged actions of the government of the economy of Ukraine. That's also important because it's a positive signal for investors. Because the programmes of the International Monetary Fund and the European Union signal that the country can still be trusted. This is a low-interest external lending market option. Because the IMF and the EU really want their money back. And so the country has to be able to do that. And that's why they're putting their terms on us, not Soros's making money. But that's not the point. The main thing is that today's IMF and EU programmes are in fact the only motivation for structural reforms in Ukraine. If it wasn't for IMF requirements, there wouldn't be an anticolomist law. If it wasn't for IMF requirements, there wouldn't be a market for land. If it were not for IMF and the EU requirements, the country would be in full population. And the most important thing in this agreement is that if the authorities do not consider the rule of law to be an important rule of law and unjustifiably pursues opposition, destroys the real division of branches of power and the independence of the judicial system, if the authorities do not need independent NAMAs and AMCs, if the authorities simply simulate integration into the EU, then perhaps even a hole in the pocket, in the government pocket to be sewn up, will force the authorities to make a difference in their approach to government and administration of Ukraine by meeting these requirements of the European Union. That is why we will maintain this covenant.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-08-25-m0.u80	Please, National Deputy Puzanov Alexander Hennadiyovich, faction of the political party "The Opposition Platform for Life." Alexander Sergiyovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-08-25-m0.u81	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, our faction will vote against this bill, and I'll explain why, more specifically, the ratification of this document. Because if the European Union wanted to support us this way, it would not instill in us a loan under extremely unfavourable conditions, but would provide the most favourable environment for external trade within our framework. Ukraine with the European Union It would bring down the discriminatory standards laid down in the deep-rooted area of free trade with the EU. Look, we're looking at a 17 percent drop in exports to the markets of the European Union in the last 6 months of the 20th year, a minus 5 billion trade surplus. Is that how you support us? One second. And we have a policy of power over the last year is that we increase external and domestic borrowing. We have a government debt that has increased from $78 billion to $85 billion. How do we work so that we only increase external debt? One more moment. Ukraine's budget is 300 billion, and it's built on 642 billion in return. It's eating, it's not development. And the loans you take, you eat them, and we don't have a future. Another very important moment. What are the conditions under which we are given funds, for example, from among other things, for the establishment of a regulatory and legal basis of corporate governance for public enterprises, including on payment? This is our internal sovereign question, not the elements that have to be external administration, to tell us what kind of wage to put in. We'll put it on the supervisory boards as well. And the last moment. Improving the functioning of the gas market in Ukraine is certainly not a matter of the European Union. We have our own economic mechanisms to lower and substantially lower the price of gas for the population. And I ask you not to support this draft law as one that does not suit the interests of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-08-25-m0.u82	Thank you. Please, National Deputy Vlasenko Sergey Volodymyrovich, Fatherland faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-08-25-m0.u83	Thank you, Mr. Head. I'd like to answer from this rostrum to the false patriots who are talking about the great usefulness of working with the IMF. It is you, the appointed Finance Minister of Jaresko, who was a co-worker of the IMF, who has made such a restructuring that the country still, if you'll excuse me for such a non-parliamentary word, is wasting all of this. So we don't have to tell fairy tales, and we don't have to manipulate them -- it's no help, it's just a commercial loan, it's money to pay back, it's interest. And it's not about 1 billion 200, it's about 600 million, because the first 600 million has already accepted and spent. So what we're talking about right now is that behind this memorandum, national interests appear to be a $600 million loan. I was already speaking from this rostrum and was talking about the shortcomings of this bill. I just want to make one more point, every person in this room who votes in favour of this bill is voting not only for this memorandum, but also for the memorandum with the International Monetary Fund. So anyone who pushes the button has to understand that clearly. The other one. This bill cannot be voted on for purely technical regulatory reasons. The regulations of the Supreme Council of Ukraine do not exclude ratification laws. Therefore, this law should be considered in the first and second readings. And I don't have to tell you how those laws were passed before. If there was consensus in the ratification hall, it was immediately accepted as a whole. And the second. The Law on International Contracts states that if such an international agreement provides for the adoption of appropriate laws, and this agreement undoubtedly provides for, then the bill must be voted upon immediately and amended. Unfortunately, there is no such thing. And one brief phrase, as these creditors say to us, quote paragraph 9 of the memorandum: "To prevent violations and fraud related to the use of this aid.".. That is, fraud is already in its head, corruption is already in its head, and it is.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-08-25-m0.u84	All those who wish to speak? Batenko, Shahov, then we go to the vote. Please invite the national deputies to the hall. From where? Batenko Taras Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-08-25-m0.u85	To the apologists of external independence, the so-called independence of the country, I want to say that independence is shown to have its price in Ukraine, it can be sold in pieces: 600 million, one piece, three months later, another 600 million. But we are once again held hostage by these external authorities every month. To what obligations of the queues do we apply this package of legislation? We are to whom the Ministry of Health is to transfer all centralized purchases of medical obligations. The Government of Ukraine is under an obligation to cancel the special obligation of natural gas market operators to provide gas services for household needs. will lead to an increase in the price of gas for households. Ukraine indicates what needs to be done with state banks' assets, how to reform tax and customs administrations, how to reform the judicial system on the basis of external creditors' instructions, etc. Is that enough? Are we sure they'll give us that loan, the second tranche, and so on? So the MP's Party for the Future calls for not ratifying this Memorandum between Ukraine and the Borrower, which is added to such a memorandum.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-08-25-m0.u86	Shahov Sergei Volodymyrovich. Then we vote. Invite the national deputies to the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-08-25-m0.u87	Sergey Shahov, Luhanščina, Deputy Group "Trust". Dear colleagues, each of us knows that in our country chronic disease is the roads, the cancerous tumor of Ukraine. Today, we need the money that our foreign partners want to help us. Please tell us, who will be responsible for the suffering of drivers today? The Luhansk region can't pass fast, holes like graves. Today, there is a rapid carriage in the pit — a child may not be born, a mother may die directly in the ambulance. Please tell me, who is doing the roadside checks today, how much money have we enjoyed? Who will do the checking of the roads that were built, which after winter were full of roads? Who's going to be doing the auditions, and who's going to be ordering those bad guys who robbed billions, the officials who are sitting in Lugansk today, and the Donetsk area, today robbing billions of dollars of money, at the U.C.A., the military-civil administration? One money manager is the governor. Who will control this situation? I call.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-08-25-m0.u88	Thank you. Let's go to the vote. Ready to vote? I am proposing the adoption of the draft Law on Ratification of the Memorandum of Understanding between Ukraine as a Borrower and the European Union as a Creditor and a Credit Agreement between Ukraine as a Borrower and the National Bank of Ukraine as an Agent of the Borrower and the European Union as a Creditor (Registration No. 0063). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[12:46:05]] For 248 Decision taken. Thank you. Let's see the factions. The next issue of the agenda is the draft Law on the ratification of the Financial Agreement "The European Roads of Ukraine" (0055). It is suggested that this issue be considered in a simplified manner. Please support and vote. [[12:46:40]] For 242 Decision taken. Minister of Infrastructure Krikliy Vladislav Arturovich is invited to speak.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-08-25-m0.u89	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs! First of all, I want to welcome the Day of Independence with Flag Day, and I want to say that the Ukrainians are not only united by our two colors, they are united, and they are independent, and they are also the roads that we are building rapidly this year, which are being carried out in the Presidential Programme of the Great Building, and only twice as many roads have been adopted and made than they have been in the past year. We will make even more quality roads thanks to the ratification of the Financial Agreement "The European Roads of Ukraine" (Project "The Development of the Trans-European Transport Network"). The relevant bill is submitted by the President of Ukraine, and the Financial Agreement "The European Roads of Ukraine" between Ukraine and the European Investment Bank was concluded on 22 November 2019. The agreement provides for a 25 - year loan to the European Investment Bank of 450 million euros. At this cost, 314 kilometres of M-05 Kyiv-Odes road will be capitalized in Cherkaske, Kirovograd, Mikolai and Odessa areas. The cost will also go to the construction of the 23 - km [23 km] north bypass road in Lviv. This will be the road of the first category, which will have four lanes, three bridges, seven tours, and three estacads, and the north tour in Lviv will shorten time and divert freight flows from the city. With the roads, of course, modern security infrastructure will be built. The implementation of this project will improve road traffic along international transport corridors, increase road safety on the roads they connect.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-08-25-m0.u90	Thank you. Thank you, Vladislav Arturovich. The Vice-President of the Committee on Integration of Ukraine and the European Union, Mezencev Maria Sergiyevna, is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-08-25-m0.u91	Congratulations, distinguished colleagues, with the beginning of our work, with all the festivals that have recently taken place! An interesting question may be asked: How can we combine our country’s independence, European development, and all festivals? We can say that we can combine them with beautiful European future infrastructure, because by new roads, new highways, we're sewing our Ukraine from small villages, villages, towns to big city millionaires. Today we're talking about an important ratification, a financial agreement that is already the third stage of previous efforts to develop European ways in our country. The Minister pointed out the technical aspects of this agreement. As a member of the Committee on Relations with the European Union, I would like to point out that last week, at our extraordinary meeting, we decided to support this financial agreement by Protocol No. 44 and we recommend it before the adoption of it in the Supreme Council. I also want to point out that in this financial agreement we're talking about long-term financial horizons, we're talking about 25 years of return on cheap credit. And when someone says in opposition to this effort that we have enough money in the budget, no. Therefore, in the long run, the financial agreement of our European partners can provide us with such opportunities today. I also want to point out that in Ukraine, when we planned our country's development for the 20th year, we said that 95 percent of the roads, the highways of our country, are worn out. Thus, 24,000 road repairs are planned for today. I think that the majors who travel directly in the region see all these changes, and the Ukrainians too. Guys, let's support this financial agreement and give it a shot.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-08-25-m0.u92	Thank you. Please sign up: two for, two for, two for, one for the factions. Laba Mikhailo Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-08-25-m0.u93	Good afternoon! I also welcome everyone. My friends have really talked a lot, minimum wages are needed, roads are needed, Ukraine is sewn up. But unfortunately, we see that on the first working day of our colleagues there are so many political statements that it will be enough for the next four years. Let's work, friends, move forward, and there's enough controversy and populist statements, we'll just work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-08-25-m0.u94	Jon’s Maria Mikolayevna
ParlaMint-UA_2020-08-25-m0.u95	Please pass the word to Ivanni Klimpush-Cincadze
ParlaMint-UA_2020-08-25-m0.u96	Klimpush-Cincadze Ivanna Orestovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-08-25-m0.u97	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I am convinced that ratification of both this agreement and the next one that we will consider are important. But we have to understand that it's not just about financing, and these agreements are not exactly about "Big Construction" from the President of Ukraine, but these agreements are agreements, as this has been directly reached in the 18th year, and they are about the security and comfort of our citizens, and they are about the integration of Ukraine into the world and not just European transport infrastructure. That's why we're going to keep this deal, and the next one. But at the same time, I would like to draw the attention of the ministries -- the Ministry of Infrastructure and the Ministry of Finance. Sadly, both agreements were made with violations of Ukraine’s regulations. Regrettably, the ministries were not just imperfect, nor were they underprivileged. This resulted in both agreements being transferred by ministries so that the Supreme Council could consider them. I'm talking to the government. Stop your incompetence. In fact, hire some normal experts who will help you to form documents so that you will not be ashamed to consider them on either a committee or a meeting of the Supreme Council. And I hope that was the last violation of the filing of documents in that form. As chairman of the Committee, I would like to state that we will not consider the following agreements if they are made in that way. Thank you very much. And this is a deal I'm asking you to support.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-08-25-m0.u98	Thank you. Tchaikovsky John Adamovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-08-25-m0.u99	Father Taras Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-08-25-m0.u100	Taras Ivanovich Batenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-08-25-m0.u101	Dear colleagues, the "For the Future" MP Group welcomes and supports the agreement between Ukraine and the European Investment Bank on support for the Trans-European Transport Network Development Project, because we believe that it is both regional development and the international image of Ukraine. Moreover, we believe that these articles, which came into this financial agreement of 450 million euros, will be the source of the cost of the Ukrainian State Road Fund, are very important articles. This is the area of the M-05 Kiev-Odessa International Road. And no less important, it's about the northern bypass city of Lviv, because we're paying attention to the fact that today the city of Lviv, as a millionaire city, and the city of megapolis, is in trouble every day, a city in collapse. And I believe that this agreement will allow an accelerated pace to resolve the issue of the northbound 23 kilometers [23 km], to disperse the city as a whole. The main issue is the qualitative implementation of these funds and, obviously, the issue of the successful and rapid return of this money so as not to delay the implementation of this financial agreement. Our parliamentary group "For the Future" will support this draft of the Law on the Ratification of the Financial Agreement, just like the draft Law on the Ratification of the Financial Agreement (Project "Transport Connection in Ukraine – Phase I") between Ukraine and the European Investment Bank, which is the next issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-08-25-m0.u102	Bacunec Pavel Andryovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-08-25-m0.u103	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs. Pavlov Bakunec MP group "Trust" Lvivščina. The ratification of this international financial agreement, signed by Ukraine and the European Investment Bank, will definitely help us to obtain a favourable loan and the funds at which we are starting to build new roads and to repair existing ones. And we're going to be paying this money over the next 25 years and at a convenient loan rate. That's why it's important. And even today, as a Marjorie MP, I am definitely happy, because this convenient loan will give us new high-quality roads, and that's comfort for our residents, that's the safety of passage for our citizens. And especially for this loan, we will build a northern tour around the city of Lviv, which is important for both the inhabitants of Lviv and the whole of Lviv, including the Yavorish and Zvkovščina, through which this northern tour will take place. We will also repair our important road artery, the road of Kiev-Odessa, which will also help and improve the selection from Kiev to Odessa. In addition, contractors, especially road subcontractors, will be our local firms, such as local businesses, local budgets, and local residents. That's why the Trust MPs will definitely vote in favour of ratifying the agreement. And we urge you, dear colleagues in the hall, also to support this ratification. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-08-25-m0.u104	Thank you. All those who wish to speak? Let's go to the vote. Please take your seats, prepare for the vote. Ready to vote? I am voting on the proposal for the adoption of the draft Law on the Ratification of the Financial Agreement "The European Roads of Ukraine III" between Ukraine and the European Investment Bank (Registration No. 0055). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[12:59:14]] For 288 Decision taken. Thank you. The next issue of agenda is the draft Law on the Ratification of the Financial Agreement "The European Roads of Ukraine III" between Ukraine and the European Investment Bank (Registration No. 0056). It is suggested that this issue be considered in a simplified manner. Please support and vote. [[12:59:46]] For 240 Decision taken. The report is given to the Minister of Infrastructure Krikliy Vladislav Arturovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-08-25-m0.u105	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs! It is gratifying that a solemn meeting has such unifying processes as voting for the ratification of treaties, where funding will be aimed at building even more roads — roads of European quality and safe roads in Ukraine. And I want to point out that Bill 0056 is aimed at getting us funding within the framework of the financial agreement between Ukraine and the European Investment Bank. Total funding is 100 million euros, of which 50 million euros are European Investment Bank and 50 million euros are European Union grants. Costs will be directed towards building a northeastern road around the city of Ternopil, as well as building three multi-level solutions and two tours in Lviv and Rivena areas, near Ternopol, as well as building intellectual transport systems to make roads not only safe but also smart, and to provide a safer component, and to reduce the level of accident and death on roads. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-08-25-m0.u106	Thank you. The report is given to the head of the Committee on Integration with the European Union, Vintonjak Oleni Vasilivni.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-08-25-m0.u107	Dear Mr. Golovo, your thoughts are presented by the draft Law on the Ratification of the Financial Agreement (Project "Transport Connection in Ukraine – Phase I"). The purpose of this bill is to receive a grant of 50 million euros. The aim of the project is to improve the economic, safety, and environmental components of transport in Ukraine by investing in a series of separate small road objects to improve road connections in the Eastern Partnership. Costs will be aimed at improving road connections in the Western region of Ukraine, namely, in the Lviv, Plain, and Ternopil regions. They will aim to build solutions to roads and roads, as well as to develop programs to remove narrow railways and explore the possibility of creating a network of interconnected logistics centres and multimodal terminals in the nearest transport hubs, as well as crossing points across the state border of Ukraine and EU countries. The adoption of this law by Ukraine requires the expenditure of the state budget for the preparation and co-financing of the project. It is also worth noting that the source of the return and maintenance of credit for each fiscal year will be the costs that will come to the State Road Fund. It's worth noting that the credit rate for this loan is very low and it's about 0.5 percent, which is very good for the state. The Committee of the Supreme Council, at its meeting, approved the decision to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine that it be accepted as a basis and as a whole. Please support this ratification. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-08-25-m0.u108	Thank you. Please sign up: two for, two for, one for, one for, two for, two for factions. Needed Discussion? Can we vote? We can vote. Okay. [[B in m in s a l in]] We can vote. Vlasenko. Give me two minutes, Vlasenko, and we'll pass. Tsymbaluk. And we can vote. Cimbaluk Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-08-25-m0.u109	Thank you. Mikhailo Cimbaluk, Fatherland. Dear Mr. Head, national deputies! Dear Mr. Minister! I'd like to say the following. What really matters is the construction of objects for this credit. This included mention of the tour of Ternopolis, for there is a six - year journey that cannot be completed, and the whole city is paralyzed. It's very important that the tour is in Ternopolis. But I would like to remind the Prime Minister and all the authorities that taking credit is one thing, to think about when and how to give them away so that they don't leave these debts to other generations. And the next thing is to control the quality of the work. Here a colleague spoke of the fact that, in turn, domestic firms would operate. It is also important that the Ministry of Infrastructure understands about control. And we have this thing that's built and controlled by each other. Quality is first of all. And I want the Ministry of Infrastructure to clearly allocate the funds, especially what we borrow, the efficiency of use and the technical security of road control. Because where high-quality roads, unfortunately, there's increased trauma and traffic accidents with severe consequences. The Fatherland faction supports the ratification of this agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-08-25-m0.u110	I am voting on the proposal for the adoption of the draft Law on the Ratification of the Financial Agreement "European Roads of Ukraine" between Ukraine and the European Investment Bank (Registration No. 0056). Please prepare for the vote. Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[13:06:23]] For 273 Decision taken. Thank you. Dear colleagues, the order of the day of the non-commissioned session is exhausted. Wait, don't break up. I declare the ninth call of the Supreme Council of Ukraine closed. [[The National Hymn of Ukraine]] Thank you, Your Honor.
