ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-17-m0.u1	Good morning, dear fellows! Good morning, media officials! Today we have the final day of our third session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the ninth call. It's good to see everyone. Please take your seats, prepare for registration. Dear colleagues, are you ready to register? Please register. [[10:12:39]] There are 214 Ukrainian national deputies registered in the hall. You see, I forgot to mention that you have to register with the green pros button, the first on the left, that's why. But when we go to the vote, I'm sure there will be enough votes to make the appropriate decisions of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Dear colleagues, today our colleague of the national MP, Sergey Volodymyrovich, is born. He is, isn't he? [[Applause]] Dear colleagues, in a meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, he takes over. [[B in m in s a l in]] No, no, no. Dear colleagues, you must remember the Rules. To begin our work, the number is not a principle. The number of national deputies is the very principle for making decisions. If there are no 226 votes in favour of the law, it is really impossible to continue the session. The Prime Minister of Ukraine, Denis Anatoliyovich Schmigal, and members of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, participate in the meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Please welcome them. In accordance with article 229 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules, “the hour of questions to the Government ” is held on Friday, at 10 a.m. At the suggestion of MPs and groups, members of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine today will answer questions about the security environment around Ukraine and the organization of an autumn appeal to the Ukrainian Armed Forces. The following mode of work is proposed: 20 minutes for a speech by the Ukrainian Defence Minister, 21 minutes for speeches and questions. Excuse me, for questions from MPs and groups; for 20 minutes, the Prime Minister of Ukraine and members of the government responded to questions from national MPs. And then we move on to our work. Is there no objection? None. Mr. Andriy Vasilovich Taran, Minister of Defence of Ukraine, is invited to speak.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-17-m0.u2	The Honourable Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, honourable national deputies, today I am invited to report to you on the following questions: the situation of the security environment in eastern Ukraine, with emphasis on the Crimean trend, and the characteristics of the organisation of the Calling Campaign in 2020. As for the first question. In order to prevent the situation from being destabilized in a criminal way, a number of specific actions have been planned and carried out by the Ministry of Defence, the General Staff, and the operations of the United Nations. In particular, it is about creating conditions to alert the situation. I wouldn't want to go into detail about improving the engineering fences, the surveillance systems, the Navy, the Special Operations Force. For the record, I could say the following. Increase in the conduct of intelligence. Arrangements are being made for the rotation of armies. The task has been clarified, with close interaction with the National Guard, the National Police, the Ukrainian Security Service, the Ukrainian State Border Service. In view of the stated, military forces, the Ukrainian Armed Forces, which carry out tasks in the United Nations and along the administrative border of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, are ready to respond adequately to existing challenges and threats along the state border of Ukraine. At the present time, the situation in the task area is controlled by the task force of the South Task Force. As for the emphasis on the Crimean trend. During the last month, the media reported many reports about the possibility of an armed attack by the Russian Federation, the activation of hostilities in the Crimean direction. In this context, the words of the former commander of the U.S. military in Europe, as well as a series of articles in the media, which not only echoed the words of the retired American general, but also provided comments from the expert community. In this context, I would like to point out that, at the present time, signs of direct preparation for the active hostilities of the Russian occupying forces near the administrative border of the Hersonian region from the temporarily occupied territory of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea have not been detected. There are no action on the peninsula to create shock groups. At the same time, bearing in mind the unpredictability of decisions, primarily the political leadership of the Russian Federation and, of course, the political and military leadership of the Russian Federation Armed Forces, the Armed Forces of Ukraine are taking steps to prevent and disprove possible actions by the Russian Federation Armed Forces. I know that the members of the Supreme Council Committee on National Security, Defence and Intelligence made a trip to the Herson area, where they had the opportunity to see for themselves what was actually going on. At the same time, taking into account the accumulation of troops under preparation for the strategic training of the Caucasus-2020, the leadership of the Ministry of Defence and the Armed Forces of Ukraine is scheduled at the same time, in the last decade of September, to conduct strategic command-and-staff training "United Efforts – 2020". As part of this training, we plan to test the ability of the General Staff in the new structure, the J-structure, to act in accordance with NATO standards. It is also planned to check the ability to interact with the NATO Armed Forces, not only to conduct command and command training, but to carry out all strategic command and command trainings, to carry out combat preparedness tests, to carry out combat shelling with air and air force aircraft, with certain units and military units of the Land Army, as well as other military formations, in our southern Ukraine-based ranges. We also expect NATO representatives to be able to participate in these exercises. We are currently developing a plan, once this plan is approved and the curriculum is in place, they will be properly approved, and then I will be able to report something more concrete. But this asymmetric answer, we estimate first, will show the readiness of the Ukrainian Armed Forces to provide a decent, dignified response to any attempt by the Russian Federation to exacerbate the situation or to engage in large-scale hostilities, although, at the same time, I repeat, we do not observe for the present time the actual preparations of the Russian Federation Armed Forces for the military offensive during the Caucasus-2020 training period. As for the term of military service in May-July this year. Of course, pandemics and quarantines make the 2020 spring appeal in unprecedented conditions. By order of the President of Ukraine, and by order of the government, it was transferred to May-July. The appeal will continue until 31 July of this year. The Ministry of Defence, together with the Ministry of Education through the media, has provided a comprehensive explanation of the order of the term - service appeal, including, above all, young people who graduate from the bachelor’s program and who have shown a desire to learn from the master’s program. The relevant information and orders of the General Staff have already been sent to the military commissioners and to the heads of the administration and the regime. The situation today is generally settled. The management of district and district administrations, military commissions, local education and science authorities, and educational institutions were recommended to postpone until October 1, 2020. All those who want to continue with the Master’s program are submitting appropriate documents from educational institutions to the military, which will be the basis for the postponement of the appeal by the fall of 2020. Without excesses, there is certainly no process involved. In the event of any troublesome situation, the Ministry of Defense is proposing to turn to our hotline, the phones are on the Ministry of Defense's website. Each case of violation of the rights of education recipients is carefully considered and the perpetrators will be held accountable. I would like to take note of the graduates of the school. School graduates can fully exercise their right to continue their education without hindrance. It was decided by the government that citizens between the ages of 18 and 19 could be appointed to military service only if they wanted to, which is confirmed by a written statement. A total of several figures and statistics: this year, 16,000 460 people are scheduled to be summoned, including to the Ukrainian Armed Forces, 9,000 people, to the Ukrainian National Guard, 5,000 460 persons, to the State Border Service, 1,300 persons, to the National Special Transportation Service, 700 persons. As of today, 9 thousand,465 persons from military commissions have been sent to assemble the Armed Forces of Ukraine and other military formations, representing 57.5 percent of the overall plan, including for the Armed Forces — 4,000,780. I would like to point out once again that, in accordance with article 15, part 4, of the Ukrainian Law on Military Duty and Military Service, the organization of the preparation and conduct of the appeal of Ukrainian citizens to the term military service is carried out by the city's district government administrations, the executive authorities of the city councils in liaison with the city's district military commissions or the territorial assembly and social support centres. Now I'm ready to answer your questions. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-17-m0.u3	Thank you for your attention. Dear colleagues, we are now moving on to questions. Please sign up for a question to the reporter, please. Please, National Deputy Grishna Yulia Mikolayevna, faction of the political party "Serve of the People".
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-17-m0.u4	Thank you, Minister, for the report. And thank you for paying attention in your report to the situation that is now taking place with the graduates. In fact, the spring appeal this year was transferred to summer. And so now kids who have graduated from one level of education, but haven't yet entered the next, are in a very difficult situation, because they're being called into a military cell, handed messages, and then, we know, there are many cases where they're not being released. We know they've been given a delay that goes by these days. And please explain again, because this is very relevant for a large number of parents and children, how children can exercise their right to education by taking exams and entering the LRA without violating legislation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-17-m0.u5	I'd like to emphasize again. First of all, if there's a problem, please let the parents call the Department of Defense's hotline. In each particular case, we will consider and take appropriate measures to ensure the child’s right to further education. This is the first time. It's different. It should also be remembered, and again I emphasize that the organization of the preparation and execution of the appeal is carried out by city or district government administrations. Because with regard to military chambers or district assembly centres and social support, we will do our best. In addition, appropriate clarifications have already been sent to the State District Administrations by the Ministry of Education in conjunction with the Ministry of Defence. If this happens, I think it's unacceptable that we're going to solve it. And in any case, children have the right to continue their studies and to get the appropriate time off.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-17-m0.u6	Thank you. Please, National Deputy Batenko Taras Ivanovich, MP Party for the Future.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-17-m0.u7	Please give the floor to the national deputy, Igor Guzu. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-17-m0.u8	Please, National Deputy Igor Goose.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-17-m0.u9	Good afternoon! Mr. Secretary, I'd like to ask you a question like this. I represent the city of Volodymyr Volinsky, where 51 brigades are located. It's been a while. Well, it's been a matter of 44 years for the military. In fact, the building is already built, and it needs to be put into operation. Families of the fallen military, veterans in line, beg, pray. The house was already standing, I was there repeatedly, the city's head was. I ask you very much: Give a protocol commission to one of the deputies to go clearly and give him the opportunity to accept the people who are supposed to live there. 44 apartments, he's ready. Please try to run this procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-17-m0.u10	Thank you. A corresponding assignment will be given today.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-17-m0.u11	That's it, isn't it? Please, National Deputy Knyazevich Ruslan Petrovich, faction of the political party "European Solidarity".
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-17-m0.u12	Klimpush-Cinzadze Ivanni Orestovni can be spoken?
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-17-m0.u13	Please, Ivanna Orestovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-17-m0.u14	Dear Mr. Andrey, Mr. Secretary! According to journalists, the Ministry of Defense has not yet entered into any contract for the provision of essential munitions for the Ukrainian Armed Forces, ranging from 120 millimetres and 82 millimetres of mines and ending with thermal targets, gauges, mortars and so forth. How do you comment on this information that the Ministry of Defense is shutting down the supply of ammunition to the U.S.S.S.A.? Well, second question. What is the situation with the coronavirus in the military, and how much has the Coroner Fund been allocated and used for the time being?
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-17-m0.u15	Thank you. Indeed, similar reports regarding the failure to take decisions to provide ammunition sometimes appear on individual Internet sites of so-called military experts who have never served in the Armed Forces, who have not served in the military, who have not served in the military. First, information on the availability of ammunition was provided by General Naev, commander of the United Forces. He informed the media, including on separate television channels, and noted that the Armed Forces are now in the area of operations of the United Nations. The other one. Specific information on the availability and echelonization of munitions refers to the category of "characterised information". So it is not clear to me how this article could have been written. That's probably a question for the H.R.S.S. From where he could get information about the shortage of ammunition, of species. And specifically. As for the amount I have available, I can't tell you from this rostrum right now, because this, once again, this information is graphed. But 120-millimeter ammunition is not needed at this time by the Armed Forces. They're made up of 120-millimeter ammunition. That's why we don't buy them. 152-millimeter ammunition. We're actually going to make the purchase.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-17-m0.u16	Thank you. Please, National Deputy Kabachenko Volodymyr Viktorovich, faction of the political party of the All-Ukrainian Union of Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-17-m0.u17	Asking Timoshenko to give the word of Julius Volodymyrna.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-17-m0.u18	Please, Julia Volodymyrna Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-17-m0.u19	This is about security issues, to be honest. And what we see today is in the daytime order, I want to turn to the minister who is on the stand, and to the entire government, and to the Prime Minister. Dear friends, have you read the bill, which is called "investment nurse," which completely destroys a country that creates non-competitive conditions for all other participants in all processes, deeply corrupt? 3807 - about granting State guarantees to random private companies that will be granted. Would you please tell me you're behind this policy? If you are behind this policy, then tell me that your team is the most corrupt team of all time. We will now take a break after the government has spoken and demand a name that is personally responsible for this corruption.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-17-m0.u20	That was for the minister, wasn't it? Well, to the Prime Minister. After that, we will have questions to the Prime Minister. You're with the minister, aren't you? With regard to defense, is there anything to answer? No, then there will be a question to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-17-m0.u21	I honestly didn't quite get it. It's probably not for me, because I'm definitely not behind it.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-17-m0.u22	Thank you. Please, come on. People's deputy Klimenko Julia Leonidivna, faction of the political party Voice.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-17-m0.u23	Please pass the word to Roman Kostenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-17-m0.u24	Please, Roman Costenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-17-m0.u25	Mr. Prime Minister, I have questions about the social guarantees of the military of the following nature. See, by your July 14th Order, you cancelled the July 6th Order to add the name of the University of Defense of Cherniakhov Major General Marchenk and the other persons who accompany him in the so-called "arms". I have two questions for you. First. What is this legal formulation: "repealing as unfulfilled" in terms of learning in adjunctural? And the failure to implement the command can only be linked solely to the passage of time; it can be implemented. What legal reasons did you have to cancel the adjective? And the second. Is this prohibition related to the desire of the authorities to condemn a war veteran, or is the political persecution of unfavorable officers in the Ministry of Defence thus being implemented? It's a very common question. Please give an exclusive answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-17-m0.u26	With regard to Marchenk’s teaching in the adjunctural or the grounds for cancelling the order. This order was canceled as unfulfilled because Marchenko had not actually started his studies yet. As far as political persecution is concerned, this may not be a question for me. We, the Ministry of Defense, do not engage in political persecution.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-17-m0.u27	Thank you. Please, National Deputy Anatoly Petrovich Burmić, faction of the political party "The Opposition Platform for Life", please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-17-m0.u28	Anatoly Burmich, "The Opposition Platform for Life." Mr. Minister, first of all, I want to thank you for the very meaningful report in all the directions you've made. The only thing is, unfortunately not all the deputies present in this room, especially those who voted for you and chose this position. I have two questions. First. Our country long ago, and the Ministry of Defense, is oriented towards a professional army. And if, of course, we were already fully equipped, we probably wouldn’t have had the moments that arise with the conscripts today. Please tell me, at what stage is this direction in the Ministry of Defense today? That's the first question. And the second question. The whole country remembers the demolitions of warehouses, and even today an investigation committee of the Supreme Council is being held. What a stage you are.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-17-m0.u29	Please answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-17-m0.u30	Okay. Regarding the transition to a hundredth - century contractual army. The existing system of mixed deployment of the Ukrainian Armed Forces in the coming years will be preserved. This, in turn, has to do with the imperfections of the military reserve system in Ukraine in stages from schooling in a general school to the direct preparation of the reserve. Unfortunately, we cannot give up full military service because this is the main source of military training for citizens and the accumulation of a military reserve. In addition to the Ukrainian Armed Forces, applications for term services are being made to other military formations in Ukraine: the State Border Service, the Nachwardia, and the State Special Transportation Service. At present, a bill on territorial defence has been drafted, which in the future will allow me, I hope, to finally move on to the contractual model for the recruitment of the Armed Forces and to strengthen the links between society and the army. A review of the terms and format of the service is also under way. But I would like to point out that for the time being, at present, almost 17 percent of the timers have decided to continue their service and sign contracts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-17-m0.u31	Thank you, Minister. Please welcome National Deputy Kulinich Oleg Ivanovich, MP of Trust.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-17-m0.u32	Thank you. Oleg Kulinich, trust MP. Mr. Minister, your predecessor, Andriy Zagradnouk, sounded such a thesis that in time we would go completely into a hundred percent contractual army. You've just pointed out that this is the goal that you have, as you have the right person to lead this ministry. At what time and at what time can people understand when we can move on to a hundred percent contract force? And the second question is, with regard to the security of the Armed Forces, with regard to the provision of our military. For example, I did not understand the answer to the munitions. This information was in the media, and your press department didn't deny it. So the second question is, how is our military now provided with the basic elements that should be in the military -- food, weapons? And is there really a problem with that? Please correct this information.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-17-m0.u33	Thank you. The first question is when. I would like to know the answer to that question myself. So far, there are no preconditions for the transition to a professional contractual army. But my belief is that only a professional army is the most viable one, which is why we're asking questions about the transition to a professional army. But if we give up the suit now, we won't be able to prepare a military reserve. This question is therefore related to the implementation of our territorial defense programs. With regard to ammunition, I was unable to answer that question. 152 millimeters -- we're buying, 122 millimeters -- we're buying, 120 -- unnecessary, 40 millimeters -- we're buying, 30 millimeters of AG-17 we're buying. And the question was, it was in the media that we broke all those schemes, that all the schemes that were used to buy these munitions were broken. Two shops were purchased in Ukraine, Poland, Poland, Poland, and Bulgaria. At the present time, we have broken these schemes and made purchases directly from the supplier, the manufacturer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-17-m0.u34	Thank you. Your Honor, we have completed the block on questions from Defence Minister Andriy Vasilovich Tarano, thank you. Please take a seat. Ladies and gentlemen, we turn to questions to the Prime Minister of Ukraine and members of the government from the national MPs. Please sign up for the question. Rule is, we've had a deal for 20 minutes. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-17-m0.u35	Zbrodsky Mikhailo Vitaliovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-17-m0.u36	Thank you, Mr. Speaker. Please, the word Alexia Hotcharenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-17-m0.u37	Alexei Hotcharenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-17-m0.u38	Alexei Hotcharenko, European Solidarity. I'm addressing the Prime Minister. The budget committee has just distributed 1 billion 700 million dollars of so-called so-called so-called subsidies, as follows. To their deputies from the "Serve of the People" is 10 million, and to a few allies even a little bit more. All the other parties, no matter what, the Fatherland, the European Solidarity, the Voice, the OPCW, the groups, zero! Zero! So you divided it was a government decree that had just been agreed upon by the budget committee. You have divided Ukrainian citizens into two classes: one class is those who have chosen "ministers of the people", they need to build schools, hospitals, roads; the other one is all other Ukrainian citizens who have chosen not "ministers of the people", they don't need to build schools, hospitals, they don't need anything because they make the wrong choice. I don't think we've seen this kind of abuse before. I demand your answer to what it is.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-17-m0.u39	Good afternoon, fellow MPs! Good afternoon, Your Honor! Good afternoon, dear Ukrainians! In terms of social and economic development subsidies. The amount of 1.7 billion was distributed among the areas of Ukraine according to the formula according to the approved methodology. This subsidy was further distributed by the district council, district administrations with the participation of district councils, although in fact the law says that it could be the submission of a district government administration. A general list was formed for the submission of district government administrations, which was approved by the government’s decision on professional government committees, and, as you said today, approved by the decision of the Supreme Council Committee. There is no name in the formal calculation of this distribution. The distribution took place between the areas of Ukraine on those objects that were submitted by the local authorities for participation, I repeat, and district councils, and the deputy majors. So this, I take it, is a complex product that's going to work for each area. There are only objects in the list that can be financed in accordance with the legislation provided for in such articles in an orderly manner. These are children's kindergartens, schools, hospitals, and other socio-economic developments. I repeat, no last name in this list exists and cannot exist, it is distributed by formula. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-17-m0.u40	Thank you. Please, National Deputy Rudik Kira Alexandrovna, faction of the Voice political party.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-17-m0.u41	Dear colleagues! Dear colleagues, let's be normal. Igor Volodymyrovich! Igor Volodymyrovich! [[B in m in s a l in]] I'll tell you again if you do. Don't scream, please! You don't scream. Please don't scream. Can you behave yourself? Dear colleagues! No, I hope the people's deputies will be able to behave with dignity.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-17-m0.u42	Kira Aleksandrovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-17-m0.u43	I give the word to Olga Stefanishini.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-17-m0.u44	Stephanie Olga Anatolyevna.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-17-m0.u45	Denis Anatoliyovich, your minister of Stepanov, has been in office for four months. In early May, this person promised all of us that the purchase of medicines, vaccines, and medical supplies for the sick would take place quickly and efficiently. It's the middle of July. No purchases are made, they haven't even started. I'll remind you, this is 10 billion dollars of purchases for AIDS patients, tuberculosis, these are children with orthodontic diseases, hemophilia, and all of them, they don't get medicine from the state. Blocked activities of the State Enterprise Medical Procurement of Ukraine by Decree 478. International purchasing organizations are not even selected. Today in the middle of July, people will be left without drugs in the fall. They've already begun to die, they're very sick Ukrainians, they're millions of people who are now suffering from the inactivity of your minister. Then you're in December.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-17-m0.u46	Regarding the work of the D.P. National Medical Procurement and the funds allocated for the purchase of drugs. In general, the government has been allocated and recalculated to DP "State Health Procurement" 2.9 billion dollars for the purchase of those drugs, the list you mentioned. I will then give the floor to Mrs. Irina Mikiczak, the First Deputy Minister of Health, who will comment in more detail.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-17-m0.u47	Thank you, Mr. Prime Minister. Dear Mrs. Olga, the Ministry of Health informs you that all necessary procedures for the purchase of medicines under government programs are under way in the Ministry. In particular, I want to remind you that there are supplies in Ukraine today for the medicines paid in 2018 and 2019. Ukraine’s Ministry of Health will not allow deliveries this year to follow the traditions that existed in previous years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-17-m0.u48	Please, National Deputy of Montenegro, Artem Olegovich, faction of the political party "Slut of the People".
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-17-m0.u49	Black Sea Artem, 131st District, Mikolayevstina. I have a question for Dennis Anatoliovich. Mr. Prime Minister, I'm asking questions on behalf of all the majors on the Black Sea Basin and the Azov Seas. This is Alexei Leonov, Alexander Tkachenko. And here's my question. Tell me, what logic do you have when you cancel people that they don't have the right to go to public places after 11:00, and we close these restaurants or nightclubs, when most people are on the beach during the day, they're all next to each other? And I just don't see any reasonable difference when people travel for seven days on average to a tourist resort place, they're all seven days together, they're all walking with each other, and then after 23 they're not able to eat or can't spend time and time together? Please answer that question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-17-m0.u50	Thank you. Difficult questions related to adaptive quarantine. And everyone understands and knows that we are today in the face of a world pandemic. And the measures that have been taken, from severe restrictions throughout the country to adaptive quarantine today, require certain actions, certain decisions. So, according to the decision of the Sanitary Epidemiology Service, the Chief State Sanepidologist of Ukraine, according to the decision of the State Commission of TEB and NS, the local commissions have decided on a time limit for the work of nightclubs for 23 hours. Why? So far, it's quite enough time for dinners, after this time, we've done research, there's mass clusters of people, where there's a huge probability of transmission of the Coronavirus. The result. After this ban, you can see a clear stabilization of the disease on the coronavirus. So those measures of adaptive quarantine, both at national and local levels, they work out. Unfortunately, there is no decline in the number of patients who are ill, but the situation has stabilized in recent weeks. And these are the important moments. So I ask the business to take these steps with understanding so that we don't have to think and go back to such full limits in Ukraine and put in place full quarantine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-17-m0.u51	Thank you. Please, National Deputy Herasimov Arthur Volodymyrovich, faction of the political party "European Solidarity".
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-17-m0.u52	Please give the floor to the National Deputy Irina Heratchenko. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-17-m0.u53	Irina Volodymyrna Heratchenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-17-m0.u54	Thank you. Mr. Prime Minister, I would like to continue with the question of the division of Ukrainians into varieties. The budget committee has just decided to allocate an additional 41 million dollars to the Feofania clinic. This is at a time when a doctor in Chercas died from COVID and his family can't get the insurance you promised for the death of an infected doctor for two weeks. This is at a time when doctors are unable to obtain the right allowances. Do you think it's too much when there's a special clinic where there's never been an opportunity to get treatment from a simple Ukrainian, but only "ministers" and only ministers? And the second question. And you know, recently, the President was driven to Mukacheva to boast of a new military town built by the previous authorities, just like all the roads you are now boasting about and when.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-17-m0.u55	With regard to the allocation of funds to doctors, they are allocated and are fully distributed in medical packages through the NHRI. With regard to the allocation of funds for compensation to doctors who have died as a result of the coronary infection in the course of their duties, the government is also obliged to provide immediate and immediate documentation in order to ensure that people and families of medical professionals who have actually received such occupational diseases or, God forbid, die, are compensated.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-17-m0.u56	Thank you. Please, National Deputy Shahov Sergey Volodymyrovich, Deputy Group "Trust".
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-17-m0.u57	Dear Mr. Prime Minister, I believe you know that there was a terrible fire in the Luhansk region and people were burned alive. During the deforestation of the forest, deciduouss who arrived two hours later built some fences. We demand the immediate removal of the head of the Lugansk DDS and the fullness of the investigation in the Luhansk region of this terrible tragedy. The second question is distance learning. In the Luhansk region, 90 percent of the Internet is missing. How will children learn? My parents are fasting now. You need to take action and immediately intervene in this matter. And the third question. Why 4 times the price of electricity has been raised for businesses and you want to lower alternative energy for investors by 15 percent or 20 percent. Explain, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-17-m0.u58	First. In the Luhansk region, there was indeed an extraordinary situation, a natural disaster. But the criminal case will show the nature of this extraordinary situation. During three hours from the beginning, even from nearby areas, the corresponding State Service units from emergency situations were transferred, and the military were immediately involved in relief, also literally for hours. And the State Service, the State Department of Emergency Situations, they totally heroically rescued people from the fire, they fought absolutely heroically, they located the fire in the shortest terms. There, indeed, were all the leaders involved at the highest levels in this situation. Therefore, the facts you are discussing ask for an address or a violation of an investigation. Let us see together how things went down, learn the truth. I have other information: that in the shortest, really shortest time, there was an organized fight against this fire. Regarding the second question, I will give the floor to Minister of Education Sergey Mikolayovich Scarlet. Yeah, Deputy Minister of Education Garbaruk Igor Mikolayovich is here. Please comment on the second part of the question.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-17-m0.u59	Denis Anatoliyovich, if you'll excuse me, please clarify your questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-17-m0.u60	The National MP was asking questions, please give an answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-17-m0.u61	Today, the Ministry of Education is doing everything possible to ensure that the beginning of education takes place on September 1. That is, three concepts have been developed: hard, soft, and optimal. So everything is actually done to get everyone to sit down for teaching parties on September 1st.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-17-m0.u62	Thank you. Please, National Deputy Puziyczuk Andri Viktorovich, faction of the political party of the All-Ukrainian Union of Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-17-m0.u63	Andrew Puziyczuk, Fatherland faction, Zitomirščina. Denis Anatoliyovich, quote President Zelensky: "Over the years, officials have been building up skyscrapers from schematics and contractors. The largest jackpot was the grant of permits in the area of construction." This is Zelensky's statement in March of this year when you were the construction minister. And tell me, please, when are you going to break these contracts? Do you know what families who can't get housing hear about every day? They hear the following: "We can't put your apartment into service because DABI requires $5 per meter." Explain to the public, please. You said at a meeting under your headship that you were personally responsible for what was going on in the DABI. So you take personal responsibility for these contractors, for these bribes that. For extortion? Explain.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-17-m0.u64	You have noted quite correctly that in recent years the authorities have acquired and continue what you have told them. And now you're saying, "Please break everything we've been building in the last week." So you asked me a question. We break it and break it. What's more, I'm telling you, a fully updated register, it's open, you can go right now to it, a new DABI registry that's already on the servers of a state that's controlled by our government services. It can't be changed today, it's completely public. Now, right now, open it up and see how many objects have been introduced in a week, about a thousand: SS1, SS2 and SS3. Those from whom bribes are required, or those who want to bribe to make a deal, where something will be built without permission, are no longer possible. The register doesn't give it, it's open and it's public. This was the first step in our reform. Step two. The committee has registered a bill that has been registered, which we will support in every way in order to bring it literally to the next session. In this bill a joint, large working group, where all participants, whites, transparent participants in the construction market, have made their proposals on how the free system works in the construction sector. Allowances at the beginning, in principle, should not be conceptual. It needs to be as civilized as the whole world is: acceptance into the operation of objects that are safe for human use. This is the basis of the reform that has already been introduced and incorporated into the bill. So I have an absolutely personal responsibility, and we're moving this reform forward, moving it, and we're going to end it this year, just like we promised the Ukrainians. Thank you for asking.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-17-m0.u65	Thank you. National MP Bondar Victor Vasilovich, MP Party for the Future.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-17-m0.u66	Please pass the word to Jacenk.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-17-m0.u67	Please, Anton Yatzenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-17-m0.u68	Mr. Prime Minister, I have more questions for you and the Ministry of Internal Affairs. Because now actively, we saw, we passed the Elections Act yesterday, and we started introducing criminal schemes to win the election. I'm just going to say, on the example of Umani, that, for example, yesterday, Mrs. Kucher's deputy head gave a command to make a so-called "social passport," which is not provided by law. And they go to all the pensioners and collect data, offer benefits, benefits. And I'd like the IMF on this example to do the work and evaluate what we can do. And the second question about Umani. However, to prevent Roche Ha-Shan from being held this year, it is traditional to ban the entry of Hasids, because 30,000 people will be brought here by COVID. And the request is to take control. I've already spoken to you, but...
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-17-m0.u69	Thank you. I'll start at the end of your question: about Umani. We still have time, and we, if you want, will be able to conduct appropriate commissions, including the State Commission on Technological Safety and Emergency Situations, where we will look at this issue from all sides and make a completely balanced decision. With regard to the first part of your question, I will address it first to the Minister of Social Policy, Marina Volodymyrski Lazebny, to see if there is such a situation. And then, if it's illegal, then we'll hand it over to the Ministry of Internal Affairs.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-17-m0.u70	Good afternoon, distinguished national MPs! We'll figure out what the social passport situation is in Umani and what they're collecting, what's the data. It's actually the law of personal data protection, and that's why we're going to take care of it today, and then we're going to give you the answer in writing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-17-m0.u71	The Ministry of Internal Affairs, then I'll ask you to take control. Mr. Anton Gerashchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-17-m0.u72	Yeah, I'll take control, and we'll talk to you after the Supreme Council meeting, find out the details and check everything out.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-17-m0.u73	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-17-m0.u74	Thank you. Questions from National Deputy Alona Ivanovna’s Shkrum And then we end up with an hour of questions to the government.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-17-m0.u75	Please pass the word to Mr. Wolin, please. People's deputy Volintz.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-17-m0.u76	Dear Prime Minister, a week ago, under the Office of the President, miners were banging helmets. You and I were able to settle some of the issues, and the miners went to work, but some of the mines are not easy. There's still a question of debt on the payroll. But I now have the most important question in this case: the absence of a social dialogue at the level of the Ministry of Energy. In this case, Mrs. Buslavec, the Energy Minister, has changed the director of the mining service, which has been replaced by all the working groups, all the managers of coal companies, trade unions, and 20 national deputies, have written a request. She refuses to even meet today and talk to the initiating group. Smolanov transferred 800 miners with all the operational documentation from Donetsk, from occupied territory, here. The ministry is underfunded. And this behavior of the minister, it forces the national MPs today.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-17-m0.u77	Thank you for asking. Thank you for your help and cooperation in addressing mining problems. We've really, like you, gone a long way. This is one of the first periods in recent years when the state does not owe miners wages. Working with the Ministry and social dialogue. You know, last week, appointed, including by agreement with the unions, the deputy minister from the coal field, from the coal sector. I think you have a social dialogue that should definitely be settled when you have a professional in the field that was recommended by the professions, it's going to be easier. Regarding the mining service. The principal’s contract ended, and he was released in connection with the conclusion of the contract. Let us investigate with you, I will initiate what took place under his leadership. There are facts that, including working groups, have provided, after the work of this director. I invite you to conduct a joint investigation and then make an objective decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-17-m0.u78	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the time taken for "the hour of questioning to the government" is over. I thank Mr. Prime Minister, thank you to the distinguished officials. And we're going back to our work. Dear colleagues, there have been two petitions for intermission and a statement from two factions about a real break and a meeting of the heads of the deputy factions and groups in the Cabinet of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I'm giving one, two, and then I'm calling it a 30-minute break. Rudik Kira Aleksandrovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-17-m0.u79	Good afternoon! I'm Kira Ruddick, head of the Voice Party. A year ago, I left the post of head of the IT company to become an MP. Along with me are my colleagues, each of whom is successful and experienced in his work. You know, we're the ones who make this plan for a year and then follow it up and always analyze it. We came to Parliament to be creators, to make rules and to create processes that would work. We have come to seize this opportunity, every minute of it for the benefit of our country. We have come with great hope and great plans. A year later, we found that the majority had betrayed the values it had declared. We've seen a president who's embarrassed to say that Russia is an aggressor. We've seen people who don't even draw on heads of departments that no company would take over as head of the department, and they're appointed ministers, that any bad law can be called a good name, and it's voted in the worries. Going out on the street with fireworks is scary, but it's even scarier when the police kill. And the day of the deputy’s work may consist entirely of taking into account people who are constantly unjustly condemned. We have come to defend freedom and to carry out reforms. But now we're constantly struggling with the lie, the lie that there's a human hunger, that there's a question in Ukraine about state language, a lie that constantly destroys any constructive. We realized that our design was of no use. The government doesn't need help. It needs to be changed, it's time to change it. The Voice party is turning into an opposition to existing power. Our hope, and your hope, is upon ourselves. Thank you. And the glory of Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-17-m0.u80	The MPs for the future and the Trust MPs took a break. Dear colleagues! Which one of you is speaking? Polakov. Polakov Anton Eduardoovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-17-m0.u81	Polyakov Anton, Montenegro, MP of the "For the Future" political group. It's very nice to help the People's Servants first to vote on all the bad laws and then to go to the opposition. I am officially addressing, on behalf of my parliamentary group and on behalf of Montenegro, the Prime Minister and the Minister of Energy and the Energy Committee and the HKG. The question about the Smolin Thorobret factory. This company is still being blocked, the illegally appointed CEO of Chernigovtorfu has blocked the accounts of this company, and it can't unload its goods. And these are jobs, these are the energy dependency of the entire region, these are peat deposits, they've been scouted for over 100 years. These lands want to be cleaned up, they want to pollinate, they want to free people. I ask the Prime Minister to intervene in this situation, and finally to fulfill his promise to bring order there. Also, I am addressing the Minister of Justice of Malejąka in connection with the pressure exerted by some deputies and him at the Rector of the Cernigian Academy of Penitentiary Services. This is the only academy in Ukraine and one of the best in Europe that prepares for penitentiary services. It's a very powerful establishment. And the rector of this academy, Mr. Togoczynski, Colonel Togoczynski, is not engaged in any political activity, it's all a lie, and it works for the good of Motherland. It's just that some MPs have put their eyes on the ground and the foundations of this powerful higher education facility. Also, on behalf of our entire "For the Future" MP group, we reiterate our call to Mr. Prime Minister to deal with the situation. Mr. Prime Minister! Prime Minister! Dennis Anatolyovich, you have a question. Let's take another look at the situation with regard to the allocation of socioconomy. I don't know what the formula is, but it turns out that the people's people have quality voters in their districts, and in all the other districts, they're poor voters, and they're all divided by socioconomy into "ministers of the people." Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-17-m0.u82	Dear colleagues, as I said before, from the Fatherland faction and the Opposition Platform for Life faction on intermission. There's a break at 11:45. Heads of factions and MPs, please meet in my office.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-17-m0.u83	Dear colleagues! Please invite the people's deputies to the hall. So let's get to the point. Please prepare for the vote. Invite the national deputies to the hall. Dear colleagues, we are now moving on to the draft Order on the Creation and Disposal of Areas (registration number 3650). Please get ready for work. Kornienko's from the procedure. Alexander Sergiyovich! Turn on the Cornienne microphone. A card.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-17-m0.u84	Hello! Yeah. [[B in m in s a l in]] Good afternoon! See, they're already working. There's an offer to postpone Order 3736 now, this is about a referendum in Crimea.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-17-m0.u85	3736?
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-17-m0.u86	Yeah. And vote until the break.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-17-m0.u87	Is there no objection? [[B in m in s a l in]] We won't be able to make it to the 12th. Let me use my ability, yeah, to do what I have to do. If you want to put this to a vote, I'm ready. Do you object to considering this determination? Oh, no? Okay. Please invite the author to the stand. It is suggested that this issue be considered in a simplified manner. Please support and vote. 3736. [[11:46:35]] For 255 Decision taken. You're welcome. Who will be the authors? Heroceno? Fellows, determine who will be speaking. Irina Volodymyrna's character.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-17-m0.u88	Dear colleagues, I would like to thank all the factions and MPs who are co-authors of this decision, and above all our colleagues are the Crimean Tatars, who are represented both in the Voice and in the European Solidarity, and in Mr. Umierov and Mr. Chigoza. What is involved in this decision? As you know, Putin and the Russian Federation held an illegal referendum in the occupied. Not the other side, not the other side, but Putinim in Crimea, where under the new Russian Constitution, which not only violates President Putin's term, and he'll still be President of Russia's indefinite term, but also a major complication of Ukraine's return to the Russian-occupied Crimea. Because this Constitution, established, contains standards that make it really difficult for the international community to now deny the occupation of Crimea. Moreover, last week, the State Department of the Russian Federation amended the first reading of the Terrorism Act, which they are actually trying to complicate the non-recognizance of the occupation of the illegal Crimea for Foreigners. And there's a completely draconian norm on the requirement of the Russian Federation of Extradition of Foreigners, if Crimea is not recognized. So this is going to be about each of us, my friends. And it can actually have very serious consequences, starting with Interpol's red cards, which they often use as politics, and ending with other stories. We want to thank the Crimean Tatars who did not participate, and the Ukrainians in Crimea, in this falsified referendum. But today we have to send another signal to the world that Crimea is Ukraine, that Ukraine is fighting for the return of Crimea, that we demand not only not to acknowledge this referendum, but to reinforce sanctions against the Russian Federation for holding illegal referendums and plebiscites in its occupied territories. We need to step up sanctions against the Russian Federation, and the world has.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-17-m0.u89	Thank you. The chairman of the Committee on Foreign Policy and Inter-Parliamentary Cooperation is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-17-m0.u90	Dear colleagues, in connection with the holding of an illegal nationwide vote on amendments to the Constitution of the Russian Federation in the territory of the temporarily occupied Autonomous Republic of Crimea and Sevastopol, there is a need for international co-operation to ensure that the results of the nationwide vote are not recognised in part of its conduct in the territory of the temporarily occupied Crimea and that such illegal practices are terminated in the future. I would like to point out that this vote on the amendments to the Constitution of the Russian Federation aims to legalize and consolidate the Constitution of the Russian Federation of the Illicit Annexation of the Autonomous Republic of Crime and the City of Sevastopol, as well as to limit the primacy of international law in the territory of the Russian Federation. Such acts of an aggressor should not be without the reaction of international society. Taking into account the position of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine, the committee unanimously approved the decision to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine to include a draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the application of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for the illegal conduct of the general Russian vote on amendments to the Constitution of the Russian Federation in the temporarily occupied territory of Ukraine, in the Autonomous Republic of Crimea and the city of Sevastopol. So, honourable colleagues, please support the decision of the Committee on Foreign Policy and Inter-Parliamentary Cooperation and approve the statement of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-17-m0.u91	Thank you. Please sign up from the MP factions and groups: two in, two in, and two in, against. Venislavski Fedir Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-17-m0.u92	Honorable Presidium, honourable colleagues, this determination for today is really necessary, and it needs to be supported unanimously. Because, in fact, according to previous reports, the Russian Federation, through its conduct in the illegally annexed territory of Ukraine, in the territory of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, was about to legitimize its status as far as possible in the territory of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea and to recognize it through the legitimacy of the Constitution as an integral part of the Russian Federation. Why is it important to support this bill, this decree? Because in fact now any of our efforts to restore the territorial integrity of Ukraine will require a response from the international community, which will also be linked by a referendum. In fact, there was another quasi-legimization of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea in the Russian Federation. That is why we must strongly condemn this referendum, we must support this decision and appeal to the parliaments of foreign states to strengthen sanctions against the Russian Federation for illegal aggression against the sovereign state of Ukraine, against the violation of territorial integrity and the State sovereignty of Ukraine. I call upon all the national MPs, all the factions unanimously to support this determination and to demonstrate that Ukraine stands firm in the position of inviolability of territorial integrity and non-recognition, and never admits the illegal annexation of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-17-m0.u93	Vlasenko Sergei Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-17-m0.u94	Thank you, Mr. Head! I'll let myself disagree with the previous speaker. There has been no legitimization, no total illegal action by one State of the Council of Europe on the territory of another State of the Council of Europe. No legitimacy, nothing happened. Crime is Ukrainian territory. And any action by the Russian Federation's aggressor country to cover up this fact is absolutely worthless from the point of view of international law. But we have to talk about it, we have to remind ourselves of it, because we talk a lot about Donbas, about Doneck and Lugansk, and we talk a little about it, and we do little of it in the Crimea. We're like Parliament, the President, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Of course, this must be emphasized. On July 1, a vote took place in Russia, not a referendum, a colleague, but a vote in favour of amendments to the Constitution. Three simultaneous illegal acts took place in the territory of the Ukrainian Crimea. First. This very fact of voting in Crimea is totally illegal. The other one. This vote dealt with two questions, and this vote in the amendments to the Constitution indicated that Crimea seemed to be a Russian word. It's totally illegal. And the third thing that has happened is a vote in the amendments to the Constitution, and I will try to point out that not all international obligations are in effect in Russia, particularly in Russia, and the European Court of Human Rights will not always act. That's what we need to talk about. We need to talk about Crimean Tatars who did not take part in the voting that is now suffering from political repression. And right now, so that the decision of the ECHR is not distributed to them, and these changes to the Constitution have been adopted. Therefore, I ask you to support and vote in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-17-m0.u95	Fedina Sofia Romanovna. Mustafa Jemiliev.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-17-m0.u96	Please give me your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-17-m0.u97	Reverend Dmitry Alexanderovich, distinguished colleagues! People’s deputies were known to swear before becoming deputies that they would uphold Ukraine’s independence, sovereignty, and integrity. Everyone here understands that the occupation of Crimea by the Russian Federation in February 2014 was not only illegal but also a criminal act of aggression and international robbery. In this we are supported by the entire virtually global community, all international organizations. Nevertheless, Russia continues its own occupation policy in Crimea to colonize the occupied territories. In your suggestion, the draft statement of the Supreme Council now refers to the so-called nationwide referendum on amendments to the Constitution of the Russian Federation, held not only in Russia itself but also in the occupied Crimea Peninsula. I would like to draw your attention, Your Honor, to the fact that with the changes to the Constitution, Russia is actually trying to legalize the annexation of Crimea, and these changes provide that the denial of the legality of joining the Crimea to Russia entails criminal responsibility. As national MPs, we have to make it clear that any referendums or elections that Russia conducts in the temporarily occupied territories of Ukraine are illegal and grossly violate Ukrainian legislation and international law. The Supreme Council of Ukraine must regularly respond to the international illegal activity of the aggressor State. We need to give a clear signal to our strategic partners.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-17-m0.u98	I'm sorry. Suffritch Nestor Ivanovich. Volosin Oleg Anatolyevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-17-m0.u99	Dear colleagues!
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-17-m0.u100	Excuse me! Wait a minute! Is anyone else going to insist on the performances? Batenko, Voice, Rachmanin, Trust. Three minutes. And then we vote. We have a vote in five minutes. [[B in m in s a l in]] They don't go on before the break. Please come in.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-17-m0.u101	Dear colleagues, with all due respect to the previous speaker, we are now discussing some strange situation. As the distinguished representative of Fatherland has already pointed out, from the point of view of international law, what has happened recently in Crimea does not alter its international status in any way. No international organization and any state of the world that clearly stood on the Crimea as part of Ukraine remain in the same positions. But by not changing anything in formal status, by accepting this determination, we are not changing anything in practical terms. What do we do to ensure that the people of Crimea return and want to return to Ukraine? We have today, instead of this empty decree and turning to whom unknown, to turn to our own citizens in Crimea, to guarantee their language and cultural rights, not to destroy the last Russian-speaking schools in Ukraine. Do you think that after Crimea returns to Ukraine, the first thing that will happen is the translation of all education into Ukrainian? Well, that's just nonsense! The other one. We need to develop a socio-economic Ukraine so that today the standard of living in Kyiv's controlled territory is not lower than in Kiev's uncontrollable territories. Who wants to go back to the country where everyone beggars? Who will want to return to a land without sovereignty? And yesterday I did not come to this special meeting because there is nothing to celebrate, the sovereignty that is fully attached to the external administration. A land without sovereignty cannot restore sovereignty over the Crimea of Ukraine. You have done nothing to ensure that the people of Crimea want to be in Ukraine today, so that they can see that only in Ukraine will they be able to live richer, better and that their language and cultural rights will be protected. These people were "wounding" the Crimea, these people without a fight gave up the Crimea, and today they're yelling louder about his return. These traitors, who are to sit in prison with their leader, Dustenk!
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-17-m0.u102	Dear colleagues! Dear colleagues, we'll take a break, then we'll vote. Wait. But I'm addressing everyone in this room. Yesterday we celebrated the anniversary of the Declaration of State Sovereignty. And let us never raise in this room questions that will at any rate question the independence, state sovereignty, freedom and territorial integrity of our state. Thank you. I'll announce a break until 12:30. Then there's three speeches, and we're voting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-17-m0.u103	Dear colleagues! Please invite the people’s deputies to the hall, and let us return to the issue of the order of the day. We've got three more "voices", "trust" and "for the future," right? Are you all going to perform at the same time or in turn? I'm sorry. Okay. Dear colleagues, Batenko Taras Ivanovich Who's gonna be "Trust" after this? Bacon. From Voice? From Voice, who will be speaking? Rachmanin. Rachmanin. I said, "Rachmanin Sergey Ivanovich." Taras Ivanovich Batenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-17-m0.u104	Dear friends! Dear community! Dear Ukrainians! We have just witnessed the fifth column's spit in the Ukrainian Parliament in the millennium history of Ukraine. A spit made in the name of millions of Ukrainians who have died fighting for the independence of Ukraine, who have disbelieved in political camps, in prisons, in mental hospitals, in foreign lands. The phrase that a country that does not have sovereignty is spoken by the Ukrainian National Deputy, representing a separate faction in this room. And all of our factions and groups that have just come to this rostrum are required of the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to respond properly, to direct appropriate requests, to send letters to the law enforcement authorities, and to give proper assessment to the Ukrainian society, because such a deputy of the Supreme Council cannot bear this name, the national defender of the independent sovereign Ukrainian state. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-17-m0.u105	Bacunec Pavel Andryovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-17-m0.u106	Dear National Deputies! Dear Ukrainians! My grandparents were taken with you to distant Siberian spaces so that at a new stage of our lives, Ukraine could gain sovereignty and independence with you. And we will not allow anyone to attack the sovereignty of our beautiful, flourishing Ukrainian state, whose proud name is Ukraine. Today, I urge all of us to support this determination and thus prove to the entire world community that both Crimea and all Ukraine are together an independent, beautiful Ukraine. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-17-m0.u107	Rachmanin Sergey Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-17-m0.u108	Dear colleagues, a friend of mine, who had to live in the occupation of Crimea for a few years, sent me a photograph: a trident was painted on the wall and it was written, "Just don't forget us." We have no right to forget about Crimea ever. And the adoption of this decision is the minimum we can do. In fact, as a parliament, we must demand that all branches of power be more actively mentioned in the Crimea. We need to create an alternative Minsk Course where the question of the return of Crimea sounds very loud. We have to make sure that in international courts, the occupying state, the aggressor state, is constantly reminded that no offense will be unpunished. Dear friends, we are at war. For those who have forgotten. And during the war, any hint of territorial integrity is a crime. And anyone who allows themselves to make similar claims is an enemy. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-17-m0.u109	Prepare to vote. Invite the national deputies to the hall. Prepare to vote. Ready to vote? I am voting on the proposal for approval of the draft Decision, taking into account the proposals of the Committee and the necessary technical and legal rights, the draft Decision on the application of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for the illegal conduct of the nationwide vote on the rights to the Constitution of the Russian Federation in the temporarily occupied territory of Ukraine, in the Autonomous Republic of Crimea and the city of Sevastopol. Dear colleagues, wait one more moment. We didn't vote because there was a quick question, we didn't vote on the ad hoc decision-making procedure at this plenary session. I'm going to put her to the vote first, and then I'm going to put her to the vote. Do you have a deal? I would first like to vote on the proposal to apply the ad hoc procedure for consideration and decision-making at this plenary session. Please support and vote. [[12:40:08]] For-300 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, I'm voting on a motion for a draft decision taking into account the committee's proposals and the necessary technical and legal rights, registration number 3736. Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[12:40:44]] For 306 Decision taken. Next question. Let's see the factions. The next issue of the agenda is the draft Order on the Establishment and Disposal of Areas (Registration No. 3650). It is suggested that this issue be considered in a simplified manner. Please support and vote. [[B in m in s a l in]] I've already put it to a vote. You're on. There will be a discussion, your right to speak. From the procedure? Okay. [[12:41:30.]] For 238. The procedure is Puziczuk. But by procedure, not by political intervention.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-17-m0.u110	Andrew Puziyczuk, Fatherland faction, Zitomirščina. Dear Head, Your Honor, the Rules, Article 138, Orders for the Adoption of Regulations and Other Acts of the Supreme Council. "Decisions and other acts of the Supreme Council as defined in article 46. The Supreme Council accepts most of the votes of the national deputies." Yes, "Decisions and other acts of the Supreme Council shall be adopted in accordance with the procedure envisaged for the consideration of draft laws in the first reading with the adoption of them in general, unless otherwise decided by the Supreme Council." Our faction insists that this Order be voted on only as a basis. Please put it to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-17-m0.u111	I'm going to put it the way it's supposed to. If such a decision is not made, there will be another decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-17-m0.u112	Dmitri Aleksandrovich, the regulation says what's happening now.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-17-m0.u113	The Minister for the Development of Communities and Areas of Ukraine, Mr. Cherniszów Aleksy Mihajlovich, is invited to speak.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-17-m0.u114	Dear Mr. Head of the Supreme Council! Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine! The reform of the administrative and territorial system will make the governance of the country more effective and effective. Yes, local self-government has to move from a declarative format to a factual one, and the territorial authority has to bring the country closer to the European vector, which we talk so much about at all levels and which Ukraine wants. So far, Ukraine’s European partners have appreciated and welcomed the committee’s decision to approve the decision. Some of you, honourable national deputies, have been involved in the implementation of this reform over the past few years. So you can understand the course that has been taken and how many discussions and discussions have been held in the back. The Ukraine Supreme Council Decision on the Establishment and Disposal of Areas is designed in accordance with the concept of reform of local self-government and the territorial organization of government in Ukraine, which has been implemented since 2014. As for the basic level, the government approved 1,470 communities on 12 June, while the question of optimizing the sub-regional level is Parliament's competence. I would also like to point out that without the formation of a territorial foundation of communities and districts, the process of decentralization will not be possible. Ladies and gentlemen, we have come up with a responsible mission to create a new system of administrative and territorial governance in Ukraine that meets modern requirements and European standards. This decision opens up opportunities for Ukraine to complete decentralization and new prospects for the development of communities and regions. So, honourable national MPs, there is no alternative to this decision to continue the reform. Please support the draft Order on the Establishment and Disposal of Areas (No. 3650). Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-17-m0.u115	Thank you. Bezhin Vitaly Juryovich, from the committee, is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-17-m0.u116	Honourable National Deputies, the Committee on the Organization of Government, the local self-government at its meetings, discussed the draft Supreme Council Regulation on the Establishment and Dismantling of Areas. The draft decree proposes to establish 129 areas in the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, to eliminate 490 areas. After considering the Government’s instructions to designate administrative centres, the Committee recommends to the Supreme Council, in accordance with part three of article 138 of the Rules, the draft Regulations on the Establishment and Disposal of Areas, as a result of the consideration, to be adopted as a whole, taking into account the Committee’s proposals. In particular, the committee suggests additional areas proposed by the government: the Winnitz region - the Žmerinsky region, the Dnipropetrovsky - Sinelnikovsky region, the Zakarpatski - Rakhivsky region, the Ivano-Frankivsky - Vrhovinski region, the Kyivsky - Vishgorodsky region, the Odessy - Berezovsky region, the Herson - Berislavski and the Skadowski region, the Chernigiv - Korukovsky region. In summary, the committee proposes the establishment of 138 districts in the Autonomous Republic of Crimea and in the areas of 138. In the event of the adoption of a draft decision, we would like to propose that a committee be entrusted with the preparation of an appropriate decision for signature by the Head of the Supreme Council to carry out its technical and legal work, together with the Chief Scientific and Legal Authority of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-17-m0.u117	Thank you. Sign up from the MP factions and groups for the performance: two in, two in, and two in, against. Eugene Nina Petrovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-17-m0.u118	Please pass the word to the Synth of Oleg.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-17-m0.u119	Blue Oleg Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-17-m0.u120	Dear Mr. Head, the distinguished national deputies of Ukraine! This draft decree is the culmination of the cynicism of today's power, a power that has long ceased not only to listen but also to hear people. By your vote here in Parliament, you have taken the opportunity of district councils to make decisions about the united territorial communities. You've stopped hearing people in your office by your absolute absence of any kind of discussion, and you're making decisions about people's future. You have taken away from people any authority regarding the creation of a future country. You're creating this country under you and for yourself. But I'm sure you won't get away with it. Because we thought that the stupidity that you're creating here in this session hall might eventually come to an end, but this cynicism that you want to vote on would probably not have come up with the most open enemy of Ukraine. But I'm sure that's also going to be the end of the end. By this vote, Parliament is divided, as is the vote on the Ukrainian language, not into old and new faces, but into Ukrainian and anti-Ukrainian forces. I don't know where you saw it, probably looking into Putin's eyes. You break further down state institutions because this question of creating areas doesn't answer, first of all, what would be the function of these areas; secondly, what was the financial basis in these areas; thirdly, which people would come to power. I'm sure you can vote it out, but in October this power will begin its end, and it will be eliminated in the next local elections, and that will be the end of this power as well.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-17-m0.u121	Mealer Victor Nichiporovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-17-m0.u122	Please tell Bondar Victor.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-17-m0.u123	Bondar Victor Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-17-m0.u124	Dear Dmitry Alexanderovich, distinguished colleagues, we are now considering an extremely important issue for the whole country. In fact, for decades now, there's a foundation that's going to be in every area. From the beginning of decentralization, six years ago, I said, don't worry about the head, pass the money to the districts, you want to -- let's make the election positions of the heads of the district communities, and at that point. There'd be money, there'd be normal territory, and there wouldn't be half a country. I tried, and I thought, and I was hoping that after this five-year practice, the "ministers of the people" would come out of this process and make a normal decentralization, give money, form, repopulate those areas that were, give peace to the communities, and give them, above all, the opportunity to choose who to see the leader themselves. They went the other way, and the communities created hundreds and a half thousand, and to this day they've gone through all the areas with those areas. Look at the struggle! In each area, they fought for how many of those areas there would be. Our own Hmelnichtin. I was even surprised by the Servants of the People. We, Deputy Bondar, Gerega, Labazük, are struggling to preserve as many areas as possible. The only area where members of the People's Service fought to reduce the number of districts and reduce to 3 districts. Cities like the Starocostins, huge, industrial, interesting, military, the only active airport in the Hmelnicki district, will not be a district center, because the "ministers of the people" will not see. Neteshin, Volocisk, Danube, Deražna, Leticians, Vinkovci – all these centres of the district, the historics simply lose their status as district administrations, district administrative centres, become a small village, a small community in the sense of "ministers of the people". People good, what are you doing?Oh, my God! Stop in your pseudoreforms. You want to help the community, give money and order, and you make a mess. Where will the property stay? Areas are being wiped out, houses of culture.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-17-m0.u125	Vasilchenko Galina Ivanovna Password novel Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-17-m0.u126	Roman Lozinski, the Voice faction. Friends, every time we talk about local self-government, we talk primarily about financially independent and capable communities. And when we talk about districts, we shouldn't forget about communities either. When we talk about areas, we should talk about the ability and protection of communities in the first place. What happened to the areas? We all understand that 490 districts are the legacy of communist and Soviet times. We understand very well how this level was formed and what needed to be reformed. And what we're seeing right now is important to understand why this is happening and why we don't have consensus and absolute support. First. We were promised to cancel the district councils, the "watchers" and those who would always oppress the communities. Yesterday, in favor of the Electoral Code, the District Council will not be 40 or 60 deputies, but 80 or 120. Is that the result of decentralization? We were promised to eliminate the regional government administrations, who are "watching" from the President. It doesn't matter, which one. What have they done? They left these hands of the President's Office in the community. We were promised to provide all the resources at community level to repair, repair, and repair. What have they done? Only in the first reading were the amendments to the Codex Budgets voted. The second reading may still change. In this way, the Voice faction can't support it. And despite the importance of decentralization, this is how to end when the debates on individual borders and territories: about 7 districts, about 4, and where fewer areas are much more people, where they take money and put it at risk, is the Voice faction can't support it.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-17-m0.u127	Those who speak. Either you give it to her or you give it to her. Well, then it'll be motivated. Nestor Ivanovich Šufrich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-17-m0.u128	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. You know, yesterday the Supreme Council of Ukraine was able to demonstrate that it can work for national interests. I want to thank everyone who's been involved in the adoption of the new Codex of Elections, namely: Andria Kloczko, Alina Zagorujko, Alexandru Puzanov, Ivan Krulk, Ruslan Knyazevich. I'm sorry, I don't know any other factions in the task force. This is really a fundamental document that today guarantees the democratic rights of our citizens. And, you know, today I'm surprised. What are you doing today, people who are good, "ministers of the people," what are you doing?Oh, my God! But you swore that you would start with something -- the people, the people, the people who don't understand Ukrainian. And I can't understand how you can support such a determination today. I'm not talking about anti-constitutionality anymore, I'm not talking about her questioning the entire electoral process that we voted on yesterday. What are you doing, people good, I can't understand? You know, yesterday I was really impressed by our special session. Remember what our founding fathers said. I cannot help but mention the speech by Leonid Makarovich Krawczuk, who said that on July 16, 30 years ago, in 1990, they took the courage and voted for the sovereignty of our country -- why? Because they listened to the people of Ukraine. And they were called Communists. So you, who called yourself "ministers" of Ukraine, are today afraid to come to your masters because you have deceived them and cheated on them. And we're going to have to go to the hospital for 200 kilometers. That's what you did. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-17-m0.u129	Julia Volodymyrna Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-17-m0.u130	You know, when you're in the voting room right now, one of the classics who once said there were two problems -- "stupids and roads." Unfortunately, 150 years have passed -- nothing changes. I can say that today is not just a nuclear explosion under Ukraine, it will not just tear the country apart into pieces, it has nothing to do with decentralization, it has a direct bearing on depriving people of all rights. But I just want to let you know that yesterday was the 30th anniversary of the Declaration of State Sovereignty and there was a reference to the Constitution, so what is now being done is violating the four articles of the Constitution and directly contradicting the Constitutional Court's decision of 2001. I can tell you that if you commit this crime right now, we're going to the Constitutional Court, and this vachanal will be terminated. I'm talking to the majors not to vote. Do not betray or betray the country.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-17-m0.u131	"For the future," Bondar spoke. Ah, "Trust." I'm sorry. "Trust," Byozer Larissa Mikolayevna.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-17-m0.u132	Dear colleagues, this vote is important and crucial to local self-government and decentralization reform. We've already voted 3,614 money to the community. And these communities, 1470 communities, will have the same powers and finances as the District Councils and the cities of regional importance. There's a lot of steakholders today. It's such a politicized question. But if we don't vote on these areas, we're going to have chaos, because CEVC is going to have to announce in those small areas, those that exist today, 490 districts, elections. And we're going to have intersections of powers and communities and districts at all. So I ask you to support this decision, which was supported by our committee of expertise in power, in order to complete the decentralization reform and carry out on a new soil. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-17-m0.u133	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the leaders of the MP factions and groups have approached us, and we will still vote on the two laws without discussion, and I will continue for 15 minutes. Bezhin Vitaly Yuriovich is invited to attend. We're still going to vote without discussion if it's no discussion, no defense buying and no external intelligence, right? Toothless.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-17-m0.u134	Thank you, colleagues. From this rostrum we hear a lot of myths about decentralization reform. Similarly, we hear them from television, that we are moving away from people, that they will have to travel from 100 to 200 kilometers — nothing bigger than fairies and attempts to preserve the influence of local feuds. In fact, the reform itself draws people closer to service. And all the services, all the resources, including the changes to the Budget Code, we're going down into the community. So let's say that the grandmother who lives in any village, in order to get help, not that she won't go to the district center, she'll get it at the center of the administrative services that are going to be at her house. So let's not manipulate, let's not turn local self-government into chaos, but let's just finish the reform that's been going on for six years. Please all support and vote in favour.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-17-m0.u135	Please. No, of course not. Please prepare for the vote. Prepare to vote. Let's finish the question, you'll be out of the procedure. I told you, the question is, you'll be out of procedure. Please prepare for the vote. Ready to vote? I am voting on the proposal for adoption as a basis and in general, taking into account the Committee's proposals and the necessary technical and legal regulations, the draft Decision on the Establishment and Disposal of Areas (Registration No. 3650). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[13:01:36]] For 238. Decision taken. Let's see the factions. The procedure is Puziczuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-17-m0.u136	Andrew Puziyczuk, "The Fatherland" faction. Honorary colleagues, when this decree was passed, violated 9 articles of the Constitution, violated article 112 of the Ukrainian Rules, under which materials should be made available to the national deputies within 7 days, and the draft decree appeared only yesterday. Next question. In accordance with article 48 of the Supreme Council's decision: "In the event of a violation of the procedure established by this Rules when considering and voting on the draft law, the ruling." The national deputy asked the chairman of the plenary to make an application for a violation of the Rules when considering the voting. Our faction will submit a draft Order repealing this decree, which will be adopted in violation of the Rules and in violation of the 9 articles of the Constitution.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-17-m0.u137	No draft rulings are submitted for the draft ruling. You, as the last first vice president of the regulatory committee, should know. Thank you. [[B in m in s a l in]] You cannot register a decision to block a decision. You can't block it! The law can. Read the Rules, please. Thank you. I'll bet you a vote. (please don't shout) for adoption in second reading and in general with the necessary technical and legal regulations, the draft Law on Defence of Procurement (2398-d). That's how we agreed? Ready to vote? [[B in m in s a l in]] One right? Ensign, please go to the rostrum. What's the readout? Again, the number of the application? Put her on the stand.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-17-m0.u138	Dear colleagues, to save time, I ask you to put one piece of paper -- this is 638th -- for confirmation.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-17-m0.u139	Say the number again, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-17-m0.u140	638.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-17-m0.u141	638th Amendment, she was counted by the committee, but right now, I understand that. What are you, the head of the committee? Alexander Mikhailovich, what's this about?
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-17-m0.u142	Okay. Amendment 638. "Add sub-paragraph 9 of the Final and Transitional Provisions: "In the Ukrainian Act on the National Anti-Corruption Bureau of Ukraine" (Reports of the Supreme Council of Ukraine since 2014, No. 47, Article 2051): Paragraph 15) of the first part of article 17 reads: “preservation, wear, use and use of military and special equipment, ammunition, firearms and special equipment, technical and cryptographic protection of information, special communications equipment, dual-use goods, personal protective equipment, special (formed) clothing, and physical influence measures on the grounds and in accordance with the laws and other legal and regulatory acts of Ukraine”. And here: "The employees of the National Bureau have the right to take action.", is the same text.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-17-m0.u143	I mean, my colleagues figured out what kind of work it was. Could you tell her again, please?
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-17-m0.u144	638.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-17-m0.u145	638th Amendment. The committee was counted, but I understand that the opinion can be changed. Do I get it right? I'll put this right to the vote. Please identify and vote. [[13:06:46]] Z-11. The decision is not taken. Edit rejected. I'm betting on voting the law as a whole. I am voting on the proposal for adoption in second reading and in general with the necessary technical and legal rights, the draft Law on the Defence of Procurement (registration number 2398-d). Please support and vote. [[13:07:27]] For 276 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. The next question is the bill of registration 2414d on the External Intelligence Service. Right? The deputy head of the National Security, Defence, and Intelligence Committee, Beggle Marian Volodymyryn, is invited to attend. [[B in m in s a l in]] No discussion. The committee's decision? It's not on hand right now. But what "please support," David Georgiyovich? There's a committee decision I'm asking you to support.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-17-m0.u146	As a result of the discussion, the Committee adopted a decision: to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, in accordance with part two of article 117 and part six of article 118, paragraph 3 of part one of article 123 of the Supreme Council's Rules of Procedure, on the outcome of the review of the draft Ukrainian Law amending the Ukrainian Foreign Intelligence Service Act on the activities of the Ukrainian External Intelligence Service (Registrational No. 2414-d), prepared by the Committee for second reading, to accept it on second reading and as a whole. Colleagues, this is a technical bill, which is the core of intelligence, and we're going to be looking at it in an extraordinary session. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-17-m0.u147	I mean, do I get it right, we put for adoption in second reading and in general with the necessary technical and legal rights? [[B in m in s a l in]] What? Dear colleagues, look, there was an agreement that we would enter into this bill without rights, right? There's a man standing there right now who says "correction." I have a question for the heads of the factions that fit. [[B in m in s a l in]] You did if you made a deal. [[B in m in s a l in]] It's an external intelligence bill. Do you have any references to him? [[B in m in s a l in]] Where's your paper? Dear Mr. Burmich, please tell me the number of your revision. No, wait, David Georgiyovich, step back, I don't see a national MP. Anatoly Petrovich, would you please tell me what you're doing? Dear National Deputies! Mr. Burmich! Mr. Burmich, tell me at least one of your laws! Six? Okay, 6 rows. Turn on the Burmich microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-17-m0.u148	External intelligence. This bill is actually, if anyone has read it, it's on one page, but there are very important moments. First. It comes out of the executive power of Ukraine at all. It's made independent, just like the NABA. This cannot be so, it cannot be a self - organ of government, not under the legislative branch of authority, not under the executive branch, not under the courts. What are we doing? That's the first one. And the second. This is the amendment. We want to make a BOLO out of intelligence, then we'll think about who it's working for. That's the first one.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-17-m0.u149	I'll bet on the vote number 6 of Burmitch. The committee's dismissed. Please identify and vote. [[13:12:50]] For-49 The decision is not taken. Edit number 16, Burmich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-17-m0.u150	Amendment 16, it refers to the fact that our external intelligence will create territorial structures, in the area, and so forth. This cannot be allowed, why? Because she has to work outside. We had that before 2005, and it was canceled. To do this, they built a building in the woods so that no one could see them. How can external intelligence work in Ukraine? There's intelligence from Ukraine, so we have it. This is Radio Intelligence, this is Cyber Intelligence. And I'm asking you not to confuse intelligence and intelligence in Ukraine. These are completely different tasks, these are basic tasks. They'll laugh at us, don't do that!
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-17-m0.u151	I'm betting on the vote number 16 of the people's deputy, Burmić. The committee's dismissed. Please identify and vote. [[13:14:09]] Z-71 The decision is not taken. I am betting on voting, for adoption in second reading and in general with the necessary technical and legal rights, the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Foreign Intelligence Service Act on the activities of the Ukrainian External Intelligence Service (Registration No. 2414-d). Please support and vote. [[13:14:38]] For 244 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. 13:15. Let's go over the questions. But, dear fellows, wait, don't break up. We're closing the session today. Therefore, I ask all national deputies to return to their places of employment without 10 to close the session as required by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Olena Konstantinovna Kondratjuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-17-m0.u152	Thank you, Dmitri Alexanderovich. Thus, 156 parliamentary inquiries were made during the plenary week. Of them: to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine 78; to the President 0; to the organs of the Supreme Council 0; to the heads of other public authorities and local self-government bodies 74; to the managers of enterprises, institutions and organizations located in Ukraine, regardless of their subordination and forms of ownership - 4. So it's the questions of the national MPs. Arsenia Pushkarenka to the Attorney General’s Office on the need for the transfer of criminal conduct to the Attorney General’s Office for his full, comprehensive study and impartial examination, and on the basis of a conflict of interest. Elisets of Bogatsky to the Deputy Minister of Health, Ukraine’s Chief State Sanitary Doctor, for the provision of statistics on mortality after other diseases during the entire period of the fight against the Coronavirus epidemic in Ukraine. Eliseta Bogatsky to the Deputy Minister of Health, the Chief State Sanitary Doctor of Ukraine, for the provision of statistics on the outbreaks of coronary disease SOVID-19 after visiting churches and other religious institutions during the celebration of Easter on April 19th 20th. Elisevets of Bogatsky to the Deputy Minister of Health, Ukraine’s Chief State Sanitary Doctor, for the reasons for banning visits to parks, squares, recreation zones, forest parks, and coastal areas. Elisete Bogatsky to the Deputy Minister of Health, the Chief State Sanitary Doctor of Ukraine, for the retraining of hospitals within the framework of the fight against the coronary disease SOVID-19. Elisets Bogatsky to the Deputy Minister of Health, the Chief State Sanitary Doctor of Ukraine, on the provision of information on the number of protective measures taken to Ukraine against SOVID-19. Elisete Bogatsky to the Deputy Minister of Health, Ukraine’s Chief State Sanitary Doctor, for the identification of signs of an unsymptomable disease in SOVID-19. Elisete Bogatsky to the Deputy Minister of Health, the Chief State Sanitary Doctor of Ukraine, for the determination of the number of people with a slight history of coronary disease SOVID-19. Elisets of Bogatsky to the Deputy Minister of Health - the Chief State Sanitary Doctor of Ukraine for the provision of information on the evidentiary morphology base, which confirms the specific pathomorphosis of the coronary infection SOVID-19. Alexander Tkachenka and John Shinkarenk to the State Audit Service of Ukraine on the need for a comprehensive examination of possible violations of legislation at the Community Non-commercial Enterprise "District Center of Oncology". Alexander Tkachenka and John Shinkarenko to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on the use of effective measures aimed at stabilizing and improving the environmental situation in Bilgorod-Dnistrovski. Alexander Tkachenka and John Shinkarenko to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on how to resolve the issue of the use of educational property. Vladimir Kradenka, head of the National Police of Ukraine, Attorney General, on the grounds of the Russian Federation citizen's residence in Ukraine and his citizenship in Ukraine. Mikhail Zimbaluka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the negative consequences of the lack of funding for individual types of insurance payments during quarantine due to the operation of Law No.553-IX. Mikhail Zimbaluka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the financing of the State Development Programme of the Ukraine Carpathian Region for 2020-2022. Vladimir Ivanov to Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Social Policy of Ukraine, Head of Government of the Ukrainian Pension Fund on the Inadmissibility of Limitation or the Cancellation of Aid for War Veterans, which extends to Ukraine the Act on the Status of War Veterans, Guaranteeing Their Social Protection. Vladimir Ivanov to Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Social Policy of Ukraine, Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister for the Reintegration of Interimly Integrated Territories, Minister of Finance of Ukraine on the need to increase funding for interim housing for internally displaced persons. Vladimir Ivanov to the Minister of Health of Ukraine, temporarily acting as head of the National Health Service of Ukraine, on the issue of possible optimizing health facilities in the Herson region as a result of the implementation of the second phase of medical reform on April 1, 2020. Olga Vasilevsky-Smagluk to the Minister of Interior of Ukraine on the use of measures to restore the citizenship of Sergio Vasilevski. Maxim Dirdin to the head of the National Police of Ukraine for the verification of the activities of the leadership of the First-May City Council of the Mikolai district and for the verification of the activities of the car gas station in the city of Pervomaysk Mikolai district. Dmitry Black to Prime Minister of Ukraine, Head of the Ukrainian State Service for Geodesy, Cartography and Cadastra on the legality of land registration on the basis of technical documentation, permission for development and approval by the Dniprov village council of the Dnipropetrov region. Alexander Tkachenka and John Shinkarenko to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine to provide funding for the capital repair of Desantne-Mirne road. Alexia Zmerenecki to the Acting Director of the State Bureau of Investigation, Attorney General, on the possible fabricated criminal conduct in relation to this "KRAVTONOMGAZ". Alexia Zmerenecki to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the situation that has arisen with regard to the debt of the DP "NAEC "Energot" to enterprises. Michael Annchenka to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine for possible fraudulent actions on the part of founders and participants of the Poltavavolprod TOV. Igora Vasiliev to the head of the National Police of Ukraine, Attorney General on the need for action. Roman Kaptielov to the Attorney General, Acting Director of the State Bureau of Investigation, Director of the National Anticorruption Bureau of Ukraine, for the conduct of the audit of the authorities of the administration of architecture in the city of Prvotravensk, Dnipropetrovsk. Romana Kaptielov, head of the State Audit Service of Ukraine, head of the National Architectural and Construction Inspectorate of Ukraine for the provision of a verification of the construction of a cultural and sports centre on the street of Bagata, 22a in the village of Bogdanovka in the district of Dnipropetrov. Mary Ionova to the head of the district administration of the Zaporozhye City Council of Alexandria for further information on the reconstruction of the Theatre Square in Zaporozhye. Maria Ionova, acting director of the municipal company Zaporozhye International Airport, to provide additional information on the construction of KP's International Airport Zaporozhye. Alexander Kunicki to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the introduction of the catch-up in the century. Head of the State Customs Service Muratov I.M. for improperly fulfilling the responsibilities laid down by law when considering a parliamentary appeal. Alexander Kunicko to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the adoption of activities and legal acts in accordance with the requirements of the Ukrainian Act amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine in connection with the adoption of the Ukrainian Act on Standardization. People’s Deputies ( Pauline, Blues, and others. A total of 11 deputies) to the Head of the Office of the President of Ukraine, temporarily acting as Head of the State Administration, to provide information on the use of state budget funds to ensure the residence of seniors or other persons in the territory of the Koncha-Sasp State Office. Alexander Guerrega to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the provision of fire alarm facilities for education in Ukraine. Jaroslava Dubnević to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the provision of inadequate/incomplete information on the question of how to address the issue of the financing of unfinished construction of social infrastructure objects. Jaroslava Dubnevic to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the provision of comprehensive flood protection against the harmful effects of the waters of rural settlements and agricultural conditions in the Lviv region. Olesia Long to the National Commission, which regulates national energy and utilities regulations on the need to review tariffs for transport services and distribution of natural gas. Viacheslav Medjanika to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, temporarily acting as Minister of Energy of Ukraine, head of the National Commission for State Regulations in the fields of energy and utilities for the restoration of gas supply to residence No.39a on the street of Vasil Žukovsky in Dniper. Sergia Mandiya to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the need for additional funds to be allocated for the capital repair of the KNP Children's Department "The Starocostinian Central District Hospital". Sergei Mandiya to the Minister of Culture and Information Policy of Ukraine regarding the allocation of state funding for the restoration of a series of objects of history and culture of Hmělničina. Vladislav Borodin to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the head of the National Savings Bank of Ukraine, the Director-General of the Association of Stock Exchanges for the consideration of the restoration of the operation of the Savings and the expansion of the state of employees in the branch of Skrošta in the village of Meliorative Dnipropetrovsk. Michael Bondar to the head of the Ukrainian Security Service for the screening of future students from uncontrolled territories to participate in youth organizations of militants before entering Ukrainian higher education institutions. Alexander Tkachenka and John Shinkarenk to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine regarding the possible unlawful interference in the economic activities of a limited-liability society called Lake 2012 located in the city of Killia Odessa. Alexander Tkachenka and John Shinkarenko to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine regarding the activities of the Black Sea Basin Authority of the Ukrainian State Fisheries Agency. Victor Medvedchuk and Renata Kuzmin to the Minister of Defence of Ukraine on the number of deaths, injuries, disappearances of ZSA military personnel during the ATO/OOS. Irina Konstankevich to the Minister of Social Policy of Ukraine, Prime Minister of Ukraine, on the improper protection of the rights of children with disabilities to physical rehabilitation at public expense. Irina Konstankevich to the Minister of Culture and Information Policy of Ukraine, the Head of the National Council of Ukraine for Television and Radio Broadcasting on the announcement of the National Council of Ukraine for Television and Broadcasting of Competitions for Language Licences on Free Local (Regional) Channels of the MH-5 multichannel network of the DVB-T2 standard in the city of Brodah of the Lviv region, the cities of Varas and Dubrovic of the Plain region. Oleg Kolyev to the Odessa City Head for the implementation of capital repairs and protection of the rights and legitimate interests of the people of the building along the street. Square of Gamova, 17, M. Odessy. Olega Kolev to the Odessa city head for the natural market on the street of the Academy of Philathov in front of Boris Derevyanka’s square in Odessa. Viacheslav Medjanika to Minister of Social Policy of Ukraine, Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine on the size of the cost of nutrition of children in the State Institution "Preschool Institute (Survey) No.271 (City of Dnipro) The National Police of Ukraine." Maksim Zariski to Prime Minister of Ukraine for contributing to the construction of a new fire rescue unit in the city of the Watchtower. Maksim Zarinski to Prime Minister of Ukraine, Head of the State Water Agency of Ukraine, Director-General of the Association for Stockpiling, to assist in resolving the issue of the conduct of regulatory work and the connection to gas supply for residents of the Kitzmansky and Visniki districts of the Cherniewice region, which, as a result of the red flood that took place in the area, as well as the damage to gas transport systems, are now without gas supply. Andrija Kločka to the Attorney General for not responding to a parliamentary request for improper criminal investigation, registered for illegal logging and for the theft of oak timber, worth 1 million 742 thousand dollars. Michael Bondar to the head of Radehiv City’s unified territorial community for the restoration of water supply at the address: Radehov City, Lviv Region, Smal Stocko Street, 17. Igora Kolyhayeva to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the improper exercise of official duties by government officials who did not take any action to restore the rights of the territorial communities of the Hersonian region. Igora Kolyhayeva to the Minister of Environmental Protection and Natural Resources of Ukraine regarding the continuation of financing of the reconstruction of clean houses in Berislav. Oleg Kolewa to the Odessa City Head on the sale of liquor and public order in the MAFAs, located on the streets of Varna, 16/4, and John and Yuri Lip, 39, cities of Odessa. Roman Soha and Sergey Stepa to Zaporez's City Head on the need for urgent solutions to infrastructure, housing, social and housing problems of the Parisians. Tarasa Batenka to the Minister of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine on the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms of Ukrainian citizens. Taras Batenka to the temporary duty of Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine, Minister of Defence of Ukraine for the Inadmissibility of Forced and Prescription of Ukrainian Citizens between 18 and 19 years of age in 2020. Groups of National Deputies (Frolova, Dubnov and others, only 6 deputies) to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the need for an urgent restoration of the right of small and medium-sized farmers-loans to receive compensation for the cost of the loan in several banks and to make appropriate changes to the Rules for the use of the funds provided for in the State budget for the financial support of actions in the agro-industry complex through the exchange of loans approved by the Government on 29 April 2015 No. 300. Sergey Ljowczina to Prime Minister of Ukraine on the deterioration of the living conditions of Ukrainian households. Vladimir Aresonkov is responsible for the duties of the head of the State Environmental Inspectorate of the Polish District as regards the rural coal production situation in Zitomirsk. Vladimir Aresonkov to the head of the Zitomir district administration for the repair of the road between the villages of Luchankovi district of Orutsky district of Žitomirščina. Dmitry Nalotova, head of the Housing and Exploitation Company No.2 of the Poltava City Council for Information on the Housing Fund of Poltava, to which the GEO No.2 KP provides services. Galini Vasilchenko to the Attorney General for providing information on the reasons for the systematic failure of the prosecution authorities to respond to parliamentary appeals. Alexander Tkachenka and John Shinkarenk to the State Service of Ukraine for work on the use of effective measures to protect the labour rights of the workers of the Lower School of Public Education in the 1st degree of Bilgorod-Dnistrov district of Odessa. Groups of National Deputies (Sweden, Yaremenka and others, only 11 deputies) to the Kiev City Head for a ransom for the social needs of land between Mikilsko-Slobidska Street and Brovarski Avenue in the Dniprovsk district of Kiev.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-17-m0.u153	Ladies and gentlemen, the time for the request has run out. Please sign up for the various performances. Marchuk Igor Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-17-m0.u154	Good afternoon! Zarisky Maksim, "Slut of the People" faction, 202 District, Cherniewets region. Today, in my speech, I want to draw attention to the issues that need to be addressed in the first place. This includes the continuation of measures to eliminate the effects of the flood situation that took place during the June months and has caused significant damage to the country’s structure and many private households, the continuation of action on the additional allocation of funds and the further use of the research and control activities to which the money has been sent, where used and which firms have done the work in which they have given these objects, will personally examine them. We need to abandon the practice that in a situation like this, there are times when something can be done to reduce the negative effects. Precautionary practices are needed and ready to be put in place, since an increasing flood situation is causing damage and shows the state of the objects that should be ready and provide protection for the population of areas against water damage. I would also like to point out separately that local authorities should be provided with funds in reserve funds and that they should be used in full and must not be repeated as with the former management of the Montenegrin District Administration: for reasons that are not clear to me, the funds from such a fund have not been made available in full in the extraordinary situation that took place in the St. That will be no more, and everyone will bear the responsibility that he deserves. And that's what I'm paying attention to is everyone who's doing the function of government right now. He also sent an appropriate parliamentary inquiry into activities involving the restoration of gas supplies in the Vichynsky region. For more than three weeks, people have run out of gas. Everyone should do his job and not create misunderstandings and inconveniences for people. The problem is also illegal logging, a situation that hurts everyone who cares about the environment. I will take every step to ensure that those involved will be held accountable for their wrongs and harm done. Natural parks in the area of illegal logging have now begun to be checked. But I'm saying it's just the beginning, and it's still going to be. Work continues on rebuilding the infrastructure of the country, attracting investment, developing tourism and sports. This will be facilitated by the opening of entry points in the Stryzinetsky and Putil region, as well as the restoration of road cover around the district. It is also encouraging that the construction of a bridge in the Rostoks of the Putile region will take place at the final stage, ensuring quality communication and safe transportation. I would like to point out that it is only the actions of each of the leaders of the different levels that will ensure the quality of life of the people in the district. In the above and other directions, there are appropriate parliamentary requests and requests for response and control. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-17-m0.u155	Nestor Ivanovich Šufrich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-17-m0.u156	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. Dear colleagues, our third session of the work of the Supreme Council of the Ninth Call is concluded. You know, I'd like to think of something that will help people. Sorry, I can't, I'm sorry, I can't. The land sale law -- people will curse it. Today’s decision to create new areas. People good, well, don't you understand that now, to get to the hospital, as they call me, they tell me, they can both die, and they can be resurrected, and they can die again. The average distance to the hospital after your vote today is about 200 kilometers, or 217 people are said to have already counted. How can you treat people like that? People asked you to hear them. Do you hear them? You forgot about them so you wouldn't say "killed." So, dear friends, I have great doubts and disappointment about the results of this session. What did we spend weeks working for? To keep their pockets from tibrating them, to the casino, to the casino, to the gaming business, while they could discuss the lifting of pensions and wages. What are you doing? Under the pressure of our opposition party, "The Opposition Platform for Life" we have blocked the law that was passed at the next session in order to increase payments to individual representatives on the observation boards and officials. In COVID terms, 5 billion per road. People are good, but we have no technicians, no experts, no bitumen. With this money, you could build, tie Lviv to Kharkiv -- that would be the connection of Ukraine, the autobane. It's not about stealing the money that's been put on the road. And for this money, you could raise your pension to 4,000 dollars. Up to 4,000 bucks! What Have You Remembered? Selling land, casino. Anything but what's in it for the people. To pay 4 billion dollars in casinos, 40 billion of our citizens have to lose. Forty billion! Is this a national policy priority? Shame and shame! It's embarrassing! So, you know, without hope, I'm waiting for another session. But I want you all to be. Once again, I quote our first president, the deputy of the Supreme Council, Leonid Makarovich Kravczuk's first call: "We have achieved and chosen independence because we have listened to people." Listen to the people.Oh, my God! It's too late, though. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-17-m0.u157	Coltunovich Alexander Sergiyovich, faction "The Opposition Platform for Life".
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-17-m0.u158	Thank you. Honorable Predestination! Dear National Deputies! Dear listeners, voters! I'd like to draw your attention and our colleagues to the fact that we have a country that has collapsed economically and socially. Why did I decide to contact you today? Because today we are putting at risk the results of our activities, including us as representatives of the people and people who have delegated their votes to the Cabinet of Ministers. I have to point out that, given the country's economy a year ago, with the nominal increase in basic macroeconomic indicators, Ukraine is significantly failing in all its parameters. For example, we have a significant decline in gross domestic product by 5.9 percent. The reason for this is the decline in industrial production by 8.7 percent. Another reason for this is that exports are already falling by 6.5 percent. And so on and so on and so forth. The result is a failure to implement the budget for 38 billion dollars in the total of five months in 2020. All of these things, a combination of economic factors, are leading to a decline in social parameters. For example, we have a de jure increase and a de facto increase in the cost of utility payments. If we have an import price of gas that's kind of going down, but we're looking at the State, the official figures of utility payments: in May 2020, people accounted for 8.5 billion dollars, while in May 2019 there were 5.6 billion dollars. So we actually have one and a half times the payment, although, by the logic of things, the economic basis is for our parameters to go down. And we even have tariffs, the price of gas is going down. So here's the problem that actually leads to a fall in real income and a decrease in the purchasing power of the population. What I would like to pay attention to is the next session, which should have priority issues. Undoubtedly, complex, structural economic reforms that will stimulate a comprehensive modernization of all spheres of activity in the country. We need to stimulate technological development, because in a growing global competitive fight, the lack of technology will lead to a loss of competitiveness, a decline in exports. And so what I'm talking about -- reducing the volume of industrial production, counting the EU and so on -- is going to lead to a reduction, and even the same pension. Actually, since July 1, this year, they have increased their pension, plus 74 bracelets. But it's just a minimum pension. Those who have a little more have not even experienced it or seen it. That's why we insist on changing the economic rate as a growing base for raising social standards.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-17-m0.u159	Thank you. Tsymbaluk. Master Sergei, please. Please, Sergio Vlasenko. Welcome.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-17-m0.u160	Thank you. Dear colleagues, today one of the last decisions of the Supreme Council before the closing of the next session, we voted in favour of the draft Order on the Creation and Disposal of Areas (No. 3650). This decision has obvious signs of unconstitutionality, but nobody cares. They voted and voted. I understand that the area is not a neighborhood, but a neighborhood is not a district. That's why everyone didn't care - and they voted. But I do have a number of practical questions. And please tell the honourable gentlemen who voted in favour of this draft decree, and how does this draft decree relate to the continuation of a medical reform that you have never been able to cancel for almost a year and a half of the activities of this Supreme Council? How does this draft decree relate to your continuing educational reform? Please tell me, how does this draft decree relate to the activity of the courts in the new districts? Please tell me, what will happen one day after the publication of this decree with the three fourths of the courts located in the area? Well, let's say we put three districts together. Three district courts. There's only one left. What happens to the other two? They're being eliminated? Are they united? How can I pass things on? How Can I Listen to Things? What happens to matters under consideration? Who thought about it? Was it important to adopt a bill simply to accept it in order to secure or secure a slightly higher result in the local elections? So let's be honest about this, that's why this decision was made. The faction of the political party of the All-Ukrainian union "The Fatherland" will prepare a constitutional submission on the unconstitutionality of this decision. Once again, the prescribed normative act does not correspond to a series of articles of the Constitution of Ukraine. By the way, during the consideration of the matter, the honourable Lord of the Supreme Council violated the Rules and did not give the floor to the procedure. Even though I wanted to be the only one, I wanted to propose to publish in the Voice of Ukraine a list of all those circuit liquidators, or I would say, "killers" of the areas that voted for it today. So that every Ukrainian citizen would know, especially with regard to the majority MPs, who was the "killer" of the districts, who was the one who created chaos in the field of government at the local level, who was the one who created chaos in the judicial system, who was the one who continued to create chaos in the system of medicine and education. Sadly, that was the only way we could remember the session. Almost no decision is made for the benefit of the people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-17-m0.u161	Thank you. Sergey the Honourable, Deputy faction of Trust.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-17-m0.u162	Sergey the Great, Luganskina, the Trust Group. Dear colleagues, I would like to draw your attention to the state of things in one of Luhanskian's largest factories, "The Star." This plant has always had strategic significance for the city of Reuben and Luhansk in general. With the support of the factory, housing was built. The company provided jobs to thousands of people, allowing the region to develop rapidly and have a serious economic base. This company is subordinated to the Ucrobanprom State Concert. But now this giant is in a terrible state. Misdirection or deliberate crime led to the almost complete destruction of the state factory. An inefficient management policy is terrifying. The cost of work is over 1.5 million dollars -- 60 percent of the total cost. Moreover, the main source of Zori's income is the provision of cargo security services. The treaty was concluded between him and the "Star" NPV. But this security agreement was made on absolutely unfavourable conditions for the enterprise. In addition, because of negligence and perhaps criminality, the company’s management is rapidly losing its own capital. In 2015 alone, the Star lost more than 60 percent of its capital. Please refer to the management of the Ucroboronprom concert. We demand that law enforcement agencies pay immediate attention to the activities of this enterprise. My initiative and my statement by the Chief Investigative Officer was that criminal conduct was unjustifiably directed to die in the investigation unit of Rubizny. Shahov's team, Luhanščina, requires a detailed audit of the enterprise's activities, which will show the extent of the abuse and negligence of the leadership of the Dawns. I believe, and the whole of Lugansk is of the opinion that leading to the bankruptcy of a factory that has ensured the development of the entire region is a crime against the people of Ukraine and must be investigated and punished. Thank you for your attention. Sergey the Great, Luganskina, the Trust Group.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-17-m0.u163	Thank you. Vladimir Aresonkov, Trust Group, please. It's a faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-17-m0.u164	Vladimir Aresonkov, Trust Group, 64th District, Žitomirščina. Dear colleagues, distinguished viewers, we're finishing the work of the next session, and we see that the further we see, the more passions we get in the room when we make decisions, the more the blame goes to each other's address that he doesn't understand how to build life, and the more patriotic. I would like to remind you that, let's say the main discussions that have been going on today about the continuation or completion of the decentralization reform somewhere at the last stage, they were not related to the fact that my honourable colleagues firmly deny the very fact that the reform is being carried out, which is looking for the most optimal model of territorial governance, no, not that. The point is that the system and logic of any decision should be maintained. And when this is broken, then there are misunderstandings, and then people don't understand, and the more there are differences between us, the people's deputies. And a simple example of these regions that voted today. If in its time and reform it was planned that we should simultaneously create united communities, decommission and clean up areas, modernize the work of state administrations, pass on basic powers in full terms of OTG, then it seems logical and does not duplicate each other at times. So that's what my respectable colleagues were talking about today. But on the other hand, there is no need to exaggerate the role that has taken place today. There will be no tragedy in the fact that the areas will be enlarged. Unfortunately, there is little difference in this type of funding system. But we need to work systematically on the reforms that have been initiated. And I support my colleague: let's work systematically on medical reform, because today we haven't settled these issues. And now we have a break in work, in the fall, the election, and we're going to have to ask that question again. Similarly, the education system needs to be improved, especially after the transition to 12-year-old education, new-type schools and so on. So, honourable colleagues, let's focus from the fall on systemic work together, on the completion or continuation of those reforms that have been supported by the majority and citizens of Ukraine, and in this sessionary room.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-17-m0.u165	Thank you. Maria Ionova, European Solidarity, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-17-m0.u166	Thank you very much, Madam Chairman! Dear colleagues, I'd like your attention for three minutes, because I'm going to talk about the things that concern all of us, and independent of the political party, because it's a matter of peace and war. And whatever we want, we can't close our eyes on what's going on on the front, and there are virtually every day Ukrainians and dozens of injured people dying in hospitals quietly by our Ukrainian soldiers. These are Ukrainian citizens, these are our voters with you. And today it is only July 17th, and the number of deaths has already been compared to the June losses. There's an apparent escalation of hostilities on the front. A few days ago, the militants who fought the other day violated all moral and humanitarian standards by shooting from an ambush near the village of Zayatweh of our military, who had previously arranged the evacuation of the body of our army. The sly murder of a doctor who had all the right markings is another testimony that the pro-Russian fighters are not even going to follow international humanitarian norms. And the late reaction, the late reaction of the President of Ukraine -- it's also a treacherous war crime. Because it's a parody for the commander-in-chief of the country. We can't. He can't even name an aggressor state in his statement. And, I'm sorry, we're fighting this, we're losing this, it's our Crimean Tatars and Ukrainian citizens being arrested in Crimea as well. But we're not afraid. Are we afraid to say the name of the enemy so as not to offend him or what? We see Russia rising today as a degree of resistance and continuing to develop aggressive terrorist policies, and the Russian Federation's forces are increasingly involved, and these are snipers and special targets. The Russian occupying forces continue to block the traffic of the OSCE’s members and are being hit by drones. All of this indicates that the Russian Federation is ready to escalate its fighting against Ukraine. At our border, Russia holds three inter-species groups of troops that are capable of carrying out sudden onslaughts without a call. Why has the Security and Defence Council not yet been convened? Why do we not claim that the State of Ukraine, which suffers from Russian aggression, will not convene the UN Security Council? Because no one is going to protect Ukraine than we are. And the position of the first person of the state is a clear signal to the international community to work together, to increase the pressure on the Kremlin. Mr. President, don't shut up. If your phone is kept silent, the international community will remain silent. We need to pick up the phone and call Berlin, Paris, Washington, to express our indignation at the fact of the war crime and coordinate our actions. There is no need to deny the gains of the five years that have been made, beginning with Peter Dustenk, the government, and the parliament. This was done for the country, expand and develop, but do not break. Thank you. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-17-m0.u167	Thank you. Maxim Zarisky, "Serial of the People" faction. He won't speak. Then Dmitry Costuck, "Serial of the People" faction, please. Please, Mr. Dmitri.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-17-m0.u168	Good afternoon. Dmitry Kostuk, Žitomirščina, agrarian committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Soon there will be a year after the parliamentary elections, and perhaps it is time to make some reports. And in this case, I'd like to talk about the agro-industrial complex itself, about what it's done or failed to do for almost a year. To begin with, I want to thank all the deputies in this room, all of whom we have been able to achieve the truly historic decisions that the Ukrainians have been waiting for, not even since 91st, but since the existence of the Ukrainian People's Republic, when they promised not to. We did it over 100 years later. We finally gave people the opportunity to rule their land, and the land became the property of Ukrainian citizens. And that's probably our greatest gain. Among the other bills to be put out, which were passed through our committee and supported in the Supreme Council, is that space rule, that people would be able to transfer land into different forms of property without corruption schemes, transparent and everyone could monitor it, and there was public control. This is also the transfer of land from Dergeokadastru, land outside the population, to communities so that communities have a financial instrument for their existence to have money for medicine, for education. It's also a bill that we've supported in the first reading recently, and I hope that the next session will be voted on, so that people will have the opportunity to get their pies that they were promised. These are the workers of the agro-industrial complex, these are the peasants who work in the social sphere, these are the rifles. We've done a lot of things, but unfortunately, people don't see the result of our work, because as long as we've been in the Supreme Council adopting these necessary bills, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine hasn't been doing its part, and we still have raiding cases, we have a situation where the State Department is not overloaded. In the Gitomir region, we haven't been able to hold a competition for so many months and to appoint a new head of the Dergeokadastre, we have in. The same is true of the LFAB, which has huge debts to creditors, and the issue has not yet been resolved in the agrarian fund. We have a lot of problems, and unfortunately, very little of the results of Kabmin's action. So it must be time for us to conclude. I am addressing the Prime Minister of Ukraine. History has shown that the elimination of a separate Ministry of Agricultural Policy was a mistake, and the current Minister of Economy and the APC certainly has no time or desire to deal with these problems. Let's take a look.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-17-m0.u169	Thank you. Roman Gritchuk. It's probably our last speech. Please. The "Serial of the People" faction, Roman Gritchcock.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-17-m0.u170	And the only request, dear colleagues, is that you invite the national deputies into the hall. Then we move on to the closing session.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-17-m0.u171	Gritsuk Roman, "Serial of the People" faction. Dear colleagues, as I understand it, this is the last performance of this session. Let me draw your attention to such issues as the construction of our universities. In the last 10 years, at least 49 housing complexes have been put into operation in universities and research complexes. And these are just the ones that have all the permits. They're just the ones that aren't disguised for reconstruction. Let me give you an example. Three residential complexes in the territory of KPI, two in the territory of NAU, KNUBA, the Academy of Interior and the University of Mečnik in Odessa. The housing complex in the territory of the Kyiv National University of Shevchenka consists of 18 houses. And, you know, the problem isn't really the forgetfulness. Universities really need to be built, grown, dormitories and shells. But the thing is, these forgets won't get anything from the state, from universities, from students. Let me give you an example. In the KIPI housing complex, the KPC "KAMPUS" should be located on the ground. A memorandum was signed by the builder and the university. As you can see, there's no license. At the President's meeting with the rectors, the President stressed the need to build dormitories for students. I wanted to get to the bottom of this. You know, maybe I got something wrong. But we have to study the contracts for these buildings, read investment contracts, and then there's some benefit for universities and students. But universities hide information about these investment contracts. KPI says it's a commercial secret. The Ministry of Education and Science has no information at all. Early this year, the National Court of Auditors issued a report stating that the Ministry of Education was not involved in the accounting of university property, although it was obliged to do so. But the problem is not just in the Ministry of Education and Science. In Kiev, on the street of Kudrischev, 8-10 (this is the Solomonic region) is conducting reconstruction of dormitories of the Academy of Internal Affairs, not of the Ministry of Internal Affairs, but of the Ministry of Internal Affairs. And, you know, it's so successful in reconstructing dormitories, it's already selling apartments there. You know, I find this situation unacceptable at a time when students live in humiliating conditions, and teachers work with obsolete equipment, the rectors sign contracts to raise altitudes and the CD in university territory. I've already sent inquiries to the Ministry of Education and Science, the Ministry of Internal Affairs. We have to do this. Guys, thanks.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-17-m0.u172	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please invite the national deputies to the hall. Dear colleagues, all those who desire to return? I'm so aware that not all national MPs have a session to close is a holiday. [[B in m in s a l in]] Upstairs. There's a desire to work. Okay. Your wish is granted. I'll be waiting for everyone on Tuesday at 12:00. Please don't be late. 12 o'clock, 12 o'clock. Was there something you wanted to say, Jaroslav Ivanovich? Do you want to continue? [[B in m in s a l in]] In accordance with article 83 of the Constitution of Ukraine, the fourth session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the ninth occasion will begin its work on Tuesday, September 1, 2020, at 10 a.m. Dear National Deputies, the third session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the ninth call, I declare closed. [[The National Hymn of Ukraine]] [[Applause]] Heroic glory! Ladies and gentlemen, I invite everyone to the photo shoot. We can do it in the hall or on the porch. How do we do that? On the porch? Here? Here. All right, here we go. [[B in m in s a l in]] The session was closed.
