ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-07-m0.u1	Good afternoon, dear fellows! Please take your seats, prepare for registration. Dear colleagues, are you ready to register? People's deputies please register. [[14:07:10]] There are 317 Ukrainian national deputies registered in the hall. I now declare open the plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Dear colleagues, a minute of silence, please. On this Saturday, the state will celebrate the 75th anniversary of the Day of Victory over Nazism in World War II. Many years ago, Ukraine and not only Ukraine did much to make peace in the world so that we could gather in the peaceful cities of our country so that we could be the Ukrainian Parliament today. We now have great challenges, and how and when should we unite around ideas, principles, and understanding that our very future depends on us. And today I think it would be appropriate to mention all those who gave their lives, the health, who, unfortunately, are not with us today, and to mention those who today remind us of those terrible times. Now, a minute of silence. [[A Minute of Silence]] Please sit down. Dear colleagues, the national MPs have turned. You can come out now. Dear fellows, we've reached out. I'm talking about national holidays. Dear colleagues, national deputies from all factions and parliamentary groups have come up with the following proposal: to give two minutes to all of you to speak from the MP factions. This is not provided for in the Rules. So there's a proposal to apply the ad hoc procedure, to vote now, to make such a decision not to take breaks. Because a lot of people were saying that there's now a break with a replacement for the performance. If there's no objection, I'll be right there. Dear colleagues. Ladies and gentlemen, I now put to the vote the proposal that each faction should have two minutes to perform, but on condition that no more breaks are taken with the replacement for the performance. Does everyone agree? I'll bet on the vote on the above-mentioned proposal. Please support and vote. [[14:10:42]] For 324 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, in accordance with article 83 of the Constitution of Ukraine, part of article 9 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, at the request of 156 Ukrainian national deputies, we are now holding this extraordinary meeting. And before I suggest you sign up for the speech, I would like to point out that today there are two nominees in the Supreme Council of Ukraine our colleagues are the Zagradni Yuri Ivanovich and Shahov Sergey Volodymyrovich. Welcome to the festival! [[Applause]] Please sign up the MP factions and groups for the performance. Bacunec Pavel Andryovich. Order is 2 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-07-m0.u2	Dear Mr. Head, honourable national deputies, I express to you the troubled thoughts of the indeterminate pandemic of the inhabitants of my region and I am confident that this is the same situation in all the cities and villages of our Ukraine. People hope that soon the government will weaken restrictive quarantine measures. Clearly, citizens no longer have the financial resources to stay indoors on quarantine. Most people want to work so that they can continue to support their own families. I also draw your attention to the fact that many of our fellow citizens want to go abroad because there are jobs waiting for them, but they are not physically able to just cross the border. Understandably, the virus continues to spread daily and every hour. And we, as authorities, have to take all necessary steps to keep it going when we all return to normal life together. That's why the Trust MPs support the idea of predicting mass testing in legislation for the NAVID broader population. We also consider it appropriate to offer a greater measure of help to our doctors, our self - isolation physicians, through official contact with patients with the coronavirus. The "Trust" MP is ready to support the bill today, which is in order of the day. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-07-m0.u3	Boyko Yuri Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-07-m0.u4	Dear Mr. Speaker, distinguished national MPs, the people of Ukraine, from this high rostrum, I wish to congratulate the entire Ukrainian people today on a significant date that will be before. This date is called the 75th anniversary of Victory in the Great Homeland War, when the back of Nazism was broken by all the Soviet people in which the Ukrainians took part. I mean, we'll never forget this date. We'll be on guard so that no one can rewrite history as they've tried to do in the last five years. We will protect our veterans, all those who honor the great victory, because all families have suffered this war, all families have lost, and we must remember that. We must keep in mind these about 30,000 veterans of the Great Homeland War, who are still with us today, and in order for the government to fulfill all the obligations it has before them, we will support them materially, morally, so that they will feel cared for themselves, that they will all understand that Parliament and all society will always honor them and honor their memory. I want to remind everyone once again that the Ukrainian people have lost millions of lives, and for that we must say: Fascism will not pass! Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-07-m0.u5	Jon’s Maria Mikolayevna
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-07-m0.u6	Dear Ukrainians! European Solidarity thanks every Ukrainian who fought two totalitarian regimes 75 years ago, fighting two totalitarian worst regimes. And in fact, we are proud that the previous Parliament had the same respect for the memory and heroes of the UPA, who, like the fighters of the Red Army, fought for Ukraine. And actually today, there are two ideologies in this room: those who have "what difference" and those who are in pain in Ukraine. And actually today Parliament would have to accept a historical statement when Moscow is trying to rewrite Ukrainian history, calling our Ukrainian Donetsk and Lugansk Stalino and Vorosilovgrad. But there's 90 percent of those who come together here, "what a difference," and that's unfortunately going to be played by a majority. We'd like to thank every national MP from 156 who signed today for holding an extracurricular session. Because it's important for those who don't have a difference to protect doctors today. By the way, respected doctors, there's no signature of most of the Health Committee under these signatures, because they say "what difference does it make." Today, 2,660 doctors have become ill with COVID, and we believe that they are at the forefront of today’s fight against disease. Today, we offer mandatory tests for doctors and compulsory insurance for every doctor who is sick, as well as insurance payments for every family who has lost their health - care provider who has not been protected by the State today. It would be right for the Ukrainian government to be here today, if it were Ukrainian, to report in the parliamentary-presidential republic on what the executive authorities are doing today in the fight against the coronavirus. But unfortunately, there's a majority in Parliament, and there's a "what difference," and they.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-07-m0.u7	Stephanie Olga Anatolyevna.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-07-m0.u8	Sergey Rachmanin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-07-m0.u9	Rachmanin Sergey Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-07-m0.u10	Dear colleagues, I have to repent, in fact, all of us, all of our factions have underestimated what a fine politician Vladimir Zelensky is. We were persuaded by the decree signed by the President, Decree 167/20, which approved the new composition of the Tripartite Contact Group of the Ukrainian Delegation, which is looking after the so-called Minsk process. And it's not even that now, at the expense of the budget, we're going to have an important delegation, which will be composed of government officials and heads of parliamentary committees, in a structure that is not official and whose decision is not official, has no legal effect, the thing is, according to the statement made by the President's Chief of Staff, Mr. Jermak, he's waiting for the same mirror step from the Russian side. What does that mean? If people with similar positions enter the TCG, we will get a bright gallery of characters on the Ukrainian sanctions list. We're going to get Leonid Slutsky, who uses the word "Naziism" every time he mentions Ukraine, and who threatened Ukraine with war if the issue of bases in Ukraine is discussed. We're going to get Leonid Kalashnikov, who said that Ukraine would destroy the entire population of Donbas, who called for the closure of the Kerchen Strait for Ukraine. We're going to get Jaroslav Nilov, one of the leaders of the LDPR party, who, with the mouth of his leader (this quote), demanded "preventively destroy Ukraine". We're going to get the Deputy Minister of Defense of Bulgakov, who's been holding our ships in Crimea. I propose that there be no illusions, give up the wisdom of the President and rename the TCG as a collective hemorrhage society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-07-m0.u11	Shevchenko Evgeny Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-07-m0.u12	Good afternoon, colleagues! Good afternoon, Ukraine! When we went to the elections, we had the slogan, "We're going to change the country." But when we entered this room, it is clear that we supported the reforms that were introduced to us regarding medical reform. We need to review all these areas and listen to the President. The president called for a second phase of the reform. We need to keep in mind the people, the doctors, the pandemic, and we need to remember that we, Ukraine, are a social state, a state that needs to be cared for by its citizens. Security is number one for us. Security is not just in the army, security is not just in the street, but health. Unfortunately, the reform that we have been offered from the West will only be directed at one thing: that if a person gets sick, he is cured and cured for his money, and then perhaps someone will give it to him. But practice shows that it doesn't work that we need to look at not only diseases but also prevention and rehabilitation. The committee involved is called the health of the nation. The health of the nation is not only when we treat the consequences, but when we do it so that we have prevention, and so that we know that people don't get sick, and if that happens as a pandemic, we'll be ready for it and the institutions that have been built since the Soviet Union, we can't destroy it because this is an economic, capitalistic principle, we forget that we're a social country. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-07-m0.u13	Thank you. Krulko Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-07-m0.u14	Today Parliament has gathered, I think, on an extremely important issue, the issue of the protection and support of Ukrainian medicine, Ukrainian medicine. And the Fatherland faction in its entirety supported the initiative to hold the next session of the Supreme Council on this very issue. And probably at the moment of the Coronavirus, the pandemic, Parliament would have to come together on issues that directly relate to overcoming the Coronavirus. We're acting as "Fatherland" for insurance and mandatory medical testing, which is now on the forerunner. From the beginning, we said that the protection of doctors and medical personnel from the Coronavirus, from which there is no cure or vaccine, should be number one for the country. Sadly, statistics and situations have become quite different. She's become a screamer. Of the 13,000,691 patients with coronavirus, 2,000,660 are medics. So 1 out of 5 infected in Ukraine is a doctor, a medical professional. In Ukraine alone, 72 medical doctors have become ill in the days leading up to the coronavirus. It is known that there are now 14 medical doctors on artificial lung ventilation machines, and 18, unfortunately, 18 have died. And this is because at the start, the medics were forced at the beginning of the pandemic to stay with their bare hands, and to fight with their bare hands against the coronavirus. Masks were carried abroad. No one's investigating it. At the same time, the authorities were plentiful in the New Sanars, while medical facilities were needed. And even when it comes to 300 percent of the medical allowance that came out of the fact. In fact, they received 86 copies of the extra payment. I don't think so. They promised 300 percent of the extra, and they paid 86. And I think it's totally unfair and wrong.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-07-m0.u15	Bondar Victor Vasilovich. Batenko Taras Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-07-m0.u16	Dear friends, the MP Group "For the Future" is convinced that the Ukrainian Parliament must intervene immediately in the situation, a catastrophic situation that lies on Ukraine's energy market because of the criminal corruption of today's Ministry of Energy of Ukraine. In fact, there are currently 5 working blocks of nuclear power plants, which is 60 percent of nuclear energy. The Ministry is forcing businesses in Ukraine to purchase road electricity at a green tariff, electricity produced at TEC. We have strong evidence that Mrs. Olga Buslavec, a temporary minister, is not secretly promoting the private interests of a monopolist who exports electricity to Ukraine abroad. From that information, friends that the NCREKP, given that green and coal-based power plants are known to be more expensive, is preparing decisions to increase electricity for our population as soon as possible in terms of quarantine and economic decline. More so than that. Minister Buslavic wants to do maintenance today is being encrypted through Energoatomtreiding, which has to do with what, according to the media, her son. I believe that these and other financial envelopes should be the subject of a study of a separate interim commission of inquiry, which is now in Parliament, in fact, a faction of a monolithic "Serve of the People" faction. We want to say across Ukraine that, in terms of economic and quarantine declines, it is a national crime to decide to reduce the generation of economics and nuclear stations. At the same time, the government in Mr. Schmigal's person, being completely involved in such armors, Mrs. Buslavec didn't even think of anywhere worthy to direct a cheap economy. Today, in fact, the government of Shmigal makes Ukraine the country with the most expensive electricity in all of Europe. We therefore demand the immediate intervention of the Ukrainian Parliament and the establishment of a Temporary Investigation Commission to verify the actions of the officials of the Ministry. Only a quick and adequate response to Parliament can solve this situation and not allow our country's economy to be buried, and the government, such a government of Ukraine, we think should be retired. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-07-m0.u17	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the time for performances is up, So let's move on to the day-to-day issues. A list of questions is given to you. The first question is the draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine to improve the ability of the Ukrainian health system to counter the spread of COPID-19 (registration number 3380). Dear colleagues, take your seats, we must vote in favour of the inclusion of the issue in the agenda of the session. Ready to vote? I'm voting for a motion to include a question, a bill, registration number 3380, in the agenda of the day session. Please support and vote. [[14:29:09]] For 334 Decision taken. I am voting on the proposal to declare the bill urgent and to shorten the deadlines for the introduction of alternative bills until the day of the extraordinary plenary session, in accordance with article 110 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules. It takes 226 votes. Please support and vote. [[14:29:41]] For 335 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, do you need a discussion? Vote? No discussion? Once again, we have one faction that insists on discussion. Consider the question of a simplified procedure. Please support and vote. [[14:30:23]] For 314 Decision taken. The word is given to the Ukrainian national deputy Stefanishini Olga Anatoliyevna.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-07-m0.u18	Dear colleagues, good afternoon. I think each of you in this room knows that today a COVID patient has to run around the country to take a test. That's not the way it's supposed to be! The state has to follow patients and test people in this country, it's not there right now. We're in 107th place in the world after testing. Belarus is doing seven times more tests! And Germany is ten times more tested. The second moment you probably don't know, not all of you know, I got it from the doctors. It will turn out that if a doctor goes into self - isolation today, he only gets half the salary. My colleagues, when I learned this, I realized how unfair it is that we are now protecting doctors! This bill (3380) is designed to run large - scale testing across Ukraine. It's such a motor for our government to finally get us back to normal statistics. And the second is the protection of doctors, the corresponding wages, we have to protect doctors financially, and we have to test them regularly. In addition, the Ministry of Health has international standards for teaching doctors; they complain that doctors have means of protection but do not know how to use them. So teach the doctors! Give them appropriate instructions. And lastly, we have to prepare Ukraine and the hospital: the first, the second, and the third wave. And the Ministry of Health must do so in accordance with this law. And last of all, the Ukrainian government has to be transparent and provide information about how many tests we have, how many remedies we have. Colleagues, I think COVID-19 is the moment that we all have to unite. I am grateful to the National Health Committee, which, regardless of party membership and views, unanimously supported this bill. And I think we're in this Parliament today.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-07-m0.u19	Thank you. The word for the report is given to the Head of the Committee on National Health, Medical Care, and Medical Insurance of Raducci Mikhail Borisovich. Dear colleagues, please. Wait, Mikhaylo Borisovich. Dear colleagues, colleagues! I'm not commenting right now, I'm speaking. Please. Thank you. Mikhailo Borisovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-07-m0.u20	The Supreme Council Committee on National Health, Health Care and Health Insurance considered a draft of the Ukrainian Law on Amendments to Certain Ukrainian Laws to Improve the Power of the Health System (Registration No. 3380) of 23.04. First of all, I would like to inform you that the committee hears the situation of the population and medical personnel in COVID-19 in Ukraine every week. It is already heard: Vinnitsk, Chernigivsk, Žitomirsk, Hmelnicka, and Ravensk, on the turn of the other region. Today, the situation with COVID-19 medical staff disease, which is at the forefront of the struggle for the lives of our citizens, is really complicated. In Ukraine, more than 13,000 cases of COVID-19 have been confirmed – almost 20 percent, almost 20 percent of them are medical personnel. That is why this bill is relevant because it foresees an increase in the amount of temporary incapacity payments for medical personnel. In addition, the bill is designed to identify the infected at the proper time, to limit their contact and to prevent the spread of this dangerous disease. At the same time, after discussing certain situations, the Committee considers it necessary to introduce a number of specific rights: in the law, section 2, paragraph 2, of the Act and the bill, in the Ukrainian Law on National Social Insurance, part two of article 24, to read: "Those who are in health care facilities, as well as self-insolidation under medical supervision, are paid 50 per cent of the average wage regardless of the medical service, with the exception of medical workers, who receive temporary disability assistance.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-07-m0.u21	No, it's not. Time. Please sign up from the MP factions and groups. Germano Vasil Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-07-m0.u22	Please give the floor to the People's Deputy from the Opposition Platform for Life, Koltunović.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-07-m0.u23	Coltunovich Alexander Sergiyovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-07-m0.u24	Thank you, Your Honor Vassil Ivanovich. Dear National Deputies! I want to address you and our voters first, and say that the Opposition Platform for Life has been the most effective tool for this extraordinary session, signed the relevant documents to support our health system. Of course, our faction supports the Bill 3380, which provides for a 100 - percent average wage payment regardless of the length of work. But when we speak and look at the name of the draft Law on Enhancing Health Care, I would like to say that the medical reform initiated by Mrs. Suprun, which takes place, continues, and today, it kills the health system. If we're talking about specific data, I want to bring up the following. That the number of medical facilities decreased from 2.2 thousand to 1,700 compared to 2013. After the second stage of medical reform, we may lose a thousand more institutions. If we're talking about medical personnel, in 2013, before medical reform, or in 2013, we had 217 000 doctors and health workers, for today, only 186,000. Therefore, if we are to increase the capacity of the health care system, we need to pay attention to social aspects. As for insurance medicine, I recommend that the profile committee draw attention to Kazakhstan's experience, where in the insurance system it is the employer who determines and provides for the health care of ordinary workers. Again, our faction supports this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-07-m0.u25	Sussun Inna Romanovna
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-07-m0.u26	Please report to Stefanishini.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-07-m0.u27	Stephanie Olga Anatolyevna.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-07-m0.u28	Dear colleagues, first. The Voice faction, of course, will vote in favour of the bill we have drafted. And the second thing I want to say. We know that Ukraine will gradually get out of quarantine, but it's not necessary to relax, it's not a disease that will pass tomorrow. And this bill is very important today for Ukraine to be able to exit quarantine and trace the coronavirus. Mass testing will help. Protecting medical personnel is the most important thing we have to do with you today. The other one. What a colleague said today about medical reform. I want to tell my colleague that the medical reform that started today in Ukraine has no other way of reforming medicine today. The essence of medical reform is very simple -- it's the pay of the specific services that the patient has used -- it's the opportunity for the patient to receive free services. I know how Ukrainian hospitals work today, and they don't have to work like that. If the state wants to add funds to medicine, it's a great initiative. Today, 100 billion dollars is not enough for our medicine to work properly. But, colleagues, if you're going to add money to medicine in the Soviet system that was all these years, it's money in the sand because it's ineffectively used. The essence of medical reform is to give the state an effective use of services and raise the wages of our doctors at last. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-07-m0.u29	Gerasimov Arthur Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-07-m0.u30	Dear colleagues, in this room we have gathered for the first time to discuss, indeed, with the agenda, the most topical problem of the coronavirus. We're listening to each other right now, we've got noise and noise like a hive. We don't have a problem. We're giving the whole country a signal that there's no problem. Let's maybe talk about what the real situation is if we come together. We say that we introduced quarantine to prepare the health system. How we've prepared it now. Think about it, two months of quarantine. What's going on? On the committee yesterday, we heard the Deputy Minister of Health. You know how many states Ukraine bought protective suits for doctors. Because we cannot prepare a health - care system without protecting doctors. Do you know how much? About 70,000 grand. We've already got more than 100,000 pieces of powder in the country and bought 135. If you go to the hospital, and we're there every day, the first thing the doctors will tell you is, "We have some kind of protection through either volunteers or local authorities." The second thing doctors will tell you is that you, you know, those who first encounter the coronavirus, this is an emergency medicine that every single one of you, by the way, who doesn't listen to it right now, will call if you get sick. They don't even have fuel-oil materials to come to the challenge. Do you think they're in the era of the Coronavirus going on calls in costumes? No, it's not. You think someone's testing them? No, it's not. So I, as co-author and as a whole faction of European Solidarity, will certainly support this bill. But the key is to get it done. Because if it's the same as with wages. It's 300 percent of what's written in the law, and in a month, no one's been able to write the subtitles, so it's all a blank sound. As a result, we prepare a health - care system so that no one can be treated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-07-m0.u31	Raducci Mikhailo Borisovich with motive.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-07-m0.u32	Thank you, Dmitri Alexanderovich. I just want to read the paper: "Those who are in health care and self-insulation under medical supervision, due to measures aimed at preventing the occurrence and spread of coronary disease, as well as at the localization and eradication of its outbreaks and epidemics, temporary disability assistance is paid in the amount of 50 per cent of the average wage (income) regardless of the insurance period, except for health workers, whose assistance for temporary disability in such cases is paid in the amount of 100 per cent of the average wage (income) regardless of the insurance fee." Please support this bill as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-07-m0.u33	Thank you, Mikhailo Borisovich. Cimbaluk Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-07-m0.u34	Mikhailo Cimbaluk, Fatherland. Dear Mr. Head, distinguished colleagues, respected medics and voters, thank God that for the first time, we have taken the initiative to hold an extraordinary meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And that's a good sign, but there's a sad story. Where's the Cabinet of Ministers? Where is the minister of health? Because it was this bill that was supposed to be initiated by them at the beginning of the quarantine announcement. The Fatherland faction is going to vote and support this bill, but let's not forget that the government is finally going to return to the medics what they earned in March and April, these 300 percent of the promised. It is necessary for the medical community to feel, not in words, but in action, support. And let's not forget the vaccine, because in the future we can expect other epidemics. I call everyone to professionalism. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-07-m0.u35	Shahov Sergei Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-07-m0.u36	Sergey Shahov, Luhanščina, Deputy Group "Trust". Dear colleagues, surely, the Trust Group will support Ukrainian doctors and support Ukrainian society. I want to say the next thing. I've been talking about that every Ukrainian has virtually every antibody in the country, and this is confirmed by the fact that my grandmother, who was infected by my children in February, without being in Europe, Switzerland, Japan, had a coronary disease and had antibodies. I call on the Ukrainian tests, which cost 30 times less, to test every Ukrainian quickly in every city, in the area of antibodies in every Ukrainian body, and to get people out of this terrible horror that was introduced there today in the Cabinet of Ministers. I suggest we run a test on the Ukrainians. We need people not to go hungry today and we need Ukraine's economy to move forward today. Thank you. Sergey Shahov, Luhanščina, Deputy Group "Trust".
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-07-m0.u37	Thank you. Dear colleagues, let's go to the vote. The committee recommended the bill as a whole. Now we're voting on the ground. In general, we're voting, too, no objections? None. I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine with a view to enhancing the ability of the Ukrainian health system to resist the spread of COPID-19 (registration number 3380). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[14:47:01]] For 338 Decision taken. I am voting on the proposal for adoption in general with the necessary technical and legal rights and with the Committee's proposals, the draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine with a view to enhancing Ukraine's health system's ability to counter the spread of COPID-19 (registration number 3380). Please support and vote. [[14:47:42]] For 336 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Show by factions. Dear colleagues, the next issue of the agenda is the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on Protection of the Population from Infectious Diseases (registration numbers 3376, 3376-1, 3376-2). Dear colleagues, we need to include this issue in the agenda of the session. Therefore, I am voting on the proposal to include in the agenda of the above-mentioned draft. Please support and vote. [[14:48:39]] For 340. Decision taken. Dear colleagues, I'm voting on the proposal to recognize the project as urgent. The bill is urgent and shortens the deadlines for the introduction of alternative bills until the day of the extraordinary plenary meeting, in accordance with article 101. Support is also needed for 226 Ukrainian national deputies. Please support and vote. [[14:49:13]] For 341 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, it is suggested that this issue be considered in a simplified manner. Please support and vote. [[14:49:34]] For 314 Decision taken. The word for the report is given to the Ukrainian national deputy Prashenko Petra Alexiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-07-m0.u38	Dear colleagues, first of all, let me, on behalf of the Supreme Council, thank the Ukrainian doctors, the doctors who are loyally protecting Ukraine from the coronavirus pandemic in these days despite the indifference of the authorities to them. A month ago, the government was sequestering the budget, taking money from education, science, the social sphere, culture. Why did this happen? It's like giving money to Ukrainian doctors, and now, during the alternative bill, money is good. Three percent of the wages paid to doctors became the same anecdote as four thousand dollars promised by the authorities to teachers. But now 1 out of 5 infected doctors is one of the world’s largest indicators. In Ukraine, 2,000,660 doctors have been infected for the time being, 19 have died. Only yesterday did 109 doctors become ill because the diletarian authorities failed to protect Ukrainian medical personnel. A few weeks after the budget was reviewed, when our idea of medical insurance was rejected for the first time, the "servants" sabotaged our offer. And when all the factions of this room did everything, everyone except the monotonous, forced this meeting together, the management of the "servants" cynically admitted that they were only interested in political dividends. Your Honor, take these dividends away from you, but vote in favour of our proposal to provide for those who, unfortunately, gave their lives and those who are sick. Now we have to vote. Take care of yourself, or you will not be treated by anyone. Thank you. And the glory of Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-07-m0.u39	Heroic glory! National Deputy of Ukraine, Arahami David Georgiyovich. Bill 3376-1. David Georgiyovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-07-m0.u40	Comrades, good afternoon! There have been many manipulations about this bill, which in principle supports the entire Parliament, except for just two aspects that need to be taken into account. First. When the idea of this bill came up in our colleagues, the first question that we asked was: What impact does this issue have on the budget? No one could give an answer. Moreover, we are talking about justice. We say, in our bill, an alternate physician who died from a coronary inside is likened to a military officer who died on the front. And we say that fairly. Someone was fighting on the front, someone's fighting on the internal front with the coronavirus. Another question is whether to pay compensation to a doctor who is ill at work? Yeah, we're on it. But I remind you all that we've already accepted a 300 percent risk premium. And if a doctor is working, he should be paid 300 percent of his allowance for risk at work. But we're adding a statement that if he's in any condition ill with the coronavirus and gets any degree of disability in one calendar year, he's going to have to get 300 untaxed citizens' income. Please support this version of the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-07-m0.u41	Katchura Alexander Anatoliyovich is the author of Bill 3376-2.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-07-m0.u42	Alexander Kachura is the "Serial of the People" faction. You know, we often forget about God and doctors, but we often mention them when we are ill. And doctors are like guardian angels, they always help us on our first call, and they save our lives. The Coronavirus pandemic has put us all at the same level: ministers, deputies, presidents, all those who have been stealing medicine all these years, and being treated somewhere in the ocean — in the United States, Canada. There's their kids, there's their parents, they're all healing! And this medicine is not for them. It's for these ordinary citizens. Now all these officials were lying next to one hospital bed and getting the medicine they deserved. We should take care of our doctors as they do each day. So I'm offering 250 minimum if you have an infected medical officer. I am expanding the list, except for doctors, there are medical personnel who keep in contact with people who are sick and a thousand minimums in case of death. When a doctor leaves home and leaves young children, she should know that if, God forbid, something happens to her, her little children will not be thrown out of the street on their own. So I suggest we create a special fund, we have oligarchs here, millions of dollars to add. Let's share all the money you've made over the years and put the money into the fund. And those who don't want to do it -- we'll confiscate them and send them to this fund. So I propose to vote on the bill that I registered, or on my colleague's bill from the "Serve of the People" party. Thank you for your attention. And let's not embarrass ourselves, I don't want to see any yellow or red buttons in this room.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-07-m0.u43	Thank you, Alexander Anatolyovich. Please sign up from the MP factions and groups. Oddzuk Andri Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-07-m0.u44	Please, Sergey Rachmanin is the word.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-07-m0.u45	Again. Rachmanin Sergey Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-07-m0.u46	Dear colleagues, the Voice faction offered a political quarantine during the struggle against the Coronavirus pandemic. Sadly, we have not been heard, but from time to time there are laws that are called upon to support those who most need our support. So I propose that we reject all the glazing, reject all doubts, and really support those who really need our support today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-07-m0.u47	The city’s Yuri Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-07-m0.u48	Please pass the word to Scorch Mikola Leonidovich. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-07-m0.u49	Mikola Leonidovich Skork.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-07-m0.u50	People's MP Skorik, opposition platform faction is Life. Honorable Presidium, distinguished colleagues, respected citizens of Ukraine, first of all allow me to welcome you once again with the upcoming state holiday of Ukraine - Victory Day. I would like to say that today's session, I would like to emphasize once again and tell those who are trying to divide the hall that today's session took place, including the entire faction of "The Opposition Platform for Life," which almost fully signed the call for today's session. It's about this bill that we're looking at. Our faction will support the Bill with Index 3376-1. The co-sponsor of this bill is the co-chair of our faction, Vadim Zinović Rabinovich. We think that it's around this bill that we have to unite and in general, you know, today's meeting is the first time we've seen a pandemic that resembles an emergency session in which the Supreme Council is actually trying to participate in the fight against the coronavirus. Because all we've seen in previous sessions is the extradition of criminals to Argentina, the protection of some plants, it has nothing to do with the fight against the pandemic. We would really like to see the government today and its appropriate action on the situation that has taken place in the country, because when a government this week just says they're going to make some kind of plan to support the economy and citizens, this plan should be here a long time ago. We also have to do everything we can to ensure that this reform, the criminal reform that Suprun has started and that the President has said that he seems to be holding it back so that there are concrete steps towards stopping it. We need to unite: the government and the Supreme Council to stop these shameful laws on medical reform, which destroys our health care. I call upon both the "Serial of the People" faction and other factions to unite around to really take concrete steps to preserve our health. There's a lot.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-07-m0.u51	Jon’s Maria Mikolayevna
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-07-m0.u52	Sorry, it's a fenced-up language, but it's a quote from the greatest leader in the world. There is one crafty party in this Parliament, for which the key is political dividends. A year ago, political dividends were promised to teachers -- $4,000, they took these dividends, and they forgot about it. They're talking about political dividends right now -- 300 percent of the doctors' allowance, not knowing it's a clever faction that doctors got between 8 and 280 dollars for March and April of the so-called supplement. And now this cunning faction is trying to leave the doctors without social pay. Because everyone who didn't finish the Rixos is aware that there's really no disability in infectious disease. That's why we're announcing a collection of signatures from infectious doctors, from all 2660 doctors who have become sick with the coronavirus, demanding that this authority be paid to the insurance community: everyone who today treats Ukrainians in hospitals without protective suits that are not protected by the authorities, without gloves, without masks, without disinfectors, but today they're listening to this nonsense. Colleagues, we call upon you today to be the only political party - a party of Ukrainian defenders and physicians. Protecting a Ukrainian doctor, paying as we suggest in our bill, families who lost a breadwinner today, and it's 18 health workers, and one and a half million dollars of social pay. This is likened to military service. And every doctor who has a disease has the right to receive 200,000 dollars to improve his health in order to survive the disease. If you don't support this rule today, we'll be making changes to the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-07-m0.u53	Batenko Taras Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-07-m0.u54	Good day again, dear friends. It's nice that at one of the last extra-plenary meetings of the Supreme Council in quarantine, we're still dealing with medical issues, the fight against the coronavirus, not anything else that's not just medical. I think we're meeting today not for the self-piarity of political parties, understanding that elections are coming, but for the real support of our medics who are now struggling with coronary disease as on the second front. And I would like to remind you that on April 21st, our parliamentary group "For the Future" registered a bill that was commissioned by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine to introduce mandatory state insurance for medics who are busy fighting the coronavirus. Obviously, our parliamentary group today will support the bill, a bill that does not contain blurry and general formations, but guarantees support for medical and other workers who are affected by coronary disease during the rescue of Ukrainian citizens. We agree with friends, friends, who think that the second front is actually open in the country today. And it seems appropriate to compare the insurance payments to the corresponding insurance payments provided to military personnel who are on the front and protecting Ukraine from the aggressors in the east. At the same time, we believe that when the bill is being drafted for second reading, it is necessary to consider the possibility of introducing decent support to the medical community and with temporary loss of work, since this is the most massive case in the reality of Ukraine. And most of all, it's important for us to clear up a bill so that it doesn't contain any other rules that don't apply to the bill, and not call it propaganda, as was already at the previous plenary meeting of the Supreme Council, when we, my friends, were considering a bill on the exemption of medical salaries from taxation, 3329, and as a result we adopted a bill that makes life easier for banks, and it doesn't apply in any way to improving the material situation of our medics. So our proposal is to support Bill 3376-1. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-07-m0.u55	Getmants Danilo Alexanderovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-07-m0.u56	Thank you, Your Honor. As a doctor of law and professor of the Kyiv National University of Shevchenka, I don't quite understand the term "swiftly-made faction" in our Parliament. Aloe, I understand very well what homage is, what superiority is, what lies come out of one of the factions of Parliament all the time. I'm asking that my statement be taken as a statement to the regulatory committee, and the regulatory committee has determined whether or not the MP has the right to call the faction "swiftly done." What is "swiftly done" in general. And is this same MP craftily made in the same Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-07-m0.u57	All of them. Kulinich Oleg Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-07-m0.u58	Good afternoon, dear colleagues. Now the situation in the country is really difficult. And the medics are in the most difficult conditions. And it is good that this situation has united the country. All of them joined the medics. And volunteers, and socially-oriented businesses. Everyone who cares about our doctors, whom we have finally mentioned, is working under such harsh conditions. Therefore, they must be supported. What's more, statistics say that 1 out of every 5 patients in COVID-19 is a medic. The members of our Trust Group have been actively involved in assisting doctors to provide everything they need to be in every hospital is a means of protection and everything that should be in the doctor's possession. As for the bills that we are currently considering, we consider the deputies of our Group of Trust to be more complex than Bill 3376-1. That's why we're going to vote for him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-07-m0.u59	Dear colleagues, let's go to the vote. Ivan Ivanovich Krulko with a motive, a minute. Then we go to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-07-m0.u60	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. Fatherland will vote for all the bills. Although we understand that the bill, which has the best chance of being adopted, is incomprehensiblely written: "disability from the coronavirus." There is no disability from the Coronavirus. So these things have to be removed. And really, if we want to protect the medics, the insurance should be for those who have got sick. And they have to be paid insurance. And those who, unfortunately, died. Families have to get insurance on a larger scale. So let's make the bills quality and really protect the medics, not like they've added 86 copies to each of them. And one more thing. They ask, they say there's no money. Where can I get the money? So let me tell you, when we on the interim commission of inquiry wanted to look at the underpayment of 27 billion dollars from Naftogazu to the state budget, the party of power didn't even consider it. That's where the money is! Look for money, they are. 27 billion let Naftogaz pay the state budget for what he didn't pay, and it'll be for both the medics and the pensioners, and for our defenseless people, and for us to build infrastructure projects. That's why "Paternity" is for the state budget to be filled, and for those who are corruptly underpaid.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-07-m0.u61	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the speech is given to the Head of the Committee on National Health, Medical Care, and Medical Insurance, Michael Borisovich Raducci. And after the committee's position, we move on to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-07-m0.u62	The committee decided to support the alternative bill of registration number 3376-1, which would be extended only in cases of coronary disease infection (COVID-19), which would ensure the targeted use of COVID-19 funds. The main scientific and expert office made a number of observations on Bills 3376 and 3376-1 and noted that the first reading could be based on Bill 3376-1. At the same time, after discussing certain situations, the committee also considers it necessary to provide insurance payments to senior medical students and interns involved in the fight against coronary disease. To this end, the committee considers it necessary to complete the bill with the following provisions. In the first paragraph of Chapter I of the bill, replace "two to six" with "two to seven." To supplement chapter I of the bill with a new part of the seventh sentence: "In the event of involvement in the fight against coronary disease by state and municipal health institutions of senior medical students (5-6 years) and interns admitted to work in accordance with the requirements of article 24 of the Labour Code, the operation of parts of the second to sixth of this article is extended in full." Section III, paragraph 2, of the bill, after the words “scientific institutions”, add the words and figures of the persons mentioned in part seven of article 39 of the Ukrainian Act on Protection of Population from Infectious Diseases. The Committee adopted a decision: on the basis of its consideration, and as a whole, a bill amending article 39 of the Ukrainian People's Protection Act (registration number 3376-1) of 05.05. 20 years. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-07-m0.u63	Thank you. Thank you, Mikhailo Borisovich. Dear colleagues, let's go to the vote. I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Law on Amendments to the Law on Protection of the Population of Infectious Diseases (to determine the extent of mandatory national insurance for public and municipal health workers employed in the field of protection against infectious diseases) (registration No. 3376-1). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[15:11:46]] For 337 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, I am voting on a proposal for acceptance in general with the necessary proposals. Taking into account the Committee's proposals and the necessary technical and legal regulations, the draft Law amending the Law on the Protection of the Population of Infectious Diseases (to determine the extent of compulsory public insurance of public and municipal health workers employed in the field of protection against infectious diseases) (registration No. 3376-1). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[15:12:40]] For 340. Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Thank you, Your Honor. The next meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed.
