ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-15-m0.u1	Dear colleagues, good afternoon! Good afternoon, media reps! Dear colleagues, please prepare for registration. Dear colleagues, ready to register? Please register. [[10:04:11]] There are 310 Ukrainian national deputies registered in the hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I'd like to welcome the Department of State Security, and they have a professional holiday today. They provide security for both the Supreme Council of Ukraine and other important authorities, both individuals and buildings. So I wish them a peaceful, peaceful service, with no negative consequences, and a high wage. Dear national deputies, in accordance with article 25 of the Rules on Wednesday, we have 30 minutes to speak on behalf of the national deputies with proposals, statements, messages. Please sign up for the performances by the National Deputies. Pippa Natalia Romanovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-15-m0.u2	Please pass the word to Svetoslav Vakarczuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-15-m0.u3	Svoslav Ivanovich Vakarczuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-15-m0.u4	Good morning, dear colleagues. The Voice party strongly opposes the hasty review of the draft Law on Amendments to the Constitution of Ukraine (for the decentralization of power). As it's been a long time, you're trying to do two things with good slogans: strengthen the President and compromise Putin. The proposed changes to the Constitution are actually about strengthening the power of the President, not about decentralization. All-powerful prefects will be able to make any decisions, stop the will of any local community. People don't need prefects, not satraps, not monarchs. You, especially those who sit here and communicate with their voters in major districts, know what people really need. They need more money for real decentralization. The money they make. And that money that's supposed to stay in the districts. Instead of giving money, they set up prefects with unlimited rights. You are well aware that local communities have opposed these changes. Hundreds of local government officials are simply demanding that you not allow for a hasty vote in favour of Bill No. 2598, hold broad discussions and consultations to work together to take into account the thinking of local self - government. And we join those demands. Decentralization is a time challenge, and it is needed. But it has to be real, not fair, and not really strengthen central authority. We've already strengthened her with every president. Let's do what we promised people. The other one. The Voice is the one who tracks how we fight an aggressor: politically, economically, informationally, on all fronts. Voting for this law, in this way, paves the way for the creation of so-called "novorosian" anywhere in Ukraine at the request of Putin. This is not written directly, but all the fuses are now being removed and 226 MPs under pressure will be able to do many things that will be irreparable to the statehood and sovereignty of Ukraine. It's not decentralisation, it's not helping communities -- it's a slippery slope for the interests of the state. Maybe that's why you're in such a hurry that you haven't even prepared the papers and that the text of the bill and the table of amendments didn't match each other. The committee did not even have the right to do so. We urge you again, listen to the communities, work on the document. Voice is ready to help with that. Don't break the country on your knees, she won't forgive you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-15-m0.u5	People's MP Mikola Romanovich is invited to the floor by the faction of the political party "European Solidarity".
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-15-m0.u6	Please pass the words to Jana Zinkevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-15-m0.u7	Please give me your word. Jani Zinkevich, please give me your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-15-m0.u8	Dear Head, dear fellows, good day to all! Today, I would like to speak on behalf of the Temporary Special Committee on Veterans. I would like to ask you to include in the schedule of plenary meetings this week a draft decree by the Supreme Council to amend the Ukrainian Supreme Council Order on the Establishment of a Temporary Special Commission on the Legal Status of War Veterans. Amendments to the commission are based on the provision of a quota principle for representation in the Provisional Special Commission of the Supreme Council on the Legal Status of War Veterans. The commission was asked by the National Deputies, members of the Party of the Party of Deputies, by the Political Party of the People's Servant, to replace the members of the Commission and by a statement by the non-fractional National Deputies of Ukraine about the membership of the Commission, which does not violate the principle of proportional representation. Failure to accept this project will block the work of the commission, and we will not be able to hold a meeting tomorrow. So I ask you to include draft Decree No. 2599 from 16.12 into the schedule of plenary meetings for this week and to support it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-15-m0.u9	Thank you. The word is given to National Deputy Vátarović Volodymyr Mihajlovich, faction of the political party "European Solidarity".
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-15-m0.u10	Please pass the word to Alexia Potter.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-15-m0.u11	Please, Alexei Hotcharenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-15-m0.u12	Good morning, Alexi Honcharenko, North of Odessa, European Solidarity. You know, really, this morning is good, but not for everyone. The point is that we have finally learned what will be the end of the poverty era that we have been promised. He did come, the end of the poverty era, but not for Ukrainian citizens, but for ministers, members of supervisory boards, state enterprises, heads of state enterprises. See what happened before the New Year’s Eve: hundreds of thousands of bonuses were given to ministers in Kabmin, hundreds of thousands of dollars of salaries to members of the boards of supervisors, that is, a month. We have a new member of the Supervisory Board of Crossroads, Sergey Lechchenko, who was our anti-corruption officer, and about the last six months something stopped fighting corruption, disappeared, and now appeared as a member of the Supervisory Board of Crossroads with the salary of 588,000 dollars per month, once again, per month. Every day, including Saturday and Sunday, 20,000 a day. The Crucifixion Manager is 2 million dollars a month. A million dollars a year paid by the head of Crucifixion. How do they look, interestingly, at the postman who really works and creates the Crucifixion that is, for a penny? There is no money in the government to provide the normal money to military personnel, and military personnel have been frozen. There's no money in power, and promises that were teachers, $4,000, where are they? They've frozen the teachers. The authorities said they would not pay older people for 70 years of tariffs. There's no such thing. The authorities verify the recipients of subsidies to cut them down and take the money away. What does all this money have to do with anything? And now we know the answer: On the wages of power. Because, of course, it would have to be enough for the President to be on a charter from Oman, President Zelensky, who was misleading everyone, telling them that he was out there riding the Bukovela. He skied so hard that he made it to the Indian Ocean, and from there he flew 65,000 dollars on a charter plane, $65,000 just to get to Kiev. Of course, someone has to finance all of this, and these people are found -- they're all Ukrainians. So Zelensky promised us the end of the age of greed for power and the end of the age of poverty for people. What happened? Everything's the other way around. The end of the age of poverty for power has come, and for people, the end of the age of greed, because you don't have to envy Green and his friends for their millions of wages. That's the reality, my friends. That's why this morning isn't good for everyone.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-15-m0.u13	The word is given to the People's Deputy, the "Trust" MP, Keith, and I've written it down, instead of the Great Keith. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-15-m0.u14	Dear colleagues, the Trust MP, Andrew Keith, Streech, Jewish. You know, in Ukraine, there's been a lot of payoffs in the government, in our country for several years. In particular, there is a proliferation of the fact that wages are being set up in large government monopolies. I. I think my predecessor just said what wages are in Naftogaz, Crucifixes, Crucifixion and others. I'd like to pay attention, especially, to the salary in Naftogaz, its managers, who make up 28 million dollars a month, and the main thing is to pay dividends after the gas contracts that Ukraine has now reached with Russia, which is almost 700 million dollars for two people. These are the screaming things that, I think, the "Trust" group considers unacceptable at all. You can't estimate the salary of a monopolist company manager in any market principles that even exist in European or American private companies. The monopoly itself foresees income, and the appointment of such salaries by our officials means simply robbing the state budget of Ukraine. I repeat, these are thefts from the state budget of Ukraine. A monopoly is not a market structure that makes or generates income, a monopoly is a structure that takes away income from Ukraine's budget. Please tell me, President Zelenski, that he did not take part in the gas talks, there is no part of it that Ukraine received $2.9 billion from Gazprom's debt? Is he supposed to get a cut too? Was he not there? Were there only Kobolev and Vitrenko? These are the screaming things that every Ukrainian understands. Please tell me, how can a government account for a premium or a salary when there is a failure to pay wages in front of miners over a billion dollars? Instead of paying our own debts, we try to pay our own wages. I would like to remind Prime Minister Honcharuk that the corruption he overcame two months ago has nothing to do with the wages of his ministers. And the best way to overcome corruption is to ensure clear work and good pay for the work of ordinary government officials in Ukraine who do not actually have it right now. If you don't know, we have a vacuum in government structures, and a little bit more -- and there's no one to go to work at all. The "Trust" group doesn't trust government action like that.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-15-m0.u15	People's deputy Klimpush-Cincadze Ivanna Orestovna, the faction of the political party "European Solidarity".
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-15-m0.u16	Mr. Chairman, distinguished national MPs, respected Ukrainians! Along with the so-called changes to the Constitution on so-called decentralization, the majority today is proposing, not today, tomorrow, but also proposing to consider changes to the Rules. All of this in a bunch is stained by the Constitution of Ukraine, all of which in a bunch transforms the real parliamentary-presidential Republic of Ukraine into the Presidential Republic. Under the cover of the so-called optimisation of the legislative process, under the cover of the so-called reform of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, it is proposed to withdraw rights from the national deputies in spite of constitutional norms, to destroy in general the possibility of each national MP insisting on their amendments if they are not confirmed by 150 votes, it is suggested that they do not take into account the amendments if they are identical to each other. Only I don't know who will define this identity, and we know that even any lawyer will tell you that any coma can determine the difference between one or the other. It is suggested that any decision to annul the decision of the Supreme Council may now present a mythical number of 45 people, which means that any fraction of the minority or any faction of the opposition is being humiliated. I want to remind you that you're not forever, you're going to be a minority, you're going to be an opposition one day, you're going to be re-elected, both you and the President. So I urge you, in favour of Bill 2691, to change the Rules to vote, not even with your conscience, but with your mind. I hope he is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-15-m0.u17	The word is given to Slavic Deputy Antonini Kerimovni, faction of the political party "The Opposition Platform for Life".
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-15-m0.u18	Please pass the word to Tetya Placzky.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-15-m0.u19	Please give me your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-15-m0.u20	Dear colleagues, I am a young MP. As many of you, I'm in Parliament for the first time, but I understand what usurpation is, first of all, as a representative of the opposition and as a lawyer. Who of you remember the place of the peoples of Ukraine as defined in the Declaration of State Sovereignty? Let me remind you, as soon as she was declared a sovereign state. And now, almost thirty years from now, we've been standing for the first time from the actual destruction of democracy, parliamentaryism and the peoples of government. And this step has a name, this is a draft amendment to the Supreme Council Rules. The lack of political balance in Parliament is now leading to the ignoring of all legislative initiatives. I'll remind you that much of this room has no way of contributing to and preventing the reckless decisions that are being made here. In the last election, people voted against it. But what did the people of Ukraine receive? The desire to sell the land in any way? The Labour Act, the Decentralization Act, which leads to the actual usurpation of power? What did the people of Ukraine really get? I'd like to ask you in a monotony: don't you understand what this legislative initiative of yours is leading to? Do you not realize that this will no longer be the Supreme Council of Ukraine? This is actually the statute of one political party, the office of one political party. Why Parliament in general if the Presidential Bills are brought here without a vote? Call me one country, one parliament of one developed country, where there is only one day to vote, where the other fraction cannot actually contradict its legislative initiatives? Why are you trying to shorten the deadline for introducing alternative bills? Are you afraid to hear an alternative? You don't really want to hear the voice of the Ukrainian people? I want to remind all the new MPs, that's not the goal, that's the way, that's the way to build a new, strong, successful, peaceful and democratic country. And let's not turn it into a basically usurped office of one political party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-15-m0.u21	Princess Mikola Leonidovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-15-m0.u22	Dear friends, the beginning of this year was indeed tragic. The destruction of a Ukrainian aircraft on board with Ukrainian citizens and citizens of many other countries poses many challenges. The main challenges are that we, the Ukrainian community, need to know gradually what happened to the plane and to the Ukrainian authorities the day before, during and after this terrible tragedy. We need to know if it was an accidental plane crash or an intentional crash. We need to know what the President was doing in Oman, how much he was flying there, who he was negotiating with, who was negotiating these negotiations, whether they were separate negotiations with Russia, whose victims, unfortunately, could have been Ukrainian citizens. These are extremely important questions. Without answering these questions, Ukrainian society will not be able to develop in a transparent and democratic manner. These are not the only questions we have before us. Yesterday we voted in favour of the so-called Innovation Act, which actually cancels the innovation, and it's actually been cancelled. We don't have innovation, we don't have a Ukrainian voice in the world to hear, instead, a Russian voice inside a country that will be completely under the control of the government, because this law specifically says that the government controls every word that is said on this channel, and that language can be spoken not only in English or in English but in any language. In fact, direct censorship is introduced, and we're going back to the Soviet times when the government controls information. The same standards are found in the new Media Law. Norms that allow because of restrictions on the Internet, because of restrictions on freedom of speech, control any political opinion within the country. Instead, the law does not foresee how we controlled it, controlled it, and effectively controlled it, owned by the media and financed by the media, which can be done outside Ukraine. An attempt to centralize power, to censor, to introduce special status to the demand of the occupier is also being followed by a new law that we will discuss today when we talk about local self-government. I am not saying that representatives of local authorities will no longer have the obligation to use the Ukrainian language, which is taken out in this law. I'm not saying that, in fact, the President will be able to direct any territory, and a small majority of people will declare special status even in the territory of the individual districts that they are now trying to call the areas. All of this is actually a package of laws that leads to the colonization of Ukraine. And does this colonization continue from the tragedy of our plane? We have to give an answer to all of this. We have to create a commission of inquiry.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-15-m0.u23	Puzan's Alexander Hennadiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-15-m0.u24	Dear Dmitre Alexanderovich, Your Honorable Presidium, Honorable People's Deputies! 2020 is to be the year of the great battle for Ukrainian land. At the end of last year, the People's Servant Party, including representatives of the Agrarian Committee, acted like shulers, like thimbles, when they broke all the agreements reached with opposition that lasted so long and so hard. Sadly, lies, lies, and bribes have become a card of effective authority. The president and the "ministers of the people" have promised to pass the nation's law, but it's still not in the walls of the Supreme Council. The vast majority promised that the most important issues would be discussed by society, but without the permission of citizens, they promised to put 10,000 acres [10,000 ha] of land into one hand and an infinite number of banks. The "Serial of the People" faction signed a memorandum, and then the villain broke it. The success with which the authorities so speedily sell the land of Ukraine speaks of one thing: It burns them to the ground. The team of the President-in-Office of Ukraine is in a hurry to deliver on promises to the International Monetary Fund and Soros in order to obtain the International Monetary Fund as soon as possible because they need this money to stay in power. Meanwhile, Soros and his business partners are preparing new schemes, buying banks to help them clean up Ukrainian lands. Mr. President, Mr. "ministers of the people," I would like to address you with the words of Taras Grigorovovich Shevchenk, his poem-messenger, "Both dead and alive and unborn.".. This is a kind of covenant for us Ukrainians, which says, "Shamen! Be human, for you will be in trouble.".. The earth, which is the treasure of all the Ukrainian people, which is the foundation of our sovereignty, must belong to the Ukrainian people. The Ukrainian Blacklands are our land, and the dead, and the living, and the unborn, this is the land of our parents and our children, which has been inhabited by past generations and will live on for generations to come. And the Opposition Platform for Life claims that we will not allow and will do anything to keep the Ukrainian land owned by the Ukrainian people, so that they will live, not on this land, but on free and prosperous Ukrainians. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-15-m0.u25	Thank you, Yuri Ivanovich. Juršin Jaroslav Romanović.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-15-m0.u26	Good afternoon, dear colleagues. Good afternoon, Ukrainian voters. Today you and I will again witness an attempt to review the bill, which is called "the organization and the conduct of gambling." The first thing to be desired is to thank the profile committee for actually taking some suggestions into account after the first attempt, for example, increased the age of those who can, unfortunately, engage in gambling by the age of 21. Indeed, there are attempts to improve this bill. But as far as I'm concerned, he's moving in early again. First of all, this bill is somehow fundamentally devalued by the President's promises. The president promised that this would be a bill that would actually help those people who could afford it, because they have a lot of money to get rid of that money in the gambling process. And for that, of course, it's perfectly logical to do this in five-star hotels. Unfortunately, somehow in the process, this promise went down to 3-4 stars. And now let's just take a look. For example, the city of Ternopil. Tomorrow, after the adoption of this bill, there will be at least 80, or maybe more playrooms, to which a person will have access, who will actually be able to pay 500 dollars to spend the night at any hostel. What about the status of a 3-star hotel in Ukraine? But tomorrow any dog box will have that status. So in fact, the devaluation of the President's promise and the drop of a requirement from five stars to three stars just makes the game available to those who spend the essential: it spends the family's earnings. In fact, tomorrow in Kharkiv, after the adoption of this bill, there will be 250 legal halls where people who can pay for a night in a hostel will actually get rid of the means of living in a family. So that's exactly what needs to be corrected and better worked out before the first reading, because the fight, you understand what the sums are. Of course, we can only welcome the fact that they are trying at least to sort out online gambling that is not legalized at the moment and that in Parimatsch there are very famous comedians who advertise these services. But most importantly, yesterday we had a long discussion about what laws should be properly called. So this is not legalization, this is supposed to be the law on the prevention of mania, the restrictions on immigration. And indeed, rich people must afford it, and we must do our utmost to protect the property and families of Ukrainians who suffer.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-15-m0.u27	Thank you. Shahov Sergei Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-15-m0.u28	Sergey Shahov, Luhanščina, Deputy Group "Trust". Dear colleagues asked the children who wanted to become a national deputy when they greeted the children with New Year’s Eve in their district in Lysichansk, Ruby, throughout Luhansk. At first there was silence in the grave, and then the parents started saying to the kids, "Get on the stage, there'll be presents." And after leaving DK, from the palace of culture, one father tells me, "Sergey Volodymyrovich, and the children are afraid because everyone in the house says that a deputy is like a grandmother in every family." It's a baboon that scares people. Next, I walk down the halls, they ask me, "Sergey Volodymyrovich, such a positive person, a normal smile. Why does the rostrum always sound like a complete, not a clap of power, but a full-blown beating of power?" This is explained by the fact that the heart is covered with blood — 28 years of looting by the state. At every meeting, people say to me, "If it were to fall, it would be a folk illustration." All businesses were robbed. The ministers who have been chosen in this room are still largely billions of dollars. And according to Andrew Keith, according to the miners, 1 billion 200 million dollars today has not been retaken by miners. The shafts are flooded, hundreds of thousands of jobs are lost, we're feeding America, we're feeding Africa, we're bringing coal here. Next. Let's see what happens to the Lysicansksod enterprises. Lysicansksodda, as in today's horror movie: no land recuperation has been allowed for 10 years to build such enterprises. 300 years ago, a built - up enterprise, 15,000 families were left with caterers. Let's take a look at the Proletarian factory. 5,000 families suffered today. They cut into metal scraps, and today they export unique buildings, unique machines. And everyone is silent: prosecutors, militias, who also receive millions of wages from taxpayers. Let's see what happens to medicine, to gas, to education. It's completely destroyed, some coefficients per gas are accounted for. Today, I was told that gas coefficients were illegally counted. Who will answer to people? Why does Shahov keep mentioning Severodonetsk? But because 25 rapists, murderers, are sitting there robbing a hundredth city, 700 million dollars have been stolen. How can I keep my mouth shut? Because this is Lugansk, this is my home land, where my parents are buried by miners. So I'm talking to you: come on, start working for people, let's not just honor the dead who deserve it today, let's honor the normal people and the living who are waiting for the real ones.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-15-m0.u29	Vasilchenko Galina Ivanovna Turn on the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-15-m0.u30	Please pass the word to Roman Lozinski.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-15-m0.u31	Roman Mikhailovich Lozinski.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-15-m0.u32	Dear colleagues, we have heard a great deal of different thoughts and positions over the last few days on this situation that has arisen around issues of decentralization. Fortunately, we hear that at the moment in the hall we will not be discussing this issue, and this is the first good marker step on the side of the majority. And we hope that the next step will be to prepare a platform for consultation with representatives of local self-government. To communicate and express the positions of the 250 leaders of the united communities, organizations, and experts, who have made their position very clear regarding the reform of decentralization and the proposed changes to the Constitution. I would also like to draw your attention to the fact that this, once again, troublemaker, who proposed these changes to the Constitution, has failed. And yesterday, committees were held to consider forged documents when the President's second submission was taken from the Supreme Council and replaced with a third, without any new data on the President's date, signature and additional letter, when the draft law and the comparative table did not match. These and other reasons do not allow us to complete decentralization with changes to the Constitution. Here we have to pause, take into account the opinions of the communities, and only then continue this important and extremely, in fact, country-priority reform. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-15-m0.u33	Thank you. A statement came from two factions for a break with a replacement for the performance. Heratchenko Irina Volodymyrni.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-15-m0.u34	Dear Ukrainians, you know, when the country fell asleep, at midnight today appeared as Prime Minister of the Government of Technocrats, not about success in the economy, not about reform, but about the government's wages that grew a thousand six hundred times, with the sacral question: do class managers need high wages? The answer is not populistic: High wages are needed to attract class managers. But there are a number of questions: Do we really have a professional government today? Can they boast of one reform? Did they win the war? Is there any success in the economy? Did small or medium - size business help? Have doctors or educators been helped? Obviously not. But the deep manipulations of this post, colleagues, even in another way: no wages have been raised by the government, they have a few tens of thousands of dollars left, but because of the premiums they have raised their salaries by 1,000 600 times, and today we have a government of technocrats who promised every Ukrainian that the wages of the medics would be 4,000 dollars, they left 4 thousand dollars, and they get 500 thousand dollars! The same is true of members of the Supervisory Boards, of the state-owned enterprises, of the bankrupt state-owned enterprises and of the power structures, such as the Henprocuratorial Office and other structures. We think it's an absolute manipulation that's rude in a country that's fighting. In this session room, I'm very fond of throwing at the "poperedniks," so I'd like to inform you, my fellow Members, that the previous Parliament was the one who withdrew the MP's benefits. We took the free flights of the national MPs, so-called "healthy," to show that if we came to serve the people, then at a time when the people were "longing the belts," they should do so, including the MPs. But now it's not the MPs. It's the servants. "Serves" are sitting with a wonderful tan, my friends! And you know, you can only imagine that if the servants rested so well as the people did. We think it's a deep manipulation, and Ukraine is turning into a country of failed voters, promised high salaries to military, high wages to teachers and doctors, and even to civil servants. But what's going on, my friends? If they paid the ministers, they'd get a few thousand dollars back on the tariff grid, while ministers who only spend a few months driving solo fasting in Facebook at midnight, when they have to do economics, write themselves a four-month bonus for a few hundred thousand dollars! Our faction prepared a bill to end this injustice.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-15-m0.u35	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the day-to-day issues. But if you don't mind, let's start at 2539, there's no reporter now. You have been proposed a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Tax Code to increase the availability of medical supplies, medical products and other goods purchased at the expense of the state budget and to create conditions for public health procurement. Dear colleagues, we need to include this issue in the agenda, which requires 226 votes in favour of the Ukrainian national MPs. Please take your seats, prepare for the vote. Ready to vote. Please take your seats, prepare for the vote. Ready? Please support and vote. [[10:43:12]] For 274 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, next question. We need to apply the ad hoc procedure for consideration and decision-making at this plenary session. Please support and vote. [[10:43:40]] For 258. Decision taken. Dear colleagues, it is suggested that this issue be considered in a simplified manner. Please support and vote. [[10:44:02]] For 256 Decision taken. The report is given to the head of the committee. I'm sorry, the national MP of Ukraine, Raduccik Mikhail Borisovich, from the authors.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-15-m0.u36	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues! Your view is on the proposal for a bill amending the Ukrainian Tax Code on Access to Medical Devices, Medical Products, and Other Goods purchased at the expense of the State Budget, and creating conditions for purchases in the field of public health at the expense of the State budget (No. 2539), which is sponsored by most members of the National Health Committee. This project is systematically related to the draft Law 2538, which was adopted yesterday by Parliament, and is aimed at creating favourable conditions for the functioning of the national health - care system, ensuring the maximum economy of the budget allocated by the State for the provision of medicines and medical supplies to the population. To this end, we propose to amend the Tax Code, which temporarily by 1 January 23rd, exempt from tax-added tax all import and supply transactions for medical and medical supplies that will be purchased and carried out by the Ministry of Health's purchasing organisation. When calculating the income tax, do not charge the income tax on the tax difference that occurs in the purchasing agency of the Ministry of Health as a result of transactions involving the free transfer of medical funds purchased at the expense of the state budget or the Global Fund to Fight AIDS, Tuberculosis, and Malaria. The adoption of this bill will allow for increased budget savings, the purchase of more medicines for patients under government programs, the removal of barriers to tax administration. GNEU did not actually comment on the bill. This law has been supported by the ILO and the union of employers. The Supreme Council Committee on National Health also supported the need for the adoption of the bill at its meeting. Please take the basis of the first reading of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Tax Code on Access to Medical Devices, Medical Devices and Other Goods and Conditions.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-15-m0.u37	Thank you, Mikhailo Borisovich. The words for the report are given to the head of the Committee on Finance, Tax, and Customs Policy, Mr.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-15-m0.u38	Thank you. Dear colleagues, in fact the previous reporter, Mikhailo Borisovich Raducci, reported this bill quite comprehensively. I'm not going to repeat myself, we've considered this bill on the committee. The bill proposes to introduce aid for medical supplies and medical devices not only as it is now, for foreign companies, but also for other entities that make such provision at State and State expense, that is, the logic and basis for this benefit. This is, in fact, aimed at the cost of medical supplies for citizens, so that the state can buy more. But we studied this bill in detail before we first read it on the committee, and we made two small remarks to this bill, which we are sure to include in our second reading. The committee therefore decided to recommend to the Supreme Council the adoption of the bill. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-15-m0.u39	Thank you, Danilo Alexanderovich. Dear colleagues, do you need to discuss the matter? Please register by faction: two in favour, two in opposition. Lozinski Roman Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-15-m0.u40	Please pass the word to Stefanishini Oli.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-15-m0.u41	Stefani's.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-15-m0.u42	Dear colleagues, today we are going to vote in favour of a very important bill regarding the purchase of medical supplies for the heavily ill Ukrainians. Yesterday we voted in favour of a part that would allow the newly created state-owned company Medical Procurement of Ukraine to effectively engage in public procurement once international specialized organizations stop doing this. Already this year, this state-owned enterprise is to start buying some of the drugs at the expense of the state budget. It should be given all the opportunities that international specialized organizations have today to do so effectively and qualitatively. I want to remind you that today a very large proportion of Ukrainians are under-funded because of the underfunding of the state budget. Thus, any possibility, such as the withdrawal of taxes or other mechanisms that are now laid down in this bill, is extremely important because they will allow for a much larger number of people to receive medical supplies. So the Voice faction is also one of the creators of this bill, and we will certainly vote in favour. The only thing I want to say is that this state-owned enterprise has to work under public scrutiny, and the Ministry of Health will soon have to create a supervisory board to monitor how effectively this state-owned enterprise works, so that we do not face a situation like this year when corruption in public procurement will flourish again in Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-15-m0.u43	Thank you. Arjev Vladimir Igorovich Nina Petrovn Yuzanin.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-15-m0.u44	Your Honor, your colleagues, it would be very simple, but everything looks quite the other way around and is now written in this bill. Indeed, yesterday under the heading "rather go home" was passed a quick bill of 2538, which is fundamental and which speaks specifically of the creation of such a person who will be authorized to purchase in the field of health. First of all, I'm asking all the reporters not to deceive the people, because today all the purchase of drugs being made by three international organizations is exempt from VAT, and the transfer of these drugs to medical facilities in Ukraine is also exempt from VAT. The authors are now trying to create a new legal person in Ukraine, a Ukrainian legal person, who will make tens of billions of dollars in the purchase of a type of foreign medicine. For what it's worth, I don't understand. It seems to me that those three foreign companies that are currently purchasing have a much better price than our new legal person or an old commercial organization is going to do because all the rules that are adopted in this profit tax law are going to say that this new legal person is going to do another commercial activity. That is, if there is a problem in the supply of medicines between health institutions in Ukraine, which they cannot do at the same time, for example, these 3 international organizations, one can create such a service organization, but which will not fully absorb such amounts of government funds. It seems to me that this system or should be on the side of the state -- it's the Ministry of Finance -- is exposed to clear safeguards, clear control, quarterly, I don't know which, but we can't give it now. Because we did when we decided to buy internationally.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-15-m0.u45	Coltunovich Alexander Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-15-m0.u46	Please pass the word to Natalia Royal.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-15-m0.u47	Natalia Juryovna Kraljevska.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-15-m0.u48	Dear colleagues, the honourable ones present, it is very good that we started today, in the new year, to raise questions about medicine, medicine, and medicines. But we're all very well aware that this is a question that needs to be resolved in a complex way, that you can't do something about it by taking away some of the VAT, others from the income tax, today to cure our medicine, and first of all to cure medicine from Suprun. Because the reform of Suprun, which it started in our country, began to destroy a medicine that did not work perfectly, but at least people had the hope of receiving timely medical care. What did we get now after the reform of Suprun? Over 70,000 medical personnel have left the country. The number of medical facilities decreased to a quarter. Death has already doubled the birth rate. And our country has become leaders of measles, AIDS/HIV and hepatitis. This is a completely failed vaccine and drug purchase program. Dear colleagues, we need to unite urgently in order to stop this deadly machine from destroying health care. And we're talking to you. We have registered a bill that we propose to abolish the reform of Suprun, where we propose today to grant additional subsidies to our health care facilities, to pay our health care professionals a decent salary. Today we need to save medical institutions. Today, health care must be saved and people given the opportunity.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-15-m0.u49	Thank you. Keith Andrey Bogdanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-15-m0.u50	Please pass the word to Oleg Kulinich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-15-m0.u51	Again. Kulinich Oleg Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-15-m0.u52	Good afternoon, dear colleagues. Oleg Kulinich is a member of the Trust Group.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-15-m0.u53	Ladies and gentlemen of the council, please check that the board doesn't show the people's deputies how much time is left when they come out of the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-15-m0.u54	Our MP group believes that it would be logical to consider this bill after the whole basic bill, which was passed in 2538, which was voted yesterday in the first reading. But we have a lot of questions about both the basic bill and this bill that we are considering today. For example, we don't understand why we're creating another legal person who's going to be involved in drug purchases when there's a normal system of drug purchases in our country that just had to be handled and arranged. Indeed, we need to bring about a system of things that we do not want to bring into the country and that is no longer to be used in other countries. All we have to do is take drugs that are not produced in us and that are really important to our patients. We have local drug manufacturers who also need to be able to sell them in the state and give some preferences, because these are our taxes, these are our businesses. In general, what is happening in the health system is, to put it mildly, a terrible situation. Because we're completely underfunded by a secondary medical link. We're closing down the district hospitals. We have a problem financing the same wages. We only have subsidies for wages and energy. Hence, young people do not go to work in rural areas. I think we need to start with this, we need to get the order, the basic order in the health system, and then really do the shopping and create these legal monsters. Although we do not understand why this is being done. And our position is that this is absolutely not going to make any sense in buying drugs for our state. That's why the "Trust" MP group is abstaining and will not vote in favour of this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-15-m0.u55	Thank you, Oleg Ivanovich. Andrew Ivanovich Nikolainko and Bilozer I can see that I remember. After that, I'll give you my word. Andrew Ivanovich Nikolayenko, Fatherland. Then there's Larissa Mikolayevna. And then we go to the vote. Please invite the national MPs. It's a motive, Nikolainka. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-15-m0.u56	The Fatherland faction, Nikolainka. "Paternity" will support the draft law in the first reading. Because by creating an organization that was voted yesterday in the first reading, 2538, we have to understand that it must be at least in the same conditions as three other foreign organizations that are already working in Ukraine. In doing so, I want to remind you that "Paternity," as always, systematically criticizes what's called "medical reform," because it actually did not bring about an improvement in the quality of medical services. In doing so, I draw the attention of our colleagues and the head of the committee who promised yesterday that the term "other goods" would be excluded in this bill for second reading, because there should be nothing under this sauce except medical equipment and the corresponding equipment. So hopefully, I want to point out that we support it, but the differences have to be cleaned up, the ones we agreed on yesterday on the committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-15-m0.u57	Thank you, Andre Ivanovich. Larissa Mikolayevna Bilozer, MP for the Future. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-15-m0.u58	Dear colleagues, I welcome the fact that we voted yesterday in favour of Bill 2539 on the creation of a person authorized to purchase health care, which was long overdue. Because we've seen that work with international organizations is not effective, we're not doing much, we're making five percent of it. And so far, even for 2019, we haven't received the full amount of drugs for 2019, and the contracts signed with international organizations have been signed that the state of Ukraine is paying for drugs, and we'll get them in a year or two. Few, very many short - term drugs and very many drugs that do not really meet the needs. We've got millions of bracelets today -- I've made inquiries in all areas -- for millions of bracelets there are drugs that are not in use at all and they're already out of service. That's why our Future Group. The point is that we continue to benefit from VAT by 2022 to specialized purchasing organizations.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-15-m0.u59	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please proceed to the vote, take your seats, prepare for the vote. Ready to vote? I am voting for a proposal for adoption based on the Committee's proposals for a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Tax Code to increase the availability of medical supplies, medical products and other goods purchased at the expense of the State budget and to create conditions for procurement in the field of health care at the expense of the State budget. Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[11:01:59]] For 278 Decision taken. The bill was adopted as a basis. Let's move on to the next question of order of the day. Dear colleagues, you have been invited to consider a draft law amending the Ukrainian Code of Procedure, the Civil Procedure Code of Ukraine, the Code of Administrative Justice for the Improvement of the Review of Judgments in the Appeals and Continuum Order (Registration No. 2314), this is the second reading. Paul Vasilovich, a member of the Committee on Legal Policy, reports.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-15-m0.u60	Draft Ukrainian Law amending the Ukrainian Code of Procedure, the Civil Procedure Code of Ukraine, the Code of Administrative Justice to improve the review of decisions in appeal and cassation (No. 2314). The bill proposes to amend the Code of Criminal Procedure, the Civil Procedural Code of Ukraine, as well as the Code of Administrative Justice of Ukraine, which will help bring Ukraine’s legal system into line with international standards for judicial review. These changes will, first of all, allow for the uniformity of judicial practice; secondly, they will systematically reduce the number of cases left over in the Supreme Court, balance the workload between different jurisdictions and contribute to the swift handling of cases. For decades, representatives of the judiciary stressed the need for a cassation filter. We believe that the introduction of procedural complaint filters will play a positive role in ensuring the effectiveness of the cassation process, as well as enhance its authority as the highest judicial authority to review the most important and extraordinary disputes. These changes in the bill correspond to the general trends in the procedural policy of European democracy, in particular the European Court of Human Rights has repeatedly stressed that the right to challenge judicial decisions is not absolute and is subject to restrictions on the part of the State. In addition, the relevant bill will highlight the special status of the court in the case, which, in turn, will serve as a fundamental condition for harmonising the functions of the institutions in the court system. The draft law lays down clear grounds for the causation of the decision of the Court of First Instance and the judgement of the Court of Appeal, provides for rules that limit the possibility of abuse by the parties of the case by their procedural rights, such as simplifying the procedure for the proceedings of the judges in the event of such proceedings before or on the day of the sitting. Some types of lawsuits are removed, which have also been used in various ways of raiding property. In the event of a complaint, it is stated that the court’s decision to refuse to accept or return a counterclaim, to refuse to accept or return a lawsuit to a third party who claims to be self-sufficient on the subject of a dispute, to rule on the suspension of a case filed with a time-limit for their action, to the appeal (casation) of the institution, which would significantly reduce the time-limits for dealing with such cases on the merits of the claims claimed. In the event that an appeal or cassation institution is closed in connection with the inadmissibility of the dispute, the court shall refer the case to the court of the first instance of the correct jurisdiction. The above does not allow a person to pass a period of limitation due to an error in the court’s determination of the jurisdiction of such a dispute. The bill removes gaps in procedural legislation.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-15-m0.u61	Thank you. Dear colleagues, you have a timer, you all see it. Please hold on. Dear colleagues, let's move on to rights that have not been counted. Amendment number 2, Dubinsky. Is there a Dubinsky? None. Number four, Demchenko. Don't insist. No. 5, Crybaby. Won't you insist? 8th, Vlasenko. 9th, Knazevitch. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-15-m0.u62	Thank you, Mr. Head. This is the article on the authenticity of the evidence. And as far as I'm concerned, my definition in this direction is clear and clear, and it's not going to be different for me to interpret by courts, what credibility is. reliable evidence to establish the actual circumstances of the matter. Everything's clear and clear. What's suggested is it's very strangely offered, in some kind of spoken, poetic language, it says, "wrong idea," some sort of grading thing. Well, I've never seen anything like it in procedural codes, to be honest. So I want you to take into account my revision that corrects and writes the right definitions in the right language. Because, well, I'm sorry, but allowing such definitions in procedural codes to be governed by the courts of Ukraine, well, that's an unacceptable thing. Thank you. Please put to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-15-m0.u63	Do you insist on voting? I'm betting on the vote number 9 of the People's Deputy Knazević. She was not considered by the committee. Please identify and vote. [[11:07:46]] For 124
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-15-m0.u64	For 124. The decision is not taken. Next line number 10 of the People's Deputy Knazević. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-15-m0.u65	Thank you very much, Ruslan Alexiyovich. What's this all about? We're talking, we've just talked about the authenticity of the evidence. The second thing that should happen during the trial is the availability of evidence. In general, there is no mention of sufficient evidence; instead, there is the notion of "probability of evidence". I'm sorry, if you look at an explanatory dictionary, then credibility and reliability are actually synonymous. Where is the "sufficient" that used to be and what should be? There can be no reason not to investigate the availability of evidence. I'm speaking in my right hand of sufficiency. There is a definition of reliability, in fact, in terms of adequacy, it needs to be corrected correctly, but the name is wrong. Please consider and point to what needs to be done and what fits the standardization in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-15-m0.u66	Thank you. Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-15-m0.u67	The amendment was rejected by the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-15-m0.u68	Thank you. Are you insisting? Ruslan Petrovich, are you insisting? Vote number 10 of the People's Deputy Knazević. The committee recommended that it be rejected. Please identify and vote. [[11:09:19]] For 118 The decision is not taken. The next issue is number 11, People's Deputy Fries. Are you insisting? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-15-m0.u69	Good afternoon, dear colleagues. There are the same rights here, in principle, number 11, number 93 and number 176. They refer to one question that certain enforcement measures have been excluded from the proposal from the various codes: Civil, Master, and Administrative, namely, establishing a duty to do certain things and transferring things that are the subject of a dispute to the storage of another person who has no interest in doing so. I feel that this needs to be taken into account, considering that such limitations in securing a lawsuit significantly reduce the defendant’s rights. Please look at this and take into account these changes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-15-m0.u70	Thank you. And the position of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-15-m0.u71	Committee position: permission denied. The point is that the very principle of the bill was meant to rule out the rule because it was very often used in raids.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-15-m0.u72	Thank you. Are you insisting? You insist. It's the vote number 11 of the Fries People's Deputy. The committee proposes to reject it. Please identify and vote. [[11:10:46]] For 134 The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, the 12th National Vice-Deputy Order. I can't see. Don't insist. Amendment 13, People's Deputies Vlasenko. Don't insist. Amendment number 14, People's Deputy Knazević. Ruslan Petrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-15-m0.u73	Thank you, Ruslan Alexiovich. In fact, I have these changes that match the position of Deputy Igor Fries. I support it, and we voted in favour. Because I completely disagree with what the committee representative said was that it would contribute to the procession. I think the removal of these standards can have consequences, including raiding. And we'll see how it works. But for the vote. There's no point in voting because we just voted them out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-15-m0.u74	Thank you. You don't insist. The next amendment is number 15, the people's representative of Dubinsky. Don't insist. The next issue is number 16, the Batenka People's Deputy. I don't see a national MP. Step away, please. Don't insist. The next issue is number 17, People's Deputy Knazević. Please, Ruslan Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-15-m0.u75	Thank you, Ruslan Alexiovich. I asked for a paragraph of these where it applies. it refers to the non-applicability of actions to secure a lawsuit involving termination, postponement, suspension or other interference in the conduct of competitions, auctions, trades, tenders, other public proceedings. Friends, that is, everything that is being done illegally, please do not have any problems. No one can stop it now and only after it has been done can you judge and prove in court for years that it has been done, even though the case will no longer exist, for life will change the situation. Let's not let any of this happen. Let's still leave it at this point, but we're seeing in practice how certain competitions, auctions and other things are going on. And we need to react quickly. If there is sufficient reason to take precautions in court, why take away such things? If someone just wants to do some competitions so there's no judicial control, well, that's different. I ask you to put it to a vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-15-m0.u76	Thank you. Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-15-m0.u77	Committee position: the application is rejected but partially counted, which in some ways coincides with Ruslan Petrovich's new law, which will be the following.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-15-m0.u78	Thank you. Vote number 17 of the People's Deputy Knazević. The committee suggests rejecting it, noting that it is partly included in the following revisions. The proposal to identify and vote. [[11:13:31]] For-119 The decision is not taken. The next item is number 20, Demchenka's national deputy. Don't insist. The next issue is number 22, People's Deputy Knazević. Please, Ruslan Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-15-m0.u79	This amendment, it doesn't just apply. It's about domestic justice, it's going to apply to other jurisdictions. It refers to the fact that when there is a Supreme Court or Court of Appeal, then the Court of First Instance has to verify that there are grounds for leaving a motion-free application in accordance with the requirements of the Code of Procedure of the Master on the date of submission. I think if there's a position, he doesn't have anything to check, he just has a position to take, take, and do. If we give him a lift, and he takes his own initiative to consider whether this position is sufficient or insufficient, or whether it should be applied or not, the sin is the price of this codex. It seems to me that there should be a clear imperative: he is obliged to act in this case if such a precautionary filter is already in place. Don't let him somehow determine what works, because in that case this filter won't work in practice. Thank you. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-15-m0.u80	Thank you. Are you insisting on your right? 22 The committee rejected the amendment, Knyazevich. Please identify and vote. [[11:15:17]] For 121 The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, number 24, Osadchuk. Will you insist?
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-15-m0.u81	[[Unheard]]
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-15-m0.u82	Aren't you going to insist on all the paperwork? Thank you. Baby, 28 lashes. Don't insist. 33rd, Demchenko. Don't insist. Makarov? It's partially accounted for. Are you insisting? Please turn on the microphone, 30 edits.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-15-m0.u83	First of all, I want to say my definite disagreement. I am addressing the Head of the Supreme Council. I am addressing the Head of the Supreme Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-15-m0.u84	I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-15-m0.u85	I would like to express my firm disagreement with the procedure for considering such a serious document as amending the procedural codes. Only yesterday did the profile committee consider, only this morning did the tables appear, and they are still warm in front of us. And we are now dealing with a violation of the Rules without studying in 10 days, as set out in the Rules, these tables. We vote on serious documents that will affect the fate of people. I believe that the responsibility lies with the Head of the Supreme Council, and I believe that such an examination leads to inadequacy of law. Please do not allow more of this, allow time allocated by the Rules to familiarize themselves with the comparative table, to prepare and to speak professionally and professionally. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-15-m0.u86	Oleg Anatoliyovich, this bill, as I recall, has been discussed for quite some time on the committee, and the amendments have been in discussion mode, and have long been discussed at meetings of different groups and committees. I'll give the floor to the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-15-m0.u87	[[Unheard]]
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-15-m0.u88	When did this bill come into existence?
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-15-m0.u89	[[Unheard]]
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-15-m0.u90	I understand. We really don't always stick to the Ten Days Rules here. But if we go like this, unfortunately we're very many important laws, and we won't be able to consider them, including those that you voted for.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-15-m0.u91	[[Unheard]]
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-15-m0.u92	And for quality laws we also voted, Oleg Anatolyovich. Committee position. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-15-m0.u93	The position of the committee is as follows. That the bill in question was dealt with by both representatives and the Supreme Court and the Court of Cassation and representatives of the deputies who filed their rights and representatives of the committee. Thus, the bill was carefully studied and prepared. And the representatives who file the papers will now be able to stand up for them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-15-m0.u94	Thank you. You insist on voting. Oleg Anatolyevich? Oh, no? Thank you. Thirty-six, Batenko. Are you insisting? Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-15-m0.u95	Dear friends, we find it unacceptable to impose additional conditions in the Ukrainian Code of Procedure for the annulment of the court's decision. If a judge who has been summoned and the grounds for his withdrawal has been found to be a valid court of appeal. If we do not make these changes, there will be a situation under which a court decision will be declared legal, despite the fact that an unfair judge, or judge, was involved in its approval, has been sued only because no appeal has been made. Therefore, the incomplete fact that an illegal court decision is overturned will depend on whether an appeal is based on a reasonable basis. Please put this amendment to the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-15-m0.u96	Dear colleagues, the number 36 of Batenka’s national deputy was not counted by the committee. The author insists on voting. I'm voting, and I'm asking you to identify and vote. [[11:19:55]] For-129 The decision is not taken. Edit 37, Fris. Don't insist. 40 lashes, Makarov. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-15-m0.u97	In this article, it is the case that the court, in its decision to refer the case to the court of the first instance, must indicate one court whose jurisdiction is the settlement of the dispute. My suggestion is that it should be stated, in addition to cases where a number of requirements have been brought together, which are referred to different courts. I've said it a few times, and now I insist: you can't break the case in the case of multiple demands. And it can be referred to different jurisdictions. Therefore, the amendment that I have indicated is necessary here, otherwise the court will not be able to divide the case into two or three and to file a lawsuit in three different courts, in which a number of court claims are united. I've said this on a subcommittee and committee on a number of occasions. There is no reason why this is not taken into account. Please explain to me the hall now.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-15-m0.u98	Thank you. Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-15-m0.u99	The amendment was rejected. However, an editorially different law was taken into account — the national deputy Vlasenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-15-m0.u100	It's all right, isn't it? You insist, don't you? Vote number 40 of the Makarov People's Deputy. The committee suggested that the amendment should be rejected. Please identify and vote. [[11:21:57]] For the 120th. The decision is not taken. Next line is number 41, People's Deputy Osadchuk. Are you insisting? Don't insist. Next line is number 42, People's Deputy Knazević. Ruslan Petrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-15-m0.u101	Thank you, Ruslan Alexiovich. Well, as I read this norm, as I understand it, maybe the representative reads it differently and the subcommittee reads it, which means that there should be a separate ruling by the Supreme Court to derogate from such a finding on a case-by-case basis. Not at the time of the settlement of the dispute to be mentioned in the decision as it had been before and has always been practiced. They say that by hindering this, to such and appropriate conclusions of the Supreme Court, we deviate from the dispute and continue to resolve the dispute. Here, when you read, you need a separate decision — a separate decision on the withdrawal that can be individually challenged and, accordingly, a completely different procedural document — and then a solution to the dispute. That's not right. So I want you to delete those words about a separate decision and write that given the deviation from the conclusion that there is such a derogation. That is, if it already exists, it is simply in the decision itself to resolve the dispute to indicate it and that is enough to resolve the dispute. You don't have to produce additional documents that can then be sued and played procedurally in these things. Thank you. Please put it in.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-15-m0.u102	Ruslan Petrovich, are you insisting? I'm betting on 42 votes, it wasn't counted by the committee, so let's put it. The author insists on her vote. I'll bet you a vote. Please identify and vote. [[11:23:53]] For a-117. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. Amendment number 43, Makarov. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-15-m0.u103	Colleagues, once again, I point out that the text of the bill states that, apart from the cases of a ruling by the Supreme Court to derogate from such a finding. I believe that this is not a correct formulation because the derogation from the Supreme Court's conclusion is made by the adoption of the Supreme Court's ruling, which contains a new finding of derogation from the earlier conclusion, then the earlier conclusion is considered null and void. So in the definition of "except the case," there's no need, it's the right legislative technique, we have to leave it. Therefore, this should be taken into account, and it will be clear to the judges when dealing with such cases. Your formulation only confuses the judicial corps and will allow for a double interpretation of what you wanted to say.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-15-m0.u104	Thank you. Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-15-m0.u105	Committee position: The application was rejected for the purpose of implementing a single legal practice in Ukraine. And this is also agreed upon with the drafters of the bill and with the representatives of the judiciary who will use the article.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-15-m0.u106	Thank you. Are you insisting?
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-15-m0.u107	This is 43 revisions, the author insists. I'm betting on the vote number 43 of the people's MP Makarov, she was rejected by the committee. Please identify and vote. [[11:25:50]] For 118 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. Number 45, Batenko. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-15-m0.u108	Colleagues, to the authors of the bill, we believe that the mere misapplication by the court of the rules of material law or the violation of procedural law is already sufficient reason for the cassation of court decisions. And it is not advisable to come up with additional formal grounds for this bill, such as the existence or absence of a judge in the course of a court hearing of disciplinary misconduct established by a court supervising a disciplinary conduct against judges. Therefore, the request to take this into account is our observation and correction. Put it to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-15-m0.u109	Thank you. Taras Ivanovich, do you insist on voting? I'm betting on a vote of 45 votes by National Deputy Batenka, she's been rejected by the committee. Please identify and vote. [[11:26:53]] For a hundred and Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. Edit 46, Bat.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-15-m0.u110	With this amendment, we would like to add a list of the grounds for the cassation of court decisions, providing for the possibility of a cassational charge in the case of the different findings of the Supreme Court of Ukraine on matters that apply to the same law. So please put it to the vote. I won't go any further, Dmitri Alexanderovich, insisting on other amendments, the only thing is that when we get to Amendments 177 and 208, I ask them to be confirmed, since we understand that the purpose of our draft law is to dismantle the Supreme Court, because the number of judges in it is decreasing. And here it's suggested by these rights, number 177 and 208, add extra cases to it, and in fact, we want to keep the Supreme Court from conflict of interest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-15-m0.u111	Thank you. Do you insist on voting? I'll bet you 46 votes Batinka, she's rejected by the committee. Please identify and vote. [[11:28:14]] For-126 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. Forty-seven lashes, Petovka. Don't insist. 49th, Battenka. Don't insist. 50th, Battenka. Also. 52nd. 53rd, Knyazevitch. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-15-m0.u112	I, Mr. Head, will not insist, I just want a representative of the committee to learn about this. Read: The grounds on which a cassation complaint is lodged are in line with the laws provided for. an article like that, a reason. Reason. I mean, butter. We're going to have to keep writing these things clearly, because at first glance, and I think the courts are going to interpret this differently, and the lawyers are going to play this, we have to write something clearly out of the rules of standard-setting technology that we can't. The basis is a link on the ground! Well, it was yesterday that Ruslan Alexiyovich made a comment to the government representative, and it's "amendment to laws to amend laws" is the same thing. Please respond in an editorial manner. I don't insist on voting.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-15-m0.u113	I understand that it's just editorially possible to clarify that. Don't you insist on voting? Thank you. 54th, Batenko. Don't insist. Fries, 55th. Will you insist on your work? What?
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-15-m0.u114	176th.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-15-m0.u115	Okay. Knazevitch, 56th. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-15-m0.u116	I'm not going to insist on it, because it's going to be 59, and 59, I'm going to be.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-15-m0.u117	Markov. Excuse me! Makarov, 57th. Turn it on, please. Oleg Anatolyevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-15-m0.u118	My colleagues, once again, I'm talking about the wrong, incorrect formulation that the Supreme Court is going to confuse, and it's going to confuse lawyers and all those who work with this code. We write that "except in the case of a decision of the Supreme Court to derogate from such a finding, or when the Supreme Court considers it necessary to derogate if the application of the rule of law in such a relationship is necessary." Now we're talking about whether the Supreme Court should decide at the opening stage whether or not it deviates from its practice. At this stage, the Supreme Court cannot yet be determined; it merely indicates that he is taking the matter into his own hands, and in that case, if he deviates from his previous conclusion, the earlier conclusion will be considered invalid. That is why we should not mention it. And there is no need to make any determination that he intends to withdraw from his own. from the previous conclusion at the adoption stage. So I suggest you support this exercise. That'll make sense.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-15-m0.u119	Thank you. Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-15-m0.u120	The amendment was rejected. And the representatives of the judiciary, who also participated in the discussion of the rule, had no complaints about the law.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-15-m0.u121	Thank you. Amendment No. 57 of the Makarov People's Deputy. She wasn't counted by the committee, she wasn't. I'm sorry, we can't have any controversy here right now. We're going to the vote. I'm betting on the vote number 57 of the people's MP Makarov. It's not considered by the committee. Please identify and vote. [[11:32:06]] For-127 The decision is not taken. 59th, Knazevitch. You insist.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-15-m0.u122	Do I insist on what? It is not clear what a cassational complaint is about, that is, the Supreme Court has already ruled in its ruling on the question of the correct application of the rules of law violated in the cassation complaint, and that is all. I suggest if you look at the right column, clearly say what's going on. This is about that cassational complaint that the court ruling mentioned in the paragraphs, I even wrote out: 1, 4 parts of the first article 287 of this code, so that it is clear what it is about. Since you're there, in those links that I told you about editorially, you refer to it, you have to, well, logically continue to apply the norm-making technique. Because, otherwise, there's going to be a very broad interpretation here and any corresponding cassation complaints can be made. falling under these things, it's wrong. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-15-m0.u123	Committee position, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-15-m0.u124	The amendment was rejected.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-15-m0.u125	Thank you. Are you insisting?
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-15-m0.u126	59 Kniazewicz. I'll put her to the vote. She's been rejected by the committee. Please identify and vote. [[11:33:32]] For-126 Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. Number 61, Knyazevitcha. Are you insisting?
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-15-m0.u127	Yeah, it's actually the same thing. If you look at my edit, it's also clearly making reference to what's going on: not any cassational complaints, but those that are defined. Here I have written you even clearly: 1, 2, 3 parts of the second article 287. It's the right thing to write codes, because any general interpretation in the codes will lead to a general decision, and any general decision will be taken. You can't allow such things, you have to make clear the thought that you wanted to make. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-15-m0.u128	Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-15-m0.u129	The amendment was rejected. We've got the number 62 right here, which uses the standard in more detail.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-15-m0.u130	I'll bet 61 Knjazewicz votes. She's been rejected by the committee. Please identify and vote. [[11:34:47]] For 121 The decision is not taken. Number 64, Demchenko. Don't insist. 65, Knyazevich. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-15-m0.u131	Mr. Head, the President's representative has just said that "a similar law has been taken into account, so we reject yours." If it's counted, if it's similar, think about how can you reject mine? You took it into account in part, and I was denied the right to speak. And so you leave it and say it's counted. It's partly, I agree that it's accounted for, but it's accounted for without reference. So I'd like to go back to him.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-15-m0.u132	Do you insist on voting? Oh, no? Thank you. 68th, Knazevitch. What's that? 67th? So it's counted, 67th. We can say no. 56th? 66th? It's Makarov, yeah. 66 redundancies.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-15-m0.u133	Paul Vasilovich, first of all, please do not refer to the judicial corps. I don't think you know him at all. If you refer, name it.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-15-m0.u134	I'm sorry, one more time. I am.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-15-m0.u135	Paul Vasilovich, referring to the court, the judicial corps. He does not fully know this point. I know it's different from what you're saying. Now to the right, please. This is about filters being installed for admission to the third facility. And this rule, introduced by the bill, sets not filters for tolerance, but filters for consideration. That is, it limits the possibility for judges to deal with cases in their entirety. Imagine that the arms trade case was brought before the court, and the only thing that goes on is a cassation complaint about these weapons. The court finds that when it is considered, it will be bound only by the arguments of the cassation complaint and has no right to state that the agreement is illegal and to annul the decision, and.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-15-m0.u136	Oleg Anatolyevich, do you insist on voting? Dear colleagues, I'm putting the number 66 of the people's MP Makarov to the vote. She was not considered by the committee. Please identify and vote. [[11:37:31]] For 134 The decision is not taken. No. 68, Knyazevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-15-m0.u137	Thank you, Mr. Head. See, we're writing about violations of due process. Why did we not mention in any way the misapplication of material law? I suggest that you do as you've always done in these procedural codes. In this case, the court must act accordingly, and if the Supreme Court or the Court of Appeal has even made a statement on this matter. And for some reason, we're just talking about procedural things. I don't know why. I understand that these are procedural codes, but I'm sorry, in fact, the code name shouldn't distract you from the essence of the question if there was a misapplication of the rules of material law, and right now in the process that's the appropriate reason for the rejection. So please consider my revision, it's absolutely logical and correct. Without it, it will be very difficult for the courts to act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-15-m0.u138	Amendment 68 of the People’s Deputy Knazević was not counted by the committee. I'll put her to the vote. Please identify and vote. [[11:38:46]] For 132 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. Amendment number 69, Makarov.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-15-m0.u139	I'll tell you, colleagues, that the approach that is now in the code is turning the Supreme Court into a bureaucratic machine, unable to bring justice to justice. This undermines trust in the Supreme Court as well as in the entire judicial system. The Court has the right to apply the law. In that case, if he sees that the first, second, institution has misapplied material law, and the party does not refer to it, the court should be obliged to make that statement, otherwise we will have a decision by the Supreme Court, not being accused of a violation of the law. And then further consideration of these cases in the first and second instance will refer to this decision of the Supreme Court and will say that this decision has been passed through the Supreme Court, and people will not know that just the party did not press charges. We are now binding the hands of the Supreme Court on absolutely groundless grounds. Please vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-15-m0.u140	Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-15-m0.u141	Committee position: the application was rejected. The point is that this bill refers to procedural filters, and the representatives of the parties will have to prepare their documents and links more carefully. If there is any other evidence base, the court can always deviate from its position by coming out of the material of the cases that the parties will render.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-15-m0.u142	Thank you. Do you insist on voting? 69, Makarov. I wasn't counted by the committee. Please identify and vote. [[11:40:56]] For 133 Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-15-m0.u143	The next issue is number 70, People's Deputy Vlasenko. Please, Sergey Valentinovich. Please. Sergei Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-15-m0.u144	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. I want to support my colleague Oleg Makarov, who, with a mad experience of practical jurisprudence, says absolutely the right things. Now the code of majority is building on completely wrong principles because they don't care if it was breaking the law, whether it wasn't, whether it was a major violation, or whether it's irrelevant, they don't care if the party wrote about it in a cassation complaint. If the court has established a violation of the law, the court cannot fail to respond, nor can it fail to respond. Therefore, to say that only what is stated in the cassation complaint can serve as a basis for the annulment of a court decision and, as the reporter just said, let's say, the parties are more closely preparing complaints of cassation, i.e. it's not justice, it's not justice, it's propaganda of justice. It is therefore necessary to build this code on a little bit of other principles, and even if for some reason no one has indicated, the court has found a violation, and the court must respond. And if you'll excuse me, please. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-15-m0.u145	Thank you. I understand, you. Ah, the position of the committee, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-15-m0.u146	Committee position: The application was rejected, although the national MP Vlasenko referred to the previous order reported by Mr. Makarov. And I would like to point out that this is exactly where the committee was supported by the revision and the edition proposed by the national MP Vlasenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-15-m0.u147	Thank you. Dear colleagues, vote number 70 of the national MP Vlasenka. The committee suggests that the amendment be rejected. Please identify and vote. The Rada system? Vlasenko's here, and she's on his side of the Council. Dear colleagues, once again, is the council system ready? Excuse me. Yes, we vote, yes. Everyone heard, "The Council" didn't hear. Identify and vote. [[11:43:49]] For 131 The decision is not taken. The next issue is 71, the People's Deputy of Knazević. Are you insisting? Please, Ruslan Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-15-m0.u148	I didn't understand that. Maybe a committee representative will explain it to me. The point is that judicial decisions are subject to compulsory annulment. And the second point is, in that case, if a judge was involved in the judicial decision, which was claimed to have been an exception, and attention! - and the court of the cassation has already found the grounds for his withdrawal to be reasonable. And this paragraph is complemented by the words of a cassation complaint. if the cassation complaint is based on that reason. However, his due consideration has already been shown in the cassation order. Well, what else could it be? a cassation complaint, a separate plea, which, in order to be brought to the cassation court, must be? The court has already examined this situation. Why are we making it difficult, especially difficult, for the plaintiff to make an additional need to file a complaint, taking into account any facts already established? Guys, this isn't right. Please put and support.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-15-m0.u149	Thank you. Committee position. Short.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-15-m0.u150	The position of the committee: the amendment was rejected and the editorial was adopted, where it is to apply the processual filters that are prescribed by the law.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-15-m0.u151	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the number 71 of the national deputy Knyazević Ruslan Petrovich is voted on. The committee suggests that the amendment be rejected. Please identify and vote. [[11:45:27]] For-127 The decision is not taken. The next issue is number 72, the people's MP Makarov. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-15-m0.u152	Colleagues, there are matters that can only be dealt with in the general course of legal proceedings, there are matters that can be dealt with in the order of simplified conduct. In this case, if the court of the first instance has examined the case in a simplified manner that cannot be considered in such order, but only in the order of procedure, and the appeal institution has left it in force, that is the basis for a definitive ground for revocation. We say that we exclude this from the list of absolute grounds. You know, that's how basic raiding is done. You know, that's how the main interpersonals do it when the parties agree on each other, in order to simplify the code violation, they take the decisions of the first and second institutions. And in this case, we're limiting the possibility that in cassation, we can cancel this rule if.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-15-m0.u153	Please take the seat of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-15-m0.u154	The position of the committee: the bill was rejected, and the bill is intended to be brought before the Supreme Court. And that's the technical standard that's going to make it happen.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-15-m0.u155	Thank you. Dear colleagues, vote number 72, National MP Makarov. The committee proposes to reject it. Please identify and vote. [[11:47:19]] For-127 The decision is not taken. The next issue is number 73, National Deputy Knazević Ruslan Petrovic. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-15-m0.u156	I'd like to take a look. The point is that we misprove the grounds for revoking the court’s decision. The exception here is that in addition to paragraph 1 of this section, which says that the court will examine the evidence gathered in the case. Look at the evidence. So if you leave, abracadabra, you'll settle the same standard twice. It's a technical thing, I don't insist, but please pay attention to it.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-15-m0.u157	Okay. Then I think it can be turned around during technical legal work, if there are really such questions. Thank you. The next issue is number 74, the people's MP Makarov. Are you insisting? Please, Oleg Anatolyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-15-m0.u158	Colleagues, I would like to add to what has been said in such a way that the court may not be limited to the reference of the complainant in the cassation complaint to paragraphs 1 and 4. I think that should be ruled out, otherwise we limit the possibility of a fair decision by a court of inquiry again to the technical, absolutely fictitious reasons that should not be applied in this case. Please vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-15-m0.u159	Thank you. Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-15-m0.u160	The amendment was rejected.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-15-m0.u161	Thank you. Vote number 74 of the Makarov People's Deputy, the committee proposes to reject. Please identify and vote. [[11:48:55]] For-126 The decision is not taken. The next issue is number 75, National Deputy Knazević Ruslan Petrovic. Don't you insist?
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-15-m0.u162	Thank you, Ruslan Alexiyovich, I insist.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-15-m0.u163	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-15-m0.u164	I think it's a very important correction, but it's missing the "but" connection that matters in principle. Because if it isn't, it means that the court won't investigate the evidence gathered in the case, the coma, if it's concluded, instead of the "or" on the basis of the reasoning on constitutional grounds, is considered to be one reason, and that's actually different. So either-or, as it was in the first part, and as it is in all codes. It's why we decided to rule out the "or" here. I think that's the wrong thing to do, because it's going to be interpreted as one reason. Even if you mean that these are different reasons, it is read as one reason, it is wrong. Please support and put to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-15-m0.u165	Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-15-m0.u166	The amendment was rejected.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-15-m0.u167	Thank you. Vote number 75 of the People's Deputy Knazević, the committee suggests that it be rejected. Please identify and vote. [[11:50:08]] For 122 The decision is not taken. The next issue is the People's Deputy Makarov. Are you insisting? Lies down, Anatolyovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-15-m0.u168	Colleagues, look closely, this amendment is to correct the contradictions in part two of Article 287 of the Master's Procedural Code. Under paragraph 4 of this rule, a cadaver may refer to a cadaceous complaint with only a reference to part three of article 310 and without reference to article 287, part two, paragraphs 1.3. It's an obvious thing. I don't understand why it fell out on the committee. It's like we were supporting this. Please vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-15-m0.u169	Committee position: Why did the application fail?
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-15-m0.u170	The correction is rejected.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-15-m0.u171	Declined.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-15-m0.u172	Adopted as proposed by the drafters.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-15-m0.u173	Dear colleagues, vote number 76 of the national MP Makarov. The committee suggests that the amendment be rejected. Please identify and vote. [[11:51:20]] For-127 The decision is not taken.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-15-m0.u174	Amendment 77, People's Chamber of Batenka. Are you insisting? Don't insist. Makarov, 80 lashes. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-15-m0.u175	My colleagues, it's very simple. The appellant may claim a number of subpoenas at once. Then, if the court closes the case at all times, but points out that some of them should be considered under the rules of the Civil Code, for example, the procedural code, and some of them should be closed by the CAS, and some of them should be closed by the CAS, and some of them should be cancelled and sent for further consideration, then the case should not be terminated, but it should be sent to different institutions. So I propose the phrase, "the rules of this part apply if there are several back-up requirements combined in one course, which are dealt with in different jurisdictions." This is in the case of the court. It's written, "going to the same court." He cannot bring a court of law to justice if the plaintiff has combined uncollected claims. This right here has to be, we're confusing the Supreme Court again, the lawyers and our entire legal community. How could it not be accepted? I insisted on her.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-15-m0.u176	Thank you. Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-15-m0.u177	The amendment was rejected; instead, the committee was accepted and counted number 79, the national deputy of Knjazević, in a different edition.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-15-m0.u178	Thank you. Do you insist on voting, Oleg Anatolyevich? Don't insist. 81st, Vlasenka. Don't insist.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-15-m0.u179	I insist!
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-15-m0.u180	Are you insisting? Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-15-m0.u181	Thank you, Mr. Head! It's a technical readjustment, but what does it have to do with anything? In fact, when the court closes the proceedings in connection with the case of the wrong jurisdiction, the court either refers the case to the court or to the court of the first instance of due jurisdiction and does so outside the applicant’s application, with absolutely no indication of the time frame in which the application is to be made. I mean, I have a simple question: if the defendant of the month does not file an application, can the Supreme Court refer the case to the court of the first instance without the applicant's application? That's why we have to set a deadline. I propose a ten-day deadline. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-15-m0.u182	Do you insist on voting? Edit No. 81 of the National MP Vlasenka was not counted by the Committee. Please identify and vote. [[11:54:21]] For a hundred and No, I'm sorry. Mushroom, 84th. Are you insisting? Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-15-m0.u183	Dmitri Alexanderovich, I have three orders: 84, 176 and 275. They are linked. I'd like two minutes, if I may.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-15-m0.u184	Could you give me a minute, please?
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-15-m0.u185	Dear colleagues, please note that we can all be there for prosecutors and defendants, including you. And if you want to file an appeal to the court of first instance, and you're denied, then you want to file an appeal to the Court of Appeal, then unfortunately, there won't be any material in the main court of appeal unless the charges I'm proposing are accepted. I very much ask you to vote now not only for these rights, but also for the rights of Ukrainian citizens to just justice. Please note and then put to the vote all three revisions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-15-m0.u186	I'll only be able to set it up when it's ready. I'll bet you 84 votes. It's not considered by the committee. Please identify and vote. [[11:56:04]] For 124 The decision is not taken. Amendment number 85, Batenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-15-m0.u187	I don't insist.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-15-m0.u188	Don't insist. 86th, Batenko too. Aren't you going to insist on your work? Thank you. 88th, Ryabuha. Don't insist. The '90s, Knazevitch. Don't insist. Are you insisting? I'm just looking at you and Jaroslav Romanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-15-m0.u189	I just wanted to, I don't insist on voting, but I'd like a comment from a committee representative. As far as I can recall, we agreed that there should be a special committee, where there should be a 250 size, which should be on behalf of the committee, and then the numbering would change. I can't see this correction, but I can actually see that it's counted. Because my amendment, I agreed not to insist on it if there was a committee regulation, Paul Vasilovich, we talked about it with you. But I don't see this committee. Correct me if I'm wrong. And if I'm right, we voted separately, it has to be in the table and the numbering has to be changed accordingly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-15-m0.u190	Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-15-m0.u191	Committee position: the application was rejected. In other procedural codes, we applied these.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-15-m0.u192	Are we putting it to a vote? Position, please explain.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-15-m0.u193	Yeah.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-15-m0.u194	Paul Vasilovich, please explain.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-15-m0.u195	It's the norm, it's edited in the text of the bill, and it sets exactly the limit size for the submission of the bill. to file a complaint.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-15-m0.u196	Why don't you let the committee head explain?
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-15-m0.u197	So the norm is that it regulates the processual filters that the bill provides.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-15-m0.u198	Dear colleagues, I understand that the question was raised on the committee. Maybe the head of the committee? I'll give you my word again. I understand you're not the committee head. Please turn on the microphone to the committee representative.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-15-m0.u199	We have a standard for the Civil Procedural Code included in other regulations: in fact, where there is a volume that does not exceed 250 dimensions of the minimum of living. We'll get to them again, these are committee regulations.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-15-m0.u200	Don't you insist? Don't insist. 91st, Petaovka. Don't insist. Makarov, 92nd. I can't see. Crows, please. I don't see your colleague. Do you insist, Oleg Anatolyovich? Please turn on the Makarov microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-15-m0.u201	Colleagues, this is about consumer rights issues, which do not exceed 250 per cent of the cost of living minimums for working persons. You see, the sub-category of consumer rights, which is quite difficult to apply, is covered by almost all civil disputes. And in doing so, the cases listed in the categories, if there are other requirements of civil law, but they're not claimed separately, can be considered minor by the signs of the incompetence of the case. Because it's not going to be a big load, but it's going to double-count once again in understanding what a civil matter is, what it is about protecting consumers' rights, and I would rule out this formulation just to focus on sums and just to deal with civil matters without being attached to consumer rights.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-15-m0.u202	Thank you. Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-15-m0.u203	Committee position: the application was rejected. And the point is, the committee just accepted the same amount -- 250 per cent of the living minimum. And that's why she won't act in that way. So it's the same cost. It won't interfere and this bill is designed to set procedural filters, they have to be.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-15-m0.u204	Should we put it to a vote? Amendment number 92, Makarov. We're voting now, and I'm calling it a break. The committee was not counted. Please identify and vote. [[12:02:00]] For 128 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. There's a 30-minute recess, till 12:30. Please don't be late.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-15-m0.u205	Dear colleagues, take your seats, get ready to work. Let us move on to the next suggestions that were not considered by the committee. 93 lashes, Vlasenko. None. Dubinsky, 94th. None. This crying, 95th. None. 96th, Vlasenko. None. Crying, 98th. No Auntie Mikhailnova? None. Yes. Don't insist. Thank you. Vlasenko. I don't think so. Knazevitch. He insists. No. 100.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-15-m0.u206	We're opening the second hundredth, Mr. Head. This is about what we talked about in the previous codex. We remove two grounds for securing a lawsuit: it is an obligation to do certain things and transfer things that are the subject of a dispute. We are being assured that this will be a warning to the raiders. My strong belief that this may, on the contrary, contribute to the registration and abuse of the right, a procedural right. I would consider it appropriate to put him in support and determine. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-15-m0.u207	Thank you. Don't you insist on voting? Are you insisting? Amendment number 100, Knyazevich, is not counted by the committee. Please identify and vote. [[12:42:02]] For-90 No, I'm sorry. Batenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-15-m0.u208	Dear colleagues, we have children, 7-B class, the city of Kiev. Let's welcome them. Hello!
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-15-m0.u209	102 right, Batenko. Aren't you going to insist on your own? Thank you. 103rd, Knyazevich. He insists. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-15-m0.u210	Thank you. Here, the committee representative said that my application was not supported, but that the committee's analogous revision was supported, which actually has nothing to do with my application. My advice is that I ask you to leave the possibility in order to secure a suit to respond to competitions, auctions, trades, including public procedures, etc. This amendment, which is considered by the committee, is an editorially "public procedure" replaces the words "public competition procedures," and that's all. It's my job to do something else. So I'm asking you to support my application, because if we don't do it again, I insist on it, that means we won't be able to run any competitions, public purchases, auctions, etc. If that's what this is all about, then it's wrong. So I'm asking you to take this into account, and you have to reject this. Thank you. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-15-m0.u211	Do you insist on voting? 103 Knjazewicz's amendment is not counted by the committee. Please identify and vote. [[12:43:46]] For 109 109th, Knazevitch. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-15-m0.u212	I talked about it in the previous codex, and that's another codex. This is already a matter of civil justice. In that case, if the Supreme Court or the Court of Appeal has already checked that there are appropriate grounds for leaving the application, I propose that the civil court of the first instance should not review and review the position of the Supreme Court and the Court of Appeal accordingly, and leave it immediately in accordance with the requirements of the Procedural Code without movement, because then the logic of all the filters is lost, because we allow the court to determine what to do in that case if such a position is. He should not think anything; he should take the appropriate position of the Supreme Court and the Court of Appeal. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-15-m0.u213	Thank you. Do you insist on voting, Ruslan? I'm betting on the vote of the 109th Prince, not counted by the committee. Please identify and vote. [[12:45:11]] For 114 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. 121 law, Vlasenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-15-m0.u214	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. In fact, we're going back to the debate about what court is, what justice is, why it's necessary at all. I stress once again, the court and the judiciary, and the process of the administration of justice is not formal. It's not like we looked at the papers, looked at them, and said, yes, there's a violation of the law, but we won't react to them. Then it's not a court of law. Then they're not very clear people who are sitting around dressed as judges, working as judges, but they're not the courts. So the point is that if the court, at the hearing, either in an appeal or in an appeal institution, established a substantial violation of the law, which would in itself be the basis for the annulment of a court decision, the court must respond to it, whether the defendant or the appellant or the cassant, or not. So this is a normal conceptual approach, which unfortunately wasn't supported by the committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-15-m0.u215	Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-15-m0.u216	The amendment was rejected in the same way that, again, as in the other Code of Procedure, the parties have to note in their case complaints the fully motivated part to which they address it.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-15-m0.u217	Thank you. 121 law, Vlasenko. The committee is not supported. I put her to a vote and ask her to determine and vote. [[12:47:08]] For-126
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-15-m0.u218	The decision is not taken. Next line is number 122, National Deputy Batenka. Don't insist. The next item is the 123rd National MP Vlasenka. Please, Sergey Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-15-m0.u219	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. So again, we're going back to a new version that's kind of technical. We talked about this during the consideration of another procedural code. A new legal situation is now being created when the appropriate court of cassation, if it is. or an appeal court, if he finds that the case does not fall within his jurisdiction, he may simply close the case and refer it to the appropriate court. And that's done on the plaintiff's application. But I have a simple question, in what terms does the plaintiff have to write this statement: for one day, for two days, for 10 days, 30 days, a month, four months? Unfortunately, in that project, in the final edition that we are offered, this question is not settled. It's not a technical question. It's a matter of procedure. Jurisprudence is procedure. So you have to add the term in which the statement should be made, and that's it.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-15-m0.u220	Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-15-m0.u221	The amendment was rejected. And it really corresponds to the norms that are set out in other procedural codes, so the committee and the drafters of the bill, and all those who have adopted it in the discussion and discussion, come to the conclusion that most of the procedural norms have to be harmonized in procedural codes.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-15-m0.u222	Thank you. Dear colleagues, vote number 123, National MP Vlasenka. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[12:49:19]] For 128 The decision is not taken. The next issue is 125, the People's Deputy Fries. Don't insist. The next amendment is the number 127 of the Osadchuk People's Deputy. Don't insist. Next line is number 128, People's Deputy Knazević. Ruslan Petrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-15-m0.u223	Thank you, Ruslan Alexiovich. Well, here, I've already spoken in the previous code, here I insist again. The point is that we want there to be two Supreme Court rulings: one on the application of the law and the other on the application of the law, and the other on the withdrawal of such a finding on the application of the law. Why the Second Decision? I'm telling you again, you don't need it. There's a first decision. And accordingly, given the deviation, if there is an accounting, it's just written "when the dispute is resolved" in a specific resolution of the dispute. And if you don't, you have to. If so, imagine that the Supreme Court should in each case make a separate decision to derogate from such a conclusion. Well, that's wrong, and it complicates the case law, and it complicates the procedural examination of complaints and the length of the complaint, and it will involve the Supreme Court constantly in this process. He's already in position. If you wish, please write your position clearly in your decision and continue to act, and the accused will respond accordingly as you did. I'm asking you to support me, because it's very important. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-15-m0.u224	Committee position?
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-15-m0.u225	The remedy was rejected, and the position of the judiciary is that each case is dealt with separately, and the evidence base in each case is also different, so it is possible to deviate from the decision if the evidence case is different.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-15-m0.u226	Dear colleagues, the vote of the 128 people’s deputy Knazević is rejected by the committee. Please identify and vote. [[12:51:21]] For 128 The decision is not taken. The next issue is the 129th National MP, Makarov. Are you insisting? Please, Oleg Anatolyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-15-m0.u227	Listen, please, this applies to all three codes. So what you're writing, I'm going to say is, what are the words that need to be removed from the wording that are generally correct. You write: "The grounds for the cassation of court decisions are the unlawful application by the court of the rules of substantive law or the violation of procedural law solely in cases. - It is further written, if the court of appeal in the contested court has applied the rule of law without considering the application of the rule of law in similar relations laid down in the Supreme Court ruling." Then for something you write those words that I propose to delete: "except in the case of a decision of the Supreme Court to derogate from such a conclusion." These words do not need to be written, since the derogation from the Supreme Court’s conclusion is being made by the adoption of a Supreme Court ruling, which contains a new conclusion on the derogation from the earlier one, and this earlier one is no longer valid. So you don't have to write it, you don't have to write it.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-15-m0.u228	Do you insist, Oleg Anatolyovich? Vote number 129 of the national MP Makarov. The committee proposes to reject it. Please identify and vote. [[12:53:04]] For 128 The decision is not taken. The next amendment is number 130, the people's deputy of Dubinsky. Don't insist. The next issue is the number 131 of the Batenka People's Deputy. Don't insist. The next issue is number 132, the Batenka People's Deputy. Don't insist. The next issue is number 134, People's Deputy Petyovka. Don't insist. The next issue is 135, People's Deputy Fries. Don't insist. The next issue is 136, People's Deputy Batenko. Don't insist. The next one is 137, Bat. Don't insist. The next amendment is 139, People's Deputy Vlasenko. Please, Sergey Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-15-m0.u229	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'd like to. Actually, the point of what we're doing right now is the discussion. That is, during the second reading of the bill, the authors of the amendments propose their conceptual views. Instead, with all due respect to the honourable Mr. Reporter, we hear, in response, something like "the tendency of the concept of this issue leads to the embryonicization of conceptualistic relationships in the highest spheres of society." But in fact, we do not hear any answers. Your amendments are not accepted because they are not accepted, it is understandable. And that was clear from the very first moment. Your amendments are not accepted, because in another code, otherwise, it's understandable. But I am. The goal, the key objective, one of the key tasks of this bill is to minimize the double, triple practice that now exists in the courts and to create a practice that is so-called unified. And to do that, you have to clean up a whole series of shears, which are both in appeals and in cassation. It is recommended that these be removed by amendment 13.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-15-m0.u230	Thank you. Rule 139. The owner insists, doesn't he, on the vote? I put her to the vote, she's not supported by the committee. Please identify and vote. [[12:55:14]] For 134 Thank you. The decision is not taken. 134. Dear colleagues, the next issue is Knyazevitch. Ruslan Petrovich, would you please tell me that you will insist on all forms? Are we going to unite them somehow? There are also laws on education, education, and other game business. Huh? [[B in m in s a l in]] You're an educated man, I know. Are we still going to unite the papers? Give me five minutes, and we'll put together the papers. And Vlasenko won't insist, either? Don't insist. I don't understand. It's "yes, I don't insist" or "no, I don't insist." Why don't we get together? Okay. Okay. 144th, Knazevitch. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-15-m0.u231	This is an important readjustment, Mr. Head. It's not what you want to talk about. The thing is, it's changing at all. The essence of this standard at all. If a referee has previously refused to open the cassation, it is proposed in the first draft of the law that the court should do so instead of the judge-cum-Rapporteur. But the fifth part remains, in fact, from the previous edition, where it was determined that the court was in order. In harmony with his conclusion, the judge must refuse. So it turns out that abracadabra is now being replaced by a judge, and this part has been left essentially old. That is, the court refuses if the court accepts it. Well, that's how he does when he refuses. This is a decision-making process. It seems to me that this standard is wrong, that it should be copied, considering that you have changed the algorithm of this article altogether. I'm asking the committee representative to just read it again, it's very important. I'd like your support, colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-15-m0.u232	144 of Knazević's rights, not counted by the committee. Please identify and vote. [[12:57:31]] For 132 Decision taken. No decision taken, no correction counted. [[B in m in s a l in]] Well, you see the results of the vote, it's even written there. Makarov, 145th.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-15-m0.u233	Colleagues, right now, the point is that when we open up the cassation, the court has to determine whether or not he should. whether he is going to consider whether he intends to consider derogating from the conclusion of the application of the rule of law in similar relations if he considers that the case will contribute to the development of the law and to the formation of a single law enforcement practice. That's what I'm talking about. The version that is now in the bill reads: "if the court has already decided to resign." How, then, can the court decide to deviate from the practice at the discovery stage? He should see that there is a reason for him to move away from the standard, and only then, when he discovers the conduct of the matter, should he consider the possibility of deviation from the existing practice. So the wording that's here is completely wrong and it's not.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-15-m0.u234	Are you insisting on your right? I'll bet you 145 on Makarov's vote. She was not considered by the committee. Please identify and vote. [[12:59:20]] For 133 The decision is not taken. Edit 147, Knazevitch. Are you insisting?
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-15-m0.u235	I'm very short. I was going to say that I don't insist on voting, but I'm asking the committee to say that this is about a clear reference to the norms that a case-by-case complaint is about. And it's all over the text. Just look, because if you just leave a cassation complaint without referring to which part of the codex is spoken of, and so in every norm, there's going to be an abracadabra. It's just technically, after the technical legal work is done, pay attention to that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-15-m0.u236	Edit 148, Vlasenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-15-m0.u237	Thank you, Mr. Head. In fact, as stated in the bill's concept, the phase of opening cassation is very important, because if we are now relying on the Supreme Court to unify judicial practice and to refuse to open cassation may, at the suggestion of the judge's committee, be one judge to decide how uniform the practice in this matter is, how much does it need to be harmonized. These are complex legal questions. That's how the court is built. I understand that, on the one hand, they wanted to dispel the judges of the Supreme Court so that they could quickly refuse to do so, on the other hand, by refusing to open the cassation. But if we're looking at, we're relying on a judge during this process, so important functions, it should not be a judge alone, and it should be a college composed of three judges -- as it is now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-15-m0.u238	Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-15-m0.u239	Position: The committee rejected the amendment. And the point is that the court's decision to refuse to open is not a uniformity and is not a basis for other cases. The basis for taking into account the Supreme Court’s ruling is its decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-15-m0.u240	Do you insist on voting? I'm betting on a vote of 148 Vlasenka. It's not considered by the committee. Please identify and vote. [[13:01:57]] For-136 Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. Knazevitch, 149.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-15-m0.u241	It's a very important readjustment for me. She's talking about it. First: imagine that, if the court, accordingly, had been established after the opening of the cassation, that the Supreme Court had in its judgment reached an appropriate conclusion on the application of the law, it should have acted in an established manner further, as defined in the Code. The word "set," one word, changes to the word "appeared." So it's not the court that's going to set it up, but someone, any party, has to find out this fact somewhere. They looked at it, and in the end, someone took it, and they found it. I'm sorry, we don't need to relieve the judges of their responsibility. They have a responsibility and a direct responsibility. Why are you doing this? If you write it out, believe me, they'll never set it up. And if it doesn't, well, it didn't turn out to be, well, that. That's not right. Please leave the editorial that was on the first reading. In this case, if we're doing this, we're deliberately making a crack so that this filter doesn't work in practice. Well, that's not right, understand. Thank you. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-15-m0.u242	Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-15-m0.u243	In the first reading, it was marked "shown up," not "set up," first. And second of all, it doesn't change the order of the court's decision. I mean, in any case, when a court order is handed down, the court should state where it sets up and where it makes its decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-15-m0.u244	Dear colleagues, I am voting for the order of 149 National Deputy Knazević. She's not counted by the committee. Please identify and vote. [[13:03:56]] For a hundred and The decision is not taken. 152, Makarov. Are you insisting? Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-15-m0.u245	I propose in sub-paragraph 21, paragraph 2, paragraph 2, that the words "which became the basis for opening the cassational conduct" should be deleted. I've made my case. I can see you can't hear me, I'm locked up. Please vote. On both the subcommittee and the committee, I have repeatedly reasoned on this and the reporter knows why it should be supported.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-15-m0.u246	152 Makarov's amendment is not counted by the committee. Please identify and vote. [[13:04:59]] For 132 The decision is not taken. Edit 153, Knazevitch. You insist, don't you, Ruslan Petrovich? 154th, Knazevitch.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-15-m0.u247	Thank you. I'm not going to insist on everyone. It's important. Why? Because we have again forgotten the wrong application of material law. The main thing is that we generally write about it at the beginning of the article, and we speak only procedural standards in special standards. Well, that's not right. Again, what was then to be governed by the court: the general norm or the special norm that applied to a particular case and a particular case? The courts will start to apply these rules differently. Someone will accordingly misapply to material rights, someone will not be, someone will not be, just procedural. It cannot be, it will result in different application of the same standards by different courts. Please consider this standard.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-15-m0.u248	Thank you. Do you insist on voting? Stop, position of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-15-m0.u249	In fact, Ruslan Petrovich has all the laws that matter. And here we are all lawyers, yes, on our committee. And with regard to the previous amendment, there was Oleg Anatoliyovich Makarov who proposed "appeared" and Ruslan Petrovich "established". So I think, and the committee also supports that the norm and the setting up of procedural filters, which are the very essence of the bill, is more important for the Supreme Court to be dismantled.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-15-m0.u250	Thank you. Rule 154, not counted by the committee of the People's Deputy Knazević. Please identify and vote. [[13:06:56]] For 135 Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. Makarov, 156th.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-15-m0.u251	I'll read my paper. Attention! "The court is bound by the arguments and requirements of the case if the application of the rules of substantive law is found to be incorrect in the course of the case." I gave you an example. One guy sold another guy, let's say, a tank. And they're arguing about the order of the calculations of this tank, whether it's a warhead or not. And the court in the first instance said that we have to pay, and the court in the second instance said that we don't have to pay back, and it went to the cassation facility. And they're only accusing the value of a weapon that can't be sold, and they're not accusing the reality of this deal. When it reaches the Supreme Court, the Supreme Court, by your standards, must decide whether to settle or not, and has no right to make a statement about the illegality and non-reality of this agreement. And if he does, then the court of the first instance, the second instance, the textbooks, the scientists will say, "This case went through the Supreme Court, he supported that position." Please support my revision.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-15-m0.u252	Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-15-m0.u253	The standard was rejected. Again, it refers to the harmonization of the rules of procedural codes and the fact that the parties in each case prove their circumstances by the evidence they consider necessary. And the court decides on the basis of the evidence in the case.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-15-m0.u254	I'm betting on the vote number 156 of the people's MP Makarov. She was not considered by the committee. Please identify and vote. [[13:09:02]] For-164 The decision is not taken. 157 law, Vlasenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-15-m0.u255	Thank you, Mr. Head. I would like to continue the discussion with the honourable rapporteur who said that a judge who refuses to accept a cassation complaint does not affect the unification of practice. It directly affects this because one of the reasons for the cassational accusation is possible a new practice or denial of existing practice. And if a single judge refuses to open up the conduct without considering all the arguments without having the opportunity to do so, then it affects the harmonization of practices, leaving the old, presumably wrong practice. But my amendment applies to another. My amendment refers to the principle of whether the court administers justice and establishes the law, or whether the court treats only papers in the form of cassation, appeals, and court-martials. If we're talking about a court finding a violation of the law by setting it up in court, but it wasn't recorded in the case file, then the court shouldn't pay any attention, because that's what our colleagues are asking us to do, that's what we're going to do.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-15-m0.u256	Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-15-m0.u257	Committee position: permission denied. And according to the law, the obligation of proof lies not in the court, but the responsibility of proof lies with the parties, and the parties should state in the complaints of cassation all the grounds for their reference.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-15-m0.u258	Thank you. The 157 rights of the national deputy Vlasenka are not counted by the committee. Please identify and vote. [[13:11:01]] For-141 The decision is not taken. 158 law, Knyazevitch. Are you insisting?
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-15-m0.u259	I insist on voting. But I want to make a statement because it's similar to Vlasenko's. Friends, for whom do we write a code — for trial or for people? If so, there are no questions. Because even if he did, he would see that it was groundless in a cassation complaint, and he would refuse. And if, for people, if this fact is established, one may not even know that it should be written in a complaint. It's not her business, it's a case of a court that's already set it up. He can't create the same legal fact twice, he's not allowed to do it. You are obliged to do so twice. This must be noted in a cassation complaint. And if, God forbid, man doesn't know about it, you're not on man's side, you're on the side of a court that just says sorry, you didn't point out. Even if he knows he's set it all up. That's not right. Do we have justice for the people or for the courts?
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-15-m0.u260	Thank you. 159 law, Makarov.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-15-m0.u261	Colleagues, the existing edition reads as follows: "The basis for the complete or partial annulment of decisions and the referral of the case in whole or in part to a new hearing or for further consideration is: if the court has considered in a simplified manner a case that is subject to consideration of the rules of general conduct." What can happen? I'm the answer. The case is dealt with by the rules of simplified conduct. I couldn't realize my procedural rights. This is a matter for the Supreme Court. And the Supreme Court may leave the matter in place without cancelling. Even if the case under consideration in the order of simplified conduct cannot be dealt with in this way. So this is a violation of the rights of a simple citizen who wanted to defend his rights under the rules of general conduct. Put that back, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-15-m0.u262	Do you insist on voting? I'm betting on the vote number 159, Makarov. Please identify and vote. [[13:13:31]] For-137 The decision is not taken. Edit 160, Knyazevitcha.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-15-m0.u263	This is about who we're writing the law for. We also want all things to be clearly stated in the cassation complaint, including paragraph 1, where the court has not examined the evidence collected. I mean, even that's what the complainant has to determine in his cassation complaint? Well, my friends. That's not right. After the words "in the cassation complaint" you have to write in parentheses that "except for paragraph 1 of this part." Something a person can accuse and write, and something an aprior can't do, the court itself has to do it. Please take this into account, it's purely technical. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-15-m0.u264	Vote number 160, National Deputy Knazevitch. The committee suggests that the amendment be rejected. Please identify and vote. [[13:14:37]] For 139 The decision is not taken. Next line number 162, People's Deputy Knazević. Ruslan Petrovich, you? You insist, of course.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-15-m0.u265	Ruslan Alexiyovich, I'm very short. This is a logical case, as with the previous codex. This is where the "or" connector came out again. And it turns out that now "the court won't investigate the evidence gathered in the case of a coma" would be the word "or on condition of a conclusion" and now it's a coma. This means that two reasons are actually one reason, and these are mutually exclusive grounds. Let's just leave it as "or" as it were, and it'll be clear. Because the confusion will begin. It's a lack of clarity of norms and it means that every court will understand this differently, someone will understand that this is one reason, and someone will understand that these are mutually exclusive reasons, or "or." And in view of that, we should not allow the possibility of interpreting the courts in different ways. Please consider my work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-15-m0.u266	Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-15-m0.u267	Committee position: the application was rejected. Again, in discussing this bill, I repeat, both the authors and the representatives of the judiciary took part, and they did not express their views on what they did not understand.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-15-m0.u268	Vote number 162 of the national deputy Knjazevic Ruslan Petrovich. The committee suggests that the amendment be rejected. Please identify and vote. [[13:16:10]] For-142 The decision is not taken. The next issue is the number 163, People's Deputy Makarov. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-15-m0.u269	Paul Vasilovich, at last, what is the name of that judicial corps that understood everything in this norm? I'll tell you that it was the court that came to us and told us that this rule had become unclear. There used to be a connection "or," or either first or second. When "or" is taken, it's both the first and the second, and in the sense of this article, it remains that either the first ground or the second ground. Return the connector "or" and it'll be clear how to apply a simple, understandable norm. You've made it incomprehensible.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-15-m0.u270	Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-15-m0.u271	The amendment is similar to the 162, which we just talked about and voted on.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-15-m0.u272	Dear colleagues, vote number 163 of the national MP Makarov. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[13:17:21]] For-146 The decision is not taken. The next issue is 164, the Batenka People's Deputy. Don't insist. The next amendment is 165, the national MP Vlasenka. Please, Sergey Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-15-m0.u273	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. We're going back to the technical question that's completely unclear on what line. At the time of the court's decision, civil jurisdiction, if this court recognizes that this case is not a case that is not under investigation, is not subject to jurisdiction, sorry, to the general courts, and will decide that it must be brought before the courts of another jurisdiction, to administrative or commercial jurisdiction, or perhaps an intellectual court will still be created, it is done on the petitioner's application, but it is not mentioned in the codes, in any one, including in the Civil Procedural, which we are now referring to, in one day, two days later, ten days later, after 30, or two months later, or six months later. It would seem a simple technical question, but it would question the whole procedure. Let's figure it out, you don't want to take 10 days -- write two days, write five days, but it's about the principle now.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-15-m0.u274	Do you insist on voting? 165 revisions, not counted by the committee. Please identify and vote. [[13:19:09]] For-146 The decision is not taken. 167th, Makarov.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-15-m0.u275	This is the third time I've ever done it, just in different codes, and now I'm calling for common sense. Listen carefully. It says that if the court closes the case in connection with insubordination, it should only be brought to one court. However, it may be that in one case a number of court-martials are united, and in such a case the court cannot bring a single court to justice. That's why I suggested the phrase, "except in cases where a number of requirements have been brought together, which have been referred to different courts." This rule should be placed in all three codes, what is not clear here? Why on the subcommittee did you support this position, on the committee she was -- now she's gone? How could this happen, please tell me? Who, on their own behalf, began to rule in this table in such a way that it became completely incorruptible, this codex became inadequacy, this document?
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-15-m0.u276	Thank you. Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-15-m0.u277	Committee position: the application was rejected. I would like to point out that on Mr. Vlasenko's previous side, 10 days are included in the bill, and that is why there are no such irregularities. On this point, I would also like to point out that, in returning the case to the court of first instance, the situation is that if the different definitions of jurisdiction, the different grounds, the court sends it to one of the courts, and the court looks at the part of its jurisdiction, it closes it to the other. It closes in one part, it looks in the other.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-15-m0.u278	Dear colleagues, the position of the committee. I'm betting on the 167 vote, it's not counted by the committee. Please identify and vote. [[13:21:47]] For-170. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. The factions. [[B in m in s a l in]] You can't double-vote, you know. 174th, Gorbenko. Don't insist. 176th, Grissom. [[B in m in s a l in]] Wait, we haven't reached 177 yet. 176th, Grissom. Don't insist. Sobolen. Sobolev, 177th.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-15-m0.u279	Dear colleagues! I'm addressing you first of all, Dmitri Alexanderovich. I thought we decided on the committee. See what this is about. Edit Krasnosilski.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-15-m0.u280	Microphone, if you please, because you're not completely oblivious.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-15-m0.u281	Edit Krasnosilski on whether to take into account the replacement of the name that changed the law. What's the committee doing? Instead of taking the text into account and writing in the new organ name, they write: To support the Edit of Krasnosilski and to change it by text. Well, he'll take a judge, a prosecutor, a simple citizen, and the code says, not a new article, but a text change. What are you doing? I corrected you on the committee, you all agreed. Well, you can't do that! I'm not talking about the point anymore. If we want to unload the Supreme Court, why do we give them additional powers? Now, essentially. We have no right to do that. For confirmation, and you have to fail it.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-15-m0.u282	Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-15-m0.u283	The committee included the amendment in part. However, a colleague asks for confirmation, so I suggest.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-15-m0.u284	Okay, Sergei Vladislavovich. I heard. Dear colleagues, number 177, she wasn't. She was part of the committee, but some kind of one-off, I take it, there's no position either. I'm betting 177 of the Krasnosilian's right on. Dear colleagues, how about a little quiet in the hall? Vadim Evgenovich! Thank you. I'm betting on a vote to confirm the decree of 177 Krasnosilski. Please identify and vote. [[13:24:49]] For-65 Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. Edit rejected. Shinkarenko, 178th.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-15-m0.u285	Please place it for confirmation, the committee has rejected it, and account for it.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-15-m0.u286	Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-15-m0.u287	The committee’s position was to take partial account. But on the other hand, since we've turned down 177 right now, my position is 178 should be taken into account.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-15-m0.u288	I got the committee's position correctly: what, since the previous amendment was rejected, 177th, is it desirable for the hall to support and take into account the 178? Yeah?
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-15-m0.u289	Yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-15-m0.u290	Did I get you right?
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-15-m0.u291	The committee counted it.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-15-m0.u292	I get it, yeah. I'm betting on the vote of 178 People's Deputies of Twachenka for her full consideration. Please support and vote. [[13:26:29]] For 293 The decision is taken, the amendment is taken into account. 179th, Vlasenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-15-m0.u293	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We're moving on to another discussion. Now we're being offered different codes to regulate the claims to the judges. We already have a code that says that the second departure is already an abuse of rights, although unfortunately very often there can be a third departure, and a fourth and a fifth. Because it is very common for judges to act in court to demonstrate their bias in a particular trial. Thus, we are now told that if an application for judicial leave is made in three days, another judge is considering it, and if less than three days before the meeting, the same judge against whom an appeal is made. That's ridiculous. We had this experience when the visit was being considered by the judge himself who heard the case. If the judge did not declare a self-registration at the preparatory session, how would he satisfy the request for a visit? Well, that was the case, but they're tiny and, as physicists say, they can be ignored. It's so small.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-15-m0.u294	Thank you. Are you insisting on your right? Is there any way that we can work together? I'm betting on the 179th vote. Not counted by the committee. Please identify and vote. [[13:28:12]] For 134 Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. 180th, Krasnosilski. Don't insist. 186th, Vlasenko. Don't insist. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-15-m0.u295	No one promised to feed on the road. Everything's gonna be fine. Actually, 186 is also about the same question. Dear colleagues, there can't be two different procedural solutions to this problem in the same court case just because the number of days before the meeting has been properly taken care of. If I've served him in four days, another judge is looking at him, and if I've served him for less than three days, he's looking at the same judge. There cannot be a variety of approaches to solving the same procedural issues only depending on the date when I filed the corresponding problem. Moreover, I would like to point out once again that there is already a rule in the codes that a second reference to the same judge during the same trial may be considered to be an abuse of the law. I find this norm absurd, but at least change it. We can't make the same decisions in one process.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-15-m0.u296	Do you insist on voting? I'm betting on the 186th Vlastenka vote. Not counted by the committee. Please identify and vote. [[13:29:59]] For-142 The decision is not taken. 189th, Vlasenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-15-m0.u297	This amendment is similar to the previous one, and I understand its fate. But once again, dear colleagues, there is no way that in the same process the same procedural issues are solved differently, depending on when the issue arose from the point of view of the case. That's not how it works. This is wrong in terms of law theory. It needs to be changed. We need to do the same uniform drainage procedures. I understand they're going to tell me right now that defense attorneys or lawyers in the relevant civil process abuse the rights of retaliation. But once again, I emphasize, there is already a norm that can interpret second departure, second in all, as an abuse of rights. Therefore, it is necessary to give the parties a procedural opportunity, if they see the prejudice of the court, to allow another judge to consider such an appeal. You can't do that. So I'm going to ask you to support this at least.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-15-m0.u298	189 non-committee law, Vlasenka. Please identify and vote. [[13:31:32]] For-144 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. 187 law, Francis Igor Pavlovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-15-m0.u299	Thank you, Mr. Head. Friends, we haven't ignored twice now, let's say, the Civil Code rights, the Civil Procedure Code and the Code of Conduct. Let's not make this mistake in the Administrative Procedure Code. We continue to talk about issues related to the enforcement of a lawsuit, the obligation to act. You and I have adopted two anti-rejder bills at this session. And as our colleagues say, these changes can, on the other hand, provoke raiding. On the contrary, these rights allow us to ensure that we are able to ensure against raids and in making appropriate decisions by government registrars working in the process of administrative conduct. So please support this regulation so that we do not delete such a way of securing a lawsuit as the obligation to do certain actions that may be distributed directly to civil registrars working in the field of justice. Thank you and I'd like you to support my work.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-15-m0.u300	Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-15-m0.u301	Committee position: the application was rejected. And indeed, it is that the obligation to do certain things is abstract and can be used in any way.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-15-m0.u302	I'm betting on the vote number 187 Fries. She's not considered by the committee, the committee insists. Please identify and vote. [[13:33:27]] For-191 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. 190 right, Tuck. Don't you insist? 191st, Knazevitch. He insists.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-15-m0.u303	Here, again, it is the responsibility of the answer to do certain things. Please tell me, if these actions become irreversible, what will they do? Who will be responsible for this if, among other things, what have they just said, whose property will actually be rewritten into another person, for example? And that's all, and the consequences are nothing, because, excuse me, then go to trial, starting with the first instance, by completing the European Court of Human Rights. It will take tens of years, or a few years, even if you can find justice in the European Court of Human Rights, you will get compensation for moral and 9,000 euros, or 10,000 euros, and your property will be in the other hands of a conscientious acquirer. Guys, what are we doing this for, I don't understand? There has never been such a precedent. Please leave and maintain this standard.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-15-m0.u304	Thank you. Edit 191, Knazevitch. Not counted by the committee. Please identify and vote. [[13:34:51]] For a hundred and The decision is not taken. Edit 195, Knazevitch.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-15-m0.u305	Here again, my friends, we're making it impossible to have a primary court review by providing a suit in the event of, think about, conduct competitions, auctions, tender procedures, etc. Now they are only after they happen, even with gross violations of the law. All of it, there's a result. There is a person who, for example, won a fair competition in a formal way because no one can. Then try to prove to the courts that it was unfair. Why are we doing this? There has to be judicial control, operational, instantaneous to such things. These are very tight lines, the lines of these tender procedures. Do you want to wait for these decisions, how long will it be? Everyone's gonna forget about that tender. Guys, let's at least leave this rule in administrative court. It's overwhelming.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-15-m0.u306	Thank you. Are you insisting? 195 Knjazević's amendment is not considered by the committee. Please identify and vote. [[13:36:15.]] For 132 Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. 200 fines, Knyazevitch. Don't insist.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-15-m0.u307	We haven't gotten to her yet.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-15-m0.u308	Let's go. Let's go.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-15-m0.u309	Colleagues, in view of the fact that we had an amendment number 177 that had not been confirmed, which had been taken into account, and the amendment 178 had also been taken into account, so committee law, which is 208, would have to be applied for confirmation. I'm asking the Head to put the number 208 number in for confirmation. They are linked to previous rights.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-15-m0.u310	If I understood the committee correctly, 208 were related to the remedy that was rejected.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-15-m0.u311	Which was rejected.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-15-m0.u312	Which was rejected. 197th, right?
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-15-m0.u313	177th.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-15-m0.u314	I can't hear you, Nestor Ivanovich!
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-15-m0.u315	177, it's shown.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-15-m0.u316	I understand, that's what they've offered. Vasil Ivanovich has already been proposed, and this is the proposal. I'll bet you a vote of 208. It was taken into account by the committee, but when considering the bill in the hall it is appropriate to reject it. Do I get it right? Please identify and vote. [[13:38:09]] For-56 The decision is not accepted, the amendment is rejected. 209 right, Tachenko. [[B in m in s a l in]] It's been 205 years.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-15-m0.u317	It's partially accounted for.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-15-m0.u318	209. Right. Vlasenko, 205 law.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-15-m0.u319	Thank you, Mr. Head. In fact, one of the key questions was raised here. What is the name of our law that we are now considering? It is called making changes there to the relevant codes for improving the review of the courts in the appeal and cassational order. However, this law also deals with questions, first and foremost, related to precautions and precautions. That is, with decisions taken by the courts of the first instance. Let's be honest with everyone about why this is happening. This is done by adopting an unconstitutional law to abolish the number of enterprises that are not subject to privatization, which is now widely transmitted to enterprises for privatization. In order for the courts to have legitimate grounds to stop these auctions, in order for this to not happen, to now prohibit the courts in general any possibility of restricting the tender, the auctions and so on, including the competitions and everything else. I mean, assign whoever you want, with the violations, but.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-15-m0.u320	Committee position, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-15-m0.u321	Committee position: the application was partially counted, first. Secondly, I would also like to point out that the committee's bill takes into account Petovka's ruling, and it is now called: "To amend the Code of Civil Procedure, the Code of Administrative Justice for the Improvement of the Rules of Procedure." It's not an appeal, it's a cassation order.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-15-m0.u322	Edit 205, it was partially accounted for, and the author insists on taking it fully into account. Do I get it right? The committee thinks otherwise. I'm putting 205 on the vote. Please identify and vote. [[13:40:49]] For 128 The decision is not taken. Line 209, Tuck.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-15-m0.u323	Please place 209 revisions on confirmation, since they are closely linked to the 178th edition, which was supported by the hall. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-15-m0.u324	Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-15-m0.u325	In fact, these adjustments are interlinked, so I ask you to consider and support them.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-15-m0.u326	I mean, if I got it right, because 198 was taken into account.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-15-m0.u327	Since 178 revisions have been taken into account, it is now necessary to maintain the 209, too.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-15-m0.u328	178 revisions were included, and it would be desirable to consider 208 Tuckenka's revision. Excuse me, 209 right. Dear colleagues, I'm putting the vote to 209 People's Deputies of Tuckenka for her consideration. Please support and vote. [[13:42:08]] For 283 Decision taken. Edit 209 counted. 211th, Fris. Don't insist. 214th, Vlasenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-15-m0.u329	Thank you, Mr. Head. Again, the honourable reporter pointed out that they had changed the name of the law. This first shows some manipulations, namely, the introduction of a law that was presented to everyone here as a law on the harmonization of court practices and the activities of appeals and court of cassation, and then the issue of security measures was put in place to resolve political issues. And then, of course, the colleague was absolutely right to say that, guys, that's not what the law is about. So it's actually another manipulation of manipulation. And the 214 is about what we've already talked about: that if it's a court, if it's a court of law, then the court that has already established, I emphasize, that word, he's already established a violation of the law, and that has nothing to do with what's written in the appeal, the court has already established a violation of the law, you're suggesting that the court doesn't react to it just because there's nothing to be said about it in the case. It's an absurd construction, the court will be running in violation of the law, it's wrong.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-15-m0.u330	Sergei Volodymyrovich, you insist, right? It's the 214, People's Deputy Vlasenka vote. The committee proposes to reject, please identify and vote. [[13:43:57]] For 124 The decision is not taken. The next amendment is 210, the people's deputy of Dubinsky. Don't insist. The next issue is number 211, People's Deputy Fries. Don't insist. I'm sorry. The next issue is 215, Demchenko People's Demchenko. Don't insist. The next issue is 216 People's Deputy Batenko. Don't insist. The next issue is 217, People's Demchenko. Don't insist. The next issue is 218, National Deputy Vlasenko. Partially counted.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-15-m0.u331	Edited.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-15-m0.u332	Please give Vlasenka your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-15-m0.u333	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. I don't always understand what "edited" is, because you're reading, and it's not really what you're proposing, but it's written that it's edited. I emphasize once again, there are a number of technical issues, more faithful, there are a number of questions that look technical, as if they're technical, but they're not. This is the first time. Secondly, you know, jurisprudence is the science of terms and the science of words, and every word matters. So I insist that my 218th edition be taken into account, not editorially, but taken into account fully, as I noted it and presented it as a subject of the legislative initiative. Because in this case, once again, I emphasize, there are simple procedures that have simply been unregulated, but they are fundamentally important during the cassation process. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-15-m0.u334	218. The author insists on taking full account. The committee did not support this proposal. Please identify and vote. [[13:46:09]] For-125 The decision is not taken. Edit Knazevića, 226th. Ruslan Petrovich, aren't all the adjustments?
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-15-m0.u335	I'm a little bit more, and then.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-15-m0.u336	I see the law is still a little bit more. [[B in m in s a l in]] You're not Ruslan Petrovich, Arthur Volodymyrovich!
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-15-m0.u337	It's just me. The committee representative, here's the thing that you're suggesting that the rejection of the plea will also respond accordingly. But then you have to react somehow, because there is still a rule to return the application for review of the court’s decision under the new circumstances. So you've added a new norm, and in one part you're going to have two different norms. That's not right. You either have to remove the old one or not add the new one. Look, please. I don't insist on voting, but I insist that you take a close look at the technical legal process.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-15-m0.u338	I'll bet you a vote. You don't have to, do you? 228th, Vlasenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-15-m0.u339	Thank you, Mr. Head. Well, first of all, I'd like to draw your attention to what happened yesterday after this bill. There was no conclusion reached by the Chief Legal Authority last night. This conclusion may have come to the fore, but I have not yet seen it. And going back to the 228, in fact, a list of the grounds for the cassation charge must be a key issue that would be considered by the law that wants to improve the work of the court of the cassation institution, is one of the key issues. This is a filter that could be a filter for, on the one hand, the harmonization of court practice and, on the other hand, for the purpose that the courts of cassation not be overloaded, let's say, questions that, in advance, and from the point of view of existing practice, have already been resolved repeatedly by the Supreme Court. So please, I think I've offered the optimal balance just for that, so I'm asking you to support me.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-15-m0.u340	Thank you. Do you insist on voting?
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-15-m0.u341	Yeah.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-15-m0.u342	228, not supported by the committee. Please identify and vote. [[13:48:48]] For-129 The decision is not taken. Edit 229, Knazevitch.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-15-m0.u343	I'll merge with your permission 229 and 230, save time. I'm just going to take the floor and not insist on voting, but I'd like to take this into account. Look, here we're already talking about what needs to be properly misappliced by the court of substantive law is taken into account, that is, what I said. So somewhere we count, somewhere we don't count, well, it's wrong. You're going to have to look at all the text later, because it either went technically, or, well, I can't understand why. It can't be that in different codes, we're putting these things in perspective, Paul Vasilovich, come on, we have to look around. The same is true of the conclusion. Once again, the second conclusion must be the Supreme Court of Derogation. Well, there can be no conclusion. I ask, however, that when we work together, we look closely at the entire text of the bill. It seems like we are. as a letter from Prostquatho comes out: someone wrote one, someone wrote the other, someone wrote the third. It can't be, it's different codes where the same rules of fact, similar, have to be regulated in the same way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-15-m0.u344	And we're going to unify all the codes procedurally, in the same direction that we're going to be.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-15-m0.u345	Don't you insist on voting? And 230 is the same thing, right? 231st, Makarov.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-15-m0.u346	Guys, I can see that without a second reading, we won't be able to do it because we have such a mess right now. They're all seeing it now. Now I'm paying attention to what I said in other codes. The wording of “except in the case of a Supreme Court decision to derogate from such a finding” is not required in this norm, since the derogation from the Supreme Court’s conclusion is made through the adoption of a Supreme Court ruling, which provides a new conclusion on the derogation from an earlier conclusion. Then the earlier conclusion is considered invalid. So in the definition of "except for the case." It doesn't have to be deleted in all three codes. Let's either go back, vote again, or send for a second read. We're there in no hurry, we're going to sit down and finally listen to what the factions tell you, the members of the committee that the judges tell you. And then we'll adopt normal codes. Because he's being polite right now.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-15-m0.u347	231 committee corrections are not included. Do you insist on voting? I'll put her to the vote. Please identify and vote. [[13:51:33]] For-129 The decision is not taken. 239, Knazevitch.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-15-m0.u348	I don't insist on voting. Please say again, this is the same thing as the other codes. We are the reasons on which we are based. We rely again on other articles, again, grounds, reasons. That can't be right. Believe me, from a technical point of view. And then how do we get these rules in different parts of the codex? It can't be. During technical law school, we need to fix it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-15-m0.u349	Can we move on, yeah, let's go? 242, Knazevitch. Makarov, 243.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-15-m0.u350	It's about opening up the cassation. There is now a formulation that the Supreme Court has refused to open the case if the Supreme Court has already ruled in its ruling on the application of the rule of law in such a relationship, except in cases where there is a decision on whether to deviate from such practice. At this stage, the Supreme Court’s conclusions or rulings on the desire to move away from practice cannot be found. There should be another wording: "except when the Supreme Court deems it necessary to consider the issue of derogation from the conclusion of the application of the rule of law in similar relations or considers that the case will contribute to the development of the law and the formation of a single law enforcement practice." It's only about discovery. There can be no such conclusion. The court simply accepted the case and decided. That's the way it's supposed to be.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-15-m0.u351	Do you insist on voting? I'm betting on a vote of 243 Makarov. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[13:53:56]] For-129 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. 244 revision – does not insist on the author. 245, Vlasenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-15-m0.u352	Thank you, Mr. Head. The grounds for refusing to open cassation proceedings, if we are talking about the filters that we are giving to the Supreme Court for the harmonization of judicial practice, are as important as the moment of the grounds for the cassation in the corresponding cassation complaint. So I think it should be written microsurgically and in such a way that there is no possibility of a double, triple interpretation. This is because these changes allow for the possibility of refusing to open the court’s cassation by one person. So it's all going to have to be very, very balanced and very balanced. Regrettably, this has not been followed up in the bill, which follows the preparation for the second reading. So I ask you to support the 245, which solves these questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-15-m0.u353	Amendment 245 is not considered by the committee. Please identify and vote. [[13:55:27]] For 131 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. Dear colleagues, I continue the morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for 15 minutes. 246, Knyazevich. Don't insist. 249, Knazevitch. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-15-m0.u354	We just have to conceptually define ourselves here: we're talking about opening up a cassation or a cassational accusation. Because we write about the charges, about the conduct, about the conduct, about the conduct, and somewhere, we give a person the right to a cassation charge. In this case, as far as I'm concerned, it's still a cassation charge, not a conduct. Conducting it where it is. When it's opened properly by the court. And there's a lot of confusion. Frankly, I don't even know if this can be technically worked out. And I also support Oleg Anatoliyovich, which, except as a second reading again, at best, we're just not going to figure it out right now. I feel for those who have to work together and work with technology, and take responsibility for how to determine which standards are correct and which ones are wrong. So we'll probably get to that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-15-m0.u355	249 axles. Do you insist on voting? Don't insist. Thank you. Makarov, 250th.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-15-m0.u356	Once again, I insist that we are now looking at issues of procedural filters on matters that fall into the cassation facility. If this case has already gone to the cassation facility, there is no need to limit the court to the possibility of a full-scale review of the case. I was giving an example of a tank. I can give many more examples when an illegal agreement was not brought before the parties, but only the order of reckoning was challenged. If such cases come to the Supreme Court and the Supreme Court will see that the Court of First and Second Instance has misapplied the law of material law, but the parties have failed to point out that it should actually sanctify this decision of the first and second institutions and make it a decision of the Supreme Court without cancelling an illegal decision when it is obvious. So please consider my application.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-15-m0.u357	250 fines, national MP Makarov. It's not considered by the committee. Please identify and vote. [[13:58:12]] For 134 Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. 253, Knazevitch. Don't insist. 251, edited, Vlasenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-15-m0.u358	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, for understanding that I do not understand what is considered editorially. Actually, once again, we're offered two new terms. So we have the term "the ruling of the Supreme Court" and the term "the ruling of the Supreme Court after the filing of the appeal." So it's a little bit legal. What difference does it make if you can find out? Do they have different status? What difference does it make? These are the rulings of the Supreme Court, normal and ordinary. Of course, the rulings of the Supreme Court adopted after the filing of the appeal must, of course, be taken into account, the legal positions should be taken into account during the hearing. What if my colleague tells me what to do, if they are different, these decisions? I'll marry you. If this is not indicated in the cassation complaint, you can't quit. I mean, you know, there's some kind of abracadabra, some kind of confusion that's definitely not going to lead to anything good. And I'm asking you to support my 251, but...
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-15-m0.u359	Edited. The owner insists on voting. I'll put it to the vote. I ask you to identify and vote. [[13:59:56]] For 128 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. Knazevitch, 253rd. Don't insist. Are you insisting?
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-15-m0.u360	I'm very short. Here we go again. Here we're talking about. or the misapplication of material law has again been overlooked. I was giving an example of a couple dozen rights back there. In other places, we mention it, and here we're missing it. I don't understand what it's like to be in different codes. Explain to me. You're talking about unification. Maybe I didn't catch anything. Explain. I'm sure I'll agree with your argument. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-15-m0.u361	Thank you. The committee doesn't count. I'm betting on the vote on the proposal to take into account the amendment of Knazević 253. Please identify and vote. [[14:01:10]] For 121 The decision is not taken. 254, Makarov. Are you insisting? Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-15-m0.u362	I insist that: "The court shall not be limited to the arguments and requirements of a cassation complaint if misapplication of the rules of substantive law is found during the proceedings." I tell you that if John sells Peter the rostrum of the Supreme Council and sits with its inhabitants, and the second one is not counted for it, and the court of the first instance decides that this is the right decision, the court of the second instance will decide that this is the right decision, the Supreme Court will not be able to cancel an illegal decision on the sale of property belonging to a third party: neither the first, nor the second, nor the plaintiff nor the defendant. Perhaps you have been affected by this example in some way or not?
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-15-m0.u363	Thank you. Excuse me, add 15 seconds. I thought you ended up simple.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-15-m0.u364	I suggest in all the codes that the court is not limited to the arguments and requirements of the complaint if the case is found to be misapplying to material law, and in that case the Supreme Court can return both the rostrum and the Presidium. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-15-m0.u365	Thank you. Do you insist on voting? Yeah. I'm betting on the 254th vote, Makarov. It's not considered by the committee. Please identify and vote. [[2:02:51]] For-195 Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. [[B in m in s a l in]] 156th, Knazevitch. Ruslan Petrovich, come on. 256th. Let's not insist. Can we not insist? Thank you. 257, Makarov. Are you insisting? 256th.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-15-m0.u366	It's a readjustment again. Do we write laws for the people or for the courts? I'm sorry, I've been talking about two codes. We need to do a specialization "except for paragraph 1 of this article," where it's spoken that the court has not investigated the evidence collected. So it turns out that in his cassation complaint, the complainant has to refer to the actions of the court that the court has not committed. Well, it's a nightmare: in a court of law to force the complainant to write, before the court has considered it, he's got to justify what's yet to happen during the trial, and it hasn't happened yet. Well, guys, let's at least take this technical stuff into account. It's not worth anything to you, but it will definitely help a person to write a cassation complaint correctly so that they don't just get to it at first. Thank you. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-15-m0.u367	Thank you. Dear colleagues, number 256, Knyazevich. Not counted by the committee. Please identify and vote. [[14:04:26]] For-138 Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. Makarov, 257.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-15-m0.u368	Please join me with 259. I need two minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-15-m0.u369	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-15-m0.u370	Dear colleagues, we are finalizing the second reading of the draft Law on Amendments to Procedural Codes. As you have seen during the discussion, this bill is imperfect. There are standards that have to be taken into account, they're not counted. There are standards that are kind of counted but written in a comparative table in such a way that they can't be implemented into an active law. I'm absolutely convinced that right now we're going to make decisions that will be governed by the judge of the first, second, third instance, which will be tried by Ukrainian citizens, lawyers will read this code differently, interpret it. Our task is to reduce the number of cases before the Supreme Court, to make the right, real, understandable procedural filters. By our decision, we can confuse the issue of the consideration of farm disputes, administrative disputes and civil disputes so much that we can only make matters worse and the number of cases will increase. So I am absolutely convinced that we have nowhere to go to. I call upon colleagues from all factions not to support this bill in second reading, to re-read it, to re-read it, to involve professionals, to involve judges, as we did at the beginning, appeals judges, Supreme Court judges, to listen carefully to everyone, and then culturally not to copy what we agree on at these meetings, which we agree on on on a subcommittee, to hold a committee in such a way that everyone can understand, to reach consensus. I ask once again to put to the vote and direct him to the second reading again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-15-m0.u371	Thank you. We could not vote, right, for both of us? I mean, there's only one thing left for Knazevitch, and then we can. I'll give you a minute. No, one amendment to Kniazewicz -- and then we go to the vote. There are no more, are there, those who wish to speak? One minute, Knyazevich. One minute, Knyazevich. And let's go to the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-15-m0.u372	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues, I ask you to pay attention. From the very beginning, you have been asked the question of how can such haste be explained? You said you didn't have an answer, but it was long considered, obviously, it's ready to be considered. And I'll tell you, my fellow Members, this is about the fact that tomorrow the Constitutional Court is going to have a review of Law 1008, and it's clear what the prospect is going to be after the Venice Commission concludes. Because these procedural codes are so called, they are in the process of developing that law. And if that law is declared unconstitutional, I assure you that the same fate awaits these procedural codes. And that non-professional work that we're seeing right now is, unfortunately, very disappointing to me personally. Because these are the procedural codes to be followed by our country, the millions of our Ukrainians who are seeking trial. We've been looking at these procedural codes ourselves for eight sessions, eight weeks, and we've actually destroyed and written a new model in the south that no one understands until the end, even from committee members. So I support my colleague Makarov's position: exclusively re-reading the second reading. And, please, let's await the Constitutional Court's decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-15-m0.u373	Thank you, Your Honor. Let's go to the vote. Please prepare for the vote, take your seats. Dear colleagues, prepare for the vote. I am voting on the proposal of the Second reading Committee and, in general, with the necessary technical and legal regulations, the draft Law amending the Ukrainian Code of Procedure, the Civil Procedure Code of Ukraine, the Code of Administrative Justice of Ukraine to improve the review of judicial decisions in the appeal and cassation order (Registration No. 2314). Please prepare for the vote. Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[14:10:39]] For 237 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Show by factions: "The Servant of the People" – 217, "The Opposition Platform - For Life" – 0, "European Solidarity" – 0, "The Fatherhood" – 0, "For the Future" – 2, "The Voice" – 0, "The Trust" – 14, "the Non-Factional" – 4. The decision is taken, the law is passed in general. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed.
