ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-14-m0.u1	Good afternoon, dear fellows! Good afternoon, media outlets! Please take your seats, prepare for registration. Ready to vote? Are you ready to register? Please register. Registration, I remind you, as always, is done by pressing the green pros button. The first one on the left, yes. [[10:11:13]] There are 274 Ukrainian national deputies registered in the hall. Dear colleagues, today is the birthday of our colleague Vladimir Illich Ivanov. [[Applause]] I wish you strength, success, achievement, victory. Let's get to work. I remind you that we have made a decision and on the Conciliation Council it was similarly confirmed that on Thursday and Friday we are working until 15 hours with a break from 12 to 12:30. On Friday, we're working against the fact that the time for enquiries and the "Rizzna" has been transferred to the end of the day. Is there no objection? Okay. Dear colleagues, a statement has been made from two MP groups about a break with a replacement for the performance. Who's speaking, Shahov? Shahov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-14-m0.u2	Sergey Shahov, Luhanščina, Deputy Group "Trust". Dear colleagues, all 28 years in this important rostrum, many politicians wanted to divide east and west. But the great tribulation unites today, not divisive. There was a huge rainstorm in the west, and thanks to God that there is no serious loss of people, but there are broken families, there is a ruined property. People today live in one another’s homes and are homeless. Everyone also knows that there was a great fire in the Luhansk region. People died. More than 100 houses have been destroyed, the church. The fire had practically reached the hospital in Severerodonetsk. Who's behind this? Who will be responsible for what happened in this land? It was not simply a natural disaster. This happened at the hands of the people who robbed and plundered our country. I now ask Parliament to honor the memory of a minute of silence for those who have died both in the West and in the East. [[A Minute of Silence]] .
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-14-m0.u3	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-14-m0.u4	On more than one occasion, I told them that there was a gang in Lugansk, a gang of those who cut down the woods, a gang of those who trade drugs, even human organs. These facts were found in the dead Sergey of Samaria, who was killed in broad daylight. Billions of dollars stolen from the budget. Who today will be responsible for what is happening in our nation? It's all about a year's work for the new Parliament of the Monotheism. I'm going to every one of you, my dear fellows, to make a temporary investigation commission, and yet to do an audit of the forestry industry where the forests have gone, where the enterprises in our country have gone, who destroyed these enterprises, and why people are fleeing our country today to work abroad. Only we can restore the trust of people in our country for the future, for the sake of our Fatherland, which should be in danger today. And today, everyone is sitting and trembling, whether a child dies of drugs or is burned in a fire, as was the case in the Luhansk region, people were surrounded by fire. Dear colleagues! Not once, and I'll tell you again, enough politics. Churchill said, "He who plays politics loses. "Who does business, builds, not robs, can only win." Let us unite, and yet let us bring about a system of things in our country. Today, we need to immediately remove our duties in the Luhansk district of the head of the Ministry of Public Health, and the boys are back to normal, but he has been working abnormally. To investigate why this happened, why people sat for three hours without firemen and burned directly in hell. We need to go now.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-14-m0.u5	Dear National Deputies! According to article 25 of the Rules on Tuesday, we have 30 minutes for the presentations of authorized representatives of MPs and groups with proposals, announcements, statements, and messages. In this regard, I ask the factions to sign up. Please, Rachmanin Sergey Ivanovich, faction of the political party Voice. It's a slogan.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-14-m0.u6	Roman Lozinski, the Voice faction. Dear Ukrainians, fellow MPs! We all looked forward to the completion of the decentralization reform. Reforms, when money and authority are in the community, when the head of the appropriate community or local councils decide whether to repair a school or perhaps an ambulance may be a road. This was the key philosophy of decentralization when no one had the right to influence the communities, neither the Prime Minister nor the President of Ukraine nor the Head of the President's Office. That was the whole point of decentralization: community resources, empowering communities. But what decisions do we have on the Supreme Council this week? We are offered the right to manage our expenses, community costs at district level, and district government. We're offered to leave the district councils. We're being asked to leave control at the top. We are offered to leave the verticals of those who will continue to pull the strings, continue to call in the circuit baths, and continue to tell us where the funds will be, and where the funds will be. We and the Voice faction are absolutely against this approach, and the funds and authorizations must remain in the communities. What really happened? Let's keep an eye on the hands, first the President's team forgot to change the Constitution, forgot to remove the district councils. Was it in the concept of reform? There was. We're going to have district council elections, we're going to have budgetary authority at the district level. And we remember the Apostolic Region as an example of where 100 percent of the communities have already been formed, but there's a district council left, and this district council is going to stay, and it's a risk and a threat that's on the community. What's all this for? Why such a reform? Just to keep the communities in control. And today, under the walls of the Supreme Council, representatives of the Supreme District, Kotsubinsky, Hotin, Preyaslav, always talked about this, Terebovl, Galic, most communities don't fully understand the authority of the new regions and don't understand how to leave the budgetary weights of influence in the areas. How can we put at risk and blow up everything that has been done for the community? I would like to stress once again that the Voice faction and I are strongly opposed to this approach. Decentralisation is money to the communities, the influence and authority of the communities, not the Office of the President, who will continue to decide on the call. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-14-m0.u7	Yuri Anatoliovich Boyko, "The Opposition Platform for Life".
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-14-m0.u8	Dear Mr. Vice-Speaker, distinguished national MPs! For almost a year, this Parliament has been working, and for more than a year, there is an active president. What is in the dry remnant of their activity today? I think it was a year of colossal deception on the part of the President of Greens and the ruling majority in Parliament, because the question of ending the war in the East, the issue of combating poverty, the question of social support for people -- all of this remained on paper. Both President Zelensky and most parliament have failed to fulfill their pre-election promises, and the "sending boat" of "The Servants of the People" has been shattered into a harsh state in the country. What is happening today in Parliament that we are observing? In the economic crisis, the second week in a row, Parliament is considering essentially lobbyist law on the legalization of casinos. It's a typical political grotesque. Look at yesterday's so-called "now-how" on the sidelines of Parliament's meetings, which are mostly about pushing lobby laws like what was extended yesterday. Yesterday, a law was passed through Parliament, whereby the Cabinet of Ministers has the right to create an authorized structure that receives electricity twice as cheap as the population of Ukraine, and then produces bitcoins. I'm sure this corrupt device will be the subject of law enforcement investigation after the change of power. The position of our faction "The Opposition Platform for Life" is absolutely clear: any consecutive session of Parliament should have one goal. The first is government change, the government resigns, because it's confused priorities, and instead of helping our citizens, it's serving speculators who have bought bonds of domestic government and are making money. And the second is the adoption of bills that help our people survive these difficult times. Everything else that's on the table, as required or begged by the President of the country, without this agenda, is the abuse of the people of Ukraine, it's disregard for the interests of our people, and our faction is absolutely against it, and there will be no participation in this mess. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-14-m0.u9	The People's Deputy Andri Volodymyrovich, faction of the Political Party "European Solidarity" is invited to the floor. Colleagues, please pass.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-14-m0.u10	As Zelensky looks into Putin’s eyes and seeks peace there, Ukrainians continue to be killed on the front. [[B in m in s a l in]] In the last week alone, 10 Ukrainian soldiers were killed while you were laughing. It was only yesterday that three Ukrainian soldiers were killed and among them was a medic who rescued the wounded. And instead of condemning Russian aggression, instead of fighting the Russian invader, you're here in the heart of Ukraine, fighting against Ukrainian. This morning we said good - bye to Taras Matthew, and eight years ago, Matthew’s terrace spent all night at the Language Course near the Ukrainian House. Then we protected language from the Kielczynka-Kivalova Law. Because for Taras Matviev and for any patriot, the struggle for Ukrainian language and the war against Russia on the fore is the same war. Because the war against Ukraine and the political persecution Russia is doing against Ukraine, and the current power is the same part of Russia's hybrid attack against Ukraine. And, dear colleagues, I would like to turn from the European Solidarity to all Ukrainian forces: we must unite and not allow Bill 2362 to be passed and considered here in the Hall. I want to address all the Ukrainians: 16 July at 9 a.m., come here, under the walls of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, to jointly protect Ukrainian language. And I also want to turn to the "ministers of the people," to the majority. Perhaps many of you were either on the Language Course 8 years ago, or watching TV and holding fists for those who stayed at the Ukrainian house. It is up to us today, and it is up to each of you whether this question will be raised or not. It received a negative conclusion from the committee. Ministry of Education v. Ministry of Finance v. Let us be sure that we do not bring him up to date. And to the initiators of this bill, I want to say, don't touch the language. When you sow the Moscow wind, you will reap the Ukrainian storm. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-14-m0.u11	The word is given to National Deputy Timoshenko Yulia Volodymyrni, faction of the political party of the All-Ukrainian Union of Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-14-m0.u12	Dear colleagues, dear people of Ukraine, who, I am sure, listens in part to this Supreme Council! Today is essentially the last week of the session and it can be cheated, so to speak, the final year of the Supreme Council's work can be summed up. To sum it up from the word "sorry." It's sad, actually. You know, yesterday we discussed on the Conciliation Council the question of marking the 30th anniversary of the proclamation of State sovereignty. And the first thing that I fell down to, frankly, per soul when it was discussed was that cynicism and double standards had just engulfed the country today. You know what the national sovereignty of Ukraine is, which has declared this declaration. This is the independence of the people of Ukraine in managing their lives. This is the self - determination of the people of Ukraine in all aspects of their lives. And can we today find that the people of Ukraine are directing their lives in their own state? No, it's not. Because over the last six years, and especially more than a year, you and I have seen that the country is essentially an inclusive external government with financial global structures of a speculative nature. Today, they rule the country in their own interests, and people’s interests are virtually destroyed and overturned. I can tell you that I hold the Declaration of State Sovereignty in my hands. And it says here that the people of Ukraine are the only source of government in the Republic. In addition, it is noted that the land, the nadra, and all that belongs to the country today, the natural resources, are all property of the Ukrainian people. I want to ask you, did this authority or the previous one hold a referendum before selling our agricultural land before selling strategic property? No, it's not. Today, in this room and in the President's office, there is an all-encompassing cause of Ukrainian interest. In all, there is corruption, which is now at the legislative level, lobbying laws have become the essence of the Parliament's work. And it's guided by this whole legislative process in the face of people's interests. And that's why we have to make it clear right now: either we're returning the government of the nation, or this authority with the money price. And in the local elections, the people of Ukraine can fix it and stop it.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-14-m0.u13	The word is given to Grishku Roman Pavlovich, a faction of the political party "Serve of the People". Please turn on Grizzly.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-14-m0.u14	Please pass the word to Artem Dmitruk.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-14-m0.u15	Please, Artem Dmitruk.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-14-m0.u16	Dear colleagues, dear Mr. Head, dear Ukrainians! I address everyone who cares about the concept of security, willfulness and protection of the rights of Ukrainians. As we know, we are actively fighting in Odessa with the bandit regime established by the mayor of Gennady Truhanov. On June 9, Truhanov ordered an attack on the activist and leader of the community's Social Meta organization, Vladimir Savchenka. In the middle of the white day, on a pedestrian crossing, the perpetrators attacked Vladimir from behind, and the one lying in front of the passersby, causing him severe bodily harm. We are confident that this event has to do with the active legal position of Vladimir. That is, the days before illegal slugbaums were eliminated and court decisions were taken to ban the construction of elite CDs in our city’s recreational zones. I want to thank our local police, who are now doing everything they can to find and punish the guilty. I am personally acquainted with Vladimir, and I know how much good he has brought to Odessa and Ukraine. He spent most of his money supporting our boys in the war, and he regularly took the lead in supporting the Ukrainian military. It is he who is completely free to protect the rights of Odessa every day. Vladimir recently became a father. Like every father, he wants what is better for his child and does everything to keep his son safe and comfortable in the city. He's my friend, but I know what I'm talking about. Unlike their attackers and their chairman, Gennady Truhanov, Vladimir, can answer to the law for each word and every action. And now I demand that the law protect him. We're fighting for a happy future in our city. In a city where business can be done by anyone, not just those who join or share with Truhanov’s gangs. In a city where everyone has equal rights and freedoms. We have begun the destruction of Trahanov's regime. And we promise you, Gennady Leonidovich, your bandit era will soon be gone. My official address is to Minister of Internal Affairs Arsen Avakov and Attorney General Irina Venedictova. But please join every indifferent colleague of mine in this room in signing this address. Because the attack on Vladimir Savchenka is not just a single case, but one of hundreds of episodes of the use of force against activists throughout the country who are fighting crime and their pocket groups. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-14-m0.u17	Thank you. The word is given to the national deputy. Oh, the whole group. Now, wait, let the Party for the Future team come out. Igor Gus, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-14-m0.u18	Dear friends, Ukrainians! I'd like to speak on behalf of the parliamentary group "For the Future." I understand that in this room, and in particular in the Office of the President, we are treated differently by our group, by my colleagues. But we're 24 deputies, we're all majors and we represent 4 million Ukrainians in this parliament. For over a year, we've seen that in this room, the party of power divides the deputies into blacks and whites. But unfortunately, a week ago, we learned that not only are MPs divided into black and white, but, unfortunately, our electorate too. The point is that the Cabinet of Ministers' decisions to deputize the People's Servants and a number of others have cost their districts the so-called social and economic development costs. Regrettably, and it's shameful to have a deputy from our MP group, once again the emphasis of four million voters has not been paid. Why? Probably because we have a position. Perhaps because we did not vote in favour of the Land Act, or we do not vote in favour of very many, unfortunately, criminal laws in this room. Please tell me, I'm going to the "Serve of the People" and to President Zelensky, is it okay to divide the electorate into black and white? Please tell me, are kindergartens, schools, hospitals, clinics, other social facilities in our regions, and we represent more than half of Ukraine, they don't deserve state funds just because we're not "minister of the people"? It's a disgraceful story. I want to address the President of Ukraine, Vladimir Zelensky, on behalf of the MP. Mr. President, you were talking about representing all Ukrainians. We demand a meeting of our deputy group with Mr. Zelenski. We want to expand the President's horizons a little bit, tell you what's going on in the regions. And we want to hear the opinion of both the President and the Prime Minister regarding the allocation of public budget funds. If anyone thinks white spots are supposed to be on the territory and on the map of Ukraine just because we're not from the "Serve of the People," that's not gonna happen. It's a disgraceful situation, it's a disgraceful approach. And we believe and demand to change this situation. That's why we're waiting to meet President Zelenski. Thank you. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-14-m0.u19	Thank you. Oleg Ivanovich Kulinich, "Trust" faction, "Trust."
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-14-m0.u20	Good day, dear colleagues, a venerable Presidium! Oleg Kulinich, trust MP. Today our country's economy is in a very difficult state. Restrictive measures related to the coronavirus had a significant impact on her. But if you go deeper, the nature of these problems is much deeper. Not only has the Coroner’s crisis affected this, but it has accelerated a number of negative factors. When we analyze the basic indicators of the State's social economic development in the first half of the year, we can argue that if the government really doesn't take on economic recovery, we have a very difficult and difficult time ahead. These are the specific numbers. During the first half of this year, only 92 percent of the government’s general budget income was realized. So we didn't get 38 billion dollars. The biggest failure was allowed by the customs authorities -- minus 34 billion, and by the tax authorities -- about 2 billion dollars. If Naftogaz and Privatbank hadn't counted their revenue in June for 64 billion dollars, the actual government budget income would have been only 80 percent. That's minus 102 billion dollars. Moreover, in the first half of the year, the government raised 94 percent of the annual revenue of government companies. It's practically the entire annual volume. So it's completely unclear what we're going to do in the second half of the year and what we're going to do with the government budget. Customs smuggling costs the country 5 billion dollars a month. And that's about the sum we're losing to VAT. Unfortunately, during this session we have not considered any anti-trafficking bill, against VAT, and which would really lead the economy into a white country. And such bills are in the session hall, registered in the Council, to be put into the session hall and voted. The standard of living of people has also deteriorated greatly, the income of the population in the first half of the year is 874 billion dollars, while the expenditure is 935 billion dollars. This is a negative trend. People spent nearly 61 billion dollars on their own savings, that's about 60 billion dollars on municipal services. So the government needs to draw conclusions, and together, in a package to the State Budget project, to introduce bills that could actually improve people's lives and that could restore the economy. And we need to make some kind of legislation to support our own production. If we're going to give national guarantees, we're going under our own companies, the national companies that we have. So it wasn't what happened yesterday when it wasn't clear who we were going to lend to, and so it was a complete strategy of our own production that was really necessary for our nation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-14-m0.u21	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the debate on MP factions and groups has been concluded. People’s deputies are invited to take their seats, and we continue our consideration of the issues. Please report to the rostrum. 2285-d. I'll remind you, we're on our way.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-14-m0.u22	Julia Volodymyrna, do I understand correctly that there are five rights on which you will insist, five rights? You can't put someone else's changes for five minutes, they're not yours. Please, Your Honor, take your seats. Let's go back to the agenda. Tymoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-14-m0.u23	Dear Head, I ask you to place five warrants for confirmation and give me five minutes to speak.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-14-m0.u24	Okay.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-14-m0.u25	Amendments 92, 94, 105, 106 and 135. Can I talk to you? Dear colleagues, I was talking today about the fact that we are celebrating the 30th anniversary of the Declaration of State Sovereignty of Ukraine. There is a separate chapter in this declaration called "Cultural Development", where Ukraine is obliged to ensure the national and cultural rebirth of the Ukrainian people, the function of Ukrainian language in all spheres of social life. It's not enough that they're trying to essentially cut the Ukrainian language, but now, in this room, contrary to the Declaration of State Sovereignty, the Act on the Playing Business is being considered. I want to now, considering that the Supreme Council Halls are no matter what they're talking about today, the main thing is to press the Green Button, go to the people of Ukraine, and say that the violation is now taking place in this room. The Declarations of State Sovereignty, in fact, is being trampled on by the national and cultural rebirth of the Ukrainian people, destroying the spirituality of the Ukrainian nation. Because the Act on the Playing Business, which allows you at any point in Ukraine, near schools, near kindergartens, near educational institutions, in residential areas, to organize a comprehensive gaming business, both offline and online -- casinos, bookmakers' offices. And they said it was a great benefit for Ukraine because it would bring 4 billion dollars into the budget. My dear friends, I was talking about that in order for them to add 4 billion dollars to the budget, it would take the people of Ukraine to lose 40 billion dollars, but I was wrong. I was wrong because our experts have completely calculated the whole Act on Gambling Taxation and now I want to say that in order for the President to put 4 billion dollars into the budget of the gaming business, the Ukrainians to lose 82 billion dollars. This will be drawn from the pockets of people, from the pockets of families, from pockets, including sick people, depending on the gambling business. You know, the World Health Organization has determined that gambling addiction is a disease called ludomania and that it is scarier than both drug use and alcoholism. And that's why this law is adopted. And the result of this Act on the Gambling Business is that our people, our children will essentially be at risk of a disease like ludomania. Ludomania leads to suicide, family destruction, and so on. But not all, in this law they not only want to provide the internal mafia with billions of dollars, they also involve the mafia from all over the world, because they allow foreign corporations, foreign participants to participate in the organization here, the bottom-up of our families in the gaming system. I also want to tell the Ukrainians right now that this law provides for essentially the withdrawal of taxes from the gaming business. And now, imagine Ukrainians working hard in the agrarian sector, working hard at factories, at businesses, working hard at entrepreneurs, earning this miserable piece of money for their families, and now the mafia is giving off billions of dollars to just take that money out of people in an illegal way. And the corrections I'm making say that there are so many algorithms that you can't win these games because it's an algorithm that doesn't let you win, it just lets you lose. This is an immoral phenomenon made by the President of Ukraine to order criminal rings that were always made of these gaming halls by drug trafficking centers, prostitution distribution centers. This is essentially the spiritual destruction of Ukraine. I demand that this law be removed from consideration and that it be amended.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-14-m0.u26	Thank you. Then, dear fellows, now I'm going to put these 5 lines in order. Please take your seats.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-14-m0.u27	Julia Volodymyrna, 92th, 94th, 105th, 106th, 135th, right? Dear colleagues, prepare for the vote. I'll bet you check it out. To confirm, I'm sorry. 92, Marussak. The committee was supported. 94th, Frolow. I was also supported. 105th, Reverend. Partially counted. Blocked, partially accounted for, 106th. And 135th, Marcus. It's taken into account essentially. Ready to vote? Ready to vote? Okay. No, we're voting for revisions. I'm betting on the vote number 92. The committee took her into account. They insist on her deviations. I put it to the vote in the paper that the committee has proposed. Please support and vote. [[10:53:14]] For 239. Decision taken. Amendment number 94. The committee took her into account. I'm betting on her confirmation. Please support and vote. [[10:53:42]] For 244 105 correct. I'll put her to the vote. Same situation. I'll put her to the vote. Please be supportive. [[10:54:02]] For 246 Decision taken. 106 right. Ready to vote? I'll bet you a vote. Please support and vote. It's for confirmation. [[10:54:24]] For 242 Decision taken. The factions. 135 revisions. Please support and vote. [[10:54:44]] For 243 Edit is confirmed. Cool.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-14-m0.u28	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. I'd like to turn to the session room to feel sorry for the Ukrainians at last, and even though on the eve of the anniversary of the Declaration of State Sovereignty, I don't want to throw Ukraine into a new big trouble, which is called "the full opening of the game business." We're like Fatherland against this law. We believe that this law will do no good for Ukraine, and it will make the poor of Ukraine even poorer. Because the rich people who go to the casino, they don't eat lunch, but the poor people who lose everything in vending machines, they're just going to be destroyed, they're going to be without any livelihood. That is why I propose that the following amendments be made for confirmation. And please don't support these amendments and vote with red buttons. This is Amendment 146, 206, 225, 310, 322, 462, 469, 509, 518.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-14-m0.u29	Come on. Well, you gave me this list, and I'm going to set up a confirmation check. Dear colleagues, I propose this: to avoid wasting time, I'll call the readjustment, they're all for confirmation, and we'll vote. Is there no objection? Amendment 146. Please support and vote. To confirm, all the changes that I'm about to read are for confirmation. [[10:56:40]] For 232 Decision taken. The next 206 right. I'm betting on her confirmation. Please support and vote. [[10:57:02]] For 234 Decision taken. Edit is confirmed. 225 axles. Please support and vote for confirmation. [[10:57:22]] For 237 Decision taken. 310 lashes. I'll put her to the vote. Please support and vote. [[10:57:41]] For 238. Decision taken. Edit is confirmed. 323 law, Frolov. I'm betting on her confirmation. Please support and vote. [[10:58:08]] For 241
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-14-m0.u30	Decision taken. Next number 462. Please support and vote. [[10:58:29]] For 241 Decision taken. Next item is 469. Please support and vote. [[10:58:49]] For 243 Decision taken. Next line is 509. Please support and vote. [[10:59:07]] For 241 Decision taken. Next line is 518. Please support and vote. [[10:59:24]] For 242 Decision taken. Next item is 529. Please support and vote. [[10:59:41]] For 244 Decision taken. Next line is 530. Please support and vote. [[10:59:58]] For 241
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-14-m0.u31	Decision taken. It's 540. I'll put her to the vote. Please support and vote. [[11:00:19]] For 244 Decision taken. 660 lashes. I'll put her to the vote. Please support and vote. [[11:00:38]] For 245 Decision taken. 704 law. I'll put her to the vote. Please support and vote. [[11:00:59]] For 244 Decision taken. 706 straight. I'll put her to the vote. Please support and vote. [[11:01:18]] For 246 Decision taken. 718 right. I'll put her to the vote. Please support and vote. [[11:01:37]] For 247 Decision taken. Seventy-five-three. I'll put her to the vote. Please support and vote. [[11:01:56]] For 246 Decision taken. 1022. Please support and vote. [[11:02:17]] For 243 Decision taken. 1090. Please support and vote. [[11:02:36]] For 244 Decision taken. 1334. I'll bet you a vote. Please support and vote. [[11:02:56]] For 248 Decision taken. 1709. I'll bet you a vote. Please support and vote. [[11:03:17]] For 246 Decision taken. 1710. I'll bet you a vote. Please support and vote. [[11:03:35]] For 245
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-14-m0.u32	Decision taken. 1929. I'll bet you a vote. Please support and vote. [[11:03:54]] For 241 Decision taken. Next issue, 1930. Please support and vote. [[11:04:11]] For 243 Decision taken.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-14-m0.u33	1945. I'll bet you a vote. Please support and vote. [[11:04:32]] For 246 Decision taken. 2104. I'll bet you a vote. Please support and vote. [[11:04:51]] For 245 Decision taken. 2208. I'll bet you a vote. Please support and vote. [[11:05:10]] For 243 Decision taken. 2311. I'll bet you a vote. Please support and vote. [[11:05:27]] For 248 Decision taken. 2311. I'll bet you a vote. Please support and vote. 2311. Stop voting. 2311 – voted? I'm sorry. 2318. I'll bet you a vote. Please support and vote. [[11:06:08]] For 242 Decision taken. 2448 to the vote. Please support and vote. [[11:06:31]] For 244 Decision taken. 2449. This is the last amendment Krulko insisted on. I'll bet you a vote. Please support and vote. How many bars? Three orders? Two revisions. You can't. Okay. [[11:06:54]] For 243 Decision taken. In turn, what are the changes? Wait. Alexander Sergiyovich Koltunovich. Then we go to voting for the law. Right? Right? It's a deal. Invite the people's deputies to the hall, three requisitions. Coltunovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-14-m0.u34	Dear Dmitry Aleksandrovich, there's a point that my rights were based on confirmation of the territorial gambling zones. But 1828, 1829 and 1834 are amendments to the committee, which are contrary to the concept that.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-14-m0.u35	Number one more, please?
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-14-m0.u36	1828, 1829 and 1834 are territorial aspects. I'm asking for an extra half-minute, I'd like to give other arguments and everything, and we'll put them to a vote, to confirm each.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-14-m0.u37	Give me a minute, will you? In a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-14-m0.u38	Give me a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-14-m0.u39	Start the minute first.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-14-m0.u40	Again?
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-14-m0.u41	In a minute, we'll vote for every turn.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-14-m0.u42	We can do anything, yeah, no problem. We can only take a minute and a half and save time.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-14-m0.u43	Give me two minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-14-m0.u44	Come on. Thank you, Reverend Dmitri Alexanderovich. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that, according to the Kyiv International Institute of Sociology, 56 percent of Ukrainian citizens are against the legalization of the gaming business in Ukraine, they, 49 percent are still allowing the idea of lottery tickets, but in no way legalizing the gaming business in Ukraine. If we choose another sociology – the social group "Rating" – 58 percent of Ukrainian citizens oppose the legalization of the gaming business in Ukraine. Those 4 billion dollars that go into Ukraine's budget are obviously 40 billion dollars being removed from Ukraine's citizens' pockets. This is not about the arrival of foreign direct investment in infrastructure in Ukraine and a number of other points. So we suggest that we just consider people's thoughts and not vote now for both these amendments and for the bill as a whole. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-14-m0.u45	Thank you. Ready to vote? 1828. Alexander Sergiyovich! 1829 and 1834. I'm betting on the vote in 1828 for confirmation. Please support and vote. [[11:09:40]] For 240 Decision taken. I'm betting on the vote of 1829. Please support and vote. I'll bet on it. [[11:10:02]] For 234 I'm betting on confirmation of 1834. Please support and vote. [[11:10:24]] For 232 Decision accepted, correction confirmed. Dear colleagues, we agreed. Mikhailo Mikolaiovich, we agreed, I asked who would insist. They said no one else. Let's go to the vote. Mikhailo Mikolaiovich! No, no, wait! You'll have a percentage, we'll work today. Do you have a percentage of the gaming business? Then we have to vote faster. We've got it all figured out. Thank you! Mikhail Mikolaiovich, did we make a deal? No, it's not. We made a deal, Mikailo Mikolaiovich. Mikhailo Mikolaiovich! I'll bet you a vote. Dear colleagues! I can finally say that. Please take your seats, prepare for the vote. I am voting on the proposal to adopt a second reading and, in general, with the necessary technical and legal rights, the draft Act on State regulation of activities in the organization and conduct of gambling (registration No. 2285-d). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[11:12:11]] For 248 Decision taken. Let's see the factions. "Serve of the People" – 224, "For the Future" – 4, "Trust" – 18, "non-factional" – 2. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to issues. Dear colleagues, you are invited. Raducci Mikhailo Borisovich, of the procedure. Out of place, please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-14-m0.u46	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues! Please defer consideration of Law 3648, as no answer has yet been received from NAZK.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-14-m0.u47	Dear colleagues, the issue of registration number 3648 is the committee head’s proposal today not to consider for objective reasons. Is there no objection? Can we not discuss it? No, we either vote. We're not talking. [[B in m in s a l in]] No, we can either make and make decisions or postponement, or if that's a consensus. There's no discussion here. If you insist, then I am voting on a motion by the chairman of the committee to postpone the bill's consideration of registration number 3648 in view of the fact that it is currently under consideration at NAZK. I'm betting on the vote on this proposal. Please support and vote. [[11:14:36]] For 281 Decision taken. Thank you. The next issue of the agenda is the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the State Budget for Ukraine 2020 (for additional measures for the financial recovery of the state-owned enterprise "Production Union South Engineering Plant O.M. Makarov") (registration number 3697). Dear colleagues, we need to make a decision to include this issue in the agenda. Support is needed for 226 Ukrainian national deputies. Please prepare for the vote. Ready to vote? Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[11:15:44]] For 296 Decision taken. It is suggested that the ad hoc procedure be followed for consideration and decision-making at this plenary session. Please support and vote. [[11:16:06]] For 301 Decision taken. It is suggested that this issue be considered in a simplified manner. Please support and vote. [[11:16:27]] For 246 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, the National Deputy of Ukraine, Kisilevski Dmitry Davidovich, is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-14-m0.u48	Dear colleagues, good afternoon! Your attention is given to the bill on the repayment of the debts of the company "Southernmash". Colleagues, what's the Southman? This is the only Ukrainian enterprise that manufactures rockets. It's not ore, it's not grain, it's Ukraine's path to the future, and I hope and I'm sure it's going to be space in our country. There's 6,000 people working at the South German factory. And for 11 months now, these 6,000 people don't get paid. Colleagues, 11 months, just think about it. We make decisions about miners, whose work is also highly respected, but even there is no such debt. And these people keep going to work. And it is thanks to them that our country still has the ability to produce rockets. Sometimes I think, well, why don't you quit this job if you don't get paid so much time why do you go to this job? But they still don't throw away, they still go to this job, because rockets, the production of rockets are their lives. The Northman is in the city of Dniper. If anyone was in Dniper, he knows there's no family in Dniper that doesn't have a man working for the South. The bill deals with paying off debts of about 300 million dollars. And there's also about 2 billion dollars of debt in front of the budget. Today, the Budget Committee has decided that we will pay off our debts and that we will defer our debts to the budget for several years so that the plant will be able to recover and improve its financial position. The space agency is now working on a program of measures that will allow the company to return its payability so that it does not walk with an outstretched hand, where it could take money to pay, but could produce the product for which it was made and, in fact, space rockets. There was a meeting of the Committee on Economic Development in Dniper, where the committee's decision confirmed the list of actions that we are taking in sequence to bring Ukraine's space sector back to the position it should be in. So, colleagues, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-14-m0.u49	Thank you, Dmitri Davidovich. The chairman of the Committee on Budget Affairs, Oblivious Lesia Valentinovna, is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-14-m0.u50	Good afternoon, dear fellows! On 14 July, the Committee on Budget Affairs considered bill 3697 on changes to the State budget for 2020 on additional measures for the financial recovery of the South. The committee has examined a bill that takes into account the findings of the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration and the Ministry of Finance. And notice the main issues that are reflected in the Committee's letter. In particular, it is suggested that a number of legislative provisions be clarified. In part, exclude the increase in income under the "Other Comings" code and determine the development costs of the new programme, totaling 342 million, 63.9 thousand dollars, with the appointment of this program as a source of financial support for the state-owned enterprise "Southernmash". Clarify the budgetary indicators by taking into account the laws adopted. Leave a rule on the need for the government to approve the Southern Development Plan. And in general, taking into account the above, the Committee on Budget Affairs recommends to the Supreme Council Bill 3697 on the outcome of the first reading review to be adopted on a basis and generally as a law that takes into account the proposals set out in the Committee's letter. Please support the committee's decision. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-14-m0.u51	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please sign up: two for, two for, and two against the MP factions and groups. Nemira Grigory Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-14-m0.u52	Please pass the word to John Kirilenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-14-m0.u53	Dear Head, dear colleagues! I want to remind you that at the start of our independence, we were very proud. And especially one of the greatest, most glorious, most promising in terms of scientific and technological progress by a company with a proud name for the Abbreviation of the U.M.S., is now a more common "Southernian". Why are you so proud? But because we were then in a trinity of five cosmic states at that time, having the most modern, most powerful, localized production with new technologies, with the best in the world of the South World KP, which was led by the brightest rocket-space technology, by Yangel, Konuhov, and the company's CEO was twice the Makarov Work Hero. And so they say they came, lived. By not adopting this law and not supporting the labour force, the Southmusz is a bankruptcy, and Ukraine will disappear from the map of space-based states forever and will definitely fall on the sidelines of the raw materials of this world. In order for the funeral team to not fall on us, we must definitely vote in favour. And in general, on a large scale, take up the prospect of the state, not as much of a disgrace as a game business, a waste of land that we have unfortunately devoted to the lion's share of our plenary time in this middle of the year. Fatherland votes in favour.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-14-m0.u54	Thank you. Katchura Alexander Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-14-m0.u55	Alexander Kachura, "Serial of the People" faction. In general, I support the Southern. And please give the word to the college about the factions of Maxim Bujanski.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-14-m0.u56	Honorable colleagues, distinguished presidency, distinguished employees of the South German! I've waited a year for this moment. We have to save the Northman. It's our pride, it's our way to space, it's our way to the future. So I'm glad to see that the entire Ukrainian Parliament will support the fact that debts will be paid in the year that the Southern workers are working, not sitting at home, but working without pay. I thank everyone who has supported the inclusion of this issue in the agenda. I thank everyone who supported this bill. And I'm asking each of you to support the Southern, to support our future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-14-m0.u57	Thank you. Coltunovich Alexander Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-14-m0.u58	Thank you. Dear Dmitry Alexanderovich, distinguished national MPs! I want to bring you back to the distances of 2012 and 2013 when Ukraine was facing the issue of choosing an economic integration vector. And then it was my colleagues Victor Medvedchuk and others who warned us, and we did the right research to think that a wrong vector of economic integration would actually lead to a killer situation in the high-tech industries. We broke up and canceled the area of free trade with the SND countries. We joined a free trade zone with the countries of the European Union. And what did we get? We've lost our high-tech potential. We started to produce less than 1 percent of the innovation that we produced in the industrial structure. The Yusmash situation is the only example. There is a much more complex situation in other objects that have lost their traditional markets, which have lost their cooperative ties. And when we talk about support, we don't need 300 million dollars, even though it's important to share and pay people back, and we need to rebuild mutual economic ties with the countries of the Eurasian Economic Union. If we want to deepen and create high-tech production, we need to restore the Eurasian vector of economic integration. For example. A country like Singapore joined the free trade zone with the countries of the Eurasian Economic Union. Singapore is a country that creates the future, creates modern technologies and generates high added value in the country. So, of course, our party will support this bill. But let us deepen economic ties and regional economic cooperation with the countries of the Eurasian Economic Union because there is a highly technological, innovative future. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-14-m0.u59	Gerasimov Arthur Volodymyrovich. Zabrodsky? Mikhailo Vitaliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-14-m0.u60	Dear colleagues, dear Mr. Head! This is about no exaggeration of a strategic enterprise located in the south, almost south of our country, in a millionth city. And not the former, but I'm sure, the future flagman of our missile-space industry and nothing else. Even now, in the face of severe competition in the world market, the South Machine Factory continues to participate in an international program, in the American program, by the way, concerning the delivery of cargo to an international space station. It's about the Antares rocket, which continues to be produced in this factory. That's the first one. The other one. Undoubtedly, the solution to the social issue, namely, the debt of wages to the people of a million cities, is a very big step, and this is our debt as representatives of the people, and our debt as representatives of the state to the collective of this plant. It's a little bit surprising the position they're taking, especially the Ucrobanprom and the Ministry of Defense regarding defense orders. Because we know that the capabilities of the South might not be exhausted by rocket launchers and space programs. Many of them can offer, including what is needed for our Armed Forces and for the defense of our country. And the fourth. The production fate of the South Seas is closely linked to another huge enterprise, without exaggeration, to the South Seas Design Office. And the question of survival of the South Engineering Plant is the question of the prospects, the implementation of all those positive projects that are important to the defence of the country at the outset for the defence of the country, first of all, to preserve our leading role in the development of space and the realization of all those designs and all the interesting works that the South Designer's Office has. This is our debt with you, I repeat, to make the right decision, which will undoubtedly be supported by our faction in order to support our missile-space field and ensure its unhindered movement forward. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-14-m0.u61	The hammer of Igor Fedorovich. After that, Shahov. Then we go to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-14-m0.u62	Dear colleagues, the honourable chairman! The Future Group will, of course, support this bill. And I believe that this bill should unite the hall; we should not politicize the matter here. In fact, "Southernmash" is a business that distinguishes Ukraine. This enterprise makes high-intellectual and high-quality production, and this enables us to see the future of our nation. Of course, the debt that took place in 11 months is really a disgrace. And we should not let that happen. I want to say again that this bill allows you to look at Ukraine at a different angle. And the Future Group, of course, will support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-14-m0.u63	Thank you. Dear colleagues! Shahov is on his way. Then we vote for the law. Invite the national deputies to the hall. Shahov Sergei Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-14-m0.u64	Sergey Shahov, Luhanščina, Deputy Group "Trust". Dear colleagues! We registered with our colleagues four years ago a bill of 2070, which does not require an additional 300 million, 5 billion, as yesterday, just to vote on the Lugansk and Donetsk Free Zones. And I'm convinced that billions of dollars, hundreds of billions of dollars will be poured into the war area. We need to support not only the Southern, we need to support the chemical sector, the oil sector, the gas industry. Today, people are suffering abroad and working for the state there in slavery, and they must be returned to our country. We support this bill. The "Trust" Group will certainly vote. But I demand that you all put to the vote today the 2070 Free Zone Bill for Donbas. Thank you. Sergei Shahov.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-14-m0.u65	Dear colleagues, prepare for the vote. First question I have. The committee recommends the basis as a whole. Is there no objection? No, it's fine. I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on the State Budget for Ukraine 2020 (for additional measures for the financial recovery of the state-owned enterprise "Producer Union of the South Engineering Plant O.M. Makarov"), taking into account the Committee's proposals and the necessary technical legal rights. I'll bet you a vote. Please support and vote. [[11:32:31]] For 317 Decision taken. Wait a second. One more vote. I am voting on the proposal for adoption in the second reading and in general with the necessary technical and legal rights and with the Committee's proposals, the draft Law amending the Ukrainian Law on the State Budget for Ukraine for 2020 (registration number 3697). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[11:33:13]] For 324 The decision is adopted, the law is passed in general. Thank you. A statement came from two MPs about a break with a replacement for the performance. Dmitri's Oksana Alexandrovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-14-m0.u66	Dear colleagues, dear Ukrainians! A hundred days ago, in Ukraine, our Ukrainian doctors had their first bone marrow transplant from a nonfamily donor. A year ago there was no time to dream about it, and now at the OHMATDIT hospital, they're preparing for this second operation. By the way, when the bone marrow is transplanted, the date of 100 days is very important, because now it's clear that the donor bone marrow of the body has been adopted, the surgery has been successful, and our first patient, the little boy Nazar, is going to grow healthy. My colleagues, I want to thank you first! Because you supported my bill 2457 in December. I thank you for each of the 320 votes. We started a bone marrow transplant in Ukraine together. Now I ask you again. For bone marrow transplants to be possible, our Ukrainian bone marrow donor registry needs to be continuously filled. Little Nazarchik was rescued by a donor from Germany. For our other patient, a donor was also found abroad. But there are patients who can't find a donor at all. There is a child in Ukraine who still cannot find a donor. Perhaps some of us or our loved ones are the same person they have been looking for for for months around the world because genotyping is crucial. Gene combinations are so complex that our chance of finding a donor in a world register of 35 million people is only 70 percent. For a Ukrainian patient, this percentage is even lower because there are no Ukrainians in the world register, and you and I are genetically more related. My colleagues, I'd like to ask you to join me in supporting and promoting bone marrow donation. It doesn't hurt to be a donor because a bone marrow transplant is a blood-derived transplant. It's like a regular blood donation, but it lasts about four or five hours, and then the donor completely recovers. And in order to register with a donor, you don't even have to give blood, you just have to take a stroke from the inside of your cheek, then send it to the lab and put your results into the register. Our register needs to be filled. Our register needs to be maintained and financially, because it's not a state charity fund that's funded by charity funds. Each potential donor costs a register of thousands of dollars. Join the Ukrainian register of bone marrow donors. You just have to go online to a charity page, a bone marrow donor register, and register. Then you get this package where you can become a potential donor. Donorship is the noblest expression of humanity, and I'm sure our Parliament can prove it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-14-m0.u67	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the next issue of the agenda is the inclusion in the agenda and the decision to shorten the deadlines for the introduction of alternative bills. This is a bill on State support for investment projects with significant investments (register No. 3760). A decision should be made to include the matter in the agenda of the day session. Ready to vote? Please take your seats, prepare for the vote. The procedure is Sobolev. Sergey Vladislavovich was involved.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-14-m0.u68	Sergey, the Fatherland faction. Mr. Head, I have proved to you all the facts that Law 3201 regulates the same issues of investment activity itself. At a meeting yesterday, both drafts were discussed, but since the deadline for the submission of alternatives had not expired, they decided to postpone. I have a big request because this bill, 3201 to be included, is going through the same procedure on the committee. 3201. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-14-m0.u69	Sergey Vladislavovich, the committee decides to be included in the agenda. I'm going to the committee, if there's a chance, to consider and make that decision. They are not alternatives, but they can be considered as we considered the referendum bill because they are related to one subject of regulation. Unless I'm wrong about your speech. Unfortunately, I'm not so deep in this bill right now. No, it's not supposed to be, Sergey Vladislavovich. I understand there's going to be a committee proposal. I'll definitely turn it on. The Committee would like to consider this possibility. I'll put it to the vote. Please support and vote. About getting into the agenda of the day session. [[11:38:54]] For 209 The decision is not taken. Janko Anton Volodymyrovich, of the procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-14-m0.u70	Dear Mr. Speaker, dear colleagues! A great request to be raised and now to consider, this will be very quickly, the Supreme Council's decision to refer the Supreme Council to the KOM on the need to preserve the unique landscape architecture complex "Sadiba Dahovsky" and to create a state-owned landscape and park museum of the history of the Ukrainian Army. So it's all the authors of all the factions there are, and in principle it's been standing for a long time, and there's a profiling committee of decisions. It's just that time is coming, and it's a very big request to consider even without discussing it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-14-m0.u71	Thank you. This question stands in our order today, but at the very end. The National MP is asking to consider this issue now. Is there no objection? Is His Discussment Needed? Is it necessary? No, it's not. I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis and in general, taking into account the Committee's proposals and the necessary technical and legal regulations, the draft Decision on the Referral of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on the need to preserve the unique landscape and architectural complex "Sadiba Dahovsky" and to establish the National Landscape and Park Museum of the History of the Ukrainian Army (registration number 3581). Ready to vote? I'll bet you a vote. Please support and vote. [[11:40:55]] For 335 Decision taken. Thank you, Your Honor. Let's go back to the agenda. Dear colleagues, you are invited to include in the agenda of the day session the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the Judiciary and Status of Judges and certain laws of Ukraine concerning the activities of the Supreme Court and the judiciary (registration number 3711 and two alternatives – 3711-1, 3711-2). I'm voting on the proposal to include this issue in the agenda of the day session. Please support and vote. [[11:41:59]] For the 250. Decision taken. Dear colleagues, as we move on to the next issue of the agenda, a statement came from two factions asking to announce a real break. Here's the next offer. We're going to have a break from 12 to 12:30 for the meeting of the leaders of the MP factions and groups in my office. Wait. Can I make a deal? A statement from Future and Fatherland. Right? No, they didn't take it today. We're taking a break from 12:30 to 1:00, and please meet me in my office at 12:20. Is there no objection? None. Thank you. Now we're back on the subject. You are invited to consider the draft Act amending article 91 of the Law on State Service (registration number 3489). It is suggested that this issue be considered in a simplified manner. Please support and vote. [[11:43:33]] For 237 Decision taken. The National Deputy of Ukraine, Denis Anatoliyovich, is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-14-m0.u72	Dear colleagues, good afternoon! It's a small technical bill, I'm asking you to pay attention to it. He envisions the appointment of the head of the State Bureau of Investigation to the head of the public service. The technicality of this bill is that, to date, the Director of the FBI is referred to as members of the military and the head office, as, for example, the Director of the NABU, is similar. But in order for the appointment of persons serving in the State Service at the DBD to take place normally, he needs to have the position of head of the public service. It's a completely technical bill that has no effect on the mandate of the D.B.I., and it's necessary for the state service at the D.B.R. to work properly, no less. I suggested it in order to vote as a basis and as a whole, but I see that there might be some comments from the factions. I think we're ready to work on a short scale, I think, in common with the committees for the second reading. Please consolidate yourself, support this technical but important bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-14-m0.u73	Talk to me.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-14-m0.u74	Please, Kornienko Alejandro Sergiyovich is a co-rapporteur.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-14-m0.u75	Honorary colleagues, the Committee on the Organization of Government, Local Self-Government, Regional Development and Urbanization discussed at its meeting on June 3, the draft Law on Amendments to Article 91 of the Law on State Service (with registration number 3489), submitted by the National Deputy of Ukraine, Denis Monastirski. The Committee supports the idea of the author of the bill on the legislative strengthening of the powers of the Head of the State Service of the State Bureau of Investigation for the Director of the State Bureau of Investigation and the directors of the respective territorial offices. At the same time, in view of the conclusion of the Chief Scientific and Expert Directorate in the need for the drafting of the draft, the Committee decided to ask the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to announce, in accordance with part one of article 116 of the Rules, the need for proposals, corrections, clarifications, deletions of errors and contradictions in the text of the bill, other structural parts of the bill or other legislative acts that were not considered in the first reading and correspond to the subject of the committee's legal regulation. The committee also recommends that the deadlines for the submission of legislative proposals and rights be reduced by half. In view of the above, the Committee approved recommending to the Supreme Council, in accordance with article 114, paragraph 1, of the Rules of First Instance, that the draft law be adopted on the basis of the first reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-14-m0.u76	Thank you, Alexander Sergiyovich. Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss? Yes, yes. Please sign up: two in, two in. Please, Zinkevich Jan Vadimovna, faction of the political party "European Solidarity".
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-14-m0.u77	Please pass the word to Alexia Potter.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-14-m0.u78	Alexei Hotcharenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-14-m0.u79	Alexei Hotcharenko, European Solidarity. We're now considering the D.B.I. Act with you. Only it's wrong to call it the State Bureau of Investigation, it's right to call it the State Bureau of Persecution, or the State Bureau of Repression. Because this has turned into a penal body against the opposition of the Ukrainian, which is simply bullied by the Ukrainian opposition, opening up absurd cases primarily against the fifth President, Peter Poroshenko, starting with the Minsk Accords, completing the passage of ships, or the establishment of the Orthodox Church of Ukraine. All that's left to do is open the case. We're waiting for this. It's completely in the spirit of the D.B.I. But unfortunately, even this D.B.I. didn't stop, so it moved on. And it's already turned from even the State Bureau of Repression to the State Bureau in general in Russia. So it's a good way to decrypt it. Why? Because look what they've been doing lately: they're taking equipment from the Ukrainian air force to open up the Ukrainian sky and disarm us before the possible attack by the aggressor country. Next, we don't know where the information from this equipment was transmitted. Yeah, now they're saying, "Oh, we're gonna check it out." How could this be done? Next, the next step of the D.B.I. must be to seal up the weapons warehouses of the Ukrainian Armed Forces, to take weapons from our military, which protect us here and today. That's what the D.B.I. is doing today. And instead of pushing this bench completely, they keep cruising it completely. The pipe broke, we all heard the film and there was a smell all over the country, but the pipe was replaced, and the system was not changed. And the D.B.I. continues to destroy both the opposition and Ukraine. That's the truth about your D.B.I.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-14-m0.u80	Bacunec Pavel Andryovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-14-m0.u81	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs, Paul Bakunets, MP group "Trust." First of all, this bill amending article 91, on the Ukrainian State Service, has this idea of legal regulation of the conduct of the State Service in the DBR. As we know, as a general rule, the head of the public service has to be a civil servant himself. However, it should be noted here that the Director of the FBI is appointed in a special order and therefore does not appear to be a civil servant. This bill is completely technical, it needs to be supported in the first reading, with further work. So the trust MP group will vote in favour of the bill only in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-14-m0.u82	Rachmanin Sergey Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-14-m0.u83	Please pass the word to Roman Lozinski.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-14-m0.u84	Lozinski Roman Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-14-m0.u85	Roman Lozinski, the Voice faction. Dear Ukrainians, dear fellow MPs! What's going on right now? Do we have justice back in the country? We're finally out of law enforcement? We are finally being investigated, not by fielders, but by those who are truly responsible? What are we offered in the law? We're being asked to renew the mandate of the D.B.I. Do you remember who the D.B.I. is? Do you remember who works there now? Janukovic's lawyer, who was the first deputy to run the temporary operation. Those who are trying to deal with things first of all, not those who were on the other side of the barricade with the Berkut and the aunts? What's going on? Do you want to improve the public service, give new powers? That way you won't save the state service. In order to save the public service, it is necessary to provide resources, to ensure absolutely normal working conditions, and then to change the public service in a complex manner. And now giving additional powers to the leadership of the D.B.I., to the leaders of those law enforcement agencies that are completely subjective, to those who, along with the police, now form a police state, is absolute absurd. Until justice returns to the streets of the country, until we have these organs independent of us, until we finally have the police torture and rape together with Avakov, but it will be reloaded as soon as we have open fair head competitions, including the D.B.I., then we can talk about changing state service at the D.B.I. Now return justice, return the sense of security to the people under your house, who are being hunted down and killed there. Justice, Habakkuk retired, the reform of the law enforcement agencies -- and then we change other things in the public service.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-14-m0.u86	Papiev Mikhailo Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-14-m0.u87	Thank you. Please give the floor to the National Deputy of Germany.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-14-m0.u88	Germano Vasil Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-14-m0.u89	Good afternoon, dear colleagues. "The Opposition Platform for Life", Germany, Vasil Ivanovich. It was said that this bill was technical and there was no problem. I'd like to inform you, Your Honor, that these powers, which are given, including to the Director of the DBR, do not comply with the Constitution, this is the first time. And I would like to remind all our colleagues that the Constitutional Court's decision to try to transfer authority through 106 Constitutions for the purpose of directing (and dismissing) The FBI and the activities of the President are recognized as not in conformity with the Constitution. That's why the President, contrary to the direct rules of the Constitution and the decisions of the Constitutional Court, ordered this. And it says that the DBR is a law enforcement authority and it's out of the executive system, so look here for this problem. And today, to give him more or less status to executive power, which is solely controlled by the Cabinet of Ministers, there is an attempt to list government officials. First of all, it's not consistent because you can't be a civil servant of a person appointed by the President. Secondly, I want to say that unfortunately for today, the State Bureau of Investigation, including its leadership, is operating outside the legal constitutional field. Therefore, there is nothing to support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-14-m0.u90	Please prepare for the vote. Next comes Alona Ivanovna's Skrum, and then we go to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-14-m0.u91	Alona's splinter, Fatherland faction. Good afternoon, colleagues! Well, first of all, I'd like to ask from the Ukrainians to the majority. When will we see the new director of the D.B.I.? And when this body finally gets an independent, I hope, and a professional manager? And then we're going to look at these kinds of bills. Secondly, colleagues, the bill is important, though technical. And it actually consists of one line that is already regulated in another bill -- 2260, which we all adopted with you in December 2019, where this issue is settled in a comprehensive way, where there is a separate policy and public service. Unfortunately, this bill is not signed by the President for seven months, colleagues. For seven months, the President has not signed it or returned it to the Supreme Council, and this is a total violation of the Constitution and disgrace. So I urge the President not to violate the Constitution, as Janukovich and Prashenko did, or sign the bill, or return it. Again, hopefully, sign it, and then this question will be solved in a complex way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-14-m0.u92	By the 12th vote? Frankly, we can't make it, Your Honor. Dear colleagues, let's go to the vote. As the national MPs prepared, once again, they approached and asked questions: Break until the first hour. At 12:20 a meeting of the heads of the MP factions and groups and the leadership of Parliament in my office. Thank you. I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of a proposal by the committee to take into account the proposed clarifications when preparing for second reading in accordance with article 116 of the draft Law amending article 91 of the Law on State Service (registration number 3489). Ready to vote? I'll bet you a vote. Please support and vote. [[11:57:39]] For 246 Decision taken. The committee asked for a cut in the half - time supply of proposals and allowances and preparations for the second reading. [[Noise Nodes]] Look, there's an offer. Well, you're asking, why? Go to the committee and ask them that question. I'll bet you a vote on the committee's proposal. Please support and vote on Bill 3489. [[11:58:15.]] For 225 The decision is not taken. The lines are not shortened. There's a break to the first. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-14-m0.u93	Dear colleagues, please. Dear colleagues, can we start our work? It's just a matter of staff, so I understand that no one, right? David Georgievich, your colleagues. It's just a matter of assigning new deputies to the committee. You don't have to vote, do you? We won't, will we? Let's vote now. Ruslan Alexiovich Stefanchuk
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-14-m0.u94	Thank you. My favorite part of our meeting Pursuant to article 60 with the "prim" badge. I'm reporting to the Supreme Council on the creation of the 9th Interfractional Union for Ukrainian Science in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The headquarters of this union are the national deputies of Ukraine: Aresonkova, Batenka, Železniak, Zabranna, Isenka, Kirilenka, Knyazević and Stefanchuk. Next. Pursuant to article 60, prime. I'm reporting to the Supreme Council on the creation of the 9th in the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the Interfractional Carpathian Union. The heads of this association were elected by the national deputies of the Ukraine of Knieżicky, Ruššin, Mokan and Czymbaluk. Next. Pursuant to article 60, prime. I report to the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the creation in the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the ninth invocation of the Interfractional Deputy Union for the Great Building. The National Deputy of Ukraine, Schuljak Olen Aleksyevna, was elected head of this association. All of it! Not yet.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-14-m0.u95	Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the subject. The next issue is the draft Act amending the Code of Administrative Offences for the Strengthening of Administrative Responsibility for the Illicit Trade in Fuels (2515). Please prepare for the vote. It is suggested that this issue be considered in a simplified manner. Ready to vote? It is suggested that this issue be considered in a simplified manner. Please support and vote. [[13:06:55]] For 175 Decision taken. The National Deputy of Ukraine, Dmitry Sergiyovich, is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-14-m0.u96	Dear Sir, dear colleagues! Your opinion is proposed for consideration of Bill 2515, amending the Code of Administrative Offences for the Strengthening of Administrative Responsibility for the Illicit Trade in Fuels. The need to develop this bill is caused by a roadside situation that has arisen in the market for light petroleum products. According to industry experts, the fuel market is at least 40 percent. It's about 2.3 million tons of fuel a year that's in the shade. This is the loss of government and local budgets. According to information provided by the Court of Auditors, in two years the state budget had not received more than 25 billion dollars from excise taxes. Unfortunately, it should be noted that in certain areas of government-implemented regulations are not implemented for the purpose of illegal resistance, and in some cases it is separately sabotaged by local authorities. Yes, first of all, I propose to supplement the Ukrainian Code on Administrative Offences with a new ingredient, which will provide administrative responsibility for violating the order of the fuel trade. Administrative responsibility will proceed irrespective of the systematic nature of such wrongdoing, which simplifies the process of proving the existence of an offence in the person’s actions. So, dear colleagues, please support the bill in the first reading and accept it as a basis. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-14-m0.u97	The Vice - Chief of the Committee on Law Enforcement, Pavlük Maksim Vasilovich, is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-14-m0.u98	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. The Committee on Law Protection at its meeting on December 18, 2019, to carry out the mandate of the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, reviewed the draft Law on Amendments to the Code of Administrative Offences on Strengthening Administrative Responsibility for Illicit Trade in Fuels (Registration No. 2515). The bill will allow for improvements in the effectiveness of the legislative mechanism against the illicit trade in fuel and will ensure the proper administration of excise goods, particularly fuel, and the proper response of authorized public authorities to violations of the rules on fuel trade. The Committee recommends to the Supreme Council, in accordance with article 114, paragraph 1, of the Supreme Council's Rules of Procedure, the draft Act amending the Code of Administrative Offences concerning the Strengthening of Administrative Responsibility for the Illicit Trade in Fuel (Registration No. 2215) as a result of the consideration to be adopted on the first reading as a basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-14-m0.u99	Please sign up: two in, two in, and two in, from factions to speeches and MPs.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-14-m0.u100	The word is given to National Deputy Vátarović Volodymyr Mihajlovich, faction of the political party "European Solidarity".
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-14-m0.u101	Please hand it over to Sergei Alekseyev.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-14-m0.u102	Sergey Alekseev, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-14-m0.u103	Dear colleagues, based on the title of the bill, it seems necessary and appropriate to address the issue of increasing the responsibility for the illicit trade in fuel. At the same time, however, we face a situation where the title of the bill is not entirely consistent with its contents. In particular, this bill has set a standard that greatly complicates the process of attracting administrative responsibility. For example, this does not apply at all to the illicit trade in fuel. For example, it makes it impossible to take a protective measure, such as closing the case of administrative responsibility for immeasurability. This does not apply to the sale of fuel, but applies to all administrative offences in general. So this bill makes citizens' rights more vulnerable. So the faction "European Solidarity" in the first reading will abstain from voting for this bill. And if we need to improve the administrative process, we can introduce a separate bill to address the administrative process. So in the first reading, we will abstain. And in that case, if this rule is removed, then in the second reading, without that norm, we will support it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-14-m0.u104	Thank you. The word is given to the National Deputy Sukhov Aleksandro Sergiyyovich, the MP's "Trust".
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-14-m0.u105	Thank you. Alexander Sukhov, Luganshina, trust MP. Please pass the word to Sergey the Great.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-14-m0.u106	Sergey the Great, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-14-m0.u107	Sergey the Great, Luganskina, the Trust Group. There is no denying that the existence of an illegal fuel market has a negative impact on the level of budget revenues, the quality of petroleum products, consumer rights, and the safety of citizens. So society's attention has recently been given to countering the illicit trade in fuel, eliminating permanent schemes for the illicit sale of petroleum products, fighting raw fuel-fueling points. That's why Trust Group, all of Luhansk will support this bill. And we vote yes in the first reading. Thank you for your attention. Sergey the Great, Luganskina, the Trust Group.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-14-m0.u108	Thank you. Please, National Deputy Abdulin Alexander Rafkatovich, faction of the political party of the All-Ukrainian Motherland Union.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-14-m0.u109	Tsymbaluk.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-14-m0.u110	Cimbaluk Mikhailo Mikolaiovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-14-m0.u111	Mikhailo Tsimbaluk, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear colleagues, in fact, what is happening today in the fuel market or in the oil trade cannot satisfy either public authorities or the level of civil society. Because of that bill, it's necessary. But in our faction there is a warning in 265 articles of the Codex Codex on Offences. Because it is the authors who are asked to make changes and allow, think about it, representatives of the National Police, representatives of the State Fiscal Service, who are authorized to make protocols, to remove fuel, equipment from the court, and anything that the law enforcement authorities consider to be the source of the illegal sale of light petroleum products. The Fatherland faction supports this bill in its first reading. But we suggest that the second reading should be further developed in order for this corruption to occur, this crime that may arise after the adoption of the law, by the law enforcement agencies, to be levelled. In fact, a bill is needed. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-14-m0.u112	Thank you. The word is given to Mother Grigori Mikolaiovich's National Deputy, the faction of the political party "The Opposition Platform for Life", please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-14-m0.u113	Dear National Deputies! Indeed, the bills that are being introduced are all important. Indeed, they should regulate or increase appropriate sanctions for failure to comply with one or the other standards. This is a normal, healthy situation. But according to article 215 of the Ukrainian Tax Code, the fuel has already been referred to underpriced goods, and note that it already exists. The question is about the Criminal Code, this is article 204. Where illicit manufacturing, storage, marketing or transportation for the purpose of the sale of excise goods is already a criminalisation of these acts, it already exists. In part one of the 161 KUPAP with badge 1 is a violation of the order of the fuel trade. It already exists, this article, in KUPAP. I would like to point out that this bill is proposed in the sanctions of the first and second parts of article 161 with the symbol 1 for such a sum as the confiscation of fuel, transport, capacity and equipment used for the implementation of fuel and also the money obtained as a result of the commission of appropriate administrative offences. I want to point out to you that criminalization is and exists. But giving the right to law enforcement authorities and to make the law a duty to confiscate property that is not specified in the law, that property will be third parties, fourths, fifths, or leased or everything else -- there is no such thing. In my opinion, it is still necessary to adopt this law in a balanced way, to consider it. And "The Opposition Platform for Life" is not going to support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-14-m0.u114	Thank you. Dear colleagues, who else is motivated? Yeah, who? Taras Ivanovich Batenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-14-m0.u115	Please, from the procedure, the word Annie Speedboat. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-14-m0.u116	Anna Speedboat, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-14-m0.u117	Anna Krakhod, MP for the Future. Dear colleagues, we all know that today's raw fuel market is over 40 percent and we have to do something about it. So I think that this bill is in time and it needs to be adopted in the first reading. And the flaws he has, we can correct between the first and the second readings. That's why the MP Group "For the Future" supports this bill in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-14-m0.u118	Thank you. Anyone else want to say something? None. Then, dear fellows, I ask you to take your seats. We are about to proceed to the vote. Dear colleagues, ready to vote?
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-14-m0.u119	Ready to vote? I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Act amending the Code of Administrative Offences for the Strengthening of Administrative Responsibility for the Illicit Trade in Fuel (Registration No. 2515). Ready to vote? Ready? Please support and vote. [[13:19:15]] For 244 Decision taken. Let's see the factions. Dear colleagues, you have been invited to consider the draft Law on Amendments to the Criminal Procedure Code (to improve the legal regulation of criminal proceedings) (registration number 2734). It is suggested that this issue be considered in a simplified manner. Please support and vote. [[13:19:53]] For 218. Decision taken.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-14-m0.u120	The word is given to the reporter, the National Deputy of Ukraine, Grigorovni Yatzik. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-14-m0.u121	Thank you. Your Honorable Chairman, Your Honor, is proposing a bill. In this case, we've moved away from the practice where changes to legislation are prepared by scientists, theorists, and we've turned to practitioners who use the Criminal Procedure Code every day in their activities. In particular, our subcommittee has carried out a number of actions in Zaporozhye for the involvement of investigators, prosecutors, investigating judges, investigating lawyers who have worked out certain ways to solve criminal problems in criminal law that have a negative impact on the quality of the trial. In particular, the bill suggests that the concept of "reasoned suspicion" be established in the CPC; that the victim be given the opportunity to take part in the consideration of concerns about the selection of precautionary measures; that the prosecutor be given the opportunity to choose for himself, without recourse to the investigating judge, a precautionary measure in the form of a personal commitment to compulsory judicial control; that the number of urgent follow-up measures to be carried out in the ERDF should be extended; and that prosecutors should be given the right to complain about actions and decisions not taken in the manner envisaged by the CPC. Indeed, GNEU made a number of comments to the bill, which I and my colleagues agree with in part. But these comments can be corrected between the first and the second readings. So I am sure that these changes are certainly positive for the quality of the pretrial investigation. And I ask my colleagues to support this bill as a basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-14-m0.u122	Thank you. I give the floor to the deputy head of the Committee on the Law Enforcement of Grigory Mikolayovich Mama. Please, Gregory Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-14-m0.u123	Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to say that this bill has long been on time, but under the conditions of the pandemic and everything else. But he accepts such standards, such criteria as evaluation and the work of law enforcement agencies, which I would really like to focus on. The first question is that the law enforcement body should actually prescribe the justification of its actions, suspicions and everything else. And it's a legislative thing to do. The other one. Law enforcement agencies, except that we're criticizing them, but at present, there's an increased workload on the work of investigators and intelligence agencies. And this bill gives us a moment to continue the investigation, the pretrial investigation, the prosecutor, not the court as of now, in order to reduce the workload on the district court chain, in order for the prosecutor to continue the pretrial investigation. The bill also excludes the possibility of law enforcement authorities, if they are involved in criminal investigations, seeking to conduct investigative investigations before a court. And if the court has forbidden them to keep or not to provide enough data, the law prohibits the retrial of law enforcement authorities. So that there is no permanent mechanism to get or tow to the judges in connection with the conduct of unspoken investigative investigations. It also prohibits or grants the right (opportunity) to victims or persons involved in the process to charge those illegal abolitions of criminal conduct that are investigated five years ago, ten years ago. In order for a government official not to come, he did not cancel the decisions that had already been investigated.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-14-m0.u124	Thank you, Gregory Mikolaiovich. Dear colleagues, there is an offer. Is there a need to discuss this bill? Yes. Then the offer to sign up is two in a row, two in a row. Zabrodski Mikhailo Vitaliyovich, faction of the political party "European Solidarity".
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-14-m0.u125	Mikoli Knazevitch, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-14-m0.u126	Mikola Knazevitch, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-14-m0.u127	Excuse me, Ruslan Knyazevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-14-m0.u128	Ruslan Knazevitch, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-14-m0.u129	Thank you very much. Ruslan Knazevich. Dear colleagues, I support the idea, frankly, and our faction supports it. The idea is right, we need to extend the rights of the victims. We should probably approach a reasonable suspicion to define clearly in the Code, in the Code of Criminal Procedure. We should finally ban the re-appealing of NCDs to investigators and prosecutors if there is a previous ruling by the investigating court. But there are a number of things in this bill that look pretty exotic or even dangerous. First of all, we're returning an entity as a prosecutor, an entity that's long since gone back to the Soviet past. Because now only the investigating judge can, in accordance with the Ukrainian legislation and European legislation that we have ratified and our obligations to the Council of Europe, be solely the authority of the court, not the prosecutor, or supervisory authority, to establish a precautionary measure. This is a very dangerous norm, and for this we will have serious criticism from our European partners. Similarly, it is unacceptable for the prosecutor to continue the period of pretrial investigation. It's not his function, it's a function of solely investigating judge. These things that we've already forgotten to return now are useless, because believe me, even if we accept them, in the near future they will force us to remove all of this from our legislation. Finally, what is absolutely dangerous to me is that it is possible to grant the right to conduct certain investigative actions until the relevant data have been submitted to the Single Registry of Trial Investigations. This opens up Pandora's cord for those who dream and wait for the moment when he can take advantage of his right. I understand that we can clearly try to identify this list in the law and write that it is exhaustive. And maximum limit and try to somehow localize at the legislative level by predicting how to prevent the action of the relevant authorities of the pretrial investigation. But believe me.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-14-m0.u130	Thank you, Ruslan Petrovich. Please, from the "Trust" of Aresonkov, please, National MP, Vladimir Yuriovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-14-m0.u131	Dear colleagues, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that from the very beginning of the work of the Supreme Council of today's convening, especially in the work of the Committee on Law Enforcement, the idea was that it was necessary to improve and make it extremely practical for the use of the entire Criminal Procedure Code and the Criminal Code. And especially to ensure the level of rights of all parties to the trial, both pretrial and court hearings, and so forth. So today’s bill is just a confirmation of this. And I want to thank our colleagues and Julia Jacek, and Alexandra Bakumova, and Gregory Mama, and many who have worked on extremely important changes. They're not technical in nature, they come out of the practice of using investigators, judges, prosecutors, lawyers, all the participants in the trial. I therefore support the idea that the bill should be supported. The trust MPs will vote for him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-14-m0.u132	Thank you. Taras Ivanovich Batenko, Party for the Future.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-14-m0.u133	I'd like a word with Anton Polakov.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-14-m0.u134	Anton Polakov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-14-m0.u135	Anton Polyakov, Montenegro, parliamentary group of political Party for the Future. Dear colleagues, some of the conclusions of my fellow MPs on the corruption risks in this bill do not exactly match the reality, because these corrupt risks exist now. In 70 percent of criminal cases involving small - scale crimes, precautionary measures are not taken at all, since prosecutors do not address investigators for lack of time. Therefore, giving the prosecutor the right to choose for himself only one precaution is a personal commitment, which, by the way, is kept with those duties that still rely on the suspect under the CPC, by the bill we unload the court and maintain the balance of interests of all the participants in the process. I call on all my colleagues to support this bill, because it's really designed with representatives of both the judiciary and the law enforcement community. And he should be on time. And all disagreements can be corrected to the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-14-m0.u136	Thank you. Vlasenko Sergey Volodymyrovich, faction of the political party "The Fatherland".
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-14-m0.u137	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. Fellows, let's be clear: we are returning to Ukraine the Criminal Procedure Code of the Ukrainian RSR in 1960. Let's be honest! It was then that the U.S.R.S. attorney had the right to continue his term, not paying attention to anyone or anything -- this is the biggest corruption risk in this bill. And as far as I know, colleagues from the Anti-Corruption Committee noted this in their conclusions. It's an absolute negative that can't be allowed. Colleagues pointed out that the procurator's ability to consider the precautionary measures is also a setback, and this is a departure from the commitments made by Ukraine, particularly in the Council of Europe. And we're going to have a big problem with that. That's all we have to do. There's a good thing about this law, and there's a good thing about it, too. Because the impossibility of re-appealing for inconclusive investigative actions is a positive one. Sadly, though, the negatives of this bill overturn positives. If all these negatives are not removed for the second reading, this bill cannot be voted on in any way, in no way. On the first reading, the "Paternity" faction will not support this bill. I say again, we are behind the global major reform of the prosecutor's office, not the return to the USR KPC in 1960. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-14-m0.u138	Thank you. Are they still willing to speak? Please, Coltunovich Alexander Sergiyovich one minute with motive. Fuck.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-14-m0.u139	Fuck.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-14-m0.u140	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-14-m0.u141	Dear colleagues, I want to assure you that in the past it wasn't all bad, that smart people and professionals are essentially raising questions to keep something normal, to improve it to work. Note how until now, investigating prosecutors have been shouting that they have been in session since five o’clock in the morning in the courts, no judges, they are doing something. Believe me, all differences will be eliminated between the first and the second readings. At the moment, the extension of terms, the period of pretrial criminal investigation is not so bad. But it will be the right of the victims to press charges against the court. This bill will put an end to the eternal mechanism of criminal investigation. At least by way of giving the applicant or the party to the proceedings the right to challenge those decisions in a court of law that is taken by the prosecutor. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-14-m0.u142	All those who wish to speak? Let's go to the vote. Please take your seats, national deputies, prepare for the vote. Ready to vote? I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Act amending the Criminal Procedural Code of Ukraine (to improve the legal regulation of criminal proceedings) (registration number 2734). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[13:35:17]] For 217 The decision is not taken. Prepare the national MPs, please. I am voting for a motion to refer to a committee for the re-reading of the draft Act amending the Criminal Procedural Code of Ukraine (to improve the legal regulation of criminal proceedings) (registration number 2734). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[13:36:01]] For 252 Decision taken. The next issue of the agenda is the draft Act amending the Criminal and Criminal Procedural Codes of Ukraine to improve legislation in the field of resistance to illegal possession of means of transport (registration number 3301). It is suggested that this issue be considered in a simplified manner. Please support and vote. [[13:36:36]] For 227 Decision taken. The National Deputy of Ukraine, Medjanik Viacheslav Anatoliyovich, is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-14-m0.u143	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues! I and other National Deputies of the Committee on the Law of the Supreme Council of Ukraine have registered a bill amending the Criminal and Criminal Procedural Codes of Ukraine to improve legislation in the field of resistance to illegal possession of means of transport (registration No. 3301). The project is intended to amend article 289 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine, according to which, instead of the size of the characterization of the crimes in question, the task of major and major material damage is to be followed by a sign such as the commission of this crime on a large and substantial scale. Article 290 is proposed in a new edition: destruction, falsification or replacement of numbers, nodes and transport units of the Criminal Code of Ukraine. And the changes to part one of article 250. The adoption of this bill is important because today the complexity of the detection of illegal occupations by means of means of transport is due to the fact that they are committed by persons who use different criminal schemes, have cross-border connections, high levels of specialization and modern material and technical equipment, etc. It is usually quite difficult to bring those mentioned to the point of criminal responsibility as guides in practice. This is related to a number of issues related to proof of the resilience and hierarchy of the criminal group. In view of the amount of work that such persons do and their role in the process of profiting from committing their crimes, it is important to give a separate legal assessment of their actions. Law 3301 will provide law enforcement authorities with a more effective legal mechanism to combat the illegal possession of means of transport and to protect the rights of owners of means of transport. In view of the above, I ask the Ukrainian National Deputies to support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-14-m0.u144	The word is given to the coreporter, the head of the Committee on the Law Enforcement of Denis Anatolyevich Monastery. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-14-m0.u145	Dear colleagues! The Committee on Law Enforcement considered the bill and recommended that the Supreme Council support it on the basis. Colleagues, what's the bill about? The question of the hijacking of our citizens’ cars is very acute. What's the problem now? When an organized criminal group, and we know that it's mostly the autojackers working as a group, they're using special technical tools to catch cars, today, according to the Criminal Code, they can't be interpreted as a qualifying sign. It's the bill that makes this mistake. Because today, even if the person who stole the car is detained and you know that it is usually one person, they cannot prove that there was a group of people. And it attracts responsibility: a fine or a minimum responsibility. And the second part of this article provides for significant punishment, including deprivation of liberty. So this bill needs the police. We need to work on it much further to the second reading so that we can really resist carjacking. Today, as you know from statistics, this crime, this crime, is mass, in many, it works whole groups. When we worked with you on the bill, "wrong in the law," in fact, a lot of people work in whole groups, divide the city, the area, and they work in vans. To stop this, we need to adopt this bill. My proposal and request from the committee, to take the first reading as a basis and work together. We need to understand that we need to put a dot here on the issue of motorbikes, and here we need our help, our help with you, our legislators. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-14-m0.u146	Thank you. Dear colleagues! Is there a need to discuss this bill? Is there a need? Please sign up: two for, two for. The word is given to national deputy Evtushka Sergey Mikolaiovich, faction of the political party "The Fatherland". Mikhail Mikhailovich Zimbaluk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-14-m0.u147	Mikhailo Cimbaluk, Fatherland. Mr. Chairman, Your Honor, colleagues! In fact, the bill at the time and it is relevant not only to law enforcement authorities who are called and authorized by the State to counter this type of crime and to expose crimes already committed as relevant to every Ukrainian citizen who owns or manages a car. Why? The difficulty of uncovering these crimes, in fact, as the chairman of the Monastery Committee said, is that the detention of a person, even at the crime scene, kidnapping or illegal abduction, as it is more legal, is not a guarantee that a person will be brought to criminal responsibility. It is a change to articles 289 and 290, which calls for the responsibility of those who retain places where these stolen cars or, so - called, scoundrels are temporarily held accountable, to the responsibility of those who break the license plate. This is a guarantee that we will really succeed, first of all, to fight those who are part of criminal organized groups. Moreover, there is no secret that this has already become a profitable business for those who join criminal groups or criminal organizations. Here is the only wish for law enforcement authorities not to say that there is no perfect law at all. The "Fatherland" faction will support the first reading, and the second, by working together, we will improve this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-14-m0.u148	Thank you. The word is given to the national deputy Shahov Sergey Volodymyrovich, the MP's "Trust".
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-14-m0.u149	Sergey Shahov, Luhanščina, Deputy Group "Trust". Dear colleagues, surely our group will support this bill in order to punish those who rob our country. He grabs people who worked with their hands, tearing their palms into the blood to drive a normal car. But we need to look into the eyes of the truth and tell who is behind these thieves, who are robbing them, and who is hiding them. It's a lot of power structures, and even customs, and then our cars from the country are driving through. And I'd like to point out who's going to answer who's behind the thefts in cities behind social transport, which is also looted by strong structures. On more than one occasion, I spoke from this rostrum, and I will repeat: the city of Lysicánsk, the city of Severerodonetsk, in the depressive Luhansk area, where help is needed, and today the enterprises are being destroyed by the state for their own profit. I also said that today, there are strong structures of villains that are unpunished in all cases. Imagine a police officer in Severodonetsk throwing his wife out of the fourth floor, thank God, she survived. She's talking about what he did knowingly, and he's being molested by the chief of police, Sevierodontsky, and she's saying no one's going to be punished. Raven's eyes don't scream. The main thing is to be punished and dealt with in these matters in strong structures. That is why we ask Minister Habakkuk to address the matter in the Luhansk region. Thank you. Sergey Shahov, Luhanščina, Deputy Group "Trust".
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-14-m0.u150	The word is given to the national deputy Rušišin Jaroslav Ivanovich, faction of the political party "Golos".
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-14-m0.u151	Please give it to Alexander Ustinov.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-14-m0.u152	Alexander Ustinov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-14-m0.u153	Dear colleagues! Do you need to fight carjacking? Yes! But not in the way the bill proposes. I want to draw your attention to a few very important points proposed by this bill. First. And that's what's going to apply to each and every one of you is permission to carry out inconclusive investigative actions without the permission of a carjacking court. The only way to do this now is if it's a murder or a crime against security. What does that mean in practice? What any person can now say is that she's suspected of stealing a car or stealing it and putting it on the wire, tracking it. Do we want to give these powers to the police as part of the carjacking? Secondly, and what's very important is that this bill allows for tax evasion for those who are involved in car theft. If the previously so-called broken numbers were already criminal responsibility, we're going to have to prove that this machine is in the wind. What does that mean? That you can bring cars here on transit numbers, not pay taxes for them, and then release them. This means that we are now going to benefit from this law a lot of people who are actually chasing illegal scrapping machines here. If it could have been a criminal responsibility before, it's being decriminalized. So right now, under the carjacking sauce, we want to avoid taxing those who chase cheese cars for scrapping. And the police want additional authority to be able to listen and monitor everyone. I'm asking you very much not to support this. We will abstain and not vote in favour of this bill, because it is once again an extension of the powers of the Police and avoidance of taxation for those who make money through the raw method in Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-14-m0.u154	National MP Papiev Mikhailo Mikolaiovich faction of the Political Party "The Opposition Platform for Life". Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-14-m0.u155	Thank you. Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine! Mikhail Papiev, "The Opposition Platform for Life." Our faction will not support this bill under several circumstances. First, there are some positive points. It's like the irreparability of punishment, it's the resolution of the question of criminal responsibility and the responsibility of criminal groups in general, the invocation of the responsibility of those thefts that use technical means. But what have we seen in this bill? You can see right away that he was written by a Ukrainian national deputy who did not ride the cars that people ride. Because there is pure discrimination. If a thief steals a car worth more than 105 thousand 100 dollars, he gets criminal responsibility. I mean, if MP Mercedes is stolen, he's at great risk of being criminally responsible and being in prison. And if a thief stole a common citizen's gig, it turns out he'll only be under administrative responsibility -- under a fine. That is why we are firmly opposed to such discrimination. The responsibility must be criminal, and if you steal the Giguli from a common man, the same way you steal from the people's MP Mercedes. So our faction, if this issue is settled for second reading, may even support this bill, but we are in favour of having all Ukrainian citizens in equal conditions before the law, regardless of their property status. Let us not only support the rich and protect them, but also support the poor and the common people, the citizens of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-14-m0.u156	Thank you. Dear colleagues, is there anyone else who would like to make a statement? Everybody said it, didn't they? Then I'll ask the MPs to take their seats, we'll go to the vote. I will ask the faction leaders to invite the national deputies to the hall and the national deputies to take their seats and prepare for the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-14-m0.u157	Ladies and gentlemen, please take your seats and prepare for the vote. Ready to vote? Are you ready to vote for it? Do you support me, Ruslan Petrovich? Does the Prince support you? I can't hear you. Based on the base. And here's the basis, yes. I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Act amending the Criminal and Criminal Procedural Codes of Ukraine to improve legislation in the field of resistance to illegal possession of means of transport (registration number 3301). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[13:52:12]] For 274 Decision taken. Thank you. The next issue of the agenda is the draft Act amending the Act on Notariat in Ukraine (removal of legislative colleges and gaps) (registration number 1220). The chairman of the Committee on Legal Policy, Kostin Andriy Evgenovich, is invited to attend. Dear colleagues, this is a big table. Who's going to insist on editing? How many bars? One correction. Knyazevitch, one piece of paper. Who else? He's a schmuck. Three petitions and we can vote for the law? Please don't break up. Ivchenko Vadim Evgenovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-14-m0.u158	Yvchenko, Fatherland. Thank you, Mr. Head. I'd like to thank the committee, but most of the rights I've submitted have been taken into account. And really, it's pretty important when you take into account the opposition's revisions, including the Cimbaluk Mikhailovich. I'll say one important thing. You've taken into account the bill that Consular institutions can't sign off on leases, sub-norends and emphitheus contracts today. It's important for agrarians because they can't do the whole notary thing. And in order for us to have no raiding, including through certain consular institutions, it's important when it's done exclusively by notaries in Ukraine. I thank you personally from the agrarians for this amendment and thank you and my colleague, Mikhail Mikhailovich, for taking most of the rights into account. And we propose to uphold this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-14-m0.u159	Thank you. Don't you insist on your right? At the vote? Knyazevich Ruslan Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-14-m0.u160	Thank you, Mr. Head. I want to support the speaker just now. It's just one of the few exceptions, when, in fact, all my adjustments are taken into account. And I thank both the committee and the subcommittee on which I was present, and we worked very actively. And, frankly, we've done even more than was suggested in our work. The entire series of rights were committee issues that covered many of the discussion issues that had already arisen on the committee itself. This applies, for example, to the organs of justice, to their territorial departments, which apply to the language of notary business and so on and so forth. In view of these circumstances, I am taking away all my remedies, which are rejected, because they are of a purely technical nature. And I'm going to ask for both the faction and the session room to support this bill because it's really useful and one that takes all the warnings into account. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-14-m0.u161	He's a schmuck.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-14-m0.u162	I have a question about 84 revisions. I ask her not to take it into account, because on September 26, 19th, President Vladimir Zelensky of Ukraine signed a decree on recognition of certain decrees of the President of Ukraine, and thus cancelled Decree No. 762, which established a standard whereby the amount of wages paid for notarial actions by private notaries could not be less than the size of government duties. And now this 84 right here is going back into this bill. Please don't support me.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-14-m0.u163	Committee position, 84 revisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-14-m0.u164	The committee's position was to take this into account. But there was a discussion afterwards, and many members of the committee approached me personally about the matter. The question is, this right here returns the minimum wage for private notary services, like one percent of the notary amount. This system was deregulated by the President's decree, which is that we increased competition and increased citizens' access to notarial services. That's why I'm leaving it to the voting room. Please also place this amendment on confirmation.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-14-m0.u165	Thank you. Dear colleagues, if I understand correctly, this is 84, which was supported by the committee, but the state of affairs for today does not insist, does not deny that it will not be supported. [[B in m in s a l in]] I'm betting on confirmation, I know I'm betting on a vote. Vasil Ivanovich, thank you. This was taken into account editorially. I'm putting her on the stand right now. Ready to vote? I'll bet you the approval number 84. The committee doesn't insist on it. Please identify and vote. [[13:57:37]] For-92 The decision is not taken. Edit rejected. Thank you. We can vote for the law. Please prepare, take your seats. Dear colleagues, I am voting on the proposal to adopt a second reading and, in general, with the necessary technical and legal regulations, the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on Notariat (removal of legislative colleges and gaps) (registration No. 122). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[13:58:32]] For 349 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Show me the factions, please. "People's Servant" – 224, "The Opposition Platform – Life" – 23, "European Solidarity" – 25, "The Fatherhood" – 18, "For the Future" – 16, "The Voice" – 14, "The Trust" – 19, "the Non-Factional" – 10. Thank you. Let's move on to the next question of order of the day. The next issue of the agenda is the draft Act amending certain legislative acts (for the distillation of the market for metallurgical raw material and metallurgical transactions) (registration number 2426). The deputy head of the Committee on Economic Development, Kisilevsky Dmitry Davidovich, is invited to attend. Dear colleagues, who will insist on their work? On the books? How many bars? Well, then let's go get the table. All of them? Minko, 7 revisions. Don't insist. I see. Let's go over the table. All of it then. Polakov. Don't insist. Taruta. Don't insist. Burmich. Don't you insist? You insist, don't you? Burmich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-14-m0.u166	Dear Head, I've got eight rights. I'm asking you to give me four minutes to speak, I'll tell you every time, and then put it to the vote, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-14-m0.u167	Okay. Please add three more minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-14-m0.u168	Thank you. Dear colleagues, respected citizens of Ukraine! It's a very interesting law. One day in 2000, I was appointed deputy director of the branch office in Kirovograd. I went to work. As I entered the city, I saw poles without electric wires. After entering the city, the city was without sewers. A telephone cable was pulled out and a micro circuit was left for 70,000 people. So today's bill, which is proposed for adoption, is much worse than the law that existed in 2000 in this area, in the field of metal. What these negatives are all about. This is primarily because today the law proposes to cancel the division of metal into domestic and industrial. Today, my uncle can come and pull the machine from the factory on his shoulders and hand it over. And no one will ask him where he took it. What's more, this uncle, he's gonna get cash from this uncle. If today's legislation required him to identify it by counting the funds into his account, and we know who gave it up to be discovered if he stole it. It's going to cancel today. Take it, pull it and get the money. Third. Neither local administration nor law enforcement authorities should identify those who produce scrap metal. There is no requirement for them — no equipment, no site, no anything. This law, citizens of Ukraine, is very much relevant to the law that we are "servants" today, your "servants" passed the Gambling Act. My uncle steals a machine or pulls out a cable, gets the cash, and goes to play it to fill in the budget pocket later, and he's actually going to fill in the Ukrainian robbers. And not just that. Stealing all that is, not just hatches, not just guides, not just fences on cemeteries, will cut out our industry. All that stands today and doesn't work for any reason, it's just going to be stolen and cut out and empty spaces. This is a very law that we are going to Europe that will improve the lives of the Ukrainian people. I believe that this law destroys Ukraine, destroys our future, strengthens criminality, increases corruption, and it is anti-national. It's also, "servants," you're going to put another coin in your interest and support the people for adopting such a law. And soon it may be that the Servant of the People is going to be a defiant word. Don't vote for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-14-m0.u169	Aren't you going to vote and write? At the vote? What adjustments? One of these? Okay. Amendment number 13. The committee doesn't count. Please identify and vote. [[2:05:21]] For-69 The decision is not taken. Nineteen lashes, Puziychuk. Don't insist. 21st edition, Burmich. I'll bet you a vote. Please identify and vote. [[2:05:49]] For-59 The decision is not taken. Coltunovich. Don't you insist? He insists. Coltunovich, 22 pages.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-14-m0.u170	Mr. Head, I'm going to insist on every correction I've made, because it's the lobbyist law of the Interpipe Company, which, from the last summons, has been stretching it in the past Parliament and is now stretching it in the new one. Those bastards who pass such a bill should know that people who steal equipment in elevators go up to the 16th floor with a chair, because they can't get out, older people, and they go out next to two, and they sit down, and they sit in turn, because they can't get out. Because such ones as you have cultivated the facts to cancel the grading of industrial and household metalwork to accept water - based meliorate infrastructure, pipes, and so forth from natural persons. Natural persons have no right to give up. So I insist that this project is anti-national, it deepens the facts that are going to destroy our infrastructure. And I'm asking you to support this amendment that forms a graduation -- industrial and domestic.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-14-m0.u171	That's 22, right, Alexander Sergiyovich? Please take the seat of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-14-m0.u172	Dear colleagues, perhaps the author of this amendment does not know that everything he says is happening now. And it's because there are legal coalitions that ban certain activities that lead to what this activity is, these thefts, they happen and they happen under the cover of law enforcement agencies that collect bribes from metal scrapping points. We're proposing by this bill to remove the legal co-operations that lead to a militiaman being involved with the buyer of the stolen goods. We're depriving this militiaman of the ability to collect money from scrap metal points and the militiaman will finally start to control these reception points of metallurgy. And that's what the honourable amendment says. Very good. So, colleagues, I want to make a sound that the distribution for domestic and industrial metallurgy has its price -- 60-120 dollars per tonne, that's the size of the bribe they're collecting to close their eyes on this distribution. So we have to clean up this artificial legal colony, we have to clean up this artificial distribution so that entrepreneurs can work properly, and the police are doing it.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-14-m0.u173	Dear colleagues, I place 22 amendments to the vote of the national MP, Mr. Koltunović. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[14:08:44]] For-68 The decision is not taken. The next amendment is the 23rd National MP, Koltunović. Please, Alexander Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-14-m0.u174	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, I'd like to ask members of Parliament what this bill has never passed in the past, and now the lobbyists of Interpipe are dragging it here because they have their quota of deputies. This time. The other one. Amendments Nos. 22 and 23 have nothing to do with the activities of law enforcement agencies, and they determine the gradation of industrial and domestic metallurgy. It's a matter of common sense, it's a question of children falling into sewers with health problems. It's not even a matter of law enforcement, it's a matter of common sense that you cultivate and deepen this problem rather than solve it. Once again, I don't mind that you're dealing with matters in law enforcement. But what do you lick and give people more rights to get drug addicts, alcoholics, other marginals to walk and remove wires, to go and get these hatches and carry them to metal points? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-14-m0.u175	Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-14-m0.u176	The position of the committee is that this amendment has to be rejected because it's harmful, and this amendment, it's fixed corruption. Colleagues, all of Ukraine's metallurgical enterprises, if perhaps the author is not familiar with them, I am happy to invite him to visit all the large businesses of Ukraine that are in Ukraine. All operators, metalsmiths, they say that this norm is the cause of huge corruption. So the whole market supports the fact that this division has to be cancelled. Accordingly, the committee proposes to reject this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-14-m0.u177	There are 23 amendments to the vote of the People’s Deputy Koltunović. The committee proposes to reject it. Please identify and vote. [[14:10:45]] For-61 The decision is not taken. The next amendment is 39th, National Deputy Koltunović. Please, Alexander Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-14-m0.u178	I want to tell you that a committee representative has just confirmed that this is a lobbyist bill, and he has identified those target groups that are just interested in adopting this law. We've been paying attention to Interpipe, but there are others, as it turns out. And now, essentially. 39 amendment is exactly what I'm going to literally read: "It's forbidden to take industrial junk in natural persons." Well, isn't that common sense? When did I go out and talk to you about some populist stuff? I always argue with numbers, essentially and in detail. So you listen to me, you can't have a physical person breaking down, you can't have a physical relationship with him. If you allow that to happen, you're going to tone down the market for metallurgy. That's what's absurd and why I don't agree with your bill. I repeat, all the other questions concerning law enforcement have just been answered by a colleague named Burmich. Please support this amendment and do not vote in favour of the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-14-m0.u179	Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-14-m0.u180	The committee's position is that this amendment has to be rejected, let me comment, that's why. By the 1990s, there was a document in Ukraine that identified what was an industrial metal scrap metal, which was a domestic metal scrap metal. This document was from Soviet times, which contained a list that teapots, tucks, baths are domestic metallurgy, and a plane, a wagon or something else is an industrial metallurgy. Unfortunately, we don't have the ability to make a comprehensive list of goods that are domestic metal scrap metal that is an industrial scrap metal. So when a police officer comes to the point of taking a scrap metal, he's called an eye to determine what's industrial and what's domestic. And it's this ability to look at what's industrial, which is a domestic metal scrapper, that gives rise to huge corruption. So this rule needs to be rejected, actually, this amendment needs to be rejected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-14-m0.u181	I bet on the vote 39th amendment of the People's Deputy, Koltunović. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[14:13:05]] Z-71 The decision is not taken. The next amendment is the 41st National MP of Polakov. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-14-m0.u182	Dear colleagues, when you were sitting at the anti-corruptive committee, you told us that you would make the necessary changes to the second reading regarding the identification of the person who gives the scrap metal. And somehow you turned me down. And I asked for a document, an act of acceptance, which is the primary document of metal scraping, identifying the name, the name and the father of the individual, the number, the value and the description of the metal scrap. You rejected this amendment. I have a question: you don't want to identify the ones who put out the metal scraps? So you're putting this area in the shade yourself. Whoever gives anything -- and you can't find the people who brought either the hatch or the wires, as my colleagues say, or something else, stolen property. Why? Now, you promised not to do that, and now you're proving it's a good bill. Besides the fact that the conclusion of the GNEU is that this bill is contrary to the Constitution.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-14-m0.u183	Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-14-m0.u184	Thank you for your correction. This bill contains the following ways of identifying a person. First, when a metal scrapper takes a metal scrapper, it fills a simplified account with a name, a name, after the father of the person. Also, at the request of members of our committee, we have introduced into the bill a rule that provides for video surveillance at the reception point of metal scrap metal. So we think that this identification is enough. What's more, everyone has to understand that there's no de facto identification now, because this market works completely in the shadows, it's black absolutely, and now there's no identification. And what we do in this bill is a step towards identifying them. So the position of the committee is to reject.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-14-m0.u185	I'm betting on a vote of 41 amendments to the People's Deputies of Polyakov. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[14:15:30]] For-84 The decision is not taken. Next amendment. People's MP Minko. Don't insist. Next up is 43rd, Puzichuk. Don't insist. Burmich. Are you insisting? Oh, you said, I'm just betting, I'm sorry. I'm betting on the 44th amendment of the people's deputy, Burmić. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[14:16:08]] For-56 The decision is not taken. Next up is 45th, Fedienka. Don't insist.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-14-m0.u186	Burmich, 50th Amendment. I'll bet you a vote. Please identify and vote. [[14:16:41]] For-56 The decision is not taken. Burmich, 61st edition. I'll bet you a vote. Please identify and vote. [[14:16:59]] For-55 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. Burmich, 67. I'll bet you a vote. Please identify and vote. [[14:17:21]] For-47 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. Coltunovich, 69.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-14-m0.u187	69 readjustment again refers to contradictions to your common sense that you do not have. Because you're planning to make a payment that's bought into the population of domestic metal scraps, only through cash calculations. In turn, I suggest we do this in cash so that there's still a chance to babysit it. And look, what's the point? Those who offer cash are certainly interested in having Interpipe buy metal scraps for no price, the one that comes from the line of separation, which goes out of some of the warehouses that we've had explosions and then collect this whole metal scrap and then give up the same thing. I warn you not to support a lobbyist bill that was sent in the past but is being extended by so-called representatives of this business group in order to pay them back for the quota in the list of Servants of the People. I call again that this is a bad bill, and every person who gets into a sewer or falls into an elevator will remember you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-14-m0.u188	Thank you, Alexander Sergiyovich, for making such a high assessment of my sanity and our colleagues. Thank you. We will certainly take this into account when we continue to cooperate. I'm betting on the vote number 69, Koltunović. Please identify and vote. [[14:19:04]] For-67 The decision is not taken. Burmich, 84th edition. The committee is not supported. I'll bet you a vote. Please identify and vote. [[14:19:28]] For-51 The decision is not taken. Pasic. Don't insist. Pavluk. Don't insist. Burmich, 98th edition. I'll put her to the vote. Please identify and vote. [[14:19:57]] For-49 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. Dear colleagues, we've gone through all the lines we haven't. For confirmation? Papiev Mikhailo Mikolaiovich, permission for confirmation. Please prepare for the vote, after which we will proceed to the vote in favour of the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-14-m0.u189	Thank you. Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine! First of all, I'm talking to the citizens who are watching, either on television or on radio, or they're listening to events in the Supreme Council of Ukraine, it's a very bad law. He's totally corrupt, he's even, you could say, a thief's law. And I'm surprised at our anti-corruption committee in general, which somehow, somewhere where their interests are, doesn't conclude that this law is corrupt. Now, I want to put 70 amendments to confirm that actually shades this market in scrap metal. It says that the payment paid to natural persons by scrap metal may be made in cash. Do you understand what you're trying to create right now? I mean, we had the same offer that we gave cash to fix the person, fixed, paid for, what kind of hatch is this, which is the copper he cut off from the electric tower. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-14-m0.u190	Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-14-m0.u191	Dear Michael Mikolaiovich, you may not know what metal scraps are being bought for cash right now. But they buy it for the cash they get through the conversion centers, because it's exactly the kind of prohibitions that you want to place on confirmation right now. That's what's happening right now, and it's the highest corruption. And it is our duty to undo this corruption. And I want to show you, this is the cover of the June 2002 Metal magazine. Colleagues, 2002. And it was written there, back in 2002, that there was a problem in the market for scrap metal that needed to be removed immediately in 2002. And since then, these problems have not been solved. And our duty to our nation is to take this country out of this corruption and remove this harmful norm. So we need to back this up, colleagues, and I'm asking you to support this. It's my job, and I'm asking you to support it. And the committee approved it.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-14-m0.u192	They're all over the place. [[B in m in s a l in]] I know, now. Take your time. Thank you. Please prepare for the vote. I'll bet you the license number 70 now. Ready to vote? I'm betting on the vote number 70. She was counted by the committee. I'm betting on her confirmation. She was counted by the committee. The committee is now insisting that it should remain on the table. Do I understand correctly, Dmitri Davidovich? That's right. I'll put her to the vote. Please support and vote. [[14:23:37]] For 236 Decision taken. The edit remains counted. Let's move on to voting for the law as a whole. For confirmation? No, according to your papers, I called Anton Eduardoovich, you didn't hear. I'm sorry. No, it's not. I am voting on the proposal to adopt a second reading and, in general, with the necessary technical and legal regulations, the draft Law amending certain legislative acts (for the development of the market for metallurgical raw materials and metallurgical transactions) (registration number 2426). Ready to vote? I called Mommy. No, it's not. No, it's not. Dear colleagues, I've been following the chart. He called both Mom and everyone. I even watched that Gregory Mikolaiovich was not in the hall. Well, it was there, so it wasn't the hall. So I think we're going to the vote. I am voting on the proposal for adoption in the second reading and in general with the necessary technical and legal rights, draft Law 2426. Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[14:25:14]] For 237 Decision taken. Thank you. Let's see the factions. Dear colleagues, we have accumulated a large number of decrees that our colleagues are passing. Those colleagues who have come to work in Parliament should be sent to work on the committees. And there are two decrees to change the place of work of the Ukrainian national deputies. You have been invited to consider a draft regulation amending the Supreme Council of Ukraine Decision on the Election of Heads, First Deputys, Deputy Heads, Secretaries, Members of the Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the Ninth Call (registration number 3694). It is suggested that we consider it as a simplified procedure. Please support and vote. [[14:26:20]] For 269
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-14-m0.u193	Decision taken. The chairman of the Committee on Rules of Procedure, MPs, and the organization of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Sergey Vitaliyovich Calchenko, is invited to attend. Please, Sergey Vitaliovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-14-m0.u194	Honorary Presidium, Honourable People's Deputies, Regulatory Committee at its meeting, discussed the draft Decree (registration number 3694), which proposes to select the National Deputy of Ukraine, a member of the Party's Servant of the People's Party, Matusevich Aleksandra Borisovich, a member of the Committee on Environmental Policy and Use, freeing him from the duties of member of the Committee on Agriculture and Land Policy. In accordance with part three of article 84 of the Rules, a member who has expressed a desire to move to another committee may make an appropriate statement in agreement with the head of the MP’s faction to the head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. In summary, the regulatory committee adopted a draft regulation, registered 3694, decided to recommend to Parliament that the draft regulation be considered and, in the order of part three of article 138 of the Rules, decided to elect a national deputy of Ukraine, Matusevich, a member of the Committee on Environmental Policy and Use. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-14-m0.u195	Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss this draft decision? It doesn't, does it? Dear colleagues, please take your seats. If there's no one to talk about it. I am voting on the draft Amendment Order of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the Election of Heads, First Deputys, Representatives of Heads, Secretaries, Members of the Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the Ninth Call (Registration No. 3694). Ready to vote? Dear colleagues! Please support and vote [[14:28:43]] For-300 Decision taken. Next.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-14-m0.u196	Dear colleagues! The following decisions, Maslov, Skrum and Eutusek, need to be discussed? You don't have to. We can vote. The "ES" insists on discussing it as usual. Draft Decision on Amendments to the Supreme Council of Ukraine Decision on the Election of Heads, First Deputys, Representatives of Heads, Secretaries, Members of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the Ninth Call (registration No. 3771), Maslova. It is suggested that this issue be considered in a simplified manner. Please support and vote. [[14:29:51]] For 272 Decision taken. The National Deputy of Ukraine, Kalchenko Sergey Vitaliyovich, is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-14-m0.u197	Honorable Presidium, distinguished national MPs! At its meeting, the Regulatory Committee considered an application agreed by the head of the MP's Party "Serve of the People" of Ukraine, Maslova Denis Viacheslavovich, to elect him as a member of the Committee on Legal Policy. According to part two of article 6 and part seven of article 7 of the Law on Committees for the Election of People’s Deputies to the Committee, the principle of proportionality of representation of MPs, taking into account the principle of representation on committees, is implemented. At the time of the establishment of the Committee on Legal Policy, 15 national MPs were elected. Today, 13 national deputies are working for this faction in the Committee on Legal Policy. In summary, the Regulatory Committee has decided to support the statement made by the People's Deputy Maslova, and the People's Deputies of the Regulatory Committee have submitted to Parliament a draft Decree (Registration No. 3771), which the Committee recommends to the Supreme Council for adoption as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-14-m0.u198	Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss? Then I have a request to register only to those who wish to discuss it. Please. Please, Pavlenko Rostislav Mikolaiovich, "European Solidarity". Gerasimov Arthur Volodymyrovich. No, no, then I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-14-m0.u199	Please pass the word to Heratchenko Irina Volodymyrna.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-14-m0.u200	Irina Volodymyrna's character.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-14-m0.u201	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we will certainly support the vote that in a year of Parliament's work, the MP will finally be given a seat on the committee. Because the ruling majority's year has actually blocked the possibility of working on the committee. Because there is not just a quota principle for allowing MPs to work on a committee, but that is how they still try to keep the nationals on short notice, trying to force them into unnatural relationships, into some group to shut down, then voting with a majority. In fact, it is totally insane when the right to work on a committee is attached to a political apartment. And here's the next decision, my friends, where there will also be leadership positions on the committees, we want to draw attention to the fact that "European solidarity", which on the first day of Parliament's work this call declared opposition to the power of the acting, once again states that this Supreme Council violated the key principles of parliamentaryism when the committees of the Supreme Council, such as the budgetary, such as the regulation, should be in the hands of the real opposition, not the majority. And I want to remind you that our political power is the third faction in Parliament, which today is the second to support Ukrainians in the country, has only one committee leader and one first deputy. And this is actually the pay for our opposition. The "ministers" are thus simply trying to humiliate not only the opposition political power but also our constituents who have put us here to defend the interests of the pro-European Ukrainian majority.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-14-m0.u202	The word is given to the national deputy of Gorvat Robert Ivanovich, the "Trust" MP.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-14-m0.u203	Good afternoon, dear fellows! Trust Group will vote in favour, too. We believe that every deputy elected in Ukraine to represent the interests of the Ukrainian people should work on the committee. So I ask everyone to support and vote in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-14-m0.u204	Thank you. Moroz Vladimir Viktorovich, faction of the Political Party "The Opposition Platform for Life".
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-14-m0.u205	Papiev.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-14-m0.u206	Thank you. You know, we have to get up there and get some courage, and we have to sort this out in the end. Because we have many Ukrainian national deputies who are not members of the committees at all today. I'm calling your attention again, Mr. People's Deputies of Ukraine, in your workbook, when you complete this cadence, you will go to free bread, you will have a record of one, not "national deputy of Ukraine", but "member of the committee", "representative head of the committee", "secretary of the committee", "head of the committee", that is, your place of work. Let's settle the question of Sergio Rudik. I remember when the draft ruling was still in motion for only the beginning of this chamber, where it was written down by a member of the budget committee. Then the "servants" didn't give him a mandate, then he got that mandate. So let's get him back to the budget committee where he started. Let's vote yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-14-m0.u207	The word is given to the People's Deputy Rudik, "The Party for the Future." And then we go to the vote. Please, Sergey Rudik.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-14-m0.u208	Dear colleagues, I thank Papiev for his support, but unfortunately, colleagues from the regulatory committee have been constantly finding some sort of "revealing" so as not to give me the legal right to be a member of the parliamentary committee. Almost a year has passed since I have not been able to do so. Would you advise me, colleagues from the Regulatory Committee, that I should not address Razumkov? Perhaps to the United Nations, to Putin, before any mythical heroes are to make such a decision? Because with regard to the "Serial of the People" faction, he just wrote a statement -- and immediately the decision is made positively. Who else do I have to write so that I can legally carry out this part of my parliamentary authority? I will be very grateful for the answer. Yes, and another colleague of Light is the same story.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-14-m0.u209	Are you ready to vote? Please invite the national deputies to the hall, prepare for the vote. [[B in m in s a l in]] No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. You know that, Mikhailo Mikolayovich! I didn't quite understand why Mr. Rudik was being reprimanded right now, because there was nothing offensive about your words to him, or there was some very hidden subtext. Ready to vote? I would like to vote on the proposal for adoption in the entire draft Order amending the Supreme Council of Ukraine Decision on the Election of Heads, First Deputys, Representatives of Heads, Secretaries, Members of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the Ninth Call (registration No. 3771). Please prepare for the vote, invite the national deputies to the hall. Ready to vote? I'll bet you a vote. Please support and vote. [[14:38:36]] For 326 Decision taken. Next decision on Alona Skrum. Is it necessary to discuss whether we can vote? It's about Schrum. Can we vote on Scram? Okay. I would like to vote on the proposal for adoption in the entire draft Order amending the Supreme Council of Ukraine Decision on the Election of Heads, First Deputys, Representatives of Heads, Secretaries, Members of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the Ninth Call (registration No. 3770). I'll bet you a vote. Please support and vote. [[14:39:26]] For 338 Decision taken. The next issue of the agenda is the draft Order on Amendments to the Supreme Council of Ukraine Decision on the Election of Heads, First Deputys, Deputy Heads, Secretaries, Members of the Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the Ninth Call (registration No. 3816). It is suggested that this issue be considered in a simplified manner. Please support and vote. [[14:40:02]] For 288 Decision taken. The chairman of the Committee on Rules, MPs and the organization of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Kalchenko Sergey Vitaliyovich, is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-14-m0.u210	Honorable Presidium, distinguished national MPs! At its meeting, the Regulatory Committee considered an application agreed by the head of the Deputy faction of Fatherland, national deputy Evtushka Sergio Mikolaiovich, to elect him as a member of the Committee on Rules of Procedure, MP's ethics, the organization of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. According to the provisions of articles 6 and 7 of the Supreme Council Committees Act, the election of members of committees is based on proposals made by members of the factions, taking into account the principle of proportional representation on committees of parliamentary factions, and determined according to the quota principle in accordance with the Rules. At the time of the establishment of the Committee on Rules, MPs and the organization of the work of the Supreme Council, one member of the Regulatory Committee was elected from the Party of Fathers. And as of today, there are no national deputies on the Rules Committee. In summary, the committee decided to support the statement made by the national deputy Eutushka and the members of the committee were brought to the attention of the Supreme Council for a draft Decision 3816, which the committee recommends to the Supreme Council for adoption as a whole. Thank you. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-14-m0.u211	Thank you. Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss? Please record who wants to talk. Sign up, please, who wants to talk. Please, National Deputy Truhin Alexander Mikolaiovich, faction of the political party "Slut of the People".
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-14-m0.u212	I give the word to Krulke.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-14-m0.u213	Krulko Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-14-m0.u214	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. Please support this decision unanimously. Thank you. That's our quota.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-14-m0.u215	Thank you. National Deputy Heratschenko Irina Volodymyrna, faction of the political party "European Solidarity".
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-14-m0.u216	Dear colleagues, we have great respect for our colleague Sergey Eutushka, but there is now a ruling that unfortunately contains as great the risks of parliamentaryism as the vast majority of the year. I want to remind you that in European civilised parliaments there is the principle of political culture, when budgetary, regulatory committees, they give themselves to the leadership of opposition as controlling committees. We see a completely different story. There are factions, there are groups that are much smaller than European Solidarity, but they're represented in committee leadership, much more powerful because they're voting with a party of power because they play often with a party of power because they're actually often a leader or a sympathetic opposition. We will certainly support this decision because of our respect for our distinguished colleague, Mr. Sergey Eutushka, even though some of his colleagues are now not acting very well in the discussion with European Solidarity. But we want to focus on the following. If you stand in opposition to this House, the Presidium will not give you a word, the Presidium will interrupt you, the Presidium will show you your place in the gallery, because the Presidium and the majority act here as if they're in power for the rest of their lives. But that's not true. And what I'm saying is, my dear colleagues, that the opposition is not just politicians that you might like or might not like, it's a party that represents the interests of millions of Ukrainians. Minority, but very often the solitaire minority, which can do most of the trick. And we will do that when you dare to put the daily law on restrictions on Ukrainian language into order.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-14-m0.u217	The word is given to the National Deputy of Sufrich Nestor Ivanovich, the faction of the political party "The Opposition Platform for Life".
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-14-m0.u218	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. Please pass the word to Papiev. But remember how everyone worked in the previous Supreme Council and then scream.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-14-m0.u219	Mikhailo Mikolaiovich Papiev.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-14-m0.u220	Thank you again. Dear Ukrainian national deputies, hear the word of the truth. The last call was the same, just as you opposed the fact that the Ukrainian national MPs were members of the committees, and this is directly the constitutional duty of the national deputy to work in the Supreme Council of Ukraine not only by clicking on the buttons in the Supreme Council of Ukraine but also by working on the bills, because the committees are the same as the national deputies of Ukraine, the subjects of the legislative initiative in the broad sense of the word, because the committees can act as authors, collective authors of the draft laws for re-reading and other laws that would defend the interests of Ukrainian citizens. That's why I would very much ask the "Serve of the People," your faction, to clearly support Ukrainian national deputies who are not members of the committees. For example, our colleague of Light, who received the highest percentage of support from all deputies, the national deputies of Ukraine, who received majority support from Kharkiv. That is, a person who has 80 percent of voter support today is not allowed to become a member of the National Security and Defence Committee. One more thing. Today, the Law on Metallurgy was passed. It's absolutely a thief's law. You've created these, you know, fences of these metallurgical collectors. And today there is an urgent need to rename even one of our committees. We need to call the Committee of Anti-Corruption Policy a Committee of Corruption Policy. Because where their corruption is, they draw conclusions that are perfectly normal. And where there's corruption, there's something else. So people take their own interest. I'm asking you to support me.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-14-m0.u221	Can we vote? Aresonkov Vladimir Yuriovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-14-m0.u222	Vladimir Aresonkov, trust MP. Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to address all of you right now, to the members and board of the Rules Committee, and here's the question. Of course, we are now voting on a sort of simple technical issue -- the establishment of the National MP's rightful place of work. And of course, we know our colleague Eutuska. And clearly, we welcome what he will be, I believe, an extremely active and useful member of the committee to which he is recommended. But tell me, we don't know our colleague Sergio Rudik the same way? Don't we know Julia Light? Did anyone forget how she won her own circuit? They claim to work on committees just as much as we all do. And what might be the reason? Political? I don't see them. Technical? Neither are they because they go according to quotas. That's why I'm going to the regulatory committee right now. Dear Mr. Calchenko, I respect you very much. Please pay attention and make sure that the committees are complete and that our colleagues work. And to the end. I know that today's great work is being done by the leaders of the Supreme Council -- both Mr. Razumkov and Mr. Stefanchuk -- so that we can adopt the Opposition Act as quickly as possible and resolve the issue of coalition activity. Dear colleagues, I pay attention, this is a very serious question. The opposition demands the exercise of its rights, and including, we cannot do it qualitatively sometimes because there is no law.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-14-m0.u223	Thank you, Vladimir Yuriovich. Everybody here? Let's go to the vote. Please prepare for the vote. I would like to vote on the proposal for adoption in the whole of the draft Order amending the Supreme Council Order on the Election of Heads, First Deputys, Deputy Heads, Secretaries, Members of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the Ninth Call (Registration No. 3816). Ready to vote? Ready? Please support and vote. [[14:49:51]] For 325 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, next question. There are two bills: 3299 and 3498. We don't have time to look at them. We either vote them out, or I suggest they be considered at the next plenary session. No discussion of both laws. 3299 is based on the whole. I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the Higher Anti-Corruption Court in relation to the adoption of the Ukrainian Act on Amendments to Certain Legislative Acts on the Simplification of Pretrial Investigation of Certain Categories of Criminal Offences (registration No. 3299). Please support and vote. [[14:51:04]] For 328 Decision taken. I am voting on the proposal for adoption, in general with the necessary technical and legal regulations, of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the Higher Anti-Corruption Court in connection with the adoption of the Ukrainian Law on Amendments to Certain Legislative Acts on the Simplification of Pretrial Investigation of Certain Categories of Criminal Offences (Registration No. 3299). Please support and vote. [[14:51:43]] For 331 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, I am voting on a bill amending some of Ukraine’s laws on mecenata activities in the field of sports (registration number 3498). I'm betting on a motion for acceptance based on the committee's proposals. Bill number 3498. Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[14:52:28]] For 298 Decision taken. [[B in m in s a l in]] The committee proposed a basis. Committee position. Masuras? Wait. Author. Please turn on the Mazurash microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-14-m0.u224	Yes, thank you. I have an alternative draft, a bill that.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-14-m0.u225	No, look, an alternative voted. So the question is, in general, you're letting me vote?
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-14-m0.u226	Can I tell?
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-14-m0.u227	Oh, no? No, it's not. All of it. All right, question taken. Dear colleagues, I think if you don't mind, I suggest you close the morning meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and move on to the extracurricular. Ten minutes off? At 2:05 p.m., we start work. At 3:05 p.m., I'm sorry. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed.
