ParlaMint-UA_2020-04-30-m0.u1	Good afternoon, dear fellows! Please prepare for registration. Dear colleagues, please prepare for registration. Are you ready to register? Dear colleagues, please register. [[13:37:47]] There are 342 Ukrainian national deputies registered in the hall. I now declare open the plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Dear colleagues, please be quiet for a minute. Dear colleagues. Artem Valeriovich. On April 26, 34 years ago, an explosion broke out at the Chernobyl AES. There have been terrible events. Many have given their lives in order for us to meet in this hall in Kiev. They were exterminators, they were firefighters, they were doctors. It was a great many people who made the most of their efforts to unite themselves in order to make sure that the terrible phenomenon and radiation that could spread not only in the territory of our nation but also throughout Europe could continue to do everything possible to prevent this from happening. I think we should express our gratitude today to all who have done so. And to mention separately the moment of silence of all those who, unfortunately, gave up their lives for it. [[A Minute of Silence]] Please sit down. A statement came from two factions and MPs replacing the break for the performance. Julia Volodymyrna Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-04-30-m0.u2	Dear colleagues, I would like, frankly, to report this information to you as to the Parliament of Ukraine, which I have tried to announce to the Conciliation Council. When the Conciliation Council discussed this agenda that we are going to be looking at today, I said that we are not fully aware of the tragic situation that is now taking place in Ukraine. I want you to know that as parliamentarians. We have all the parameters for the income part of Ukraine's budget. In April of the month, we're not going to get an income of about 25 billion dollars. You know what this is saying is that after a year it's going to be about 300 billion or more. And you and I just made a 120 We can actually have a situation today that doesn't pay even these higher wages to the boards of supervisors. We've never in our lives, I emphasize, we've never experienced such a financial collapse in our lives. We are not included in the agenda of the International Monetary Fund to address our Ukrainian issue. And you and I may have virtually nothing to do with it in the near future. This background included a speculative model for selling domestic government bonds without restrictions. What does that mean? This means that today, literally right now, 10 billion dollars have been added to the government debt. And there will be a situation where the government debt will exceed the gross domestic product of Ukraine. It's no longer just a threat to Ukraine's national security -- it's a disaster. At the same time, no anti - crisis program is adopted on this subject. In addition, we now have nuclear power grids stopping one after the other. This means that the collapse of the energy system has reached an apogee, there is no anti-crisis program for it, as much as they've announced is the shutdown of three blocks of nuclear power plants. This is the way to nowhere. And the last. The next crop will be up to 25 percent lower than in the previous year. No decision to protect food security exists, no draft government decision or decision to place food grain in the food supply can be found for at least a year. I'm telling you that the country is uninhabited and that we need to demand a meeting of the government, the Parliament and the President immediately, because another week, two, three of these administrations -- we're not gathering a country. We need to act now.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-04-30-m0.u3	A statement came from two political factions -- "The Opposition Platform for Life" and the MP's "Trust" -- about a break with a replacement for a performance. The word is given to the national deputy. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-04-30-m0.u4	People's MP Skork, faction "The Opposition Platform for Life." Honorable Ukrainian citizens, respected colleagues, brought new challenges to our lives in 2020. It's also a coronavirus pandemic, it's a growing economic crisis, it's different questions. But there are questions that are immaterial. This is the question of restoring justice in our country. It's a matter of civil reconciliation in our state. This is a question of restoration in our rule of law. I mean the terrible tragedies that have taken place since the mass murder of people in 2014. The day after tomorrow, Ukraine will mark the next anniversary of the mass destruction of people in Odessa. It's been six years. Regrettably, this term is not responsible for this mass loss of life and no investigation has been carried out. An active president has been working for a year. The new Attorney General has been working for more than a month. From this rostrum I have raised this question on several occasions, including a candidate for the post of Attorney General of Venedict, and it seems to have given a positive answer to the fact that the investigation of 2 May will be really renewed and brought to an end. I want to say that the events of 2014, if they're not investigated, we won't be able to move with you any further, we won't be able to talk about the law in our country. We have to prove that we are a European state. We have to prove that we are a strong state, a state of winners. Today is the 75th anniversary of the establishment of the Flag of Victory over the Reichstag. These are the questions that should unite our society, our nations. And I think that the investigation of this issue should take place. When people suspected of this crime are rallying under the President's Administration and teaching the President and the Attorney General how to live, it's totally insane in a normal European country. I'm turning to the faction of the "Serve of the People" Party. You and I had an appropriate draft decision on the play of the TSC. I am addressing the President and the Attorney General from this high rostrum. We need to resume the May 2nd investigation in Odessa. This is not just what Odessa expects; it is what the whole of Ukraine expects; it is what the entire world society expects. There are also relevant reports from the United Nations, the European Commission, and other bodies. I urge you to really listen to this question. And I am sure that this will really unite society and allow us to move forward. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-04-30-m0.u5	Thank you. Dear colleagues! Dear colleagues, a moment of attention. In accordance with article 83 of the Constitution of Ukraine, part of the eighth article of article 19 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine regulations, we today hold an extraordinary plenary meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. A list of questions is provided. Dear colleagues! First of all, I would like to welcome the border guards to their professional festival today. [[Applause]] This is one of the first to defend the territorial integrity of our nation and the first to take a blow. Unfortunately, this is not the first time in the history of our nation. So let us thank them for the work they do. [[Applause]] Another announcement. Today's birthday: Antonina Kerimovna Slavicka and Sergey Sergiyovich Štepa [[Applause]] We welcome you, we wish you health, we wish you success, we wish you strength and all the best! So let's move on to the day-to-day issues. Dear colleagues, you have been invited to consider the draft Law on Amendments to Article 225 of the Ukrainian Electoral Code (for the size of the pledge) (Registration No. 2769). Is there a need to discuss this bill? No, it's not. Please prepare for the vote. Dear colleagues, prepare for the vote, please! [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, please prepare again before the vote. I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Law amending article 225 of the Ukrainian Electoral Code (for the size of the money pledge) (registration number 2769). Ready to vote? Ready? Please support and vote. [[13:49:26]] For 248 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, the committee recommends that it be accepted as a whole. [[B in m in s a l in]] No, it's not. Okay! [[B in m in s a l in]] Let's see the factions. Next question of the agenda. You are invited to consider a draft decree on the application of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to parliaments of foreign states and parliamentary assemblies of international organizations to condemn the ongoing armed aggression of the Russian Federation against Ukraine, the illegal annexation of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea and the city of Sevastopol and the occupation of individual areas of Donetsk and Lugansk, political repression against Ukrainian citizens and the release of Ukrainian political prisoners. We have to turn it on. Registration number 3068. We need to include this issue in the agenda of the day session. This requires 226 votes in favour of Ukraine’s national deputies. I'm betting on the vote on this proposal. Please support and vote. [[13:50:43]] For the 320. Decision taken. Is it necessary to discuss whether we can vote like this? I'm betting on the voting proposal for acceptance as a basis. [[B in m in s a l in]] I would then like to vote on the motion to consider the issue in a simplified manner. Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[13:51:17]] For 291 Decision taken. The word for the account is given to the head. Member of the Committee on Foreign Policy and Inter-Parliamentary Cooperation, Yaremenek Bogdan Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-04-30-m0.u6	Dear colleagues! Bogdan Yaremenko, Servant of the People, 215th constituency. Colleagues, distress draws closer and closer to conquering it. Today, we honored the memory of those who died to cope with the terrible disaster of Chernobyl, an accident in the Chernobyl AES. Now the dramatic question is occupation, the annexation of our territory, the Autonomous Republic of Crimea and the city of Sevastopol. Working on a draft regulation and a draft statement is really an example of collective work. All political forces, with the exception of one, agreed and supported the draft of this decree, have agreed to discuss this decision. And we should express our gratitude for joining the co-authorship of the Majlis Crimean Tatar people. We should express our appreciation for the active participation in the promotion of these ideas, as expressed in the statement made by the Permanent Representative of the President in the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, Anton Korinevich, Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine. Unfortunately, colleagues, the occupation of Crimea is a long process, and we need to get used to the fact that every year we're going to have to sum up, sort of, the summation of what was done in the plan of the depopulation of Crimea by similar statements. Today’s statement is becoming traditional, but it has innovative motives. Not only do we draw attention to the already well-known aspects of the occupation of Crimea, such as human rights violations, such as the violation of Ukrainian citizens' property rights, we pay attention to what is relevant to international co-operation -- the militarization of Crimea, the military aspects of occupation, the attempts of the Russian Federation to use the Crimea to place nuclear weapons and control Ukrainian nuclear objects. We're talking about a violation of the rights of international merchant shipping. Thus, we approach the world and our citizens with a kind of vision of what needs to be done in order for Crimea to return to Ukraine. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2020-04-30-m0.u7	Thank you. Please sign up from the MP factions and groups. Ironborn Jaroslav Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-04-30-m0.u8	Please pass the word to Solomia Bobrowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-04-30-m0.u9	Samantha Anatolyevna Bobrowska Samantha Anatolyevna, you lost your mask.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-04-30-m0.u10	You can do this without the mask if I'm right. All hail! We're finally looking at this statement, which is actually late, but nevertheless, I finally saw this room. And while we're busy fighting the pandemic, we've got an aggressor country that's stubbornly continuing to suddenly and cynically pair up our humanitarian convoy. Not only in Ukraine, but also in the whole world. I would like to remind you that very recently they issued a resolution to the UN General Assembly on the actual lifting of sanctions. So this statement, which is called to pay attention to what's going on in Ukraine, which is that we, nobody else, should pay attention to and defend our borders, borders and sovereignty, should support our fellow Ukrainians and, in particular, give us a hand of help and information that no one has changed the war from quarantine to coronavirus. In addition, I would like to remind you that by closing this gap, we must finally return the subject matter to the Committee from foreign affairs to full and full - scale work. What I'm saying is that we actually have a failed work in interparliamentary cooperation, and I'm very sorry. And I'm very sorry that every time we choose to talk about the Russian state being an aggressor today. And the last. Taking advantage of this moment, I want to welcome all the green berets who have proudly and courageously protected not only the Crimea and not only the marine protection, but also our eastern border. You guys are welcome! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-04-30-m0.u11	Fedina Sofia Romanovna. The word is given to the Deputy Head of the Supreme Council, Condratiuk Oleni Constantineni.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-04-30-m0.u12	Thank you. Dear colleagues! Can I have your attention for a minute? Can all the deputies wear masks? We have, by the way, a quarantine regime and it's not weakened to the 12th. Have respect for each other! Well, that's embarrassing, to be honest! All the viewers are looking at you. Put on your masks, please! Anyone doesn't have one, you can go for a walk.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-04-30-m0.u13	Fedina Sofia Romanovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-04-30-m0.u14	Please pass the word to Ahtem Chigoza.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-04-30-m0.u15	Dear colleagues, dear Ukrainians! I hope that this decision will be the beginning of the active activity of the Ukrainian Parliament on international sites, where unfortunately there is no platform to discuss the Crimea. We need to make it clear that time delaying is a human waste, it works for those policy demagogues that are not set up to take decisive action, primarily to increase pressure and sanctions against Russia, the aggressor state. We should take a few steps on our part now, because there is no time to increase our positions at the international level with regard to the adoption of a series of laws that make it impossible for Russia's attempts to review, rewrite history, and also meet international standards that will ensure the rights of the root Crimean people, such as the changes to the Constitution of Ukraine in part of the status of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea. President Zelensky is to determine and be bound to be consistent in the purpose of the Crimea, one that will never again question the legal rights of the Crimean Tatar people. Crime is Ukraine. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2020-04-30-m0.u16	Boyko Yuri Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-04-30-m0.u17	Thank you. Dear Mr. Speaker, distinguished national MPs! Right now, I'm imagining European parliamentarians fighting the coronavirus every day. And does anyone in this room think that they're looking forward to this decision when every country fights for itself, fights for you, to overcome the epidemic? Our political power saw in Parliament’s previous composition the adoption of a dozen such empty decrees, which by no means brought us closer to peace in Donbassa, to the return of our territories and people. Our position has not changed: in order to put an end to the war in the East, in order to bring people back, to return territories, Parliament must have political courage and responsibility and adopt laws that allow this to happen, not empty political decisions that may be the embodiment of the ambitions of some political forces, but no step will bring us closer to peace. We advocate the adoption of laws that are reflected in the Minsk Accords. We stand for Parliament to take decisive steps, to compromise society and to really fight for people to come home, not to be distracted by the epidemic, to embody the political ambitions of losers who have lost power in the past warehouse. Our position has not changed: we are for peace and for the implementation of the Minsk Treaties. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-04-30-m0.u18	Thank you. Dear colleagues, have all those who wish to speak? Let's go to the vote. Dear colleagues, ready to vote? I am voting on the proposal to accept, on the basis and in general with the necessary technical and legal regulations, the draft Decision on the Appeal of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to Parliaments of Foreign States and Parliamentary Assemblys of International Organizations on the Condemnation of Russian Armed Aggression against Ukraine, the Illicit annexation of the Autonomous Republic of Crime and the City of Sevastopol and the occupation of individual areas of the Donetsk and Lugansk regions, political repression against Ukrainian citizens and the release of Ukrainian political prisoners (Registration No. 3068). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[14:01:36]] For 309 Decision taken. Orders adopted in general. Let's see the factions. The next issue of the agenda is the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Code on Tax Exemptions from Income Taxation for Medical Workers who are directly employed in the work of eliminating diseases among people for coronary disease (COVID-19) (registration numbers 3329, 3329-1, 3329-2, 3329-d). Dear colleagues, we need to include this issue in the agenda of the session. We need 226 votes of support. Ready to vote? Ready? Please support and vote. [[2:02:36]] For 340. Decision taken. Dear colleagues, we need to define a bill as urgent and shorten the deadline for introducing alternative bills until the day of the extraordinary plenary meeting under article 101 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. There is also a need for 226 votes of support. Please support and vote. [[14:03:10]] For 322 Decision taken. Honorable colleagues, need for discussion, or no discussion? No discussion. Then I'm voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of Bill 3329-d. He was supported by the committee. Ready to vote? Please support and vote 3329-d. [[14:04:01]] For 336 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, the committee is proposing to adopt this bill as a whole. I mean, look, the question. Oh, no? Three factions against. The procedure is the Ironworks.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-04-30-m0.u19	Dear colleagues, I understand that there may be questions before this bill. As we have noted, this bill continues the benefits that will end, including today. This bill is asked to be accepted by entrepreneurs. We all promised to support them. Please accept this bill today. Today, April 30th, we have one day left for him to enter into force, after which all the issues we have with you and the committee will sit down, and I hope we accept. But today is the last day we can accept this bill and continue the benefits. After that, such receptions will no longer help entrepreneurs. So please, this bill has been supported by virtually all factions and groups. The committee voted unanimously today. Let's not go into politics right now, but let's go state-owned and support our entrepreneurs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-04-30-m0.u20	Timoshenko Julia Volodymyrna is a procedure. I see two more factions, I see.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-04-30-m0.u21	Dear colleagues, you know very well that in this law, one of the bills was to abolish the taxation of medical wages in order to allow them to leave any money at their disposal. We all know that the government hasn't paid a single penny to the medics yet, so this rule in this law was the only thing worth supporting. Now this rule has been unanimously repealed, allowing for the avoidance of tax on the wages of the medical profession by taxes on the income of the physical person. They are motivated by the fact that the local budget is missing something. So you and I adopted a stable fund to fight the coronavirus. And now from this fund, make subsidies to the local level and compensate the local budgets. Therefore, this law cannot be voted on without the only benefit that has been provided for the medical community. Because they're double standards.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-04-30-m0.u22	Coltunovich Alexander Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-04-30-m0.u23	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs! I'd like to go to the head of the profile committee and ask, what's the relation in the bill with the bank issue? A reduction in the minimum statutory capital requirement from 500 million to 200 million dollars? What kind of scam does that happen to us today when we're doing this kind of initiative under COVID? The second point is to extend the Act on the Simplification of Bank Capitalization. What does this have to do with the medical community and with the taxation of their wages? We voted on the basis, I mean the OCD. But for the second reading, be kind, throw away what has nothing to do with the draft law. And don't do that anymore. Because it's a good thing we read the papers. But I'm not sure your colleagues are. Therefore, without these standards, we are willing to vote on it as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-04-30-m0.u24	Katchura Alexander Sergiyovich. Anatolyovich. Excuse me, Alexander Anatoliyovich Kachura, if necessary by procedure. But we don't vote in general. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-04-30-m0.u25	Alexander Kachura, "Serial of the People" faction. Well, first of all, thank you to all the national MPs who supported the bill. This bill is about supporting business, small and medium-sized business, where there's a minimum supply of strength. And if in shopping malls, in huge corporations, they have billions in accounts and they survive quarantine, they're going to experience any shocks that could be in the country, a small business where hundreds of thousands of workers are now without livelihoods: Mom's manicure is in business, father's in the shop working and mother's a hairdresser -- where are they going to take the money now? Let's support a small business, let's get them out of taxes during this period. We'll help those who keep you here. They form a budget, they're your masters. So let's, if we are servants of all the people here, vote in favour of a bill that will give opportunity to our people. The ones who hired us here to support them.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-04-30-m0.u26	Dear colleagues, three factions against. "The Opposition Platform for Life," "The Fatherland." All of it. No, we're not. The procedure is clear, we don't vote. But cut in half. I'm voting on the proposal to cut in half the deadlines for the submission of rights and proposals and preparation for the second reading. Please support and vote. [[2:09:32]] For 311 Decision taken. Thank you. Let's move on to the next question. Dear colleagues, you have been invited to consider the draft Law on Measures to Resolve Debt, which was established in the wholesale electricity market (registration number 2386). Will there be a need to discuss the bill? Should I? [[B in m in s a l in]] What's that? Do you need a discussion or not? Discussed. The "ES" insists on discussion. I'll bet you a vote on a cut in half. I'm sorry, this bill is being reviewed by a reduced procedure. Please support and vote. [[14:10:35]] For 245 Decision taken. The word is given to the Ukrainian national deputy Kamelchuk Yuri Aleksandrovitch.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-04-30-m0.u27	Good day, dear colleagues, the Honourable Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine! So the bill is already very simple, actually I've reported several times, we had this bill voted before the new year, and the situation is still in the light of the fact that the Energy Company has created a loan and receivable of about 30 billion dollars. What will this bill do? There's going to be a mechanism where there's going to be interlinkages between the energy industry, so no money will be given to anyone, in fact it's going to be zero in absolute computation. This is going to be able to get these companies out of the crisis, and it's going to be able to get these companies out of the way at risk of bankruptcy, and so it's going to be possible to buy them or take them under non-state control for essentially no price. This procedure was to take place before the new year. Now, debt in some businesses has accumulated and new debt repayment mechanisms will be developed, especially for Energoatum, which will allow more than 11 billion dollars for this bill, which will accordingly improve the financial picture of Energoatum. And in general, you can add to the fact that this is a package of bills 2386-2390, most of which have already been agreed on by the respective committees. And today this bill 2386 is a framework. Then we will have to vote in favour of 2390 and other bills, which will later appear in the agenda. Please support and vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-04-30-m0.u28	Thank you. The word for the report is given to the head of the Energy and Housing Committee, Gerus Andry Mihajlovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-04-30-m0.u29	Honourable National Deputies, Honourable Leaders, Committee on Energy and Housing Services on November 29, 2019, reviewed the draft Law on Measures to Eliminate Debt, which was established in the Wholesale Power Market (number 2386). The basis for drafting the bill is the Ukrainian Law on the Electricity Market, paragraph 16 of Chapter XVII, "The Final and Transitional Positions". According to the Ukrainian Electricity Market Act of July 1, 2019, a new model of the electricity market took place. But the previous model left behind billions of debts. In order to regulate the repayment of receivables and payables in the wholesale electricity market, a bill on measures aimed at repaying market debt has been introduced by the national deputy Kowalczuk to shut down the wholesale electricity supplier. The bill introduces debt repayment mechanisms through mutual settlement, cancellation of debt, waiver of the right of claim, or a change in the party’s liability. The bill will help solve the financial problems of the largest electricity producer in Ukraine, the state-owned enterprise of NAEC "Energoatoma", which will be able to obtain some 11 billion dollars in domestic government loans. National MPs, members of the Committee on Energy and Housing Services, stressed the relevance of the bill as one that definitively regulates the repayment of debt in the wholesale electricity market. Please accept as a basis and as a whole, this was supported by the committee. Please support the committee's decision and make a decision on it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-04-30-m0.u30	Thank you. Please sign up from the MP factions and groups. Gurin Dmitry Alexanderovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-04-30-m0.u31	Honorable speaker, mistakenly pressed, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-04-30-m0.u32	Arjev Vladimir Igorovich
ParlaMint-UA_2020-04-30-m0.u33	Dear colleagues, when I hear about mutuals, I immediately remember the '90s when, as a result of mutual concerns, we started to have violent power cuts. And when they forgive debts, they forgive consumers who spend millions of kilowatts, not ordinary citizens of Ukraine. I understand that the electricity situation is now close to critical. But why are we now discussing the question of helping Energoatum, which is in this bill? But then, on the other hand, the government decides, and as a result of the power of nuclear power plants, it's going down, even though it's the cheapest power generator. And as a result, we're going to get that those powers that work much better are more expensive than energy generation. Where's the logic? So with one hand we say that maybe we'll give you something, and with another hand we'll press "Energot" to make a living. Why would you do that? I understand that there are major problems here in this bill, which are the issues of mutual concern. And until we understand that, I think we should refrain from this bill, especially given that even the Anti-Corruption Committee found in this bill that the draft act did not meet the requirements of anti-corruption legislation. So the faction "European Solidarity" will not vote in favour of this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-04-30-m0.u34	Papiev Mikhailo Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-04-30-m0.u35	Thank you. Please pass the Coltunovich on.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-04-30-m0.u36	Coltunovich Alexander Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-04-30-m0.u37	Thank you. Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs! Of course, resolving the issue that is now on the electricity market requires some steps, including from the Supreme Council. And our faction will vote on the basis of this bill. However, I would like to point out that for ordinary ordinary citizens of Ukraine, this should also apply to them. I insist that the Supreme Council of Ukraine also vote to cancel the debt of electricity to ordinary citizens of Ukraine. On March 1st, we already have 5.4 billion dollars in debt for electricity alone, and these costs are certainly insurmountable for most Ukrainian citizens. So our proposals, our faction, are to write off the debt not only for electricity, but also for other residential services for people who survive on minimum fixed income. Now, with regard to solving other problems that we have today in the electricity market. We all know that, from 1 January 2014 to today, the price, to be exact, has risen by 3.2 times for the population, if you take the second group, 4.6 times. To date, this is 90 copies and one bracelet 68. We demand that we have an order in terms of pricing and tariffs on electricity, so that at some times we don't have to export to electricity, it doesn't exceed the export cost, it's not less than twice the export price, it's more accurate than it is for an internal consumer. This will then be a real reform of the electricity market in Ukraine. Well, of course, an important moment is the modernization of those powers, the energy capacities that there are, they also have to be put in here -- it's a matter of depreciation. Thank you. Again, we support the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-04-30-m0.u38	Bondar Victor Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-04-30-m0.u39	Dear Dmitri Alexanderovich, dear colleagues! The issue that we are currently considering is extremely important for Ukraine’s activities. The transport system is a nervous system. The blood system of the state, and the energy system is the nervous system of the state. Today, we have a nervous system that's going to be extremely debilitating. In recent years, licenses and machines have been used to build solar power stations, wind power plants so much that in June, Ukraine will have to stop by those laws that work, at least 5-6 nuclear power cells. The question is, What are we doing? We substitute, replace the most expensive electricity for the most expensive energy in the world that there is. Moreover, in Ukraine tariffs are several times more even than in Europe, which today is our neighbours among the richest. And the question is, what's the point? And it doesn't make sense anymore. There's no energy minister. We need to set up an expert board that will allow us to come out of this issue in a comprehensive manner. Everyone understands that alternative energy is going to be debilitating today, and it's going to be reproducing the amount that Ukraine can't consume today. So we urge and turn from this rostrum to the President, to the government: get an expert board immediately, gather people who understand what atomic energy, hydropower and alternative energy are. They'll tell you what's really going on in this sector today. The whole world has long realized that alternative energy needs a cold reserve, there must be TSEs that are now to stand idly by and pick up when there is no sun and wind. It's also a cost, and it turns out to be the most expensive energy. This approach will lead to a proposal in July to raise tariffs on energy, electricity for the population, and industry. Is that our way? No, it's not. So let's urgently invite the government here a report that's going to be done as we get out of this situation, that they won't allow nuclear stations to stop and pay their wages, and the modernization plan, the reduction plan.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-04-30-m0.u40	Thank you. Kucherenko Aleksei Yuriovich Then we go to the vote. All those who wish to speak? Please, check it out.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-04-30-m0.u41	Thank you. Alexy Kucherenko, faction of Fatherland. We believe that this bill can be supported on the basis, but not by the author of the support and speaking head of the PEC Committee, but primarily by supporting our energy, nuclear energy, the people who are working today and who have become hostages of the state's free policy. And I'm drawing your attention, this is July 1st, 19th. So I don't need to be baptized when I hear one faction speak. These are the debts of the previous market made by the previous government. With regard to today's situation, I would like to draw attention to the poor management of both energy and the Energy Committee in eight months of cadence. Only yesterday was an effective meeting and we saw a more or less constructive plan. So we're waiting for constructive, pragmatic proposals to save the energy sector from collapse. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-04-30-m0.u42	Shahov Sergei Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-04-30-m0.u43	Sergey Shahov, Luhanščina, Deputy Group "Trust". Of course, our group will support this bill because debt has to be repaid. But we have this question: why are miners again sitting without pay -- about 2 billion dollars? Why is today "tariff genocide"? Why do doctors again approach us today? They were promised 300 percent of the pay, and neither are they. Why is coal today from the Russian Federation and America? Why is Ukraine being bought electricity today when our miners are sitting without pay, our energy sector "flying" into a chasm? We demand immediate attention to the country's energy crisis and to launch a mohawk that's rusty to keep our mines running, our miners get paid. And there's more. Why is the city of Lysichansk, in a depressed zone, now also in the debt pit for 15 years? We also demand that we put up and vote in favour of the restructuring of the debt in Lysichansk. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-04-30-m0.u44	Thank you. Dear colleagues, let's go to the vote. Please take your seats, prepare for the vote. Dear colleagues, I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Law on Measures to Resolve Debt, which was established in the wholesale electricity market (registration No. 2386). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[14:25:42]] For 258. Decision taken. Dear fellow Members, the committee recommends that we be accepted as a whole. Two factions against. Next. Dear colleagues, you have been invited to consider the draft Decision – Report of the Provisional Investigation Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the investigation of fires (explosions) at ammunition depots in the city of Ichnya, Kalinivka, Balaklia, Svatov, Curve Rig from 2014 to 2018 (registration number 3384). Reported the head of the Interim Investigation Commission, David Georgiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-04-30-m0.u45	Comrades, good day to you all. Your attention is given to draft Decree No. 3384 of April 23 on the report of our Interim Investigation Commission on the investigation of all these fires. I'm very short. You all know what it was, a series of fires that were made in all the warehouses and arsenals. We started looking at our commission from the largest and most powerful arsenal in Eastern Europe, where we lost property and ammunition only at a balance value of 12 billion dollars. If you take the market value, as experts say, it's about ten billion dollars. After everything was destroyed, there was an investigative group, the Kharkiv Security Service of Ukraine, which had been reviewing this case for three years, and very quickly came to the conclusion that it was some Russian drone that flew through and miraculously carried out this diversion. When we began to question people who had started the investigation process directly, we were surprised, to put it mildly. The first study of the Kharkiv Institute of Bokarius, which was called upon to investigate, concluded that these were shells that were planted in the arsenal itself. As soon as such a conclusion was reached, very quickly all the people began to press on them and switched to another expertise in Kiev, which came to this conclusion about the drone. So what do we have now? We do not say that this conclusion is true or true. We're saying that there are two completely polar versions of what happened on this arsenal. Before that, it was very suspicious that a week before the fire occurred, the conclusions of the Ministry of Defense's audit committee, where there was a shortage of ammunition for 560 million dollars, had to come into force. We are talking about, firstly, taking the investigation from Kharkiv to Kiev, secondly, we need to conduct an independent re-complex of expertise, thirdly, to make this process as transparent and open to society as possible. We ask you all to support and extend the work of our commission for another six months. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-04-30-m0.u46	Honorable colleagues who wish to speak are? Can we vote? I am betting on a vote to be adopted in general with the necessary technical and legal rights draft Decision Report of the Provisional Investigation Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the investigation of fires at munitions depots in the city of Ichnya, Kalinivka, Balaklia, Svatov, Curve Rig from 2014 to 2018 (registration number 3384). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[14:30:31]] For 332 Decision taken. Show me the factions, please. "Serve of the people" - 216. "The Opposition Platform for Life" is 28. "European Solidarity" is 18. Fatherland, 15. "To the future" is 11. "The Voice" - 17. "Trust" is 13. Postfaction is 14. Thank you. Once again, the decision is made. The next bill is 3132. David Georgievich! Arahami! Please turn on the microphone. I'm out of procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-04-30-m0.u47	Colleagues, there is a request to postpone the consideration of this bill, to send it back to the second reading. As far as I can see, the position of the committee, they support, but I want them to. Dmitri Alexanderovich, if you could pass the word to the head of the committee to express their position.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-04-30-m0.u48	The word is given to Natalusi Dmitry Andriyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-04-30-m0.u49	Comrades, welcome to all of you. There have indeed been very constructive proposals from the various national deputies, the expert circles, our Western partners, which we have talked about on many occasions on the committee that has spoken, and that is why we would really like to draft this bill. We think that's what we need to do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-04-30-m0.u50	Okay. Dear colleagues. Out of procedure, Heroshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-04-30-m0.u51	Thank you, Mr. Head. Dear Ukrainians, this bill has already been put into order twice by the "servants" of the day-to-day sessions, while the "servants" do not order the daily bills concerning, for example, medical insurance, support for the Ukrainian economy and so on. This bill is completely unconstitutional because it illegally increases the function that is not enshrined in the Constitution, the President. And actually, if you really want to put it in the agenda and you do it twice, let's press the red button now, or take it off the table, not just today, but generally as such, it's not constitutional. And to the Head of the Supreme Council, we would like to address the following: Unfortunately, only today have we received signed letters after a week’s notice in order to pass the Law on Compulsory Medical Insurance. We urge all factions to sign this requirement now and today to vote in favour of compulsory medical insurance after the end of the emergency session.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-04-30-m0.u52	Look, there's going to be materials coming. There's going to be decisions, there's going to be orders. Let us wait until all the decisions you have made come to pass. We're talking about another bill right now. If you're confused, it's 3132 now. Dear colleagues, Koltunovich Alexander Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-04-30-m0.u53	Dear Mr. Head, our faction certainly didn't plan to support this bill, because we've actually had a lot of discussions on the committee that there's a series of unconstitutional norms, and we welcome the step that it's going to be called off. But here's the deal. Because, in parallel, when we make changes to antitrust legislation, we still need to regulate the fundamental things that we have today, namely: we have a parliamentary-presidential republic, and I am in this regard, when the drafters make the necessary changes, to take into account that the head of the Antimonopoly Committee will be released, not by the President of Ukraine, but by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And this will be done directly by the Parliament of Ukraine as the country's supreme legislative body. And this is a very important norm, which, for me above all, is fundamental in the further work of the Antimonopoly Committee. All those other things, by the commission and so on, we support that this is not going to be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-04-30-m0.u54	Dear colleagues, a moment of attention! We put the committee's decision first, it's the second reading, and it's the whole thing. Since there are several factions, there is a committee position, we will not now support this decision and vote on another proposal -- send it back to second reading. Is everyone okay? Dear colleagues, please prepare for the vote. I am voting on the proposal to adopt a second reading and, in general, with the necessary technical and legal regulations, a bill amending the Ukrainian Antimonopoly Committee Act and some other legislative acts of Ukraine to improve the system of Antimonopoly Committee bodies (registration No. 3132). Ready to vote? Please identify and vote. [[14:36:10]] For-44 The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, I am voting on the proposal to return the committee to work with the following submission of a second reading bill (registration number 3132) amending the Ukrainian Antimonopoly Committee Act on Ukraine and some other legislative acts by Ukraine to improve the system of Antimonopoly committees. Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[14:36:57]] For 234 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, next question. Let's see the factions. Draft Decision amending the Supreme Council of Ukraine Decision on the establishment of the Provisional Investigation Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the investigation of media-published facts of possible corruption by officials of the State authorities, which resulted in significant losses in the income part of the State budget of Ukraine (registration No. 3400). It is suggested that this issue be considered in a simplified manner. Please support and vote. [[14:37:46]] For 298 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, I take it we can vote without discussion? I'm betting on the vote for acceptance. Discussed. Heratchenka, you see, insists on discussion. Dear colleagues, a report by Ukrainian national deputy Kornienko Alexander Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-04-30-m0.u55	Dear colleagues, I suggest very briefly that we don't waste time and put ourselves in danger because we're in a locked room here. There are two additional suggestions. The first proposal was already being made, and it was at the time of this commission decision. This will extend the term of office of this commission to the year 2019. Because it's not entirely fair to investigate the customs and tax services that were assigned to the government of Honcharuk before the establishment of the "Serve of the People" team. Therefore, it is proposed to add an extension of the commission’s activities throughout 2019. And the second paragraph is to add to the decision of the member of the Zamlocksky faction, Marian Bogdanovich. He is a member of the Committee on Tax and Customs Policy and a professional specialist who will help this committee to be more effective. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-04-30-m0.u56	Thank you. The chairman of the Committee on Rules, Deputy Ethics and Organization of Work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Calchenko, Sergey Vitaliyovich, is invited to the report. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-04-30-m0.u57	Honorable Presidium, distinguished national MPs! The Regulatory Committee at its meeting reviewed the draft Decree 3400 and decided to recommend to the Supreme Council, in accordance with the provisions of articles 20 and 138 of the Rules, that the draft should be considered and adopted as a whole, since the right to submit another member to the TSC was granted, was 7, and now the Servant of the People Party has the right to have an eighth member. Well, an increase in the time frame for checking the circumstances of this interim commission of inquiry, starting on January 1, 2019, was also mentioned in the consideration of this issue when the commission was formed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-04-30-m0.u58	Thank you. Please sign up from the MP factions and groups. If they want to speak only with the EC, we can give them the word, let them speak and then we can go to the vote. Fedina Sofia Romanovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-04-30-m0.u59	I give the word to Irina Heratchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-04-30-m0.u60	Heroceno.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-04-30-m0.u61	What would the Presidium do if there wasn't an EC, who would they comment on at a time when there's a full "Velur" in the country? You see, we're being talked about fighting corruption here. And it all began, my friends, with the fact that as long as the whole country is quarantined, and even in the session room, we're told we should wear masks, without masks, without masks in Veluri, drinking coffee because they created Kiev rescue headquarters there. Yes, and masks can't be bought because the "Mraya" plane that President Zelensky met personally brought some commercial cargo that met the entire government hierarchy of the country to then take them to Epicenter and buy them there. We have so many questions, my friends. So who paid for this "Dreamy" flight? Was it a commercial flight or was it paid from the Ukrainian budget? Yeah, how much did they bring in the commercial goods or how much did they bring in the humanitarian goods? And why, then, are such problems created for the benefactors who today bring humanitarian burdens to doctors? We have a lot of questions about double standards not only of the "Velurre" politics, but also of what is happening in the Supreme Council of Ukraine, when our political power has never been able to get signed letters from the Presidium in time for, for example, today to hold meetings on the adoption of the Doctors Insurance Act. Veluru is useless, they save themselves there, not Ukrainian doctors. Similarly, we were unable to obtain signed letters to create a TSC on the Sheremet case, because the President and his company have already declared guilty of murder in the same way as being accused of it directly on the air of volunteers and veterans, and today we see this court. We will now support the changes in the terms of this commission, but we demand that the authorities abandon the tactics of double standards and "voluntary" policies.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-04-30-m0.u62	Other factions insist on performing? No, it's not. We can move on to. Nestor Ivanovich, no one insists. Are you insisting? Krulko Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-04-30-m0.u63	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. Honourable National MPs, honourable Ukrainians, at a previous plenary meeting, in turn, Parliament established in 324 votes in favour of the interim commission of inquiry into the actions of state authorities and officials that have influenced under-receiving the significant amount of government budget income of Ukraine. And, of course, this committee just started a job. And I hope that we will be able to explore all the revenue of the state budget that we have not received, because there have been squabbles, manipulations, corruption. And we have to get the corrupters out into clean water -- this is the task of the entire Parliament and the Interim Investigation Commission. I would like to say that the last session of Parliament was discussed in order to distribute the work of the commission from the beginning of the 2019 financial year, from January 1. As Fatherland, we don't mind the commission extending the deadline for it to review the activities of the public authorities since January 1, 2019. At the same time, the "Serial of the People" faction proposes to add another representative to its faction. This is the right of the "Serve of the People" faction within quotas. The only thing that I don't think the authors of the decree have seen through, and paragraph 5 of the decree states that the decree is authorized to the number of 13 members of the commission elected to its membership at the suggestion of the MP factions. We're choosing the 14th representative for the interim commission of inquiry. And in fact, we have a question when we have to make changes to this regulation in order for the technical legal amendments that the commission is authorized to have 14 members, because we are now going to select another representative. Please note the decision makers when you submit such things for registration to the Supreme Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-04-30-m0.u64	Batenko Taras Ivanovich. Nestor Ivanovich, Batenko Taras Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-04-30-m0.u65	Dear friends, as we remember, Ukraine’s economy and industry in the previous year, when the coronavirus did not smell, not only in this Parliament but also in the world, ended up with a negative 7 percent. Now, according to analysts and the government, we don't count 4 percent of GDP. And these 7 percent of GDP analysts give us a negative. I think that the interim commission of inquiry should ask the former officials, the former officials, who are now both former and present, because today the government has received a large carte blanche on the distribution of a large budget "pire", which is poorly filled in the country, in manual order to fight the coronary infection. And as we see in a number of bills, under the fight against COVID-19 there are different articles, including banks, statutory funds and so on. So I think that the interim commission of inquiry should work very seriously and work on a lot of the materials that we are doing today and continue to do at our meeting. I support the initiative so that we can base the work of the interim commission of inquiry all of 2019 so that we don't break the budget year and get mixed up in prime ministers, explore who is who, and explore who worked for the economy of Ukraine. So let us be honest with the Ukrainian nation, including ourselves. Thank you. Let's get to work.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-04-30-m0.u66	Nestor Ivanovich Šufrich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-04-30-m0.u67	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. I would like to remind you that our faction has supported the continuation of the commission of inquiry to determine the circumstances of the subversives and the destruction of our ammunition in a number of armed forces in Ukraine. We've always, five years in a row, said it wasn't drones, no Martians -- it was a blast from the ground. People were killed, bomb squads were killed. And today someone has a specific responsibility to bear. It's not the archery flag, it's the specific people who made a lot of money on it, and then our weapons show up in the Middle East, in the hot spots of Africa, and people die and get blown up. And we certainly need to find out all the circumstances of what is going on in our financial field — customs, taxes. Remember what Gleb Gigilov said: "The thief must be in prison." And that's exactly what we have to do, no matter when the abuse was committed, when we pushed our hand into the government budget, into our citizens' wallet. Today, we hear about about 10 billion dollars a month disappearing from the government budget. That's more than $4 billion. And we're here for $2 billion, we're selling land, we're knee-deep in front of the International Monetary Fund and other creditors, we're begging them, and at the same time the authorities are stealing, we're watching money stolen today, which is bigger than the coming of the International Monetary Fund. Shame! We need to know who's doing this and punish them. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-04-30-m0.u68	Thank you. Dear colleagues, let's move on. With a motive, I'm sorry. Cabal Volodymyr Volodymyrovich. Now the Cabal, then the Shah, and we move on to the vote. Please invite the national deputies to the hall. Vladimir Volodymyrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-04-30-m0.u69	Tzabal Volodymir, the Voice faction. Dear colleagues, of course, we support the change to the perimeter of the commission's work so that we can look at possible tax abuses since 1 January 2019. But I want to stress here another thing that also applies to the revenue of government and local budgets. According to the U.S. City Association, 10 billion dollars were taken to local councils after the budget sequence. So I encourage the Ministry of Finance to look at how this problem can be solved, because by April we see some local budgets up to a third of the money go under, and that is no abuse. The Ministry of Finance, hopefully, you will hear and you will pay attention to this problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-04-30-m0.u70	Thank you. Shahov Sergei Volodymyrovich. Then we go to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-04-30-m0.u71	Shahov Sergei, Deputy Group "Trust". Dear colleagues, I have repeatedly mentioned from the rostrum that in the Lugansk region, depressed, there is a gang working in the city of Sevierodonetsk, in Rubižny, in Lysichansk, hiding under political forces and robbing the Lugansk region. I told them on several occasions that they had stolen 700 million dollars in the city of Severodonetsk. In recent sessions, no longer members of the political forces have been called off, they have stolen 200 million dollars. Under the example of the Coronavirus, there are no public officials, volunteers, who are supposed to be present at the sessions. I'm asking the head of the TSC of John Krulk to immediately include the first question and find a billion bracelets that were still stolen by a Butkowski gang in the city of Severodonetsk. I'm sure you'll be able to do that, but our group has already prepared more than a hundred criminal conducts that now lie with the prosecutor and the general in the Lugansk region. Please! I'm sure you will. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-04-30-m0.u72	Thank you. Let's go to the vote. Please prepare for the vote. I would like to vote on the motion for adoption as a whole of the draft Order amending the Supreme Council of Ukraine Ordinance on the Establishment of a Provisional Investigation Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the Investigation of Possible Corruption in the Media of Officials of the Government Authorities, which resulted in significant losses in the income part of the State Budget of Ukraine. Please prepare for the vote. Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[14:52:40]] For 352 Decision taken. Orders adopted in general. Dear colleagues, you will be given an opinion on the proposal of 153 Ukrainian national deputies for the application of a special procedure for the consideration of draft bills in the second reading provided for in article 119-1 of the Supreme Council Rules of Ukraine, as discussed in the second reading of the draft Act (registration number 2571-d) amending certain Ukrainian legislative acts to improve certain mechanisms for regulating banking activities. The word for the report is given to the initiator of this proposal -- the head of the deputy faction of the Political Party "Serve of the People" to David Georgiyovich Arahamiya. David Georgievich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-04-30-m0.u73	Colleagues, you and I have a historic event today. We've all felt our own way of blocking every bill with so-called corrective spam. We all worked together and adopted a new procedure in the Rules, the so - called special procedure. And today, for the first time in the history of the Ukrainian Parliament, we want to apply this procedure against a bill that is remembered by 16,000 rights. Not all of them are spam, there are some fundamental adjustments that we can look at, but we know exactly that 16,000 -- there can't be that many rights. It's just done for all of us to sit in Parliament for days and nights, and it's going to take about six months. What's more, we're setting an example, and I'm sure that any other bill, if it wasn't for this procedure, could be blocked, as they say, for a century. So I insist that we now apply this procedure and ask for your support, please vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-04-30-m0.u74	Thank you. Dear colleagues, let's go to the vote. Sorry, "hey" is a non-parliamentary term. Alexeiovich Honcharenko, if you have a question of discussion, you can talk about it. Thank you. Yes, you see, that's better and they hear you, and they treat you with respect sometimes. Please register with the MPs and groups for the performance. Two in, two in. Savrasov Maksim Vitaliovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-04-30-m0.u75	I give the word to Alexia the Potter.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-04-30-m0.u76	Alexei Hotcharenko, European Solidarity, Clothing. Dear friends and respectable Mr. Speaker! You put us there, on a gallery, and you don't see us very well, and that's why we have to pay attention to ourselves, because, as always, you thought, the 95-quarter logic is you put your opposition here in front of yours, and that opposition to the gallery. Respectable people here and we're there. So we have to pay attention to ourselves. Now, about what we're looking at. Of course, our "European Solidarity" faction supports the review of the Banking Act, because this law really needs Ukraine, so we don't have to take away those banks where Ukrainian taxpayers have invested billions -- billions! - It's a bracelet. In one private bank, 155 billion dollars all of Ukraine's taxpayers have invested. And today, just to take him away from people, it's not like the world's ever seen such an affair. But we want to draw your attention to the following. We're told that these changes to the Rules were needed, and here's this special procedure to tackle this corrective spam and sabotage. Who set him up? The authors of 14,000 rights out of 16,000 rights are "Serves of the People" or active or former. Who blocked the signing of the Law of Rules? "Serves of the people." But why are you bringing us hostages into your inner struggle?Oh, my God! You know, once in Berlin, there was this graffiti on the Berlin Wall: "Give us God, to survive in the midst of this deadly love." And there were drawings of Brezhnev and Honecker. In Ukrainian realities, you have to draw Colemoysky and Zelensky: Give us, God, all of us to survive in the midst of this deadly love that used to be, and today you're fighting each other inside the faction, and you're taking the whole country hostage and destroying parliamentary democracy. You can't do that!
ParlaMint-UA_2020-04-30-m0.u77	Dear colleagues, I felt that this room should not be filled with deputies, but rather with work. That's the first one. And secondly, you realize that if one of the people's advocates is talking to their colleagues or voters, maybe they don't have to be in this room at all. But the voters will come to the conclusion. Bobrovska Solomija Anatoliyevna Ironborn Jaroslav Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-04-30-m0.u78	Dear colleagues, I'd like to start by saying thank you to the committee, who worked for almost a week on a non-stop basis and prepared a record-breaking bill of rights for consideration. I am grateful to every national MP who has taken part in preventing our country from committing economic suicide in a direct sense. Why did this happen? It wasn't the Voice faction that brought out that number of licenses, we only made ten. It wasn't the Voice faction that blocked the adoption of this bill as a whole. And it wasn't the Voice faction that was delaying the consideration of this bill until it actually threatened our national security. But as responsible politicians, and first of all as responsible citizens, we understand that the adoption of this law is the only chance to close that huge financial hole that the government has unfortunately created in the past and is now creating this. The adoption of this bill is about justice! And that's why the Voice faction acted as one of the initiators of this procedure so that we can move forward so that we don't spend a year working for Parliament to look at essentially similar regulations so that we can unlock our international support in May so that we can finally adopt this bill on banks. Therefore, my fellow Members, we have also criticized and voted in favour of this Rules, but now, as responsible politicians, we support this procedure and will continue to support the Banks Act, which I also call on you to do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-04-30-m0.u79	Thank you. Mother Grigory Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-04-30-m0.u80	Ladies and gentlemen, "The Opposition Platform for Life" will not support such a decision regarding the definition of such a bill as simplified, in short, on an individual basis, and launched in 150 national deputies. Why? Because essentially the Banks Bill is a very diverse position in society. No one has seen the hearings, the round tables on the bill, its adoption, the inclusion of bankers, the National Bank, the owners of the bank, and everything else. It's said in the media that there's an anticolomoy law, a law that is necessary for adoption and for receiving, not a tranche, but a loan from the International Bank of Finance and the World Bank. I want to point out that if we have a question in the country about the Banks Act in adoption in the same way as the Second Package of the Law, adopted, on the sale of Ukrainian lands, it is still necessary to refer to all the bills that will still help society's life, to reduce tax burden. At present, you will involve the Supreme Council in such commitments when the budget gap is more than 300 billion dollars, and we are only 2 billion from the International Monetary Fund adopting the laws that are needed to borrow credit from the International Monetary Fund. "The opposition platform for life" will not support this decision and will abstain from voting.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-04-30-m0.u81	Thank you. Are they still willing to make a statement? None. Then let's go to the vote. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the decision-making process. Pursuant to article 119, p. One of the regulations of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. [[B in m in s a l in]] Peter Alexiyovich, I'll put it to the vote now, we'll finish. Dear colleagues! [[B in m in s a l in]] Absolutely. Peter Alexiyovich, I will not enter into a controversy, but I think that when the electorate is chosen, they are. [[B in m in s a l in]] Okay. Look, look, it's your job to address it. [[B in m in s a l in]] Look, look. Put on a mask or it can fly! Look. Put the mask on, please, because you're breaking the rules! No, look, I can't help but agree with you here, Vladimir Igorovich. Too much is not healthy! That's right. Therefore, if your colleagues are to be normal in their dealings with other colleagues, that is exactly what will happen. [[B in m in s a l in]] Look, dear fellows, look what it is. I can't see at all. [[B in m in s a l in]] I totally agree with that. Look, you're the only one with this problem, because it's only your faction that calls your colleagues that way. Your faction alone has this problem. When you treat your colleagues with respect, you will not have these problems with me or anyone else. Thank you. In the meantime, let's get to work. [[B in m in s a l in]] I'm betting on the vote, Peter Alexiyovich, let's move on to. Let's move on to making a decision. In accordance with article 119, I am voting on a proposal of 150. Dear colleagues! Dear colleagues! [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, let's get back to work. I'll bet the vote according to. No, I can't give you a word. From where? From where? We're on the subject now, all the factions are speaking. It's not out of procedure. Look, we'll pass. I'm not going to apologize for the comments, because if you treat me the same way, I'm going to have to comment. [[B in m in s a l in]] I'll bet on it. Dear colleagues, are we going to work? Everyone's worried about the vote. Then let's get back to our work. Ready to vote? I'll bet on it. [[B in m in s a l in]] I'll bet you a vote. Pursuant to article 119, p. 1 The Supreme Council of Ukraine's Rules of Procedure put to the vote a proposal of 153 Ukrainian National Deputies on the application of a special procedure for the second reading of the draft Act (Registration No. 2571-d) amending certain Ukrainian legislative acts to improve certain mechanisms for regulating banking activities. Dear colleagues, ready to vote? Would you please take your seats? Ready? Please support and vote. [[15:09:03]] For 255 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, there will be speeches on another issue, you'll want to speak. [[B in m in s a l in]] Look, there's no such thing as "I want to." There is a rule, there is a right for you to take a break with a replacement for the speech, to speak. [[B in m in s a l in]] I'm in charge of a meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. We move on to the next question, dear colleagues. [[B in m in s a l in]] For reasons of conduct, one minute. Who's speaking? Who? Wait, there's going to be some motivation for the speeches in the following questions, you're going to speak to yourself. No, let's get to it. Because there's no motive. What do you mean, "out of motive," respectable colleagues? Show me the factions, please. [[B in m in s a l in]] It's not for motive, it's for procedure, first of all, if you have claims to lead. You're a lot of times, you're going to say again that I'm somehow violating your rights. But there is a Rules. [[B in m in s a l in]] I understand. I'm telling you, you'll know what you want. [[B in m in s a l in]] Look, I didn't get it. I don't drink like that. Please, I'll give you my word. Out of the way, please, I'll give you my word. Klimpush-Cincadze Ivanna Orestovna. [[B in m in s a l in]] You'll find your colleague just said Klimpush-Cincadze will perform. You will determine who should speak from where. Give me a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-04-30-m0.u82	Dear colleagues, dear Mr. Head, we insist on double standards in this Supreme Council of this calling. Please stop commenting on each talk or every lineup of our national MPs. We insist that you stop demeaning our voters who voted for us, just as they voted for you. You are the head of the entire Supreme Council, and therefore we expect you to continue to treat every national MP with respect. We also ask the regulatory committee to consider our complaint that the speaker of Parliament considers it necessary to become our father and to raise us as little children. Yes, we have parents, we have children, we have someone to raise, and we have someone to raise, not you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-04-30-m0.u83	I think everyone can get out of the procedure, right? Katchura Alexander Anatoliyovich. [[B in m in s a l in]] Well, wait, everyone can get out of the procedure. Please, I'm not commenting, I've just asked, I'm telling you, I can say that. Please, Kachura Alexander Anatolyevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-04-30-m0.u84	Alexander Kachura, "Serial of the People" faction. In fact, you know, to Dmitri Razumkov few can make any claim because he's the speaker of not one political power, but, unlike your party representative, he's the speaker of the entire parliament. And it was because of your parliamentary faction that the biggest violations were recorded for all the calls made by the Speaker of Parliament. And it wasn't us who put you on a gallery -- it was Ukrainian citizens who put you on a gallery. And you sit there and work as prescribed by the Law on the Rules and the Status of the People’s Deputy. Don't be ashamed of the people who voted for you, please. I'm asking you! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-04-30-m0.u85	Thank you, Alexander Anatolyovich. Anyone else want to step out of the procedure? Germano Vasil Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-04-30-m0.u86	Dear colleagues, the only thing I would like to do is, Dmitry Alexanderovich, is to go to the Supreme Council and have a bill under number 3415 amending the regulatory law that changes the procedure that you are now voting for. Yours was a public promise that it would be in the complex. Should we wait, consider these changes, and then decide? Because they're essentially changing procedures and quantity indexes, that's all.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-04-30-m0.u87	Vassil Ivanovich, I can answer without another faction coming and saying I'm commenting. I remind you, we talked about that once the bill, which has already become law, 1043, will be amended. And it was done. Anything else, you talk a little bit about what you think is necessary, with all due respect. Let's move on to the next question of order of the day. You are invited to consider the draft Law on the Ratification of the Treaty between Ukraine and the Argentine Republic on the Extradition of Offenders (registration No. 0022). Needed Discussion? No, it's not. I think then I'll put it to the vote, there'll be ratifications. I am voting on the proposal for the adoption of the entire draft Law on the Ratification of the Treaty between Ukraine and the Argentine Republic on the Extradition of Offenders (registration No. 0022). Please support and vote. [[15:15:30]] For 297 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, I am voting on the proposal to adopt the entire draft Law on the Ratification of the Treaty between Ukraine and the Argentine Republic on the Transfer of Convicted Persons (Registration No. 0023). Please support and vote. [[15:15:59]] For-300 Decision taken. I am voting on the proposal for the adoption of the entire draft Law on the Ratification of the Treaty between Ukraine and the Argentine Republic on Mutual Legal Assistance in Criminal Matters (registration No. 0024). Please support and vote. [[15:16:35]] For 307 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, I am voting on the proposal for the adoption of the draft Law on Ratification of the Letter of Amendment No. 3 to the Financial Agreement between Ukraine and the European Investment Bank (Registration No. 0028). Please support and vote. [[15:17:05]] For 329 Decision taken. I would like to vote on the proposal for the adoption of the whole draft Act on Ukraine's association with the Scheme for Class Certification of Seeds of Cross-flowers and Other Oil and Orchard Cultures and the Scheme for Class Certification of Sugar and Feeding beet of the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development (Registration No. 0029). Please support and vote. [[15:17:49]] For 328 Decision taken. I am voting on the proposal for the adoption of the entire draft Law on the Ratification of the Treaty between Ukraine and the Republic of Kazakhstan on Extradition (registration No. 0030). Please support and vote. [[15:18:19]] For 314 Decision taken. I am voting on the proposal to adopt the entire draft Law on the Ratification of the Treaty between Ukraine and the Republic of Kazakhstan on legal assistance in criminal matters (registration number 0031). Please support and vote. [[15:18:47]] For 329 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, I am voting on the proposal for the adoption of a draft law on Ukraine’s accession to the Inter-American Convention on the Execution of Criminal Penalties abroad (registration No. 0033). Please support and vote. [[15:19:16]] For 304 Decision taken. I am voting on the proposal for the adoption of a draft law on Ukraine's accession to the Second Protocol to the Hague Convention on the Protection of Cultural Values in the Event of Armed Conflict, 1954 (registration No. 0036). Please support and vote. [[15:19:47]] For 321 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, I declare closed the plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine.
