ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-03-m0.u1	Good morning, dear fellows! Good morning, media officials! Please take your seats, prepare for registration. I remind you that registration takes place by clicking on the green button, Sergey Volodymyrovich Vlasenko, the green button, the first button on the left, as always. Are you ready to register? Please register. [[10:16:39]] There are 259 Ukrainian national deputies registered in the hall. The plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear colleagues, Ukraine celebrates every December 3, together with the world community, the Special Needs Day proclaimed by the General Assembly of the United Nations in 1992. And today we have daily bills aimed at helping these people. You have a list of questions to consider, I'm sure you've all come to know him. And the first issue of the agenda is the bill amending article 2 of the Ukrainian Law on the Legal Regime of Property in the Armed Forces of Ukraine (registration number 3403). It is suggested that we consider it as a simplified procedure. Please support and vote. [[10:17:50]] For 196 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, the National Deputy of Ukraine, Mokan Vasil Ivanovich, is invited to attend. Vasil Ivanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-03-m0.u2	Good morning! Dear colleagues, before your consideration, a bill is proposed that is based on the fact that the Armed Forces of Ukraine have ammunition that is to be disposed of and can be passed on, some of which are to be passed on to the institutions of physical culture and sport, which have a separation from the firing of a ball or a bitlon. These munitions, as decided by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, will be handed over by the Armed Forces of Ukraine or other formations to individual institutions of physical culture and sport, such as children's sports schools, higher sports schools, Olympic training centres. The point of this idea is very simple: we can thus improve the quality of the training process, and those munitions that are still to be disposed of will be directed towards useful goals. Today, there are 66 children's sports schools in Ukraine where there is a separation of ball shooting, 19 sports schools where there is a separation of the biotlon. In general, more than 4,000 athletes are involved in the structure of these sports schools. And so this is not going to have any impact on the financial indicators, it's not going to have any additional spending on government or local budgets, it's going to contribute to the development of these kinds of sports. And so I'm asking you very much to support this bill on the basis. So we're going to do a useful job for our childhood sports schools and for sports like ball shooting and biotlon. We'll support our athletes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-03-m0.u3	Thank you. The head of the National Security and Intelligence Committee, Kopitin Igor Volodymyrovich, is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-03-m0.u4	Dear colleagues, the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on National Security, Defence and Intelligence at its meeting on October 15, 2020, reviewed the draft Ukrainian Law amending article 2 of the Ukrainian Law on the Legal Regime of Property in the Armed Forces of Ukraine (registration No. 3403) (since 26.04.2020), submitted by the Ukrainian National Deputies to Cosemykin and other National Deputies. The draft Act provides that ammunition, which is to be disposed of by decision of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, will be transferred by the Ukrainian Armed Forces and other legal formations to separate institutions of physical culture and sport to ensure a quality learning and training process. The bill will contribute to the development of ball shooting and biotlon in Ukraine, a full-fledged training process in physical culture and sports institutions, and better preparation of young people for service in the Armed Forces of Ukraine. The main scientific and expert office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, having examined the bill, concluded that the first reading of the bill could be based on individual observations and suggestions. The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Budget Affairs, the Ministry of Finance of Ukraine, concluded that the bill had no impact on the budget. The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on National Security, Defence and Intelligence has adopted a decision to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, in accordance with article 114, paragraph 1, of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine as a result of its first reading, to adopt a draft Act amending article 2 of the Ukrainian Law on the Legal regime of Property in the Armed Forces of Ukraine (registration No. 3403). Please be supportive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-03-m0.u5	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please sign up: two for, two for, against, speaking from MP factions and groups. Lozinski Roman Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-03-m0.u6	Please pass the word to Roman Kostenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-03-m0.u7	Again. I'm sorry, I didn't hear. Kostenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-03-m0.u8	Dear colleagues, this is a very proper bill, and we just clean up such bureaucratic things when we have ammunition in the Armed Forces, while our schools have to buy all of this to promote and develop our shooting sport. That's why we have to keep an eye on it. But we still need to make changes to the second reading, because now, under this bill, we can transfer all the ammunition to the school, and it's going to look really bad when we start there and grenades to transfer, and some heavy weapons. That's why we need to work on it, but at the moment, we need to accept it, and still help our schools promote shooting and engage in shooting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-03-m0.u9	Eutusek Sergey Mikolaiovich. Krulko Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-03-m0.u10	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. Ladies and gentlemen, this bill is extremely important, and I would ask that we support it, this is the request of the entire Ukrainian great sports family, who is engaged in professional biathlon. The point is that warehouses have a huge amount, which is calculated in millions, ammunition that is not being used and will no longer be used, a special calibre that is absolutely appropriate to use to prepare Ukrainian future champions from the biotlon. At the moment, Ukraine is purchasing expensive ammunition abroad, but in Ukraine itself in the Ministry of Defence, there are ammunitions in the Ministry of Internal Affairs that are to be disposed of, disposed of, stored and not used for purposes. So this bill that we're adopting, it's going to give these ammunitions to the U.K. Biatlon Federation, to the Ministry of Youth and Sports, and it's going to give our future Ukrainian stars a chance to prepare now with absolutely free ammunition. So I would like this bill, such as the bill, to unite the hall so that we can prepare our reserve, prepare physical culture, and sports. And I very much hope that Ukraine will be able to create powerful new world arenas from the biotlon and we will be able to host the world championships and the U.S. Olympics. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-03-m0.u11	Thank you. Fed Sofia, European Solidarity, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-03-m0.u12	Please pass the word to Zabrodski.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-03-m0.u13	Zbrodsky Mikhailo Vitaliovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-03-m0.u14	Dear colleagues! First of all, I'm talking to the authors of the law. That's a good idea. That's a good idea. But the first question that comes up is already raised by my colleague Roman Costenko, what ammunition are we going to hand over? As it is now laid down in the law, everything falls under that concept. From a.45 calibre cartridge, a PSM gun, to a 203-millimeter artillery shell, like a 2.7 "Pion." From the seamine to the air bomb, it's just ammunition. That's the first one. Secondly, it was repeatedly emphasized here that ammunition that was to be disposed of. Someone was asking questions, but what ammunition is to be disposed of? First of all, those who can't be used in any way: neither in combat, nor in combat training. What they're going to pass on to children in this law is hard to imagine. Undoubtedly, biotlon and ball shooting are beautiful athletic sports, undeniably. But it is highly doubtful that the main sponsor and supplier, particularly the ammunition for these sports, should be the Armed Forces of Ukraine. In general, there is such a feeling that there are simply no problems in the security and defence sectors. Is it not time, dear colleagues, to discuss, for example, the dramatic situation with regard to the implementation of the WHO this year? Should we not ask, on occasion, the head of defense not only about stockpiles of ammunition but also, for example, about the transfer of sanatorium and medical funds from the Ministry of Defense to the General Military Medical Department? And what about the scandals with the appointments? And yet, about the ambiguities like that, we're not going to NATO in the spring, and we're already going in the fall? And actually, "high on the cake" -- recently, the minister of our country is going to rebuild relations in the Armed Forces of Ukraine. I would like to call upon the Chief of Defense to leave the Force to the Commander-in-Chief and allow him to work peacefully, to focus on supplying the Armed Forces and solving their problems. Thank you. Biathlon is all we have. We will unquestionably support it.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-03-m0.u15	Suffritch Nestor Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-03-m0.u16	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. Of course, we support this bill because, by no chance, one of the main mottos of the Olympic Games is, "O sport, you are peace!" Every victory we win on a sports field is another step towards socializing with representatives of other countries, but it's a bit of a biathlon that brings us Olympic awards, including gold. But I hear they're struggling here that there's no cartridges. And I'm asking, why didn't they build any small calibre munitions factory in five years? We had boats built. So, where on the line do the boats swim, even on wheels from the Lenin cousin? Even at the cost of being misunderstood, which is classified. But from the quality of the armor that's been fired from the first shot, even with small calibres. So, come on, don't mention what it is that reminds you of. And I can't help it. We talked yesterday about the intellectual lokdown and the lack of intelligence in our authorities. Ba! They responded immediately. I'm reading yesterday: "Certified program by creation, attention by artificial intelligence." I mean, it's not enough, and by the year 30, there's going to be a new intelligence -- artificial. People are good! You're running somewhere with what's left of your head. Do not torture yourself or the people! And I want to tell you, artificial intelligence won't help you either. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-03-m0.u17	Rudik, I see. And Shahov. Now there's two speeches with a motive. Then we go to the vote. Please invite the national deputies to the hall. Rudik Sergey Jaroslavovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-03-m0.u18	Dear colleagues! I would like to thank General Zabrodski, who basically said what every national MP should say, although a little bit of the subject. What are we cheating on, what's not fit to use? And what's not suitable for use is you're offering to give to kids for study or students? Think about it! We're a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit, but think about how today, according to the legislation, what are the munitions that are to be disposed of -- artillery, mortars, grenades, firearms, hand grenades, rockets. We will vote today, and hopefully we won't vote again for helping national MPs get rid of the need for higher education and even secondary education. Who do you think you are to write it? It is not possible to say that the bullets of a certain calibre and dot are involved. We're for the bitlon, but we're against the morons in power!
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-03-m0.u19	Thank you. Shahov Sergei Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-03-m0.u20	Sergey Shahov, Luhanščina, Deputy Group "Trust". Dear colleagues, we're really for sport, we're really for bitlon, but Zabrodsky and Rudik said it all right. Please tell me we're cheating, where do we cheat, what do we do? How was the 91st year of nuclear weapons? Tell me, please, someone was investigating the six-base explosion today, and the first one exploded in Swatov because of some kind of missile. The missile fired -- and disposed of 2,000 houses, houses where people live today without roofs, without windows, and no one has done anything for people today. Is there anyone in jail today? Have these cases been investigated today? Balaklea – also people live without a hitch today, they've been shot, from these bases. A billion dollars flew, 28 billion dollars in air, and no one is responsible for anything. Let's investigate it first, and then we'll dispose of something else. Thank you. Sergey Shahov, Luhanščina, Deputy Group "Trust".
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-03-m0.u21	Dear colleagues, prepare for the vote, please. Please prepare for the vote, take your seats. Ready to vote? I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Act amending article 2 of the Ukrainian Law on the Legal Regime of Property in the Armed Forces of Ukraine (registration number 3403). Is everyone ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[10:33:45]] For 271 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, the next issue of the agenda is the bill amending article 59-1 of the Ukrainian Law on Local Self-Government in Ukraine on conflict of interest in the activities of local councils and rural, rural, urban heads (registration number 3034a). It is suggested that this issue be considered in a simplified manner. Please support and vote. [[10:34:27]] For 216
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-03-m0.u22	Decision taken. The National Deputy of Ukraine, Oleg Anatoliyovich, will report on this matter. Andrew Osadchuk, please. Please, Mr. Andrey.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-03-m0.u23	Good morning, dear colleagues, Vice Speaker! I want to talk briefly today about a topic that the President of Ukraine really likes to talk about -- preventing corruption. A lot of people talk about this, preventing things from getting worse and worse. And so I hope that today we can take a small but very important step towards introducing better standards to combat corruption. This is about settling a conflict of interest in the work of local councillors. In general, conflict of interest is one of the most common cases of corruption, namely action in conflict of interest. Because it is important to remember that conflict of interest in itself is neither a violation of the law nor a violation of ethics. This is quite normal, especially for members of the local councils who live in places of property, property interests, and relatives. They work there again because, we know, they don't get paid, and they work in their communities, of course. That's why they're very often dealing with conflict of interest issues, and here's the basic problem -- how this is supposed to happen. There is one subject that is not very pleasant: The reason why we have so much to fight corruption. One such reason is the shortcomings of legislation. And in the 59th article of the Law on Local Self - Government, it is now very interesting that a village, village, city head, secretary, and so forth, are taking part in the consideration, preparation and decision - making of the appropriate council, provided that the public declaration itself is made on the subject. "That" is supposed to be about conflict of interest, but there's no such thing. We suggest that this be removed by reference to the Prevention Act.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-03-m0.u24	Thank you, Mr. Andrey. The focal point for this issue is the head of the Committee's subcommittee on the organization of government, local self-government, regional development and the construction of Gurin Dmitry Alexanderovich. Please, Mr. Dmitri.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-03-m0.u25	Dear colleagues, good afternoon. The Committee on the Organization of State Authorities, Local Self-Government, Regional Development and Urbanization at its meeting reviewed the draft Law on Amendments to Article 59-1 of the Ukrainian Law on Local Self-Government on Conflict of Interest in the Activities of Local Councils and Rural, Rural, Urban Heads (Registration No. 3034a) and, as a result of the first reading, recommends that it be accepted as a basis and as a whole. In the event of the adoption of the draft Law on the basis and throughout the Supreme Council of Ukraine, it is proposed that the Committee on the Organization of State Authorities, Local Self-Government, Regional Development and Urbanization be entrusted with the preparation of the corresponding text for signature by the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, together with the Chief Legal Authority of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, of its technical and legal work. Dear colleagues, the bill is very simple. Members of the local council can now declare a conflict of interest and then vote in favour. Once this bill has entered into force, members of the local councils will not have the right to vote after the declaration of conflict of interest. Let us help our local deputies to be more honest. Thank you very much. Please be supportive. The committee offers in the first reading and in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-03-m0.u26	The committee suggests I have a committee decision to take as a basis, Mr. Dmitri. Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Dmitri. Is there a need to discuss this? Is it? Please sign up: two in, two in. Please, Mr. Stepan Kube, "European Solidarity."
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-03-m0.u27	I'd like to give Alexia a word. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-03-m0.u28	Alexei Hotcharenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-03-m0.u29	Alexei Hotcharenko, European Solidarity. It is only right to fight corruption, conflict of interest. In fact, this is extremely important. But it is not just on local councils, dear friends. Because this whole central government is a complete conflict of interest. Look who's working for us. But the entire cave district, the government district, turned into quarter 95. All right, brothers, friends, besties, neighbors, directors, assistants, all from the same company. The head of the board – please a friend, brother, sister-in-law, schoolmate, neighbor of Zelenski. The Director of Strategic Intelligence Department of the Ministry of Mine Defense Intelligence is a man of the '95th Quarter' accountant. The entire office of the President is a 95-quarter stand. We have a transport sector called 95th Quarter. At the Supreme Council, there's a Greensky assistant with a deputy from the People's Service. And it's all a 95-quarter stand-in and a conflict of interest. There's been a disaster at all. Do we all know that today the NABU and the SAP want to make a statement to the deputy head of the President's office, Mr. Tatarov, the deputy head of the President's Office of Law Enforcement, the suspicion of bribes and bribes to experts? And today, the Attorney General of the People's Service, Mrs. Vendiktova, she's changing prosecutors on the case and blocking the statement of suspicion. Isn't that a conflict of interest, my friends? You know, I look at all of this and I mention the words of a living classic: "It feels like God's giving us orders for something somewhere." That's right. And I saw Zelensky come to the D.A.'s office on December 1, saying, "Never lose faith in justice," so you kill her and go to the D.A.'s museum. We need him there as an exhibit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-03-m0.u30	Vladimir Gevko, Servant of the People, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-03-m0.u31	Dear colleagues, we talk a lot about the fight against corruption, as has already been determined today, but in fact the fight against corruption -- these must be clear steps. This bill, it's actually a fairly simple bill that just regulates certain coalitions that we now have in our legislation. And so we can also talk a lot about what we need to do in a much larger way, but even the order of things that we have at the level of local councils brings us closer and closer to a more legal society. And that's why I urge everyone to support this bill and vote in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-03-m0.u32	Thank you. Anton Polyakov, Party for the Future, faction, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-03-m0.u33	Anton Polakov, MP for the Future. Dear colleagues, we've all read this bill and we can see that it doesn't even at some point correspond to the Constitution and the conclusions of the CSA. So we're just wasting our time. When it comes to fighting corruption, let the centers and central authorities begin. Because we understand that if the KSO hadn't made that decision on non-declaration and e-declaration, we would have received for the first time in Ukraine the President of Corruption and his head, the Office of Corruption, the Greens and the Germans. Let's start with them. And if we're talking about local councils, let's say, over a year ago, in Chernigov, the director of the utility company and the deputy of the local city council of Chernigow was detained for a bribe of $25,000. What conflict of interest? What do we say if they were detained and then the D.A. just changed the article and these people got out for a fine? All of it. The whole city knows that MPs are taking the money to build houses, that small companies are transparent, they're creating jobs, they're paying for these bribes, and no one's doing anything. And you're thinking, you're talking about conflict of interest, let's not waste our time. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-03-m0.u34	Thank you. Paul Bakunets, the "Trust" MP. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-03-m0.u35	Paul Bakunec, Zovkovščina, Jaborovščina, MP group "Trust". Dear colleagues, dear Mr. Head! Indeed, the practice shows that local council members and local authorities often have conflicts of interest. I myself, working in a local self - government body, was also called to account for, in fact, a conflict of interest. But in professional legislation, there is really a conflict. That is why the drafters proposed to amend the Ukrainian Law on Local Self-Government and to determine that the resolution of the conflict of interests between officials and members of local councils takes place on the basis of the Law on Prevention of Corruption. However, we stress that this bill only highlights the fact that we need to resolve conflicts of interest and rather does not define the mechanisms for resolving conflict of interest. And given the fact that the Law on Local Self-Government is now under preparation at a hot stage, a new MP group, Trust, believes that it is not necessary to amend the existing law, but to finalize the new Law on Local Self-Government. So please, we invite you here, honourable colleagues, to identify yourself in the Hall for this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-03-m0.u36	The Lozinski Roman Mikhailovich is motivated. Then we vote. Please invite the national deputies to the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-03-m0.u37	Dear colleagues, once again, there have been many manipulations about this bill. I'll explain in a minute why this is manipulation. We had a local election. The MPs are on their way to work. And they have two laws that regulate conflict of interest. The Law on Prevention of Corruption says you have a conflict of interest – declare and do not vote, do not discuss. The law on local self-government says you have a conflict of interest – declare and do whatever you want: vote, discuss, make decisions and enter into this conflict of interest. In order not to wait for changes to the Law on Local Self-Government, it may take a year, six months, for no one to know, but today to correct this mistake, "to establish" these two laws among themselves, this one paragraph has been introduced as a basis and as a whole. There's no philosophy here, there's no great science here. There is a conflict of interest that needs to be settled once and for all. Thank you to all the factions that support. Thank you to the committee for its decision on the basis and in general.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-03-m0.u38	Thank you. Let's go to the vote. Please be prepared. Dear colleagues, while the Ukrainian people's deputies take their seats, please tell me the committee recommends this bill both on a basis and in general. Is there no objection? Okay. I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Act amending article 59-1 of the Ukrainian Law on Local Self-Government in Ukraine on the settlement of conflicts of interest in the activities of local councils and rural, rural, urban heads (registration No. 3034a). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[10:47:55]] For 267 Decision taken. I am voting on the proposal for adoption, in general with the necessary technical and legal regulations, the draft Law amending article 59-1 of the Ukrainian Law on Local Self-Government in Ukraine on the settlement of conflicts of interest in the activities of local councils and village, village, city heads (registration No. 3034a). Please support and vote. [[10:48:31]] For 261 Decision taken. Thank you. The law is passed in general. The next issue is the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Education Act to ensure the quality of teaching literature (registration number 3900). Dear colleagues, it is suggested that this issue be considered in a simplified manner. Please support and vote. [[10:49:04]] For 227 Decision taken. The National Deputy of Ukraine, Sowsun Inna Romanovna, is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-03-m0.u39	Dear colleagues, do you know that you are present here in the hall, that you can treat cancer with soda, and Kiev was founded in the 19th century? Now you probably think it's absolute nonsense. But unfortunately, these are nonsense written in Ukrainian textbooks today, in the textbooks that teach Ukrainian children, our children with you. The idea of this bill is to change this terrible situation with textbooks, correct it, and make Ukrainian textbooks modern, scientific, and quality. What is our way to this? First. We need to introduce clear criteria to the quality of textbooks. The textbooks should be scientific; they should not contain plagiarism; they should not contain signs of prejudice; and they should correspond to the child’s age. Next. We need to have independent quality expertise in these textbooks. And since the Institute of Expertise is not working at a sufficiently proper level right now, we suggest that when parents are able to turn and ask for further expertise in textbooks in case they have any questions about one or the other textbooks. This is what hundreds of thousands of parents throughout the country are now begging for, watching how parliament is now voting for this law, whether it will give them the right to complain about the quality of textbooks in Ukraine. And the third. We need to make it clear that textbooks that do not meet the set criteria are not allowed to be used in school. This is a very simple path that will allow us to make it interesting for children to study at school, so that textbooks are quality and provide quality education so that children know the purpose of salt and know the year of Kiev’s establishment. And the main thing is the parenting community, the teaching community will see that Parliament, the senior authority in the country, cares about what our children's education will be like. I very much ask you now to uphold this law and support the future of our children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-03-m0.u40	The chairman of the Committee on Education, Science, and Innovation, Babak Sergey Vitaliyovich, is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-03-m0.u41	Good afternoon, dear fellows! The bill proposes to amend the Ukrainian Education Act, which aims at establishing clear requirements for the quality of teaching literature, especially those used in general and secondary education institutions and the mechanism for verifying compliance with these requirements. The need for adoption of this bill is based on the very low quality of school literature, including school textbooks and textbooks, which sometimes contain discriminatory expressions and images, often contain factual errors that cause considerable social resonance. The bill also regulates competitions and expert studies in teaching literature and clears up the monopoly on the printing of textbooks by some subjects. The Supreme Council Committee on Education, Science and Innovation recommended that the Supreme Council of Ukraine consider the draft law in the first reading to adopt it as a basis and develop it into a second reading. Thank you, colleagues. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-03-m0.u42	Dear colleagues, we need to talk, right? Please sign up for factions: two for, two against. The sin of Julia Mikolayevna.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-03-m0.u43	Dear colleagues, today we are considering a bill that has a great title: quality assurance of teaching literature. And we fully support, and we share the author's position on establishing clear requirements for the quality of teaching literature at the level of law. But please note one very important point. This bill, in addition to proposals on the quality of school literature, which, I repeat, are very important to us today, sets a standard that excludes situations that determine the status and authority of the National Academy of Pedagogical Sciences. So the Academy of Pedagogical Sciences is depriving itself of the right to participate in the development of educational literature, which essentially nullifies all its activities and the academy itself. Colleagues, we all have questions about the work of the Academy of Pedagogical Sciences. But I'm sure it's totally wrong to liquidate this facility. GNEU also points out that this bill needs improvement. And the proposal concerning the status of the Academy of Pedagogical Sciences goes beyond the regulation of this bill. So I'm asking this bill not to support, given that it has significant shortcomings that do not apply to the quality of methodical literature. As a methodical literature, we've already prepared a bill that's supported by all factions, and we're going to do it together, and we're actually going to work on the quality of teaching literature, and we're going to work with the Academy of Pedagogical Sciences to make them work better. But do not destroy them by law on the quality of teaching literature. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-03-m0.u44	Constanceevich Irina Miroslavovna
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-03-m0.u45	Dear colleagues! The Future Group shares concerns about the state of Ukrainian textbooks today. We believe that they are no longer the kind of schoolboy that Ukrainian parents want to see. And they're not the kind of teachers Ukrainian teachers would want to work with. Regrettably, the problem of Ukrainian textbooks has not arisen today and is not solved in the same way as the bill. So the Group For the Future, which is made up of majority national MPs, is best aware of the problems that are in education. And we've consistently solved them and we'll decide. We think that the problems of school textbooks are problems that have to be solved first by independent experts, once. These are problems that must be solved by Ukrainian teachers. And it is up to the teacher to choose what a modern school textbook should be like. But to do that, Ukrainian teachers need to raise their wages, as promised by both the President and the government. There can't be a Ukrainian teacher with a salary of 5,000 dollars. And the second aspect. We believe that parents too need to influence how attitudes are shaped by the adoption of school textbooks. That's why the Future Group believes that this bill needs to be finalized. It's a positive part of the formulation of issues, but it needs to be worked out in ways of solving them. That's why we are, as a Ukrainian teacher, as a Ukrainian child, as a Ukrainian schoolboy, but civilized in modern ways. The textbook is a navigator in the educational process. And we are for the modern textbook and for the modern teacher. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-03-m0.u46	Papiev Mikhailo Mikolaiovich. Don't insist. Ah, Lukashev.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-03-m0.u47	Dear colleagues, good afternoon! Lukashev Alexander. My friends, I would like to emphasize that this is not the first time we have faced a situation where the proposed title of the bill has nothing to do with the standards that its authors are trying to contradict and push and enforce in the current legislation. In fact, it's a very positive and right idea that is endorsed by all subjects of the educational community -- ensuring the quality of teaching literature, particularly in the field of full general and secondary education, and in any field of education. It is very relevant and needs to be desired. But this bill is not about ensuring the quality of teaching literature. This bill on the destruction of the quality control system of the National Academy of Pedagogical Sciences. In this way, the drafters of the bill are trying to destroy this important institution, which, in fact, over many years of its existence and fruitful work has gained a powerful authority in the educational environment. What do we suggest or see from the proposed bill? The fact that the executive body, which will be strengthened by representatives of some sad public organizations, will provide the so - called quality of educational literature. We have already encountered a committee when the propaganda issue, the ban on the propaganda of homosexuality, did not receive the support of the committee. What are we talking about? Guys, we're definitely gonna vote against it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-03-m0.u48	Aresonkov Vladimir Yuriovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-03-m0.u49	Good afternoon, dear fellows! I realize that the question may not be so relevant to many, for it is not about customs, it is not about useful mines. Thus, some feel that this law is, you know, passable, passed and forgotten. No, I'm talking to everyone in this room right now. First question. The bill's authors are absolutely right that it has a number of necessary positive points, and we support that. But if today, as an example, one of the textbooks, textbooks related to soda, or something else, if we have such unique examples today, there will be countless if the bill comes into force. Today, there are four filters that are passed by those who offer textbooks, textbooks are expert advices, they're scientific institutions. What are you suggesting today? If the word "conservator" is anything out of date, anachronistic, unnecessary, then I'm talking to smart people. Because pedagogy is a better conservative science, and that means it has many years of work, centuries of parents, teachers. Why do you want to destroy this institution? Who gave you 75 articles of the Education Act to eliminate? Who gave you the right to destroy them in your opposition to the National Academy of Educators in general and to bring them out as a subject in the process of preparing textbooks and textbooks? Don't do that. This bill needs, as a minimum, work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-03-m0.u50	Thank you. Let's go to the vote. A minute of motive is Yvchenko and a minute of motive is Iron. Ivchenko Vadim Evgenovich. Oh, Pavlovenko?
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-03-m0.u51	Yvchenko, Fatherland. Colleagues, I've already realized that this law needs to be passed for further work, but symbolically: there are now 2,000 teachers there, 2,000 teachers in Kiev. They come to us for the second time with their demands. Colleagues, first. They ask for a closure of the 2019 Pedagogical and Pedagogical Employees Regulation; a payment of the aid provided for on 1 January 2021 for the period of service; the establishment of educational and educational staff for fixed allowance education; the introduction of compulsory state insurance for cases of coronary disease; and the restoration of state guarantees for teachers. Colleagues, there's teachers. And I urge you, along with you, to go now to the teachers and get the demands that they have made for us. These are our teachers with you. We will always be disciples for them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-03-m0.u52	Ironborn Jaroslav Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-03-m0.u53	Colleagues, our faction will certainly uphold this law. That's why I want to give the word to Sergey Koleboshin.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-03-m0.u54	Is there a sausage in the hall?
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-03-m0.u55	Yes. Dear colleagues, as a teacher, as a person working in the education system, I am personally concerned about the situation when we have sodium treating oncology, which is written in the chemistry textbook when Kiev was founded in the 20th century. When (and it's symbolically that on the Day of People with Special Needs) we never see in the textbook either a photograph or a picture of a person, for example, in a wheelchair, and in the subconscious of the children of these people, there's no society, and they're not actually in society then in the real world of ours. It's a law that can't be, and it won't be. This law in no way deprives the National Academy of Pedunks of any authority there today. This is a law on the demonopolization of this story that will not lead to the things that are now happening in our textbooks, and as a result, in our society. What's more, it's the first reading. If anyone has any suggestions about this, they may be offered between the first and the second readings. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-03-m0.u56	Thank you, Sergey Valeriovich. Pavlenko Rostislav Mikolajovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-03-m0.u57	Thank you, Reverend Dmitri Alexanderovich. Honorable colleagues, which is what this is all about. Now there's no mechanism to control the quality of textbooks on the part of those for whom they actually write, on the part of children and their parents. So this mechanism, I think, needs to be put in place. All the comments that were being made, they can be completely worked out during the drafting of the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-03-m0.u58	Thank you. Let's go to the vote. Please invite the national deputies to the hall. Dear colleagues, please invite the national deputies to the hall. Take your seats. Ready to vote? I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Act amending the Education Act of Ukraine to ensure the quality of school literature (registration number 3900). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[11:06:34]] For-161 The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, I am voting on the proposal to refer to the committee for a re-reading of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Education Act to ensure the quality of educational literature (registration number 3900). Please support and vote. [[11:07:10]] For the 220. The decision is not taken. I am voting on the proposal to return the subject to the legislative initiative for the drafting of the Law (registration number 3900). Dear colleagues, please support and vote. [[11:07:42]] For 226 Decision taken. Thank you. Let's see the factions. Next question of the agenda. Dear colleagues, you are invited to consider a draft law amending some of Ukraine's laws to ensure effective implementation of parliamentary control. The chairman of the Committee on Rules, MPs and the organization of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Kalchenko Sergey Vitaliyovich, is invited to the rostrum. Dear colleagues, will someone insist on the papers? No, it's not. Let's go to the vote. Sergei Mikolaiovich. One right? One read, Evtusek Sergey Mikolaiovich. Sergei Mikolaiovich, let's vote, let's go, with all due respect. I'm asking you as the author, if you don't mind. Okay, thanks. Please prepare for the vote. Ready? I am voting on the proposal for adoption in second reading and in general with the necessary technical and legal rights of the draft Law amending certain laws of Ukraine to ensure the effective implementation of parliamentary control (registration number 4131). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[11:09:33]] For 303 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Thank you, Your Honor. Show the factions, please. "The Servant of the People" – 205, "The Opposition Platform for Life" – 16, "European Solidarity" – 20, "The Fatherland" – 10, "The Party for the Future" – 11, "The Voice" – 13, "The Trust" – 17, "the non-factional – 11. Thank you again. The next issue of the agenda is the draft Act on the Rehabilitation of Persons with Restricted Activity (registration number 3668), which is also the second reading. At the rostrum, the Vice - Chief of the Committee on National Health, Medical Care, and Medical Insurance, Dmitriev Oksana Alexandrovna, is invited to attend. Is anyone going to insist on the readouts? They won't. Please prepare for the vote. I am voting on the proposal for adoption in the second reading and in general with the necessary technical and legal rights, the bill on the rehabilitation of persons with disabilities (registration number 3668). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[11:11:02]] For 288 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Thank you. Show by factions. The next issue of the agenda is the draft Law on Inland Water Transport. The chairman of the Committee on Transport and Infrastructure, Kovalov Artem Volodymyrovic, is invited to the rostrum. Is someone going to insist on the papers? We can. I can see the zimbaluk. Who else? Just Mikhailovich? Mikhail Mikhailovich, how much. Klimpush-Cincadze? Colleagues, let's do this: 3 minutes, Klimenko, Tsimbaluk. Speeches or Addictions? Three minutes and then for. How much? Five minutes and confirmations. Five minutes, I see, Sergey Vladislavovich. And five confirmations. Klimpush-Cincadze Ivanna Orestovna, don't you insist? Don't insist on Joanna Orestovna, thank you. Then Tsimbaluk, five minutes. But, Mikhail Mikhailovich, we'll vote in the end, okay? Five minutes, Cymbaluk.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-03-m0.u59	Mikhailo Cimbaluk, Fatherland. Dear chairman, distinguished national deputies, reporter! We're very sorry as a "Paternity" team that the committee didn't take our proposals into account, which are extremely important about this bill. Julia Timoshenko, as the leader of the faction, was personally at the committee meeting and insisted on the fundamentals that this bill could make a balanced document. But that was not what was supposed to happen. I would like those national MPs who intend to vote in favour of this bill to listen carefully to what is being said. The drafters of the bill may want to allow ships under foreign flags onto Ukrainian rivers under pressure. What's that all about? First of all, under international law, ships of the sea, which will move even inland rivers, do not have the right to control the state where they will move. So Ukraine is losing control of the movement, of the cargo that these ships are going to carry. The next dangerous thing is that we're putting this bill in unequal conditions for those who are called domestic carriers and those who will be under foreign flags to transport cargo to Ukraine. I'll tell you why. Because it is foreign carriers, in this case shipowners, who have the right to use fuel without payment of excise duty. It is a danger that those vessels will import fuel and implement here in the shadow market. Next thing. The drafters are exempt from payment for use, by these ships under foreign flags, from payment for the use of locks and other river infrastructure. What is more, there is a great risk that this bill, which is specific articles, is that under foreign flags these ships will have the right to throw waste into rivers. I'm sorry, at a time when we have a problem with ecology, it's a very serious risk. This bill is permitted (Warning!: to deepen the flow of rivers and not know where, without the permission of any government authorities, to use sand and other materials to judge who will do so. Honorary colleagues, the Ukrainian Supreme Council bill, are violating a number of extremely serious international instruments, including those relating to the European Union. I think that the Committee of European Integration will express its position as regulated and adjusted to our international obligations. And another important thing. The bill is needed because a large number of freightes that are transported by rail and car today will go to cheaper water. But, excuse me, the risk that Ukraine will become a huge dump of used vessels that are today paying large sums in other European states can bring all the damage down here. The Fatherland faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-03-m0.u60	Thank you, Mikhailovich. Next. We're going to put the revisions in the end for confirmation. To confirm, yes. Who else insisted on the performance? Klimenko? Clemensa Julia Leonidivna, three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-03-m0.u61	Dear colleagues, I would like to make such a review perhaps more detailed of this bill, because the bill on inland waterways does not say anything about most people. What's this bill about? As Ukraine, we have been living for many years without a sectoral bill that regulates the movement of rivers in general. We may be one of the few countries with our neighbours European and non-European who do not have a profile law. So the river is used in whatever it is, and whatever it is, it's used by everyone who's not lazy, illegally smuggled sand. So a professional law that allows you to regulate, regulate everything that's going on on the river, and launch investment money, both inside and outside, will allow you to develop inland waterways, allow you to take more than 1 million tons off the road. Now you and I have spent 100 billion on roads used by overloaded cars instead of using our rivers and transporting goods there. It's going to make it much cheaper and easier, it's going to take our taxpayers off the road, it's going to give them less money to keep the roads going, and it's going to fix them every year for more than 4 billion dollars. The river can carry more than 30 million tons a year. This is a significant amount for our agricultural producers, for a large number of businesses that can use the river to make it legal and not take place on it, let's say, the shadow market that now exists there is and thrives. So the purpose of this bill is in fact, one of the co-authors of which I am, in fact, to legitimize the existence of a river, to bring order and order there, including from an ecological point of view, the extraction of sand, the setting of ships. I want to tell my colleagues who just talked about foreign flags. Ukrainian companies walk under foreign flags because Ukraine cannot provide normal conditions for our water transport. Fellows, let's make sure we're not ashamed of the Ukrainian flag and then everyone will walk under the Ukrainian flag instead of going and running abroad. Let us issue normal rights and give documents to sailors, and that will make it easier for all of us. So the Voice faction will support this bill because it's needed to start the money.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-03-m0.u62	Thank you. Ivana Klimpush-Cincadze, please, "European Solidarity." Please give me three minutes to perform. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-03-m0.u63	Dear Madam Chairman, dear colleagues! Indeed, this bill, which deals with the situation, is long overdue for the use of rivers in Ukraine. In fact, this is part of our commitment under the Association Agreement. This is the part that will allow us, under the same conditions, to be competitive with other countries of the European Union. I'm glad that the committee of profile has been actively working to add the maximum number of thoughts and to take them into account in the final final document that we're considering with you today. At the same time, I cannot help but point out that, unfortunately, the bill is not ideal and it still needs extra work, perhaps because of additional acts. So that we can finally take into account the situation of our international obligations in Ukraine and take into account the situation of directives 87/540, 2005/44 and 2016/1629. I hope that, with the constructive approach of the committee, we will be able to do so, despite the fact that the first bill will now be supported by us in the second reading, together with all the details that need clarification and polishing, we will be ready to continue to work constructively and help the riverbeds, in fact, to use the river for the benefit of Ukraine and Ukraine, and in order for Ukraine's economy to develop as much as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-03-m0.u64	Thank you. Dear colleagues! Now we're betting on confirmation, please invite the people's deputies to the hall. The zimbaluk insisted. How many rights, Mikhail Mikhailovich? Five rights, right? Five rights, we made a deal. Can you please name the amendments you're going to insist on?
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-03-m0.u65	No. 80, No. 90, No. 109, No. 168 and No. 308.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-03-m0.u66	308th?
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-03-m0.u67	Yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-03-m0.u68	80s, 90s, 109s, 168s, 308s. Dear colleagues! Prepare for the vote, please. The 80th amendment was counted by the committee. The author is Kovalov. Please prepare for the vote. It's on confirmation. Ready to vote? Ready? The committee supported her. Please support and vote. [[11:25:08]] For 275 Edit is confirmed. Edited in the '90s, it was part of the committee, Klimenko Julia Leonidina. 90th Amendment, yours. I'm betting on confirming it in the paper where it was taken into account by the committee. Please support and vote. [[11:25:44]] For 269 Decision accepted, correction confirmed. 109 of Kovalova's amendment, it was counted by the committee. I'm betting on her confirmation. Please support and vote. [[11:26:10]] For 274 Decision accepted, correction confirmed. 168 law, Dunda. She's been supported by the committee. I'm betting on her confirmation. Please support and vote. [[11:26:37]] For 275 Decision taken. And the 308th Kovalova bill, it was also counted by the committee. I'm betting on her confirmation. Please support and vote. [[11:27:02]] For 274 Decision taken. Let's move on to voting by law as a whole. Please be prepared. Ready to vote? I am voting on the proposal for adoption in second reading and in general with the necessary technical and legal rights, the draft Law on Inland Water Transport (registration No. 1182-1-d). Please support and vote. [[11:27:47]] For 276 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Thank you all. The next issue of the agenda is the draft Act amending the Code of Administrative Offences concerning the establishment of responsibility for non-compliance with the legal requirements of the Deputy Local Council (Registration No. 3381). It is suggested that this issue be considered in a simplified manner. Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[11:28:32]] For 245 Decision taken. Vasdchuk Andri Petrovich, are you?
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-03-m0.u69	Dear colleagues! Local elections have been resounded. Eventually, they came to understand their rights, responsibilities, and importance. And now it's time to help local council members to do their job well. Let me remind you that just recently, at the initiative of Vice-Speaker Stefanchuk, God grant him health, we supported the initiative to take responsibility for failing to answer the request of the deputy of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. We've defended the interests and quality of the work of the deputies of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, but at that point we've forgotten that the local deputies are much more, they're no less important, and they're left unprotected. The law provides not so many instruments for the deputies to carry out their duties. These are, above all, references and questions. It is with these tools that they respond to their responsibilities to help the community, to gather information, and to respond to problems. But since there is no responsibility, these answers do not give them, and you know it. As a result, non-deputy people suffer as a result of the loss of help that they do not receive. And as a result, political parties suffer because citizens think badly of MPs because they think they're working badly, and they don't really answer them. That's why we're proposing to level this situation up. The law of law gives similar examples of responsibility to the deputies of the Supreme Council, both to counsel and to appeal to other subjects. On the other hand, appeals by members of the local council are not protected by the Code of Administrative Offences. We suggest that we introduce such an article, establish administrative responsibility. I ask you to vote in the first reading, in the second reading, there are cosmetics that we will prepare. The committee has supported and proposes to vote in the first reading in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-03-m0.u70	Thank you. The chairman of the committee’s committee on law enforcement is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-03-m0.u71	The honourable presiding, honourable colleagues, the Committee on Law Protection at its meeting discussed the draft Law amending the Code of Administrative Offences concerning the establishment of responsibility for non-compliance with the legal requirements of the local council's deputy, submitted by the Ukrainian national deputy Makarov and other Ukrainian national deputies. The purpose of the bill is to introduce administrative responsibility for non-compliance with the deadlines for responding to the MP's request-for-request of a member of the local council, providing false or incomplete information on such a parliamentary request, a request. The essence of the bill. To supplement the Ukrainian Code of Administrative Offences with a new article 178 p.m. 56. With regard to the establishment of responsibility for non-compliance with the legal requirements of a member of the local council, the right to draw up protocols on the offence of the appropriate rural, rural, city council, the executive apparatus of the relevant district, district council, the secretariat of the Kyiv City Council. Responsibilities to deal with such cases in the district, district, city, city, or local courts regarding the amendment to article 221 of the Code of Administrative Offences. This, in turn, will allow members of the local council to more effectively defend the interests of the territorial community and exercise their parliamentary powers. The imposition of administrative responsibility for non-compliance with the requirements for responding to parliamentary appeals and requests will allow for the responsibility of officials who violate the rights and guarantees of the activities of members of the local council. The Committee on Legal Protection, based on section 1, paragraph 1, of article 114 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules of Procedure, recommends that the Supreme Council of Ukraine consider the first reading and accept it as a basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-03-m0.u72	Thank you. Please sign up: two in, two in. Let's leave the photo zone and go to work, dear fellows! And so does the minister. Vladislav Arturovich, good-bye! Have a good day, success, new achievements! [[B in m in s a l in]] Kubi Stepan Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-03-m0.u73	Dear Mr. Head, please pass the word to Mr. Aleksey.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-03-m0.u74	Alekseus?
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-03-m0.u75	Yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-03-m0.u76	Alekseus.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-03-m0.u77	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to remind you that we have recently passed a law that has strengthened the responsibility for non-insurrection or timely submission to the request of the Ukrainian National Deputy. But in the context of decentralization, when decentralization is reformed, there is much more power in places, much more issues are solved on the spot. And we know that it is in the MP that one of the forms of effective his work is turning. We know that there are isolated cases where such appeals are simply ignored because there is no established responsibility. And it's quite right to suggest that we establish responsibility, administrative responsibility in the form of a fine for non-assistance, or a timely response to a request from a deputy or other legal requirements of a local council member. The European Solidarity faction will support this bill in the first reading and then in the second. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-03-m0.u78	Thank you. Dear Mikola Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-03-m0.u79	Good afternoon, dear colleagues. It's a really important, important piece of legislation that has both the pluses and the minuses. Today, local councils are often misused by parliamentary inquiries and create some spam for local heads and administrations. On the other hand, it needs to be accepted in the first reading, to work a little bit to create some balance and understanding in places. In general, a very constructive offer and a suggestion for fellow believers to support them in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-03-m0.u80	Mamyan Suto Čolojevic.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-03-m0.u81	Please pass the word to Schuffritch.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-03-m0.u82	Suffritch Nestor Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-03-m0.u83	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. Of course, the status of a member of all levels should, first and foremost, encourage respect for the authorities of the state and local self-government, first and foremost, the executive authorities. We have already made a number of decisions to increase our responsibility for ignoring our petitions by Ukrainian national deputies. It is absolutely fair, logically, to demand appropriate responsibility and with regard to the parliamentary appeals of our fellow MPs to the boards of lower levels. So our faction will support this bill, but I want to pay attention to the following. Many times during the consideration of a series of drafts to the Supreme Council of Ukraine are presented not by ministers, but by the level of the deputy, we will live to see that there will be representatives, heads of departments and administrations. Respect for the status of deputies of all levels begins with personal consideration when considering drafts in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. It's the whole attitude towards the Supreme Council of Ukraine institution and it's the attitude towards monogamy. Perhaps if we were opposed, you would not be counted on today. Although I would like to draw your attention once again, it is you who are today forming the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and ignoring the presence of ministers at meetings during the presentation of laws that is disrespectful to you. So we urge you that our representatives of Kabmin be, your representatives are responsible, they pay the highest priority to those who formed them. And your position that it's not our authority, it doesn't work, because today it's happened that everything in the country is Green and I answer to you. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-03-m0.u84	Thank you. Cimbaluk Mikhailovich. Then we're going to the Lozinski, and we're going to the vote. Rudik's more. Then we go to the vote. Mikhail Mikhailovich. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-03-m0.u85	Mikhailo Cimbaluk, Fatherland. Dear Chairman, dear colleagues, I will not comment on today's photographing in the government's bed, I think that journalists will do it more professionally than the entire Ukrainian people. I'm basically Bill 3381. Indeed, the election of local authorities has just been completed, for the first time in many united territorial communities, the election of deputies and the importance of exercising their powers within the limits of competence and being able to defend the interests of the community with dignity. It is the increase in the administrative responsibility of officials to respond to a request from local council members or to ignore them that should indeed be punished administratively. I thank the drafters. And it is suggested that article 188 should be complemented by the fact that failure to comply with statutory deadlines to respond to the MPs of the local council, to provide false or incomplete information, entails imposing a fine on officials from 10 to 20 untaxed minimums. If such an offence is committed again during the year, it is already carrying out fines on officials from 20 to 50 untaxed minimums. Failure to respond to a request will result in the imposition of a fine of 100 to 250 untaxed minimum on officials. We believe that this will be a serious commitment, and this will ensure that the deputies fulfill their responsibilities fully. And those to whom you ask will submit them in due time. The Fatherland faction will vote in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-03-m0.u86	Lozinski Roman Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-03-m0.u87	Dear colleagues, the local elections are over, it's time to work. But unfortunately, in the local authorities, in the community deputies, whom we have so carefully and carefully put forward for these elections, there are not so many tools and opportunities. These tools are requests and appeals that each of you also own and that really enable people, communities to represent their positions, express their interests, and solve the problems that they sound like. But unfortunately, we have judicial practice, and we have weak legislation that nullifies this right of local governments. And this is the law that allows us to raise the status of requests and appeals from members of the community, and then to present to them the interests of people, our communities and our neighbours. So let us make local council members stronger so that they can better represent the interests of the community. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-03-m0.u88	Rudik Sergey Jaroslavovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-03-m0.u89	Dear colleagues, let me tell you a little example of why we should vote in favour of this bill. There is such a city called Smila in Cherchishka. There's a town head from "Z," the secretary from "Z." Governor in this Cherkas region, like all over the country, from "Z." Spiker and most of the people in Parliament from Ze, the president from Ze. What, then, should deputies do? And they're going to Ze. And they tell them, go there. And for that to happen, at least give them a tiny tool to get those deputies of the local councils who came from other political forces, including "Sergey Rudik's Command." Time of change!"to provide an opportunity to protect the braves and representatives of other communities from the "Ze" massacre throughout the country. We vote yes, and we hope that the deputies of the local councils will not be sent in the way they send the people.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-03-m0.u90	Bacunec Pavel Andryovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-03-m0.u91	Paul Bakunec, Zovkovščina, Jaborovščina, MP group "Trust". Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs! We are all in the final stages of decentralization in this country. You and I have brought new deputies to our communities to the local councils. They need to add, of course, "muscules" to make our lives more comfortable and better. And so I propose to everyone from the Trust MP group to support this bill and help local council members to do so that we and you and we can live better together in our communities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-03-m0.u92	Thank you. Let's go to the vote. Please prepare for the vote. Invite the national deputies to the hall. I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Law amending the Code of Administrative Offences concerning the establishment of responsibility for non-compliance with the legal requirements of the Deputy Local Council (Registration No. 3381). Ready to vote? Ready? Please support and vote. [[11:44:47]] For 309 Decision taken. Thank you, Your Honor. Next question of the agenda. Announcement. Pursuant to article 60, Prim. I report on the creation in the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the ninth interfractional parliamentary association "Crime Platform" in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The heads of this association were elected Ukrainian national deputies: Umerova Rustem Enverovich, Jemilev Mustafa, Chigoza Ahtema Zeitullaiovich, Jasko Elizavet Alexiyivna, Galajchuk Vadim Sergiyyyovich. Dear colleagues, you have been invited to consider a draft Act amending the Criminal Code of Ukraine on responsibility for kidnapping, possession, sale, falsification of documents certifying the person's nationality or special status of the person, as well as a certificate of state registration of civil status acts and/or the use of forged documents (Registration No. 3946). It is suggested that this issue be considered in a simplified manner. Please support and vote. [[11:46:06]] For 224 Decision taken. The head of the State Migration Service, Sokoluk Maksim Yuriovich, is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-03-m0.u93	Good afternoon, Your Honourable Chairman, Honorable People's Deputies! The bill aims at settling and clearly defining the subject of crime, and increasing criminal responsibility for kidnapping, possession, marketing, falsifying documents certifying the nationality of Ukraine or its special status. It should be noted that today a fairly common crime is the falsification of documents that bear witness to a person. These are documents such as passports, passports, or civil status. This allows for the acquisition of foreign property, finance, the avoidance of property responsibility for wrongdoing, and the illegal crossing of the border. Counterfeiting has become so widespread that even virtual shops and counterfeit laboratories work. At the same time, members of organized criminal groups, with a view to personal wealth, are searching for potential clients, for illegal purchases of official documents, for other activities, and for the illegal movement of persons across the state border of Ukraine. Each year there are between 12 and 15 thousand crimes in 357, 358. One reason for this scale of crime in this area is a small amount of responsibility. Usually, the responsibility set out in such articles is 850 dollars. There is an objective need for detail and clear definition, and for increased criminal responsibility. It should be noted that in most countries the responsibility is 5-10 years of imprisonment for crimes against the state. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-03-m0.u94	Thank you. The head of the committee’s subcommittee on the law enforcement of Bakumov, Alexander Sergiyovich, is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-03-m0.u95	The honourable chairman, honourable colleagues, the purpose of the bill is to resolve matters related to the strengthening of criminal responsibility for the abduction, possession, sale, falsification of documents certifying the person's nationality or special status of the person, as well as to the state registration of civil status acts and/or the use of the documents which are deliberately forged. The bill, first, excludes part three of article 357 of the Criminal Code, which provides for criminal liability for unlawful possession by any means of passport or other important personal document, and proposes to lay down a new separate rule under which to provide for the falsification of documents certifying the person, confirms the nationality of Ukraine or its respective special status. There is also a discussion about the terminology of another important personal document, which was noted by the Committee on Anti-Corruption Policy and the Chief Scientific and Experimental Administration. However, I would like to point out that this terminological structure is already operating in the current edition of the Criminal Code in part three in article 357, and so it's just borrowed and transferred to part one. In any case, the second-reading committee will work and justify such a position. And I would like to say that the committee at its meeting on September 16, 2020 decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a bill under registration number 3946 on the basis of the first reading to be adopted as a basis. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-03-m0.u96	Thank you. Needed to Be Discussed? Please sign up: two for, two for the factions. Savrasov Maksim Vitaliovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-03-m0.u97	Please pass the word to Alexei.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-03-m0.u98	Alekseus Sergey Olegovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-03-m0.u99	Dear colleagues, there is no secret that today the situation of the raider’s takeover of property is unfortunately getting worse. And we see a number of isolated cases when they come to reshape real estate objects on counterfeit passports, and then years of investigation, people lose apartments, houses, properties. Also, when a country is in a state of war, border control is very important. And we also know that because of counterfeit passports, other documents happen to cross the border illegally. And that's why this bill is still quite up to date. The "European Solidarity" faction will support the first reading, provided that the work will be done on the legal technique of the bill. And after that, it will be supported in a second reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-03-m0.u100	Thank you. Grivko Sergey Dmitrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-03-m0.u101	Dear colleagues! I ask you very much to support the bill, because it is very necessary for our society and which will bring the process in order. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-03-m0.u102	Thank you. Coltunovich Alexander Sergiyovich. Mother Grigory Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-03-m0.u103	Please pass the word to Mommy.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-03-m0.u104	Dear National Deputies! "The Opposition Platform for Life," Gregory Mamka. The MPs cannot support this bill because there are far more important issues in our country that we have to bring to the hall, to consider, to make decisions and to involve ourselves in the state's life. In Ukrainian legislation, there are currently 357 articles of the Criminal Code, where all the moments are prescribed by the law. But this law introduces such a malibre and summation into documents that no one can explain on the committee, the initiator of the bill, what is "individual, important personal documents". I'm sorry if we put in another kind of "especially important and indeterminate documents," I have a question. The document, he either bears witness to the person or gives the right to act or to act. There is no third function in the document. It can be called whatever, but no one can legally distinguish between birth certificates and property rights — they have a completely different function and role. When this category is introduced, when individual important, personal documents, such as a civil registration certificate, a driver’s license, a driver’s license, a person who needs additional protection, and so on, must be recognized as the subject of a criminal offence provided for in another article 358 with the badge 1 of the Criminal Code. And other important personal documents, birth certificates, are the subject of another article of the Criminal Code. Nothing new, we just break it into two parts. We will not support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-03-m0.u105	Ivchenko Vadim Evgenovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-03-m0.u106	Please give the floor to the colleague of Zimbaluku Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-03-m0.u107	Mikhailo Cimbaluk, Fatherland. Dear Mr. Head, honourable reporter, the drafters of the bill! I thank Vadim Yvchenka for her word. In fact, I want to point out and agree with some of the colleagues who are speaking to me that the legislative initiative is absolutely necessary. But, dear colleagues, it's a good initiative, and execution is a bad one. When it comes to particularly important personal documents, respectable colleagues should clearly determine which documents refer to the category. Article 357, part one, indeed, of the Criminal Code, tells us clearly about the documents involved. But the law is necessary. Indeed, under difficult conditions today, we see how many documents are forged by those who engage in fraud, raiding, there are other things about document counterfeiting. The "Fatherland" faction will vote on one condition: that by the second reading we will work on it and make a balanced document that will not be submitted, including in the Criminal Code, the positions that are in the first reading. Because of that request: vote in favour and work on the second reading to accept as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-03-m0.u108	Thank you. All those who wish to speak? Please prepare for the vote. I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Act amending the Criminal Code of Ukraine on responsibility for kidnapping, possession, sale, falsification of documents certifying a person, confirms the nationality of Ukraine or the special status of a person, as well as the State registration of civil status acts and/or the use of documented documents (Registration No. 3946). Ready to vote? Ready? Please support and vote. [[11:57:09]] For 264 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, we have two minutes to 12. I'll announce a break until 12:30. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-03-m0.u109	Dear colleagues, let's get back to work. You are invited to consider a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Customs Code in connection with the adoption of the Ukrainian Standardization Act. We need to vote in favour of the short-term procedure for considering this law. Please take your seats, prepare for the vote. Mikhail Mikolaiovich, you're still voting "restraint." I remember, I can see. Yes, that's why we're waiting for colleagues to come and hear this important law, and I completely agree with you. Dear colleagues, summary procedure. Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[12:38:25]] For-147 The decision is not taken. Let's go. The National Deputy of Ukraine Zablocksky Marjan Bogdanovic is invited to attend. No, well, an important law, you need to hear all the thoughts and positions.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-03-m0.u110	Honorable national MPs, frankly, of the laws that are today, this is the least deserving of a wide-ranging procedure, because the bill is strictly technical. We can talk about him as much as we can, talk about what you'll say, I see, I have a lot of time to report. But it's very simple. Two years ago, the Act on Standardization was passed, which did the right thing: mandatory national and international standardisation for goods, products, services was abolished. The right thing to do. Only when laws have been passed can certain laws not be amended under the Supreme Council’s Rules. You know we have special laws, such as the Budget Code, the Tax Code, the Customs Code, the Criminal Code, where changes can only be made by a single law. And even though the Standardization Act has begun to work, it has given 1 year to make all other legislative acts the same changes as in the Standardization Act, i.e. to make national and international standards optional for production. Appropriately, there are still 2 years of provisions in the Customs Code that state that certain goods are either provided with such standardization documents, whether voluntarily or necessarily. This law merely brings the Customs Code into line with the already adopted Standardization Act. Thank you. Please support and vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-03-m0.u111	Is there a question for the reporter? None. Okay. It is, isn't it? Well, three minutes. Please sign up for the interview. Suffritch Nestor Ivanovich. One minute, questions, two minutes, answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-03-m0.u112	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. Please pass the word to Coltunovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-03-m0.u113	Coltunovich Alexander Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-03-m0.u114	Thank you, Your Honor, Mr. Head, the distinguished national MPs. In fact, you were rightly told about the priority, priority, and importance of the legislative initiatives that are generally proposed, which unfortunately do not meet the challenges of time. But once we've entered into this important bill, we've drawn attention to the financial and economic justification for the basic parameters of implementation of the proposed standards. And we're just wondering why. Well, what doesn't need budget spending is understandable. But this is a question of many other points, and we want to understand who is actually going to spend the cost of implementing one or the other standards. That's the first question. And the second moment. We also seemed to have a side effect yesterday on the Standardization Act, which was why we first considered it, but we were looking at the amendments to the Customs Code on Standardization. Because, in my opinion, that law is a priority. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-03-m0.u115	Thank you. That's a good question. For me, all the laws that are related to the fact that we need to carry out all the other standardization acts need to be considered and adopted. Frankly, it should have been taken two years ago by the last call. It's a technical bill, I'll report it now.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-03-m0.u116	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-03-m0.u117	Michael Bondar, European Solidarity, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-03-m0.u118	Please give Nina Yuzanini the word.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-03-m0.u119	Nina Yuzanin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-03-m0.u120	Dear reporter, please tell me, if this is a derivative and almost technical draft of the law, first of all, why is it that the subject of the legislative initiative is the MPs, not the government? That's the first question. And the second question. Given that most of the rules are underworked and are not in contact with the Standardization Act itself, why do we now consider such a law as, for the second reading, I think, should rule every article? Because there is a point about the name of the customs authority as the body of revenue and congregations. What do you think about this?
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-03-m0.u121	Thank you, Nina Petrovna, for asking. The bill is proposed to be adopted on a basis where we can work out further observations. Why I didn't file a government, I don't know. They had to take the initiative.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-03-m0.u122	Thank you. And the final question from Coltunovich Alexander, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-03-m0.u123	Please give the floor to the national deputy, Šufrich Nestor Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-03-m0.u124	Shufrich Nestor Ivanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-03-m0.u125	Thank you, Madam Chairman. We just didn't expect to be able to ask two questions. Please tell me, in essence, if this law is adopted, how much better will it improve the lives of our citizens from now on? Why is this bill so principled to be considered right now, when in our country so many problems, people are suffering, really suffering from the threat of coronavirus, instead of focusing on the Supreme Council to fight the consequences, raise citizens' incomes, raise pensions, we are looking at it in such an extended way? Explain, please, what is the need for his vote right now, and how will this help our citizens today? And why don't we use this time to adopt a lot of social laws, including tariff cuts? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-03-m0.u126	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-03-m0.u127	Thank you. You know, I'm also absolutely in favour of supporting those laws that make real fundamental changes. But somehow, as yesterday, when it comes to handing over land to community administration, what we had to do, and what every faction promised to the communities, especially after the local elections, and somehow it didn't vote and it didn't do in some of the MP factions -- I don't know. Unfortunately, we really do, including having to do some more or less technical things. This bill largely reduces the risk that tax collectors may abuse these standards. Some abuse, most act decently. But on the basis of the facts, in some way it is necessary to require additional documents from those engaged in cross-border transfers that are long overdue under the Standardization Act that customs officers have. We're cleaning it up. Not those reforms, frankly, that would be desirable, but should actually be voted for more serious when the time comes.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-03-m0.u128	Thank you. The co-representative of this issue is the head of the committee’s subcommittee on finance, tax, and customs policy, Owl Alexander Georgievic. Please, Mr. Alexander. Your speech will take up to three minutes. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-03-m0.u129	Dear lady, dear fellows! The draft Ukrainian law amending the Ukrainian Customs Code is proposed for consideration in connection with the adoption of the Ukrainian Standardization Act. The bill proposes to exclude from the Customs Code references to international, national and sectoral standards, as well as standards developed by enterprises, institutions and organizations, with a view to bringing the Code into line with the standards of the Ukrainian Standardization Act. The main scientific and expert office, in general, supported the bill, made a number of comments and suggestions to it. In particular, it is considered appropriate to establish that the bill under consideration takes effect not one year from the date of its publication, as stated in chapter II, but along with the Ukrainian Standardization Act. The Government commissioned conclusions from the Ministry of Economics, the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Finance and the State Customs Service of Ukraine. Taking into account the above, the committee has decided to support and requests to vote and adopt a draft Ukrainian law amending the Ukrainian Customs Code in connection with the adoption of the Ukrainian Standardization Act. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-03-m0.u130	Are there any questions? Please sign up for the interview. It'll take up to three minutes. Gerasimov Arthur Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-03-m0.u131	Please pass the word to Nina Petrovni Jujanini.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-03-m0.u132	Eugene, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-03-m0.u133	Dear reporter, please tell us that today, the legal and regulatory framework of the NBA uses such a definition that banking metals are gold, silver, platinum, platinum, platinum, and platinum group metals that are tested in accordance with world standards. In this draft law, it is proposed that the definition of "compliant with world standards" be removed. But legislation leaves that definition and there are no projects for change. Please tell me, why is the Customs Code now levelling, and the rule that is set out in the main law on the definition of a given set of values?
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-03-m0.u134	It is proposed that the law be adopted as a basis and that between the first and the second readings, the differences that are in law.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-03-m0.u135	Thank you. Fedina Sofia Romanovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-03-m0.u136	Please pass the word to your colleague Nina Jujanini.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-03-m0.u137	Nina Petrovn Yuzanin.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-03-m0.u138	Next question. I realized that you don't know why you decided to replace the definition. It's very strange to me. And it's strange for tax collectors, especially those who don't understand half of the rules of this law. The next question I have is about standards. What standards do you know in the world, and what do you propose in this law for Ukraine? What standards do we use in Ukraine?
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-03-m0.u139	Nina Petrovna, the standards are very high. And if I count it, there's not enough time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-03-m0.u140	Papiev Mikhailo Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-03-m0.u141	Thank you. Your Honor, you can see that you are not at all in terms of terminology in this law. But I have a very formal question for you. Look, these bills have always been passed by the government. Can you imagine these experts in standardization and metrology, the national deputies of Ukraine? So you took it completely. a function, right, somewhere to stretch some leather interest so that a product that does not meet either quality or safety standards is imported? And you have this law, it applies to customs. So you're forming Ukraine today as such, you know, a garbage dump that could come from all over the world. Instead of shaping and implementing European and world quality standards, you are actually transferring Ukraine in general to third world countries below all of Africa today.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-03-m0.u142	This law does not only apply to customs, it applies to many areas. And you have the opportunity to join between the first and the second readings and make any corrections you want. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-03-m0.u143	Thank you. Please sign up from the MP factions and groups. Bondar Victor Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-03-m0.u144	Dear colleagues, surely our "For the Future" MP group will support this bill because it harmonizes our standards of Ukrainian national legislation with European standards of standardization. As important as it is, I want you to pay attention: virtually most of the post-Soviet countries that initially created their national standards were spinning around, introducing technical conditions so called, and so on, today they are returning to what needs to be clearly supported by the standards of the state-of-the-art, to the quality of food, to the quality of the product that is being produced. And this bill is specifically designed to allow national standards to be worked out in line with European standards and to remove from other legislative acts a reference to the State-standardisation system. Because when dozens of references are made in various acts, including the Customs Codex, there is a mess that prevents manufacturers from working properly. And the second part of the mess is when there's no quality testing of the quality of the product, compliance with the standards and so on. That's why we support this bill. Of course, we need to keep order and move in the direction to raise the quality of Ukrainian goods, to avoid the use of technical so-called conditions, when every enterprise that is called small in the garages makes that oil, then candy, then something else, and then digest our citizens, digest our children with palm oil, then something else. So, of course, we support the order of standardization and the return to those historic times when the quality of Ukrainian products was at the highest level and there was nothing mixed and there was no weakening for manufacturers to do in the garages, in the garages that fell. That is why we vote, support, and order. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-03-m0.u145	Papiev Mikhailo Mikolaiovich. Sorry to interrupt.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-03-m0.u146	Thank you. May I give the floor to the national deputy, Shufrich?
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-03-m0.u147	Suffritch Nestor Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-03-m0.u148	Thank you, Your Honor. To say that this law doesn't matter, I wouldn't say that, although we have a lot of claims to it. A few positions. Exclude government and industry standards for manufacturers. Why should we rule them out? Or an assessment of the compatibility of information and communication systems with the relevant standards. Why should we refuse to do so? And the main question is, why at this very moment and in this Council? Please tell me, what if we were to consider this in the next session? We now have a budget deficit of 117 billion dollars. Are we supposed to be doing this right now? We have people dying, we can't get oxygen. We have people today who can't get their family in a hospital, and we have to play in these papers? The amendments to the Customs Code are provided for by this law. Where are 100 billion dollars of customs revenue? You promised a year ago, December 1st, you ended the fight against smuggling. "Where's the money from smuggling, Zin?" Tell me, where's the money? So, you know, today is a huge outrage to our people. Instead of discussing the possibility of helping our citizens as quickly as possible, importing a vaccine. You don't have to create artificial intelligence to do that, I understand you're missing your own. So now, Ukrainians have to wait 10 years for you to create an artificial instead of your natural? And laughter and sin, but it's not funny. I mean, reverend "Serves of the People" for the show would be interesting, but people don't live on stage and not on stage, people live in real life. And you have either virtual assets or artificial intelligence. So get out of your smartphones, see how real people live. It's your responsibility, you called yourself "Serves of the people," the people and the servants. What's going on? That you've made them your forts, and you're panicking them, and you're even gossiping, you're saying, "We're all good, beautiful Marquis." We've reduced the number of tests and everything's fine, and we've already defeated the coronavirus again. When they saw that 30 percent of those who received the tests showed that they were COVID. What have they done? They dropped the tests and "all good, lovely Marquis." Thus, we have deep resentment about this situation, and it is unacceptable to treat people in that way. What you did to make it real.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-03-m0.u149	Danuca Alexander Anatolyevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-03-m0.u150	Thank you. As the previous reporter Nestor Ivanovich said about the creation of artificial intelligence, they've done a lot of calling here, and, as one classic said, stop. In general, the bill really has a technical character, as the reporters said. And he's convinced that he's going to change a lot of the different differences that exist in legislation today. Therefore, we must not waste our time and vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-03-m0.u151	Bondar Mikhailo Leontijovich. Nina Petrovn Jujanin?
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-03-m0.u152	Yes, please pass it on to Nina Jujanini.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-03-m0.u153	Dear colleagues! In fact, we would very much like to have a full hearing procedure tomorrow when we may be considering presidential business support laws. Because we all have to figure out if our business can make use of the payouts that are planned. And perhaps right away in the hall to correct it in order not to be a nice bubble. Turning to the subject of our law, the so - called technical law, I read even when I read the committee’s decision, which has almost a full page of observations related to comments made by GNEU. So I pointed out that this was supposed to be a government bill. The Department of Standardization, I think he works for the Ministry of Economics. I would even like to listen to the minister of the economy what he thinks about the text of this law. It is absolutely necessary to adopt these changes into the Customs Code so that the changes that are already in the adopted Standardization Act are synchronized with the Customs Code. But what do we have today? I'm just a few critical standards that give rise to even more misunderstandings. Once again, I spoke to customs: Do they understand these changes and can they use them? So it's those discretionary norms that we have to adopt at the very least in this draft law that are the most important. We read again about these telecommunication and information systems, the use for customs purposes of these systems is allowed only after checking their compliance with the required requirements. What are the requirements? There is no concept of requirements in any Act on Standardization. What are the requirements? What body sets these requirements? Is this the State Customs, is this the Mindhodes or the DFS? Is it even appropriate to pass on to another service? Who will set these requirements? Next question. We have just talked to you about such discretionary standards as, together with the claim, the owner of the goods or the person authorized by it, submitting other documents to the income and assembly body. Please tell me what other documents? You realize that I'm going to bring a document, a letter that's completely unrelated to technical requirements and standards, and I'm going to insist as a declarant that it's another document that's going to be accepted by the customs officer and that I'm saying that this is the same document that I'm adding to the declaration. So I think there's a lot of amendments. And, by the way, in the past, vocations were often, very densely, laws that needed to be worked out. This bill is supposed to turn into a real project into a second reading, because what's here today is totally unacceptable. It would have been my will, I'd have sent it back first. But.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-03-m0.u154	Dear colleagues, have all those who wish to speak? Let's go to the vote. Please invite the people's deputies to the hall. Ah, three minutes from the MPs. Yes, please sign up for the performance. I agree. It's just that it's been a long time since there was a procedure that, frankly, I've even been a little confused. Three minutes, please, Papiev Mikhailo Mikolaiovich. And then we go to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-03-m0.u155	Thank you. Please pass the word to Nestor Schufrich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-03-m0.u156	Nestor Ivanovich Šufrich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-03-m0.u157	I thank my colleague Papiev for the opportunity. I want to respond to the reply of a representative of the ruling majority. Well, when you call your parents' names, don't be afraid to call them names. This is not a fight, and the answer is always an answer. And just underlining the individual characteristics of this bill, I've drawn society's attention to the following, and I'll never stop at that, that you're now instead of solving the real issues that will help people, sorry me, you're drawing squares for taxis instead of reaching the goal. Is it worth spending about 40 minutes of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on this law when we, including the Referendum Act, are hanging over us? Who Promised the Peoples of the World? Who demanded that the people take a direct part in regulating the situation in the country? Where is the people of the land from you? This October 25 survey was done, and it was no longer helpful. Next question. October 27 was the decision of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine. Where is your initiative to consider changes to the Law on Illegal Enrichment so that, as you say, they don't take the car and give money? Where's all this? You have standardization in your head. Please tell me, of course, this must be important, but is it timely to do so right now? Haven't you had enough in your mind? I'm not talking about intelligence anymore! Otherwise, you can't organize your work to worry about the issues that are really relevant right now, today and right now, it's about raising pensions. Even now, the pension is twice as low as it was when I was in charge of the pension of the government to which I had the privilege of working. So first, make sure that people live at least with the standards that we have, and then tell me to stop. I won't stop! Don't stop! And our political power, believe me, in the next parliamentary election will show you what support and responsibility is. Your responsibility will come to the people, and your support is those people who are not called "ministers of the people," but where people live much better. So stay in your insolence and the deception of the people. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-03-m0.u158	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we are finally going to the vote. Invite the national deputies to the hall. From the "Serial of the People" faction, Danusz performed. Dear colleagues, let's go to the vote. Prepare for the vote, please. Ready to vote? I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Act amending the Customs Code of Ukraine in connection with the adoption of the Ukrainian Standardization Act (Registration No. 2477). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[13:07:51]] For 252 Decision taken. Thank you. By procedure, Tretlyak's Galina Mikolayevna.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-03-m0.u159	Ladies and gentlemen, I have a request to move and now consider Bill 4096 in order to get us to New Year's for our civil servants to solve one of the problems that they call "Ajjism", which is in great shape in our country. Please support the transfer.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-03-m0.u160	Dear colleagues, is there any objection? Let's go. You are invited to consider the draft Act amending the Law on State Service on the Elimination of Age Limitations for State Service (Registration No. 4096). It is suggested to include this issue in the agenda of the day session. Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[13:09:00]] For 266 Decision taken. It is suggested that the ad hoc procedure be followed for consideration and decision-making at this plenary session. Please support and vote. [[13:09:21]] For 242 Decision taken. It is suggested that this issue be considered in a simplified manner. Please support and vote. [[13:09:42]] For 227 Decision taken. The National Deputy of Ukraine, Tretlyakowa Galina Mikolayivna, is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-03-m0.u161	Thank you, distinguished national MPs. Dear chairman, distinguished national MPs, respected Ukrainians of an important age! This bill raises a question that has major problems in Ukraine. In 1969, U.S. National Institute of Aging Director Butler introduced the word "Adgeism" into our vocabulary. And it's translated very often as discrimination by one age group of another. But the word "Ajjism" has one more thing, one thing is that stereotypes are created according to some age group. I want to give you a few examples. In the United States, Joseph Biden, 77 years old, is the world’s oldest president. When he finishes his cadence, he'll be 82. That's another fact. The proportion of people aged 60 plus in the world is increasing, Ukraine is not an exception. Today, the proportion of people is 60 plus 20 percent or more. One more fact. In Belgium and Switzerland, the age limit varies from 67 to 70 years for a person in public service. One more fact. Voluntary retirement, the need to quit work is a goal set by the International Labour Organization in the implementation of pension reforms. The world is changing and the word "renovation" is no longer identified by the word "rejuvenating." People over 60 plus become just as active. Why is there an age - old price, and what can we really do to those who are in a state of suspense? Eight of the 10 candidates who go to work are affected by the problem of Angieism. And even though our Labour Code says that it's as if we're protecting these people, we actually have a service requirement that prohibits people from working after 65 years. To solve this problem, I, along with coauthor Alona Skrum and other national deputies, passed the bill. A request for support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-03-m0.u162	Thank you. And the co-reporter on this issue is the head of the committee's subcommittee on the organization of government, local self-government, regional development and the construction of Kornienko Alexander Sergiyovich. Please, Mr. Alexander.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-03-m0.u163	Dear colleagues, dear presiding officer! The Committee on the Organization of Government, Local Self-Government, Regional Development and Urbanization, commissioned by the Head of the Supreme Council, discussed at its meeting on 2 December the draft Law on Amendments to the Law on State Service on the Elimination of Age Limitations for State Service and decided to recommend to the Supreme Council that it be accepted as a result of the first reading on the basis of shortening the deadline for submitting observations and suggestions to the second reading. The adoption of the bill will help ensure the effective functioning of public authorities and the introduction of a flexible approach to regulating the borderline age of service in accordance with the practice of legislation of the member states of the European Union. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Please be supportive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-03-m0.u164	Thank you, Mr. Alexander. Is there a need to discuss the matter? Yes. Please sign up: two in, two in.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-03-m0.u165	Jacenko Anton Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-03-m0.u166	Pass the word to the deputy's father.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-03-m0.u167	Who's to say the word again?
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-03-m0.u168	Father.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-03-m0.u169	Please, Taras Batenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-03-m0.u170	Dear friends, dear colleagues, our parliamentary group "For the Future" has examined this bill on the State Service on raising age limits for public service work. You know, we're basically inclined to support it in the first reading, but we have some warnings about what it is. We're all out of the Soviet Union. And we realize that when the deadline that we're set today is 65 years old and we're looking at the top table that we're taking the risks. So that our bill wouldn't look anything like a law on gerontocrats in power. You know, there are all kinds of cases -- good cases, good cases, good times, when important people had positions at an important age. I cannot help but mention the late president of the Academy of Sciences, Boris Eugenovich Patton, who headed the Academy of Sciences from 1962 to 2020 continuously and virtually before his death, and died at the age of 101. But let us understand that this law does not become a geronocratic law for us, that it does not push away our young people who want to take up a position, a state office, and as a result it cannot be occupied under certain circumstances and go abroad. So so that we don't restrict quality employees in the public service, my friends, we can only support this bill in the first reading by reprocessing it to the second. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-03-m0.u171	Thank you. Fedina Sofia Romanovna. Alexeiovich Honcharenko
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-03-m0.u172	I give the word to Goncharenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-03-m0.u173	Alexei Hotcharenko, European Solidarity. My friends, I welcome you all. The era of new faces has finally ended. We've been told that only young people, only new faces -- those that have never been anywhere before. And that's the only time we're gonna live, oh, we're gonna live! And then finally, we get a bill that provides for the removal of restrictions, instead of actually being 65 years old, maybe 70 years old is a person in the public service. I have great respect for people 70 years old and older. And I absolutely believe, and I agree that there are a lot of people among them who are capable of doing a lot of things, and people with great experience and great intelligence, and not those who are in intellectual elbowdown as active power. There is absolutely no doubt about it. But, I'm sorry, what were you saying? Maybe then you go out to people and you say, "You know, we lied. You know, we got it all mixed up. You know, we were wrong. We realized that to be a member of the public service, we need to know something other than the alphabet and the multiplication table. Because it just works out, it's something to put in your pocket. And it's not enough to just look at "People's Servant" and "95th Quarter" as a cultural development. And then we're really going to say, "Yeah, guys, we heard you. You've understood your mistakes. And we can move on." And for the time being, it looks like you've brought people here into the government's bed under the slogans of the new faces of those faces that Khrushchev saw. And now you're still pushing them. We've all heard of Witold Fokin and so on, all of these citizens, you've collected them. And now you know that you have failed completely and are desperately looking for adults. But you just go away and we'll figure it out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-03-m0.u174	Thank you. Suffritch Nestor Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-03-m0.u175	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. You know, this bill, I really hope, will unite our hall. I'm not going to repeat these preceding speakers right now. It's good that energy, if it's still there. Various turbots have recognized that experience is needed. And that's normal. It's normal when the possibilities match the skills. I would like to believe that this will not only be the law on paper, but that it will really enable us today to strengthen the power of the state in terms of responsibility, using the experience of those people who have created national wealth, which unfortunately is now being embezzled. I hope that the experience of people who have fought for the health of our citizens will finally help you to understand that it does not play the role in which the SOVID vaccine is made, the main thing is to have it in our citizens and as quickly as possible. Britain starts using vaccines for vaccination in December, at the end of December, Germany, Hungary imported Satellite V. Everyone is in pain for one thing: to protect their citizens as soon as possible. And they don't have a role to play, how old are those who are helping to make effective decisions today? It is important that these decisions be in the interest of the State, in the interest of every citizen. Our faction supports this bill. And in doing so, we emphasize that we are the leading opposition force that supports those initiatives that are for people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-03-m0.u176	Alona Ivanovna's starch.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-03-m0.u177	Good afternoon, dear fellows! Alona's splinter, Fatherland faction. Colleagues, this is a perfectly correct bill, made by representatives of different factions, and I have the honour to be co-author of this bill, which speaks of one thing: in public service, we need professional, experienced, honest people, not young people, or older people, or middle-aged people, or new just faces. Absolutely not dependent on the age of professionalism and professionalism. So today, unfortunately, a person who is 65 years of age is automatically released from public service because he has reached retirement age. Most countries of the world and countries of Europe do not. In most parts of the world, he's retired. So it could be 67, it could be 70, it could be later, if you want to work, you can work and you can work professionally. This is the system that is established in this bill. It's very simple: a person is 65 years old, but she wants to work alone -- it's very important -- so she agrees and she's a professional person who needs more knowledge from this government body. And then the head of the public authority in these exceptional cases, and only with the approval of a government official who has reached the age of 65, can continue his so - called public service contract for a year. A year later again. If a person wants to keep working, he stays for another year, if he doesn't want to, he goes to retirement. And so it could be up to 70 years old. It's a perfectly correct story. And in a failed state service, in a completely unprofessional government today, we need to preserve the experience and the professionalism that remains there today. I definitely think that we can get young people to want to go public. But let's be honest, in such a system of failed government assignments, in a system where 15,000 government officials are currently being appointed temporarily for quarantine without any election competition, of course, young people don't go there. Experience, professionalism, the involvement of experienced, honest people who have knowledge and desire to work. Please support this bill. Thank you all.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-03-m0.u178	Thank you, Alona Ivanovna. All those who wish to speak? I see it's from Kachura. Then we vote. Please invite the national deputies to the hall. Katchura Alexander Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-03-m0.u179	Alexander Kachura, "Serial of the People" faction. You know, you really need a bill, probably, taking into account the deficit of government officials in our country. But on the other hand, when you go to any government office right now, you see what a bunch of seniors there are. So I'm sure this bill needs to be adopted. But at the same time, we have to adopt the next bill, which will provide incentives for young people to work in public authorities, to go to public service to get compensation, to pay them rent, so that the wages are normal so that people don't look in Poland, don't go to the raspberries with higher education. I think this is our next bill. And this bill is clearly supported because it has common sense now, and the need is practical. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-03-m0.u180	Thank you. Let's go to the vote. Please take your seats, prepare for the vote. Ready? I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Act amending the National Service Act (Registration No. 4096). Ready to vote? Ready? Please support and vote. [[13:23:29]] For 260 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, in accordance with part two of article 116 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules, have put to the vote a proposal to cut back on the proposal and right and prepare for the second reading of the bill (registration 4096). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[13:24:06]] For 234 Decision taken. Thank you. Arachami of procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-03-m0.u181	Colleagues, considering that many members of the Association of Small Towns are now asking for the adoption of Law 2458, are asking us to put it in the early hours of the day so that we can vote. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-03-m0.u182	Is there no objection? The colt guy in the procedure? One minute, not three.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-03-m0.u183	Dear Mr. Head, there is no objection, but there will be a request to give me a minute or two to make three amendments for confirmation. Because the law is as positive.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-03-m0.u184	Yes, it is. Alexander Sergiyovich, I'm sorry to interrupt, but we don't vote. Now it's just a question of whether or not we're going to go through it. Is there no objection? Thank you. Dear colleagues, the chairman of the Committee on Energy and Housing and Utilities of the Pivovars, Eugene Pavlovich, is invited to the rostrum. Please tell me, Your Honor, I've heard the position of Koltunovich Alexander Sergiyovich, three minutes he's asking, right? Two minutes, even. No one's going to insist on the papers anymore? Nobody. Then, please don't break up, now two minutes of Coltunovich's speech, then we go to the vote, I understand, for the amendments, and then for the law. Right? Turn on the Coltunovich microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-03-m0.u185	Thank you. Dear Dmitry Alexanderovich! In the previous edition, when we voted on the first reading and the second reading, unfortunately, there was one rule that was criminal in relation to Ukrainian citizens. I realize that there may be different interests in the draft law and in utility providers, but there is a critical norm, such as amendment 157, 198 and 199. I'm just going to quote you so you can hear it for yourself. Our representatives, that they're going to vote and why I'm putting them on the stand, they're accounted for. This is the norm of six: "Consumer or other person who, according to a contract or law, makes such a contract in the interests of the consumer, i.e. the refusal of the consumer to make a contract with the performer of the municipal service, does not exempt him from the obligation to pay the actually used utility service provided by such a performer." I mean, every citizen of Ukraine, every hostage of our apartment building can get a payment from the incomprehensible company. We've seen this in Santa in the example of City for People, when people don't know where they came from, and they set twice the rate for export, for example, of household waste, twice the rate that they should have. Hence, from this point of view, these amendments do not have the right to exist. Anyone can put any standards aside, we understand that there are problems in the communal economy, but these things, they shouldn't be in this document. That's the first one. And as far as the whole issue of housing management is concerned, the question of modernizing the water supply system is not being addressed. The issue of lowering municipal tariffs is not settled. And as we know, the electricity tariff will increase in December for the population. So given these critical moments, I'm asking you not to support the draft law. But I insist that the MPs do not vote to confirm the amendments that have been made. They'll come to you later. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-03-m0.u186	Alexander Sergiyovich, I didn't quite realize you were insisting on some kind of amendment to vote after all, were you not? No, it's not.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-03-m0.u187	They're in the table.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-03-m0.u188	Turn on the Coltunovich microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-03-m0.u189	They're included in the table. So please place them on confirmation.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-03-m0.u190	Number, please repeat.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-03-m0.u191	175, 198 and 199. They're just referring to this question, it would be nice to knock them down. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-03-m0.u192	175, 198, 199. Yeah? Okay. Kucherenko Aleksei Yuriovich is 2 minutes. Then we vote on three confirmations and we vote in favour of the law. Right? Please turn on Kucherenko's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-03-m0.u193	Thank you, dear friends. This is a very important bill. But unfortunately, I want to explain why I will not personally support him. Well, first of all, I don't see a prime minister trying to convince us that this bill is saving housing. That's the first one. The other one. I say that this bill is correct. I thank Mr. Pivovarov very much, as my colleague, for his hard work, but unfortunately there is no reform plan. And I find that the adoption of this right bill will eventually lead to an additional tariff burden on our consumers. They're going to get extra payments for domestic building networks, they're going to get extra payments. And they need extra money to pay for these extra payments. Oh, tell me, does anyone in this country understand what's going on with the tariffs today? Who's in charge of the heat tariff that comes from the ceiling today? Who today is responsible for regulating the price of gas? And please tell me, dear friends, do we have a gas market that we're talking about? I'm informing the MPs that literally two days ago Minenergo submitted, unfortunately, a late amendment to this bill, which envisions the timely creation of a full market for gas with the release of the entire gas resource of Ukrampazravljanje on the free market. This will certainly lead to demonopolization, this will cancel the monopoly of NAC Naftogazu, and this will lead to lower prices for gas and tariffs accordingly. I suggest, dear friends, let's work on your position, Minneergo, so we can have something to say and tell the electorate. Likewise, I suggest that you immediately create a housing and utility inspection that could protect a consumer who could handle tariffs. And then we're really going to have to tell voters about full reform. And, unfortunately, this one.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-03-m0.u194	Thank you, Alexei Yuriovich. Let's go to. [[B in m in s a l in]] Sergey Volodymyrovich, I'm sorry, but if we agree to pass. They raise the hands of two national deputies, everyone else is silent, and then we vote. Well, you can't do that either. Well, we're making a deal, and then again, it's not clear what's going on. [[B in m in s a l in]] I asked who insisted. Unfortunately, we have someone on the phone who isn't in the hall when we ask questions by law. [[B in m in s a l in]] Move it, move it, move it! Hall did not object at all. Dear colleagues, let's vote. Sergei Volodymyrovich, well, there's 50 law enforcement officers two minutes away. Well, you weren't there. Well, we made a deal. We wouldn't have gone in then, I wouldn't have gone back to that law. Let's vote. Three confirmation papers, Sergey Volodymyrovich. Coltunovich put three papers: 175th, 198th, 199th. Prepare for the vote, please. Dear colleagues, this is for confirmation, prepare for the vote, please. Two minutes, Shahov, at the request of the committee head.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-03-m0.u195	Sergey Shahov, Luhanščina, Deputy Group "Trust". Dear colleagues, there is a collapse in the HKG system today. The elevator is 99 percent fully worn, thermal seams, roofs, and floors. Today people pay for pipes, gas transit, electricity. Please tell me, everyone was submerged into this bill, everyone was reading it, everyone knows what it says? How many more people are going to be skinned by ten officials, class "A" politicians? People don't know what to pay for, after all. Today all the monopolies are in the hands of one or two people in our country. Please pay attention to what you vote for. And if I have 24 revisions, please also pay attention and give me the word, we'll read it. Someone was sent, someone was not sent. Next, it's about the garbage in this law. Who read it? To whom does everything go? Who's gonna take this garbage out in the yard? Today, there is a complete environmental collapse in our country and a technological catastrophe, and the dumps are completely polluted. Who is profiting from this? Once again, officials are profiting. They're chosen by people and they can't reach the offices. The number of people standing in the reception room is as follows: Please help us to resolve the matter. Thank you. Sergey Shahov, trust MP. I will not support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-03-m0.u196	Let's go to the vote. Please take your seats. I'm betting on a vote of 175 people's deputies, Kaptielov. She was taken into account by the committee, and I'm putting her on the stand. Ready to vote? Everybody ready? 175. Please support and vote. For confirmation. [[13:35:22]] For 222 Edit rejected. Edit 198, Beers. I was also counted by the committee. The committee insists on it? He insists. I'll put her to the vote for confirmation. Please support and vote. 198 law. [[13:35:57]] For 223 The decision is not taken. Edit rejected. Amendment 199, People's Deputy Kaptielov. The committee considered this amendment. Ready to vote? I'm betting on her confirmation. Please support and vote. [[13:36:28]] For 222 The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, let's move on to the law as a whole. Are you ready to vote? Ready? Don't make any noise, please. I am voting on the proposal for a re-adopted second reading and, in general, with the necessary technical and legal regulations, the draft Law amending certain laws of Ukraine on the settlement of individual issues in the area of housing and utility services (registration No. 2458). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[13:37:46]] For 240 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Show the factions, please. "The Servant of the People" – 199, "The Opposition Platform for Life" – 11, "The European Solidarity" – 1, "The Fatherhood" – 0, "For the Future" – 1, "The Voice" – 15, "The Trust" – 9, "the Non-Factional" – 4. Arahami David Georgiyovich. I'm out of procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-03-m0.u197	Colleagues, I suggest we move on to Bill 4142 and move on to the day. Thank you. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-03-m0.u198	4142. Is there no objection? Next question of the agenda. This is a draft law on administrative arrest regulations (registration number 3047a). It is suggested that this issue be considered in a simplified manner. Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[13:39:13]] For 216 Decision taken. The chairman of the committee’s committee on law enforcement is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-03-m0.u199	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues! The Committee on Law Protection at its meeting reviewed the draft Ukrainian Law on the Rules of Administrative Arrest, introduced by the Ukrainian National Deputy to the Monastirs and other Ukrainian National Deputies. The purpose of the bill is to improve legislation in the area of administrative arrest. The essence of the bill. To implement part three of article 327 of the Ukrainian Code on Administrative Offences, it is proposed, at the legislative level, to regulate administrative arrest rules, to establish the procedure for the conduct of a person in an administrative detention facility, which is a structural unit of the territorial police authority, in particular to establish the order of placement and placement of persons in temporary detention centres, to determine the rights and duties of arrested persons, their material and medical security, to conduct video surveillance in temporary detention units for the purpose of ensuring the security of persons held there. To amend article 23 of the Ukrainian National Police Act and to include in the main mandates of the National Police the conscription of persons detained on suspicion of committing a criminal offence taken into custody, accused or convicted of being deprived of their liberty, as well as the protection of such persons in the courtroom. At the time, no legislative act has established rules for administrative arrest, which entails the indeterminability of the competence of the employees of the institutions in which the arrest is to take place in the form of a person brought to justice by the court. The Committee on Law Enforcement asks that the bill be supported in the first reading, accepted as a basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-03-m0.u200	Thank you. Please sign up for factions: two for, two for, two against. Kitzak Bogdan Viktorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-03-m0.u201	Please pass the word to Igor Fries.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-03-m0.u202	Good afternoon, dear fellows! Look, I wanted to draw your attention to this bill. The adoption of a draft Ukrainian Law on Rules of Administrative Arrest will result in some violations of the Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms and the possible adoption of decisions by the European Court of Human Rights in favour of the State of Ukraine. What exactly is involved in this bill? Look, it's very short. There are standards for the number of square meters per person under such administrative arrest, the rules for the separation of smokers and non-smokers, the rules for the calculation of the period of arrest, which does not take into account the duration of the stay, it will not be included in the total term. There is no guarantee of the right to telephone calls and internet use, which is directly provided for by European legislation. At the same time, the European Court of Human Rights has repeatedly commented on Ukraine’s violation of article 3 of the convention in relation to improper maintenance conditions, such as the sharing of smokers and nonsmokers in cells, in the same cells. Colleagues, there is now a parliamentary bill of 4049 that proposes to reduce administrative arrests and order the application of this rule. I would like to refer to the request of the Ministry of Justice of Ukraine in the vote for this bill, which sent it to the Committee of Law, which pointed to a particular issue. Without restricting the need for this bill to be adopted in general, the ways in which it seeks to address the problem in this bill will be considered by the experts involved in this issue to be those who are not supported and who will be accused before the European Court of Human Rights. Therefore, the proposal is a bill, in principle, sent for further work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-03-m0.u203	Stepan of Cuba, European Solidarity. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-03-m0.u204	Madam Chairman, I'd like to speak to Mr. Sergio Aleksey.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-03-m0.u205	Sergey Alekseev, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-03-m0.u206	Dear colleagues, I want to explain the situation. We don't have the right to be held under administrative arrest. That is, if a person is punished during administrative arrest, the matter is not regulated. We have two alternative bills that we are currently considering. These bills, in fact, have some flaws as well as a term of detention under administrative arrest. It's much better to say "from the moment of detention" than "from the moment of punishment" and a lot of other things. But we need to adopt this law in general, because we cannot fail to regulate detention under administrative arrest, this is a violation of human rights, which has been repeatedly observed by the European Court of Human Rights. That is why we need to adopt one of these alternative bills. And then the second reading to work out, to change, it's quite possible, these conditions to European standards. And take it in a second reading. That's why "European solidarity" in the first reading will be supported, if we go to the second reading of it, we will bring all the conditions of keeping it under European standards. And in the second reading, we're going to adopt a normal law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-03-m0.u207	Vladimir Moroz, "The Opposition Platform for Life".
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-03-m0.u208	Give it to Mommy, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-03-m0.u209	Mother, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-03-m0.u210	Dear National Deputies! In fact, the word that everything is new -- well forgotten old, it's still coming back. This is confirmation, on the one hand, of the good, on the other, of the bad. What's good? About the fact that things haven't been so bad in the USSR yet. And the second is that we can't think of anything new. This bill, I'm drawing the attention of the people's deputies, introduces the rules for administrative arrest and the place where it takes place. What the bill proposes. To return the old system of administrative punishment to the district authorities of the National Police, it used to be the police. Well, we've moved on. Those who are detained for committing a crime will also be there. The whole European community is paying attention to you, five years ago, seven years ago, screaming: Make the right conditions. If you take the city of Kiev, you've made a temporary hold cell, it's the only one in the city of Kiev. And all the convoy services there are bringing in persons who are detained or in the process of pretrial investigation. We suggest that we make our own convoys, make room (at what cost we don't know) for administrative arrests, as well as who are detained for committing a crime and who are under sanctions before the courts decide. We're heating up and increasing the number of convoys that are going to do this. And so the scoundrels run out of SZO, from the convoy services, from the courts, we can't figure it out. In my opinion, we will not support the faction of this bill. You have to if you want to create conditions.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-03-m0.u211	Thank you. All those who wish to speak? I see "Trust," and I see "The Fatherland." Two speeches with motives, then we go to the vote. Aresonkov Vladimir Yuriovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-03-m0.u212	Dear colleagues, the "Trust" MP, certainly agrees with the arguments our colleagues have made regarding the need for improvement in the issue of administrative arrest as a type of seduction. But I want to remind you once again that if you and I are determined that we are moving in the path of European standards, what is involved in keeping people under arrest, keeping them under guard separately from the condemned and so on, which is extremely important. I agree that conditions must first be created for this. Nevertheless, the "Trust" MP thinks we should vote in favour of the bill, and we will work on it in the final version. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-03-m0.u213	Cimbaluk Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-03-m0.u214	Mikhailo Cimbaluk, Fatherland. Dear colleagues, in fact, the conditions for keeping suspects in detention facilities temporarily held by the National Police need better, to say the least. We know the reaction of the international law enforcement organizations that are inspecting these sites. We agree that the type of detention such as administrative arrest should be kept separate from those suspected of committing serious crimes or those awaiting judicial decision. But there is no economic, financial basis in the bill. And that goes to the Ministry of Internal Affairs, the National Police. The "Fatherland" faction supports the first reading, and until the second reading, we need to work to ensure that the bill is complete and that it actually fulfils all the conditions, and creates a decent stay of the detainees and arrests. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-03-m0.u215	Thank you. Dear colleagues, let us go to the vote for this law. Please prepare for the vote, take your seats. I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Law on Rules of Administrative Arrest (registration No. 3047a). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[13:51:07]] For 229 Decision taken. Thank you. Dear colleagues, I was approached by representatives of various MP factions from the procedure. Wait. But we have the next 3048a bill, which is related to 3047a. Let's go through it now, and then we'll go back to procedural issues. You are invited to consider the draft Act amending the Code of Administrative Offences in connection with the adoption of the Ukrainian Law on Rules of Administrative Arrest (registration No. 3048a). It is suggested that this issue be considered in a simplified manner. Please support and vote. [[13:51:55]] For 214 Decision taken. The chairman of the committee’s committee on law enforcement is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-03-m0.u216	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues! The Committee on Law Protection at its meeting reviewed the draft Ukrainian Law on Amendments to the Code of Administrative Offences or the adoption of the Ukrainian Law on Rules of Administrative Arrest. The purpose of the bill is to improve Ukraine's legislation on administrative offences in part of the administration and administrative arrest, such as the type of administrative detention, and the procedure for the execution and suspension of administrative arrest with a view to the implementation of the draft Ukrainian Law on Rules for Administrative Arrest. The essence of the bill. New edition of part two of article 32 of the Code of Administrative Offences, which expands the list of persons to whom an administrative arrest cannot be applied; part one of article 294 of the Order on Administrative Offences of Legal Force and Review of Judgment; article 326 of the Ordinance on Administrative Arrests and Arrests with Detention and Hauptbaht; chapter 32 of the Code on Administrative Offences by New Articles 326 Prime 1, 326 Prime 2, 328 Prime 1. This bill is systematically related to the draft Ukrainian Law on Rules for Administrative Arrests (registration number 3047a), which is based on the need to optimize individual provisions of the KUPAP and the provisions of the proposed draft act to Parliament. The Committee recommends that the Supreme Council of Ukraine be accepted as a basis for consideration in the first reading. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-03-m0.u217	Thank you. Please sign up: two for, two for discussion, honourable colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-03-m0.u218	Germano Vasil Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-03-m0.u219	Germano Vasil Ivanovich. Excuse me, I give the word to Mama to the People's Deputy, "The Opposition Platform for Life."
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-03-m0.u220	Please, Mamka People's Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-03-m0.u221	Ladies and gentlemen, you all agree that the bills are bound to enter the hall and the first reading of quality, worked out, having a legal, I pay attention, the workload and the relevance of this bill to other legislative acts, and the first is the Constitution of Ukraine. It's very sad when the reporter tells us that it's a bill that adds to the bill that's been voted on. It is not possible to treat people in this way, with regard to law - enforcement agencies, and with regard to national MPs. I'll draw your attention to this bill. This bill makes caste for people who can't make administrative arrests. These are persons with disabilities in Group I-II, notice, minors, pregnant women, there are signs of pregnancy in the law. Because a woman can be pregnant 20 minutes after sexual intercourse, you have to pay attention to the law. But notice, if we define a caste of untouchables, we need to prescribe a caste of touchable ones, then it will be true. What is it about the fact that disabled I or the third group are constantly reprimanding administrative punishment? He has committed an administrative offence and will constantly receive fines for which he will not answer and pay them, where no more severe punishment will be applied. Please pay attention to the text that is highlighted in this bill. Don't support it. "The Opposition Platform for Life" will not vote in favour of this bill and in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-03-m0.u222	Klimpush-Cincadze, please, Ivanna, "European Solidarity."
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-03-m0.u223	Please pass the word to Sergio Alekseyev.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-03-m0.u224	Sergey Alekseev, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-03-m0.u225	Dear colleagues! This law is directly related to the previous law. If we correct and bring about European standards, this law also introduces European standards. For example, a pregnant woman with signs of pregnancy cannot be arrested, disabled, and so on. So the faction "European Solidarity" in the first reading will also support this law, because these are systemic changes that regulate the issue of being held under administrative arrest. And then the second reading is all about the corresponding European standards, and only if we vote in the second reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-03-m0.u226	Thank you. Feder Venislavsky, "Serve of the People", please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-03-m0.u227	Dear Madam Chairman, dear colleagues! This bill, which we are currently considering, like the previous bill, could not be considered and approved at all. Why? First of all, these bills are contrary to European standards in terms of legal responsibility. In European democratic countries, there is no such punishment as administrative arrest. There's a bill of criminal misconduct in our Parliament, and in large numbers, we're now doing some manipulation because it's about criminal offenses, not about administrative wrongdoing. What's the point here, Your Honor? First, colleagues rightly said, this bill and the previous bill substantially violates the entire set of provisions of the Convention on the Protection of Human Rights of Fundamental Freedoms. They are, in fact, creating more stringent conditions for the detention of persons under administrative arrest, even compared to those who are under arrest in criminal proceedings. Secondly, honourable colleagues, administrative arrest and solicitation, it's a Soviet avatarism. Because in fact, it's when we're talking about administrative relations, about relationships of a managerial nature, when an authority entity has the right to apply certain negative effects, certain connections, to another subordinate subject, or to a citizen. In this case, we're talking about, in terms of administrative and legal relations, we're actually involving a court that's basically supposed to be an instrument of criminal law relations, which violates the logic of a person's overall involvement in criminal responsibility. I urge you not to support this bill. As for the one we supported, the second reading also gives us a fine thought. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-03-m0.u228	Vladimir Aresonkov, Trust Group, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-03-m0.u229	Dear colleagues, first of all, not entirely, let's say, logically, the reference to the fact that certain standards of this bill do not meet European standards or European practice, and even more so that they are criticized by our experts. I'm going to quote very briefly the conclusion of our Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration. As a positive result of this bill, it is in line with the Ukrainian Code of Administrative Offences to comply with the requirements of valid international human rights treaties. More specifically: In particular, legislation restores the principle of European practice with regard to the circumstances under which detention, detention and so on takes place. So once again, for the second reading, I agree, we can talk about regulating individual norms. But explain to me why this opposition, such as the question of persons with disabilities, pregnant women, and so forth. So the trust MP thinks the bill can be adopted in the first reading. For the second reading, we will do whatever it takes to ensure that he looks and is not criticized by our colleagues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-03-m0.u230	Thank you. Does anyone insist on performing? None. Let's go to the vote. Please invite the national deputies to the hall. Dear colleagues, I am voting on the proposal to adopt a draft law amending the Code of Administrative Offences in connection with the adoption of the Law on Rules of Administrative Arrest (registration No. 3048a). Ready to vote? I'll bet on the vote on the above-mentioned proposal. Please support and vote. [[14:02:56]] For 242 Decision taken. Thank you, Your Honor. Gerasimov, from procedure, Arthur Volodymyrovich. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-03-m0.u231	Dear Dmitry Alexanderovich, distinguished colleagues, we've already seen us go up to discuss bills on raising the age of the public service, etc. But I have a big request to move on to the moment, I think the Hall will unite, the 4186 bill on the State Protection of the Armed Forces Special Operations Force of Ukraine in carrying out their assignment tasks. A great request is now made to go to the consideration and accept this bill as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-03-m0.u232	Thank you. Dear colleagues, especially on the eve of the coming holidays, I think it's a good offer. She also heard from representatives of other MP factions and groups. I understand that no one is going to deny it, so let's get to the point. You are invited to consider a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on State Protection of Court and Law Enforcement Workers on the State Protection of Military Officers of the Force of Special Operations of the Armed Forces of Ukraine in the course of their assignment (registration No. 4186). It is suggested that this issue be considered in a simplified manner. Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[14:04:35]] For 253 Decision taken. The National Deputy of Ukraine, Mokan Vasil Ivanovich, is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-03-m0.u233	Ladies and gentlemen, may I have your attention, because, as has been said, we are about to speak of our Ukrainian military officers, the Force of Special Operations of the Armed Forces of Ukraine. I would like to remind you that this is a particular generation of the Ukrainian Armed Forces, which are carrying out rather complex, dangerous, sometimes even politically sensitive operations, and are within the framework of the Ukrainian Armed Forces, with special capabilities in the direction of intelligence and military support. We remember very well how the Donetsk Airport was defended, we remember all the fighting that took place, and the opposition of the occupying country, the Russian Federation. I'll tell you that the Special Operations Force played a major role in this. And the situation today is that legislation does not regulate the state protection of these military personnel, their property, their close relatives. I'm going to tell you that today the laws protect the judges of the Constitutional Court, the judiciary, the Antimonopoly Committee, the law enforcement agencies, the BSS and some other employees, and the people who defend our territorial sovereignty and are on the up-and-up side are not given that kind of protection. I am very much asking you to support this bill as a whole, on the basis and as a whole, and to provide such State protection to our military personnel. They deserve it, they're now doing most of the operations in temporarily occupied areas. And it is not just our right but our duty to give them such support and legislative solutions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-03-m0.u234	Thank you. The Vice - Chief of the Committee on Law Enforcement, Pavlük Maksim Vasilovich, is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-03-m0.u235	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. The Committee on Law Protection at its meeting on 11 November 2020 reviewed the draft Ukrainian Act amending the Ukrainian Law on State Protection of Court and Law Enforcement Workers on State Protection of Military Workers of the Force of Special Operations of the Armed Forces of Ukraine in carrying out their assignment tasks (registration No. 4186). The adoption of this bill will allow for the implementation of part one of article 40 of the Ukrainian Intelligence Act and legislatively regulates matters of state protection, security, life, health, speciality of the Force of Special Operations of the Ukrainian Armed Forces, their close relatives from unlawful attacks and threats to service activity. This will enhance the effectiveness of the special and intelligence tasks of the Special Operations Force of the Ukrainian Armed Forces in the interests of national security and the defence of the state. Thus, the Committee on Law Protection, based on the position of part two of article 114 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, recommends to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft law amending the Ukrainian Law on State Protection of Court and Law Enforcement Workers on the State Protection of Military Workers of the Force of Special Operations of the Armed Forces of Ukraine in carrying out their assignment tasks (registration number 4186) to accept as a basis and as a whole. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-03-m0.u236	Thank you. Please sign up: two for, two for the factions. Petty Officer Valentin Aleksandrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-03-m0.u237	Valentin Nastavajchenko, faction of the Fatherland. I believe that supporting and protecting our supporters of the Special Operations Force of Ukraine means protecting them, family members, children. But not only physical and security protection but also protection in social matters, in legal matters, in serving in Ukraine and abroad. What is lacking in this bill? Not only is there not enough protection not only by the Special Operations Force itself, but I think we need special units of the Security Service, the Ministry of Internal Affairs, which are technically, expeditiously and physically to join in protecting our defenders. But the "Paternity" faction today supports this bill and we will necessarily improve and enhance the security of those who protect and protect our security. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-03-m0.u238	Thank you. Venislavski Fedir Volodymyrovich. Turn on the Venislavski microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-03-m0.u239	The honourable chairman, honourable colleagues, this bill, which we are currently considering, is really essential for us to protect the military personnel of the Special Operations Force as well as other law enforcement personnel and, more specifically, the employees of those bodies whose activities involve increased risk to their health, property, and so on. The law, which is discussed in this bill, under which special operations are proposed to be brought before the military, protects a wide range of different officials, including those mentioned by the reporter in his own word, the law protects members of the State Forest Guard, the State Guard, and others. Of course, special force personnel must also be protected, since their activities involve increased risk compared with all other military personnel and government officials protected by this law. Therefore, it is a great request to support this bill. He received the approval of the National Security, Defence, and Intelligence Committee and needed to be accepted as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-03-m0.u240	Batenko Taras Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-03-m0.u241	Dear colleagues, we, the Parliament of a warring country, should certainly stand in the defense of the interests of the State and, apparently, remember our military officers, the Force of Special Operations of the Armed Forces of Ukraine. Our tribute, our honor, and our respect to our supporters of the Force of Special Operations of the Armed Forces of Ukraine, who, on the front of the fight against the aggressor of the Russian Federation, carry out their complex special operations, unusual complex special operations, risking their health and lives. Of course, they perform specific tasks in different circumstances, not only on the front of the struggle, but also under the legal regime of the state of war, and of a special period, and in peacetime, and beyond the national jurisdiction of Ukraine. And so, of course, there is the issue of providing guarantees for the maintenance of both military personnel and members of their families. So our parliamentary group "For the Future" will definitely support this bill in the first reading and in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-03-m0.u242	The city’s Yuri Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-03-m0.u243	Thank you. Please give the floor to the National Deputy of Ukraine, Vasil Ivanovich Germany.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-03-m0.u244	Germano Vasil Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-03-m0.u245	Dear colleagues, of course, this bill has the right to exist and must be supported because it is about protecting the social character, the physical character, if you will, the material and moral nature of the protection of military personnel who carry out special operations. But let's not hide ourselves from the fact that special operations are closed. Look what we've done with the Attorney General's Office. They called people into the military, in the Armed Forces, and they went, and the boys went to fight for the independence of our country. And then three months later, they cut back, and today, the courts don't consider the issue, they stay on board social relations, including them, their families, their children, their wives, and everything else. And the second. Dear colleagues, when we talk about special operations, consider each operation by the Armed Forces of Ukraine to be a special operation. I won't tell you, you've seen everything. When they took the Tornado Company, wasn't that a special operation? That for a year and a half they couldn't reach her. There, people and civilians died. And that's why I'd like, my dear colleagues, not to distribute individually on some particular spectrum. It is clear and clear that all who carry out military operations are protected by this law, including those called from civilian life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-03-m0.u246	Thank you. All those who wish to speak? Is there a Voice yet, Kostenko or Rahmanin? You two hands. And "ES," I see. "voice," "ES," "Trust." And then we go to the vote. Please invite the national deputies to the hall. Kostenko Roman Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-03-m0.u247	Dear colleagues, I would like to take this opportunity to begin by congratulating our Armed Forces on the coming holiday -- the Day of the Armed Forces of Ukraine! And to say that it's a very important bill to protect our Force of Special Operations that does the most difficult tasks in general to protect our nation. I've done combat operations with them on numerous occasions myself. I'll say it's a senior pilot and a senior. So our job as parliamentarians is to protect these people. That when they returned from the front, they would understand that they were here under reliable supervision. Therefore, we need to support and vote in favour of the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-03-m0.u248	Thank you. Gerasimov Arthur Volodymyrovich. I see, Vladimir Yuriovich, I see.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-03-m0.u249	Dear colleagues, thanks only to our soldiers, sergeants and officers, we can be in this room with you, and the Ukrainians have a peaceful sky above their heads. And my firm belief is that the state must protect its military personnel. Especially those who perform heavy tasks. Especially since we've all seen examples of treason at the highest level. And here's a question to this Supreme Council: why are you covering this betrayal and not voting in favour of the TSC to investigate the collapse of the operation on "vagers"? And especially after that, I would like to remind you that Sergeant Force of Special Operations, Andrew Antonenko (Riffmaster), has been in prison for more than a year. Greensky, you're not ashamed to go to a press conference, you blame this man, and then without any evidence, she's in jail!? That is why we vote in favour of this law. And I urge you all to support him immediately in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-03-m0.u250	Thank you. Unfortunately, the Servant of the People spoke. Aresonkov Vladimir Yuriovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-03-m0.u251	I would also like to confirm that our trust MP group joins in welcoming the military, practically the elites of our state, the Special Operations Force of the Ukrainian Armed Forces. And I want to remind you that we always demand that we follow the rules of the Constitution. Thus, articles 3 and 17 of the Constitution of our State clearly state that the issue of national security, territorial integrity, independence is not only a duty of the State as a whole but a duty of every citizen, including national deputies. That's why our "Trust" MP group is calling for everyone to unite and vote in favour of the bill now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-03-m0.u252	Thank you. All those who wanted to speak. Let's go to the vote. Please take your seats. Ready to vote? I'll bet you a vote. And, honourable colleagues, this bill is recommended by the committee on both the basis and in general. Is there no objection? None. Very good. I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Law on State Protection of Court and Law Enforcement Authorities on the State Protection of Military Workers of the Force of Special Operations of the Armed Forces of Ukraine when carrying out their assignment tasks (registration No. 4186). Please support and vote. [[14:19:33]] For 301 Decision taken. Thank you. I am voting on the proposal for adoption, in general with the necessary technical and legal regulations, of a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on State Protection of Court and Law Enforcement Workers on the State Protection of Military Officers of the Special Operations Force of the Armed Forces of Ukraine in carrying out their assignment tasks (registration No. 4186). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[14:20:15]] For 303 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Thank you. Congratulations, dear fellows, The next issue of the agenda is the draft Act amending article 34 of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of Ukrainian People's Deputies (Re-reading) (Registration No. 3644-d). It is suggested that this issue be considered in a simplified manner. Please support and vote. [[14:20:56]] For 227 Decision taken. The chairman of the Committee on Rules of Procedure, MP's ethics, and the organization of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Kalchenko Sergey Vitaliyovich, is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-03-m0.u253	The Honorary Presidium, honourable national deputies, at the meeting of the Regulatory Committee, was prepared for a re-reading of the draft Act amending article 34 of the Law on the Status of the National MP of Ukraine (registration number 3644-d). Since the draft Law 3644 was discussed at the plenary meeting on 15 July this year, it was noted that the requirement for the education of assistant advisors of national deputies, i.e. the change to part two of article 34 of the Law on the Status of the People's Deputy, was abolished, that the draft law should be redrafted, including that only a citizen who speaks the national language could be an assistant to a senior consultant of the Ukrainian People's Deputies. It is also worth noting that, in the course of the Committee's consideration of the amended Supreme Council regulation on the position of Assistant Adviser to the People's Deputies and Parliament's Regulation on financial security for the activities of the People's Deputy of Ukraine (Registration No. 3645), which should be considered on the following issues, it was decided to delegate the report to the rapporteur during the examination of the draft law (Registration No. 3644-d) in the report to indicate the necessary changes to paragraph 2 of the draft law. That is to say that this law takes effect from the day following its publication, in addition to the provisions of paragraphs 2 and 4 of paragraph 3, paragraph 1 of this Act, in the part of the payment to the assistant consultants of the National Committee for Material Assistance for Recovery during the granting of the annual basic leave, which takes effect on 1 January 2022, since these provisions of the relevant draft decree also take effect on 1 January 2022. So the committee decided.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-03-m0.u254	Thank you. Sergey Vitaliyovich, did you make it, from the committee to say so? Have the committee been able to say anything, too? Thank you. Dear colleagues, please register: two for, two for, and two for the factions. Batenko Taras Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-03-m0.u255	Please give the floor to the national deputy Sergio Rudik.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-03-m0.u256	I'm sorry, I listened. Rudik? Rudik Sergey Jaroslavovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-03-m0.u257	Dear friends! Last time I had a big speech from this rostrum, I brought this bill 225 votes. As a result, he was sent to work and was partially altered. The key change now concerns the payroll fund, and we, our MP group, welcome this change. But we cannot agree with the concept of abolishing the requirement of higher education for fellow national deputies. What is the logic of this change? They say: With regard to national MPs, there is no requirement for higher education, why should they have this requirement for helpers? And we suggest we look at this on the back. Let's raise the demands for national MPs, and maybe then the number of bills that will be brought down at all levels will be reduced. And I'm not saying anymore that there are bills that are passed in this room by the Ukrainian people. Would there be fewer people who would come to this hall in some sort of tar and cowardry? Would there be more people who would be required to match the label? Yes, isn't it? We have a lot of inadequacies in our society. And withdrawing the requirement of higher education for our assistants will obviously not be beneficial for legal work. So our MP group split up, and we have a free vote. But as a person with three higher educations, I would say, "Don't let this happen, because it's going to be even worse than it is today. Although sometimes it seems impossible."
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-03-m0.u258	Kamelchuk Yuri Alexanderovich
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-03-m0.u259	Dear colleagues! Everyone in this room, I hope, has helpers, I hope, not even a helper. And we all understand very well that having a good helper to do this requires having an appropriate pay fund and having an appropriate, clearly, their potential for further development. Will it save the situation, the fact that these changes are about to take place? It's not gonna save you. But at least for those young people who are now coming to us and asking for a place to stay, it will be a good support for a start to a good career. How they will continue to develop, of course, depends on them. My personal opinion, which, of course, will not be supported by society, but that the National Deputy should effectively have assistants in each area, if it is, of course, an effective and active MP, and a payroll fund is to do so. I can see that some people are shaking their heads, some people won't agree, but I'm in favour of the effectiveness of the national MPs and their team, so they don't have to look for cookies on the side and stuff. So let's make our team strong and secure. And accordingly, our effectiveness will increase in the control function. And I hope that these are not the last changes to the law that we can make and, accordingly, help our assistants to become more honest and effective. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-03-m0.u260	Suffritch Nestor Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-03-m0.u261	Thank you. Dear Chairman, please give the floor to the national MP Papiev Mikhail Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-03-m0.u262	Papiev Mikhailo Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-03-m0.u263	Thank you. Dear national deputies, dear colleagues! You know, there's a lot to talk about and argue about the rules of this bill, but the logic here is very simple. In their time, the assistant advisors of the Ukrainian National Deputies had the status of civil servants and applied to the relevant bill. When we removed the status of a civil servant, we changed accordingly, and we need to bring the qualifications into line. So this bill needs to be supported, and I would also like to support my colleagues' proposal about what needs to be raised and the cost of consulting assistants, because you've seen the quality of the bill today, it's very weak in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And here, I don't think it's that bad of consulting assistants, as I confirm what Sergey Rudik said, that the demands should also be raised for the Ukrainian people's deputies so that the Ukrainian people's deputy would also meet this high status as a representative of the Ukrainian people. Our faction is going to vote on this bill and we need to move forward and move on to socially important bills. In addition to what we mentioned today about national MPs, consulting assistants, we have to mention that there are very difficult pensioners living in our country, people with disabilities, many socially vulnerable types of people that we don't have to forget either. Let them first raise social status and state guarantees. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-03-m0.u264	Thank you, Mikhailo Mikolaiovich. That's why we've been looking at these bills today, which you just haven't mentioned, and people with disabilities to help them, and to help the military. And the question about assistant consultants, I understand that you're suggesting that we postpone for later -- well, we'll count. Thank you, Mikhailo Mikolaiovich. Eutusek Sergey Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-03-m0.u265	Thank you, Mr. Head. Sergey Eutuszek, Equinox, Fatherland. Dear colleagues, this session hall remembers very clearly when without the availability of qualifications to support a person who did not have a certain professional education to be assigned to the central executive branch with a special status, and we voted for it here. Also, this session hall remembers how our volunteers today, or those consulting assistants of the Ukrainian National Deputies, who are ATO soldiers and are protecting our country without any higher education, cannot become our assistants to the National Deputies. I'm talking to my colleague Sergio Rudik right now. Ruddick, do you drive there by zero, go with your assistants, please tell Sergei, can an assistant who has no higher education represent the Rudik national deputy on the front? Sure, maybe. Therefore, fellow believers, let us not limit today those who want to be our helpers, those who do not have higher education. But it's only about those who work on community principles. It's just about those who are now volunteers and have no higher education. It's just about those who are ATO soldiers and also want to be assistant consultants. This is about those who have or are being trained in the first, second, or third course, but who already want to help the deputy to carry out his parliamentary activities. So let's separate the flies from the chops and vote on the bill as a whole. Those helpers who work on a permanent basis will be required to have a higher education, and those on social grounds will be chosen from those who may not.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-03-m0.u266	Rudik Sergey Jaroslavovich, a replica, was mentioned.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-03-m0.u267	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to repeat this once again: let's not lower the educational level of people's deputies' assistants, but raise the educational level of the people's deputies. This is a very important subject, then perhaps once again, our laws will not make people laugh, and they will really help them. And what about those who have the status of participants in hostilities, I'll tell you from my brother's example. Rudik Konstantin Ivanovich, 42 years old, went to war, became a fighter, but had no higher education. What did he do? He returned from the war, entered the Institute of Physical Sciences, and is now studying in the third course of this institution to grow up, rather than descend down like many bills coming out of the walls of our Council. So, colleagues, let's go! Tomorrow we will produce bills that will not be implemented, that will not be supported by a society that makes life worse than it is. To that end, we chose here to make people's lives better, not the other way around.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-03-m0.u268	Dear colleagues, have all those who wish to speak? Let's go to the vote. Please take your seats, prepare for the vote. Invite the national deputies to the hall. Please invite the people's deputies to the hall. Ready to vote? I am voting on the proposal for acceptance as a basis, and I understand that there will also be no objection in general, on the basis of the draft Act amending article 34 of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of the National Deputy of Ukraine (re-reading) (registration number 3644-d). Please support and vote. [[14:36:04]] For 239. Decision taken. I am voting on the proposal for adoption in general with the necessary technical and legal regulations, the draft Act amending article 34 of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of the National Deputy of Ukraine (registration number 3644-d). Please support and vote. [[14:36:37]] For 235 Decision taken. Show me the factions, please. "The Servant of the People" – 191, "The Opposition Platform for Life" – 13, "European Solidarity" – 0, "The Fatherland" – 6, "The Future Party" – 7, "The Voice" – 0, "The Trust" – 10, "the Non-Factional" – 8. Thank you again, dear fellows. The next issue of agenda is the draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine amending the Regulations concerning the Assistant Adviser of the People's Deputies of Ukraine and the Supreme Council of Ukraine Decision on financial security for the activities of the People's Deputies of Ukraine. I offer no discussion. Is there no objection? None. I'm betting on the voting motion for adoption of the entire draft Decree, registration number 3645. Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[14:37:39]] For 251 Decision taken. Thank you. Next question of the agenda. This is a draft of the Act amending Chapter II of the Act on the Finality and Transitional Positions of Ukraine on the Amendment of Certain Legislative Acts of Ukraine on the Priorities of the Reform of the Prosecutor's Office on the appointment of administrative posts in the Specialised Anti-Corruption Prosecutor's Office (Registration No. 4227). It is suggested that this issue be considered in a simplified manner. Please support and vote. [[14:38:20]] For 227 Decision taken. The National Deputy of Ukraine, Janchenko Galina Igorovna, is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-03-m0.u269	The Honourable Head of the Supreme Council, the distinguished national deputies, as you know, have been in competition since October 20th for the selection of the Chief of the Specialised Anti-Corruption Prosecutor's Office. A competitive commission has been formed to date, and it has already begun to work. But today we have some legal uncertainty in our legislation about the term for which the Head of the Specialised Anti-Corruption Prosecutor's Office is elected. Eliminating this uncertainty is the proposed bill number 4227. Its purpose is to restore the operation of the separate provisions of article 39 of the Ukrainian Procuratorship Act, which was suspended until September 1, 2021. They relate to the administration of the Specialised Anti-Corruption Prosecutor's Office, as well as to the term for which Henprocuror's deputy is appointed as Head of the SAP for 5 years. What does that mean in practice? This means that the competition, which is likely to end more than September 1, 2021, will select the leader of the SAP, who will be appointed forever. I think it's actually. That is why it is important today to adopt this bill, to specify the term for which the SAP leader is elected, namely, for five years. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the bill is technical enough, and it consists of only five new words. He was unanimously supported by all members of the pro-law committee, as well as by the Office of the Attorney General, the Ministry of Justice, the NAB and business, and the Ombudsman. So I urge you to support this bill as a whole. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-03-m0.u270	Uncluded Vladen Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-03-m0.u271	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues! The Committee on Law Protection at its meeting, which took place on 11 November of this year, reviewed the draft Act amending Chapter II of the Act on Finality and Transitional Positions, of the Law on Amendments to certain Ukrainian Legislative Acts on Priorities for the Reform of the Prosecutor's Office's Authorities, on the appointment of administrative posts in the Specialised Anti-Corruption Prosecutor's Office (Registration No. 4227). My colleague Galina Yanchenko spoke about the purpose of the bill. I believe that, thanks to the proposed clarification referred to by Galina Yanchenko, from the list of suspended standards, the positions have been drawn up to regulate the issue of the Specialised Anti-Corruption Prosecutor's Office: the term of office of the Deputy Attorney General, the Head of the Special Anti-Corruption Prosecutor's Office, for 5 years, and the entities assigned to the administrative functions of the Specialised Anti-Corruption Prosecutor's Office. Taking into account the competitive selection of the head of the Specialised Anti-Corruption Prosecutor's Office, which has begun and continues, please support the proposed legislative initiative. Both the Attorney General's Office and the Justice Ministry and the National Anti-Corruption Bureau, and the Authorized Supreme Council of Human Rights, without notice, support the renewal of the separate provisions of article 39 of the Ukrainian Pro-Procuratorial Act in the part of the administration of the Specialised Anti-Corruption Prosecutor's Office, which was suspended until September 1, 2021. And the Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority of the Supreme Council pointed out that it supports this bill and believes that it can be accepted as a basis. Taking into account the above and results of the draft bill, the Committee recommends to the Supreme Council a draft Ukrainian law based on the provisions of article 114 of the Supreme Council’s Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-03-m0.u272	Thank you. Please sign up, national deputies: two in, two in, and two in, against this question, please. Sergey Rahmanin, the Voice faction, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-03-m0.u273	Please pass the word to Osadchuku Andrija Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-03-m0.u274	Please give me your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-03-m0.u275	Dear colleagues, voting in favour of such technical laws, it is vital to remember the past so that our future will be a little better. We are now rewriting the reform of the name of Ruslan Ryabosapka. We warned you last September: you cannot do the things you voted on at the time. Because you can't push the Procurator's Act into one person. Life was fast, everything changed. And now we're correcting obvious mistakes. We support this bill because we want the SAP to work anyway. But we want you to remember where this came from, and in the future, you will no longer do so. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-03-m0.u276	Thank you. Victor Bondar, please, the Party for the Future.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-03-m0.u277	Dear colleagues, of course, need to adopt this bill, because in recent years our so-called foreign advisors have created many different anti-corruption bodies, but unfortunately they have only been reproduced on paper. Because if you look at it, we haven't seen in these last years any normal criminal cases, sign, powerful, interesting, that people would appreciate the work of these anti-corruption bodies. What's more, they created this Anti-Corruption Special Prosecutor's Office, and there are no executives. They didn't assign, there's no conditions, they've confused everything that's possible and impossible. So in order for them to at least start working, this bill allows them to appoint these heads of the Specialised Anti-Corruption Prosecutor's Office, give them the opportunity to substitute for their jobs and start working. Maybe that's how they'll show their work. Although I generally understand, and the whole country understands that, because of these international advisers for the last five years, the previous authorities, today's authorities, have created these anti-corruption bodies, have not changed anything. Not because the fight against corruption is the number of organs created, but because the fight against corruption is the political will of the leadership of the state to fight this corruption. And political will is when the conditions for these so-called feeders are reduced to facilitate business conditions, so that law enforcement authorities are not entitled to the so-called nightmare of business, business, industry and so on. So there's no reason for any illegal interference in the business to reduce the number of demands, the papers that people are supposed to collect, and they go to officials, they ask for licenses, documents, something else. Corruption is when there is no reason to demand money for something. And this starts at the top: from the will of the President, the government to change this situation. We've been told how to fight for 20 years. These organs were created, and there is no explanation. If you want to change something, start not by creating an organ, but start with what you're essentially changing the system. And that's something to vote on. Let's let them work and show them, maybe even if they do something. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-03-m0.u278	Thank you. Gregory Mamka, "The Opposition Platform for Life" faction, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-03-m0.u279	Ladies and gentlemen, this is a very nice bill, which at least one of the only ones sets the term of office. It's a bad thing we didn't pay attention to it before, the committee didn't work. And in fact, a whole range of law enforcement agencies that are empowered to fight corruption, as they were without this law, can exist. "The Opposition Platform for Life" will support this bill. But would you like to pay attention -- why 5 years? The NABA manager has a different term, the NAZK manager has a different term. But the reporter said the faithful thing is that the commission that was set up, which held one session, and I want to let you know that it is no longer being conducted. Which is why we don't know. Neither on the committee - unknown, nor on the Supreme Council - is unknown. And when the Head of the Specialised Anti-Corruption Prosecutor's Office is there's no one to tell us about it, only we can pray to God, but not the work of the commission. We have a case with the State Bureau of Investigation, remember. The date is approaching – 1 year, the manager is gone by now, everyone is performing duties, and there is no one to ask about the results of the work of the entire State Bureau of Investigation. The perspectives in the Specialised Anti-Corruption Prosecutor's Office are a little bit similar. We'll support the "yes" vote, but I'd like to hear it from the rostrum when the commission is in session and when we elect the head of the Specialised Anti-Corruption Prosecutor's Office. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-03-m0.u280	Thank you. Irina Volodymyrna's character.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-03-m0.u281	Please pass the word to Sergey Alekseev.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-03-m0.u282	Sergey Olegovich Alekseyev.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-03-m0.u283	Dear colleagues, when Parliament adopted a series of anticorruption laws last year, it was clear that the term of office of an independent anti-corruption prosecutor was five years. But then, at the beginning of the ninth call, Parliament passed a law from 2019 on the first-time reform of the prosecutor’s office and made a few mistakes, and at the same time made a mistake, and now we have a full-time SAP prosecutor. Then the competition was announced and now the SAP prosecutor is elected, and they're gone, and we don't have a term for being in a position that doesn't meet any standards at all. So the faction of European Solidarity will certainly support this bill, return to the reforms adopted by Parliament on the eighth call and return the term of the independent anti-corruption prosecutor to office for five years. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-03-m0.u284	Thank you. Dear colleagues, prepare for the vote, please take your seats. Ready to vote? Dear colleagues, the committee recommends the adoption of this law as a whole. Is there no objection? None. I am voting on the proposal to adopt, on the basis of the draft Act amending Chapter II of the Act on Final and Transitional Provisions, the Act on Amendments to Certain Ukrainian Legislative Acts on Priorities for the Reform of the Prosecutor's Authorities (Registration No. 4227) concerning the appointment of administrative posts in the Specialised Anti-Corruption Prosecutor's Office (Registration No. 4227). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[14:50:47]] For 281 Decision taken. There's no procedure, Mikhailo Mikolaiovich, you know the Rules. I am voting on the proposal for adoption, in general with the necessary technical and legal regulations, of the draft Act amending Chapter II of the Final and Transitional Provisions of the Act on Amendments to Certain Legislative Acts of Ukraine on the Priorities of the Reform of the Prosecutor's Office and on the appointment of administrative posts in the Specialised Anti-Corruption Prosecutor's Office (Registration No. 4227). Ready to vote? Please read. Please support and vote. [[14:51:36]] For 289 Decision taken. The procedure is Papiev Mikhailo Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-03-m0.u285	Thank you. Dear Dmitry Alexanderovich! Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine! I have a very big request to the Ukrainian National Deputies, you know the complexity of the budgetary process. The point is that there are decisions made by the Supreme Council of Ukraine concerning the funds of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, which must then be agreed with the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Today we have December 3rd. If we adopt Decree-Law 4449 in the next plenary week, we simply cannot reach the appropriate services and the Supreme Council of Ukraine's apparatus to agree with the Cabinet of Ministers. I ask you to consider the draft Decree No. 4449 and make a decision so that we do not ruin the budgetary process of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-03-m0.u286	Dear colleagues! The ruling is on the Supreme Council website, you can get to know it. Wait, the day’s decree is included in the order of the day without a decision, and it is time for you to know this rule of the Rules, your esteemed colleagues. If there's no objection, there's another proposal. There's bill 2141. It is proposed by the committee to return the subject to the legislative initiative for further development. I propose to ask this question now, to vote without discussion. And please give the camera 4449, and if there's no objection, we can vote on it today. [[B in m in s a l in]] What about the discussion? Then I continue the session for 15 minutes. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to Registration 2141. Please support and vote in favour of the simplified procedure. [[14:53:58]] For 216 Decision taken. The National Deputy of Ukraine, Galina Mikolayovna Tretlyakova, is invited to report on the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-03-m0.u287	Dear Chairman, distinguished national MPs! Dear soldiers released from military service on various grounds! I'm totally aware that this bill today may not be supported in the hall, but I want to talk about money today because it weighs about 15 billion a year. I want to talk about justice today. In 2014, while some national deputies were then in power, a bill was passed to prevent a financial catastrophe and create preconditions for economic growth in Ukraine. This bill reduced the pension for soldiers released from the reserve. And so there was a imbalance when the military fighting across our borders today, beyond our borders, and when they retire, they are now receiving a pension less than those who resigned from the Armed Forces when there was a time of peace. A faction says: Army, language, and faith. This is the case with the military fighting abroad today, and justice has been violated according to them, and this has been done in previous times. This bill returns the system that was, and actually gives due respect to the military who are now in charge of protecting our border. Once again, I go back to the fact that it weighs enough money. But today we have passed several laws that apply to the military, and some factions say they fight for the army. If you are really fighting for an army, the one who left the army and fought for Ukraine must also receive adequate security. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-03-m0.u288	Thank you. The head of the National Security, Defence, and Intelligence Committee of the Committee on National Security and Security is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-03-m0.u289	Ladies and gentlemen, your opinion is proposed by the National Deputies of Ukraine a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the Pension Insurance of Persons Released from Military Service and Some Other Persons" on the reinstatement of previous regulations of the Act (registration No. 2141) (since 13.09.2019).). The bill provides for the introduction of the provisions of part two of article 13 and part four of article 63 of the Ukrainian Law on the Retirement of Persons Released from Military Service and Some Other Persons" in accordance with articles 22 and 92 of the Constitution of Ukraine and proposes that the wording of part two of article 13 and part four of article 63 of the Act be returned to the previous edition, which was in force before 13.11.2016. It is also suggested that the law be supplemented by new articles 63. Prime 1 and 63. See example.2, which defines the order of recalculation of pensions for persons released from military service, as well as the financial security that should be taken into account when they are recalculated. The main scientific and expert office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, in support of the need to improve the material status of military pensioners and others, expressed its observations and pointed out that it was appropriate to obtain an appropriate expert opinion from the government before the bill, following the requirements of article 116 of the Constitution of Ukraine, according to which the Office of the Ministers of Ukraine ensures that social protection policies are carried out. The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Social Policy and Veterans’ Rights adopted a decision to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the results of the first reading of the draft bill. The Ukrainian Ministry of Finance and the Ukrainian Pension Fund do not support the bill, given that the results of the calculations will require additional financial costs, which amount to about 2 billion dollars a month. The National Security, Defence, and Intelligence Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine recommends that the Supreme Council of Ukraine, as a result of a first reading review, be restored to its subjects the right of legislative initiative for further development. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-03-m0.u290	Thank you. Does anyone insist on performing? Tsymbaluk. Then sign up for the factions: two for, two for, two against.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-03-m0.u291	Anton Polyakov, Party for the Future, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-03-m0.u292	Please give Rudik Sergio the word.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-03-m0.u293	Sergey Rudik. Mr. Sergei Ruddick, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-03-m0.u294	I'm shocked at the conclusion of the Security and Defence Committee, I'm just shocked. Not vote in favour of raising social standards for people who are fighting, fighting, and possibly still fighting, but only those who think about forging elections in Cherkishka at this point, not about raising social standards. Where is the head of the committee in this rostrum? Why is he sitting there in the hall for a year? How many public speeches do you have from the rostrum under the key laws that provide security and protection? You can count the number of performances on one hand. What do the prisoners, the heads of the subcommittees always do, and you sit in this place? Does this question matter to you? The second question. What about safety and defense? And the civil servants and the children of war, did you forget them? Did they, as President Zelensky said at one of the press conferences at the Marian Palace, overcome the era of poverty? Where are your promises, "servants"? You've lost all the district centers. You have lost the Red Riding Hood community, where your head candidate has gained 17 percent less than Sergio Rudik’s party candidate. And you're in court today trying to take this victory away. You're doing this, aren't you, Mr. Chairman of the Security and Defence Committee? Instead of thinking about how to make the lives of those who fought for the country, they will fight and fight better. Shame on the committeemen.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-03-m0.u295	Laba Mikhailo Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-03-m0.u296	Please give it to Alexander Kachuri.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-03-m0.u297	Katchura Alexander Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-03-m0.u298	Alexander Kachura, "Serial of the People" faction. You know, it's actually very strange to hear from some factions, MPs thesis that there's no need to support military personnel, who retire. Because the past composition of Parliament has increased the pension of judges, prosecutors, but there is no law on raising social guarantees for those who have been posted on board. I now propose that we show each and every one of you a political position: whether we are for those who are on the watch for our national borders, protecting us, doing everything we can to preserve Ukrainian sovereignty; or we are against it. There's a theory that there's not enough money in the government budget. 14 and a half billion are needed for funding. I'll tell you where to find this money. It's very simple: stop the smuggling, do everything we can to make sure there's no abuse on the market. Do you remember when we all broke the so-called scoreboard scheme here? This year, 10 billion dollars were lost in the government budget. That's where the money is. The Inefficient Work of the State Property Fund, it's now a robbery for the state budget of Ukraine, because if you see what's going on, for example, in the real estate market, it's just scary. On Institutional Street, you can estimate an apartment, you know, for what, $200,000? For $15,000. So let's make a state decision -- and find the funds for our soldiers who defend our nation. We're only voting with a green button. This is the position. It's a position you won't be ashamed of. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-03-m0.u299	Vlasenko Sergei Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-03-m0.u300	Cimbaluk Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-03-m0.u301	Cimbaluk Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-03-m0.u302	Mikhailo Cimbaluk, Fatherland. Dear colleagues, I understand emotions, they are indeed the basis for those who communicate with the Ukrainian Armed Forces, the National Guard, the Ministry of Internal Affairs, the Emergency Service, the Security Service of Ukraine, those pensioners who have devoted their entire conscious lives to the service of the Ukrainian people, and now the courts are defending the right to a decent pension. And let the representative of the Pension Fund say how much for the execution of the court decisions now, and the representation of the Ministry of Justice. I personally thank Galina Mikolayevna Trelyakova, all members of the Committee on Social Policy and the protection of veterans' rights for such a legislative initiative. I really can't share the position of another committee, more faithfully, with colleagues from another National Security Committee who consider the main motive to be insufficient funds in the budget. This is the task of the National Security and Defence Committee or the task of those who are now the fifth head of customs, the fourth -- fiscal and tax -- of those who say that there is money. They really do. All we have to do is find the tumors they're in. I'm asking you, let's support those sergeants, the sailors, the officers, the flagpoles, who walk and ask for a pension in the state. Today, they are the ones who are ahead and who are simply walking and asking for the authority of the State. Let us support this bill. And please don't insult anyone. The important thing is that those people did not get hurt. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-03-m0.u303	Suffritch Nestor Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-03-m0.u304	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. Please pass the word to Coltunovich Alexander.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-03-m0.u305	Coltunovich Alexander Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-03-m0.u306	Thank you. Mr. Head, the country's distinguished MPs of Ukraine! In other words, I'm going to be in financial and economics and I'm going to have a conversation about 14.8 billion dollars. These are the funds that today really need a budget. But we have to understand that under the Pension Fund these aren't cloudy numbers. We have, as I have just written out, the approved budget of the Pension Fund for 481 billion dollars, that is, all the expenses of the Pension Fund are 481 billion dollars. Or a lot plus 14.8, or a little bit, I think you understand the ratio. The other problem is that we only have 300 billion dollars this year is to fill the income part of the budget. Others, it's going to go to 180 right now, it's a deficit in the Pension Fund that's covered by the state budget. I mean, really, these costs are going to be added to Ukraine's budget. In the 21st year, it's 195 billion dollars, which will be additionally allocated to cover the pension deficit. Another important point for us to understand the resource component is to calculate the only social contribution. This year's planned figure was 274 billion dollars, next year's likely to be higher, but this year we're almost 18 billion dollars short of the EU's budget in 10 months. That is, under an adequate economic environment, an adequate economic policy resource to account for 22.5 per cent of the EU from one working place for an enterprise is, because whoever wants to manipulate financial and economic premeditations, let them understand that on a national scale these are uplifting things and from this point of view there is a sense of supporting the draft laws and legislative initiatives. Thank you for your attention. And again, the financial and economic justification for the second reading has been strengthened with regard to the resource component in the financial aspect. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-03-m0.u307	Thank you. Let's go to the vote. Please take your seats, prepare for the vote. Ready to vote? I am voting on the proposal to return the subject to the right of legislative initiative to amend the draft Law amending the Law on the Pension Insurance of Persons Released from Military Service and Some Other Persons" on the reinstatement of previous regulations of the Act (Registration No. 2141). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[15:08:26]] For 186 The decision is not taken. Then we can put both the foundation and the return of the committee. Let's put it on the ground and then come back. I know the Rules, I don't need advice. Thank you. I am voting on the proposal to adopt, on the basis of the draft Act amending the Law on the Pension Insurance of Persons Released from Military Service and Some Other Persons, on the reinstatement of previous regulations of the Act (Registration No. 2141). Please vote. [[15:09:23]] For 253 Decision taken. Thank you. No, not at all, dear colleagues. Dear colleagues, wait, don't break up. Is Mr. Papiev's ruling ready to vote now without discussion? I'm betting on a motion for adoption as a whole for a draft Decree (registration number 4449). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[15:10:06]] For 237 Decision taken. Orders adopted in general. Thank you. I declare the plenary session of the Supreme Council closed.
