ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-18-m0.u1	Good afternoon, dear fellows! Good afternoon, media officials! Please take your seats, prepare for registration. Dear colleagues, while you're preparing for your registration, I'd like to inform you that today is our colleague Alexander Valeriyovich Marikovski's birthday. [[Applause]] Health and fruitful work on the Economic Committee. on the environmental, I'm sorry, on the environmental committee. And the main thing is to always find your own place, right? You don't have much, friends, I see, in the hall. Please prepare for registration. Are you ready to register? Please register. I remind you, registration takes place by clicking on the green "for" button, the first one on the left. Please register. On the left, on the left. [[10:11:34]] There are 181 Ukrainian national deputies registered in the hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear colleagues, Prime Minister Denis Anatoliyovich Schmigal and members of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine are taking part in the meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Please welcome them. [[Applause]] In accordance with article 229 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules, on Friday of 10 a.m. an hour of questions is held to the Government. At the suggestion of MPs and groups, members of the Cabinet of Ministers today will answer questions about the work of the Tripartite Contact Group on the peaceful settlement of the situation in Donbassa and on the provision of a learning process in the context of reinforcements in Ukraine of coronary disease and the state of payroll for educational workers. I'm reminding you that it's Conciliation. Dear colleagues, I remind you, we have agreed on the Conciliation Council that we will have the following working order during the "hour of questions to the Government": 20 minutes is a speech by the Deputy Prime Minister; then a question to the rapporteur, one question from each faction and the MP; then, instead of asking the Prime Minister questions to the Minister of Education. Excuse me, the Minister of Education's duty. That's the order we approved with you. There's no objection today, is it? At that time, Vice-Prime Minister – Minister for Reintegration of the temporarily occupied territories of Alexei Yuriovich Reznikov – is invited to the podium.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-18-m0.u2	Good morning, distinguished national MPs! I'm risking breaking a little bit of the rules set here because I'm invited here to act as a member of the government, but I want to start with what I have to do in front of you in two positions, because I'm still a member of the Ukrainian delegation in the Tripartite Contact Group. And, with your permission, I'm still going to take the risk of getting a comment from the chairman, starting as a representative of the Ukrainian delegation right in the Tripartite Contact Group, and then continuing as a member of the government to answer the questions asked. One of the ingredients of the hybrid war that the Russian Federation started today in 2014, beginning with the occupation of Crimea, is the information war. And many of the fears and misunderstandings that arise today and cause disunity are, in particular, the consequences of this information war. And that includes spreading myths about the Tripartite Contact Group. The main myth about the Tripartite Contact Group, about the TCG, is that the TCG has powers that it doesn't have. I want to emphasize once again that TCG does not make decisions, TCG is just a logistics field to reconcile the details and arrangements that are being reached by the leaders of the "normal format". This has been the case since 2014. It's on this logistics site that we're discussing security, humanitarian, socio-economic issues, about the release of detainees, about the repair of the pipelines, about the clearance points, about the discovery of new CERs. Negotiations are under way on specific political legal aspects of settlement, as recorded in the Minsk Treaties. But everything happens within a defined framework and on the basis of approved directives, in close coordination with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. The decision is approved only by the President and Parliament of Ukraine. I emphasize, only by the President in the dialogue of the leaders of the Normandy format and only by Parliament as the only legislative body. Let us put it this way: Parliament itself can adopt a special law to determine whether to conduct or not and how to conduct elections in temporarily occupied territories after their depopulation and on what grounds. During the December summit last year, the president gave the leaders of the "Normandian format" in Paris a clear understanding that there would be no change in the Constitution of Ukraine regarding the inclusion of any special status there, and that was excluded. Similarly, the president repeatedly said that the Minsk Accords needed to be changed. This is the position we stand for in the Tripartite Contact Group. Is it easy for us to negotiate within the Tripartite Contact Group? No, it's very difficult. The negotiations are extremely difficult. Opponents often play by the rules. But the Ukrainian delegation is doing everything possible to protect the interests of our country. The last acquisition is the long-lasting silence regime that we've been seeing for the seventh week, and you know it. And during my work visits to Donetsk and Lugansk, I get the only main message from people when I talk to them: we hear, people say, that there is silence. The only thing we can want and ask you to do is to have a command game so that the government, parliament and negotiators can act in the only synergy. Because this is only the position of Ukraine and it gives the right signals to our foreign partners. This applies not only to Donbas but also to Crimea and Sevastopol. My colleague Dmitri Kuleb can tell you more about this, and he can then, in question mode, tell you how our foreign partners react. What other myths exist? A myth about the subjectivity of recognition of the quasi-Russian proxies in ORDLO. It's never going to happen and it's never going to happen. And that's it, and that's it. A myth about what is called an inspection of Ukrainian military positions in Shuma. I'm sorry, but this is an honest joke. It's a Russian narrative. Russia and its proxies broke the test itself, which was supposed to happen, because they knew that the output would get a negative result. Because it was only about the "cheese zone" and only to confirm the OSCE SMS report, which clearly states that there is no silence on the part of Ukraine. We fully support the mandate of the OSCE and their right to verify the ceasefire under the Minsk Accords. That's what the Minsk Accords say that only the OSCE SMS has a mandate to verify the ceasefire. Another myth that the TCG seems to be preparing underground elections at the ORDLO on October 25 of this year is, as it were, all this trouble around a famous parliamentary decision. I'm sorry, this is ridiculous. Elections require a separate law. And this is mentioned in the set of measures of the Minsk Treaties, which, under a separate law adopted by the Ukrainian Parliament, on the basis of Ukrainian legislation, the Constitution of Ukraine and the Copenhagen Standards, can be held elections in the ORDLO after full depopulation, following the fulfilment of all the security conditions provided for in the Minsk Agreements. Now I would still like to go to the report before you as a member of the government, not as a member of the Tripartite Contact Group. Yesterday I sent a written answer to all the questions I received from the factions that were sent to my secretariat. But I would like to thank one of the factions that mentioned one of my thesis in public speeches. They asked me why I said reintegration would take 25 years. I'm saying because it's true. The reintegration of the territories currently temporarily occupied will not take place immediately after the end of the war. The end of war and reintegration will not coincide in time. Because we're talking about safe reintegration -- one that doesn't confuse the country or create new risks. Safe reintegration will last for at least one generation and let us speak the truth. This is what world experience says. In Germany, there are now visible differences between the west and the east, although more than 30 years have passed and the starting conditions have been different. I want to emphasize that the main thing is that the occupation and reintegration are not determined by what is happening in the Tripartite Contact Group, they depend more on the changes in the country and on the decisions of Parliament, and the actions of the government that provide for these changes. Because as a member of the government to whom you have entrusted responsibility for a certain direction, I want to draw attention to the steps that we consider necessary, and I ask you to support them. First. After a hot phase of any conflict, there will be a transitional period. Its important part is the creation of transitional justice mechanisms. What is it? According to UN principles, this is the right to the truth, and the right to justice, this compensation for the victims of aggression, this is a responsibility. We need a law on responsibility. We're going to have to figure out who the collaborators are, who the criminals are, who the hostages are, who the hostages are, who's not, who's not, and who's going to be punished in full. I want to thank Parliament for the document adopted yesterday, sorry, a bill known as the War Crimes Act. The committee of a colleague of Dennis Monastery did important work. And that's a very good step. Minreintegration in close cooperation with government colleagues will propose a package of bills for the transition period to be considered by Parliament. There will be answers about collaborators, and about the order of amnesty, and many other important positions, and we will ask you to support them. We will not avoid these steps and should not be afraid of them, because each of them is a signal, including the millions of our citizens who are now in the hostages of the occupation regime. When they understand our approach to responsibility with you, they will know what to expect and get rid of fears. The faster we let people understand how we see the Ukrainian future, the more difficult the Russian occupation regime will be. And that's where the second comes from. In order to bring peace and depopulation closer to us, we need to implement a better version of the future in the controlled territory of Donbas, in areas where we have survived the war or have felt its breath completely at hand for more than six years. This region has suffered a great deal. It is not possible to create a new economy based on budget or donor support. Only an investor can create a new Donbas. The state can offer investors, both Ukrainian and foreign, a model that will encourage them to go to Donetskina and Lugansk and develop business there, and give new life to the regions. For this integration, the development of strategies for the economic development of Donetsk and Lugansk regions was initiated. I'm on the stand right now in front of you, and the department's team is just having a discussion on the main positions of this document in ten cities, from Starabylski to Mariupul. We consider it necessary to determine on the free part of Donetsk and Lugansk the zone and clusters of priority development. What will they predict? A set of tax and customs preferences, military and political risk insurance, a special order of dispute resolution based on international commercial arbitration and much more. Along with decentralization, it's going to be kind of a special status, just our Ukrainian status, not the one they dream about in the Kremlin. At the same time, the state has to systematically invest in infrastructure. This applies not only to roads but also to railways, especially in Luhansk and towards Mariupol. This applies to the water supply and integration of these areas into the Ukrainian energy system. We will not be able to develop effectively what we do not control. This approach will transform the free part of Donbas into a powerful point of growth. If I believe in success, this experiment may even have to be extended to other regions that have suffered the same loss. And this experiment can also be extended to temporary occupied territories at the moment, but only after they've been dispossessed. A third block of issues is the provision of information sovereignty. A package of suggestions is ready. For example, we will ask the people’s supporters, the deputies, to support a bill that obliges speakers who want to go to the multiplexes to provide an unannounced satellite signal. This is one way to give our citizens in the Syrian zone, in Crimea, in the occupied area of Donbas access to Ukrainian television channels. In summary, it is only because of changes that make Ukraine stronger that it can approach it by means of a non-military way. Not through slogans. I am very much asking you to support these changes and help us bring them together. And finally, I'm going back to my role in the Tripartite Contact Group. I understand that many colleagues here want to hear comments about the decision regarding local elections. I'll give you the most honest answer. This decision is politically correct and is fully consistent with the thesis that I personally make at each interview or comment. But they're tactically separate from her position, they're premature. Has this decision made the negotiation more difficult? Yeah, it's complicated. Did our opponents use it for manipulation? Yes, you did. Has the negotiation process been blocked? Yes, it is largely blocked, for example, in a humanitarian subgroup that prepares the release of about a hundred of our captives. The decision to change or clarify this decision is solely the prerogative of the Ukrainian Parliament, and this was highlighted at the last meeting of the Ukrainian delegation in Berlin at a meeting of political advisers, leaders of the countries of the 'Normand format'. And it will be clear that if the Ukrainian Parliament doesn't want to make any changes to this particular decision, because no one likes the ultimative conditions, it's from the aggressor country. But if the Ukrainian Parliament is able to show collective wisdom and approve any other decision that will highlight Ukraine's acceptance of the Minsk process as an alternative negotiating venue at the moment, which will confirm the mandate of the Ukrainian delegation and demonstrate confidence in it. Such a decision will give an important signal to our Western partners and international mediators from the OSCE. It would expand the field of manoeuvre for our work in the Tripartite Contact Group, all the more so that this de facto decision will disappear as a factor after October 25. I have great respect for the Ukrainian Parliament, and I hope that the people's deputies on their part of our common front against the aggressor will not exactly fail. Thank you. And I'm ready to answer any questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-18-m0.u3	Thank you, Alexy Yuriovich. Please sign up for questions from MPs and groups. Katchura Alexander Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-18-m0.u4	Alexander Kachura, "Serial of the People" faction. Thank you for your performance. Unfortunately, we were unable to meet yesterday to make that wise collective decision that you spoke of today. I would like you to be more open to us, in two words, to tell us whether it is true that the entire peace process is now blocked by just one question -- the question of amending the Supreme Council's decree on local elections. Because we heard that yesterday from our foreign partners, who are members of the Tripartite Contact Group. And if so, what should be the time frame for a decision by another, wise one, as you said?
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-18-m0.u5	I'm sorry, I have a little angina, so the voice sits down. First of all, the main truth is that our contacts in the negotiations -- the representatives of the Russian Federation -- are not really set up for a quick peacemaking process. That's the main truth. So they're looking for any reason to manipulate and delay the negotiation process. Therefore, the use of these that paragraph 4 of this regulation seems to call into question the stability of the negotiations and the classification of Ukraine as a country that supports the Minsk Process, and this suggests that the possibility of further negotiations is questionable in each working group. First it started in a political subgroup, then it went on in a security group, in a humanitarian group, and, surprisingly, it wasn't used in a socio-economic group. The second thing they used as a means of blocking is their desire to see what's going on in Shuma, which they have also received from the head of the Ukrainian delegation Leonid Makarovich Kravchuk. I have no doubt that they will look for other reasons to block negotiations. But in fact, paragraph 4, which describes how the elections are to be held in the ORDLO after the decomposition, today contradicts paragraph 9 of the Minsk Treaty package. Because it's really a question of the momentum of taking control of the border between Ukraine and the Russian Federation and the election day, they're written in different ways. In paragraph 9 of the Minsk Agreement package, the queue number one is election day, and taking control of the border the next day begins and ends after a comprehensive and comprehensive political settlement. In paragraph 4 of the ruling, if I'm not mistaken, first there must be control over.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-18-m0.u6	Irina Volodymyrna's character.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-18-m0.u7	Dear colleagues, we are proud to have stopped your signature, Mr. Reznikov, the Advisory Council with the ten representatives of the ORDLO who legitimized these representatives, and we have also stopped this joint war in the Ukrainian position in the "sir" zone. By the way, the last five years, our army liberated the entire "cheese" zone. And the Minsk Accords say "divorce of heavy technology," not "armying," which you are now doing. Well, now there's a bunch of questions. Why was the Minsk negotiating group never together in Donbas, including Fokin and Kravczuk? The second question. When you pass a bill on transitional justice, where will it be determined not to be complete amnesty, but only the one who can fall under it? Question three. Why did you even give up on the road map that was signed in "Normandy format" recognized by our partners and acknowledged the priority of a safe block? Question four. What are the 100 hostages who are destitute, where the names of these people are for the country? And the fifth. Where is the theme of peacemakers? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-18-m0.u8	Can I answer that? Dear Mrs. Irina, I'm surprised to hear from your lips that I've allegedly signed some agreements on the establishment of an advisory board. I think you're misleading Ukrainian society, and that doesn't suit you. The other one. We will prepare a bill on transitional justice and, together with the government’s professional committees, we will certainly bring it to Parliament and you will have the opportunity to discuss it. Two. Were we at Donbassa? Yes, I am constantly on work trips to all the areas of Donetské, Lugansk, bordering the line of contact. Three. What's your fourth? I don't know the fact that you signed something in Normandy format, a road map. If you can send me a signed document called the road map by the leaders of the Normandy format, I will be most grateful. Four. What was the fifth? Oh, and I'm sorry, out of respect for family members, to announce the list of people we've released, sorry, it's a crime. You're like a person who's engaged in humanitarian exchanges, you certainly don't have the right to say that. That doesn't suit you again. Five. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-18-m0.u9	The word is given to the National MP Batenek Taras Ivanovich, the MP's Party for the Future.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-18-m0.u10	Mr. Vice Prime Minister, we have a conflicting feeling from your report. So it seems that by listening to you, we're talking about a time of safe reintegration of occupied territories, so much so that we've already returned occupied territories to Ukraine. But the way in which we're going to get our territory back is, we don't understand. And it is equally unclear to me that you expect a wise decision from Parliament in the context of elections that are actually imposed on the Russian side regarding the revision of the decision taken. Because the TCG statements, the demonstration of intentions and so forth, the truce, which is only on paper, does not bring us closer to peace. And so it's like we didn't actually get close to peace, and the price is already very high in this negotiation process. Don't you think that the price of ending a war is to achieve peace in the Ukrainian authorities? The plan, how to end the war, is not in the Ukrainian authorities? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-18-m0.u11	There's a plan, and I just partially announced it to you. It's the adoption of transitional law packages, transitional justice, that we can bring these territories back because of the return of our people. Only minds and hearts can be restored, so that we can have reintegration with you. That's why we have to send a signal to those people that only in the only independent Ukraine will they be happy. And that's why we need to talk to you about it, not just to talk about it, but to do it, to enact the right laws, to develop the free territories of the Donetsk and Lugansk regions today, to give them points of growth of economic potential, and they themselves will want to live with us. It's very simple. Keep it simple. Don't raise your hand, don't give up, don't give up. It's gonna be okay. It'll all be Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-18-m0.u12	Sukhov Alexander Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-18-m0.u13	Please give the word to the Sergey.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-18-m0.u14	The great Sergey Anatolyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-18-m0.u15	Sergey the Great, Lugansk. Mr. Vice Prime Minister, in your speech, you have pointed out that you and the people of Luhansk are experiencing a regime of silence. This was also confirmed in early August by the President of Ukraine when he was on the line of separation. But a letter from the head of the Luhansk region of Hydaya to the CEVC noted that recent attacks and provocations by illegal armed forces have been taking place, making it impossible to hold an election in eight OTGs. Yes, Mr. Vice Prime Minister, tell me, who's lying?
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-18-m0.u16	If you're asking me to judge one of the two so-called representatives of the Ukrainian authorities for a lie, I won't do that, because that's a manipulative question, with all due respect for you. But I'll tell you that when the leader of the VCA explains that these areas are dangerous, at least look at the ultimatums that are echoing from the representative of the occupying regime in Lugansk territory, that they're going to be in violation of the quiet regime by firing at Ukrainian positions. So there is still still, unfortunately, a dangerous territory. Because this silence mode is undefined. And we only hold it because of the delicate conduct of the negotiations. And every effort that is being made today by the negotiators, including the appeal of Ukrainian First President Leonid Makarovich Kravczuk to you to support the position of the negotiators, is one of the attempts to maintain the silence regime. So it's only together, not by confronting us with you, but together, that we can provide a set regime of silence that will allow us to hold elections, including local ones. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-18-m0.u17	Oddzuk Andri Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-18-m0.u18	Please, the word of Solomia Bobrovsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-18-m0.u19	Samantha Anatolyevna Bobrowska
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-18-m0.u20	Good morning! I listened very carefully to your report, and you know, there is a strange conclusion. It turns out that in the President's team, in the majority of Parliament, there are people who register decrees, who then spoil the negotiations and the Tripartite Contact Group for the Ukrainian side. Questions. Well, you're on the President's team, too. How is that even possible? How are such things permitted? So you've got rats all over you, or what's that all about? The second question. What promises did the Ukrainian side make at a meeting of counselors in Berlin, and who? Would you please explain to us, so that we can understand clearly Cossack's interpretation of what the Supreme Council will look at, and these were not conjectures, but actually just putting society and us as parliamentarians, the election decision? And the second question. What points were agreed on in the last month of the Tripartite Contact Group? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-18-m0.u21	Your animal theory is definitely not up to me. It's you who have to figure it out, I'm not a member of Parliament. I'm sorry, but it's unethical. We're being watched by the Ukrainian people, with all due respect for you. No promises were made during the meeting of political advisers from the Ukrainian delegation, do not believe the Kremlin propaganda, and I began to think that this was part of the information war. You're either weak if you take this military weapon, or something's wrong. What was the third one, excuse me? Oh, I'm sorry, they haven't been approved yet. So there's no point in discussing them publicly right now, because they're being discussed in a security group. But unfortunately, there's no final coordinates for those points, so I'm not going to give them to you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-18-m0.u22	Eutusek Sergey Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-18-m0.u23	Please pass the word to Mikhail Mikhailovich Zimbaluku. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-18-m0.u24	Mikhail Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-18-m0.u25	Mikhailo Cimbaluk, Fatherland. Mr. Vice Prime Minister of Ukraine, I understand your emotion, but I would still like to be more restrained, answering questions from MPs. Because we do have a parliamentary-presidential form of government, to the extreme extent, still de jure. Because you can move on to the fact that when you talk about hearts, you were referring to our own political power. The question is essentially two. First. You've been talking about more than 20 years of Donbas reintegration. Does the ministry you run prepare for such a specific program, realizing that 20 years is not enough? And the second question. I'd still like you to give a professional evaluation, don't you consider it a violation of the Constitution when Ukrainians are deprived of their right to vote in Ukrainian-controlled areas? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-18-m0.u26	I thank you for your observation. We are all emotional because we are discussing the complex issue of territorial integrity and independence of Ukraine. But when I am approached with impeccable theories, it does not allow even a national MP to express himself that way. But I'm really sympathetic, including your political power. Yes, indeed, my ministry has a 25-year strategic program, because I believe that full reintegration will not take place. And it doesn't matter who's going to be a member of the government, a minister or a deputy at this point. We all have to think strategically. That's true. That's true. And the third. Yes, a limitation of rights is unacceptable. But there are, unfortunately, isolated cases, including those provided for in the Constitution of Ukraine, where such restrictions may be for certain reasons. They are defined in the Constitution, starting with, for example, requisitions of property, as an option when extraordinary situations occur: military situation, military status, etc., etc. Thus, such restrictions on rights are possible. Again, a decision is taken by the President of Ukraine, the Ukrainian Parliament, the Ukrainian Government, depending on its competence. If there is a discussion, I understand, it is by the Parliament of Ukraine that you have made decisions in which no elections are held, and have delegated this right to the Central Election Commission. I'm ready to have a discussion with you in the towers then from the point of view of professional discussion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-18-m0.u27	Dear colleagues, thank you Alexi Yuriovich. Question-answer period is over. Thank you. [[B in m in s a l in]] No, we made a deal. We have a rule from the political forces and a dot at that. Thank you. Alexi Yuriovich, please take your place. Oh, I'm going to Volosin. I'm sorry, I've lost it here. Aleksei Yuriovich, I've got a technical problem here, also Volosyn Oleg Anatoliyovich, a question for you. I'm sorry. And after that, I will invite the Acting Minister of Education and Science. Get ready, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-18-m0.u28	Thank you, Mr. Ruslan. Dear Mr. Reznikov, you know, our faction, unlike our opponents in the collective "party of war," is not at all proud of the fact that there is something in Parliament that breaks away from your peaceful initiatives. Moreover, we are not looking for any reason to criticize you for anything other than the slow pace of the peace process. You've clearly and very carefully analyzed what this notorious Local Elections Ordinance is and paragraph 4 is in conflict with paragraph 9 of the Minsk Accords. Here's the question. You understood that at the beginning. Why did you take this position, this clear inadequacy and the artificiality of the problem that is being created for the peace process that brings it to a dead end, and this position of representative of the majority and other factions to the vote was not explained? Or maybe you were doing this job and you just didn't listen, and then we can accuse our colleagues of deliberately obstructing your work and disrupting the peace process. Because the Supreme Council, as we all know, has no authority to treat the Minsk Accords alone, this is an international agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-18-m0.u29	With all due respect, I will answer your question from the bottom. The Minsk agreements are not an international agreement, they're political-diplomatic agreements. It is not ratified by either the Ukrainian Parliament or the Russian Duma. That's a fact. It's not even registered at the UN Security Council Secretariat, it's just supported by the UN Security Council, so there's a nuance. And I think the will of the Ukrainian Parliament is to interpret, including, and that's what I said about that wisdom when I spoke today at the beginning. As to whether you are holding a Parliamentary hearing with us, the answer is no. So I urge you, let's work together, let's do synergy, let's do Parliament, let's do government, let's work together by the Ukrainian delegation, for the sake of peace and the end of this war. I think that's the answer to the question. We just don't communicate and communicate with each other, that's all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-18-m0.u30	Thank you. Thank you very much, Alexi Juryovich, again for making such a report. I think it's gotten a lot clearer on the many aspects of your responsibility. Dear colleagues, I invite you to speak to the Acting Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine, Sergei Mikolaiovich. And we also agreed that you would write down now and in the same format, from each faction on the question. I'm going to ask you to record a question from factions and groups. Please invite me to the floor of the People's Deputy of the Honourable Sergey Anatoliyovich, the MP's "Trust".
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-18-m0.u31	Sergey the Great, Lugansk. Dear Master of the Minister’s duties! COVID does not retreat, and unfortunately, with the beginning of the school year, the number of teachers and children with coronary disease has increased dramatically. So our teachers, like the doctors, are now among those who are vulnerable to disease. Today, there are three parliamentary decisions that are called upon in part to address the issue of the security of the educational process. What mechanisms did Kabmin’s Ministry of Education offer for the protection of educators? Is the Minoswits planning to introduce teachers ’ insurance into medical insurance? If there are such plans, are there any projected expenditures in budget 2021, and what is the amount? Because the problem becomes urgent and requires a quick solution. Thank you. Sergey the Great, Lugansk.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-18-m0.u32	Good afternoon, Your Honourable Chairman, Honorable People's Deputies! Thank you for the opportunity to come forward with descriptions and answers to the questions about the "hot" problems that are in education today. Regarding what the Ministry of Education has done to protect teachers in order to secure the educational process. Selectorial meetings are held every week. The Ministry of Health, along with the local authorities, has repeatedly tried to make several decisions regarding the reimbursement of funds from the COVID - 2019 fund within its competences. But given that the COVID fund had already been redistributed by early June, I thank the members of the Committee on Budgets, members of the Committee on Education and Science for their cooperation, we have made some proposals for changes to the law, to the State Budget. And yesterday, with 255 votes of the people's deputies, I thank you for this support, the 103rd article of the Second Budget Code was amended to include the possibility of using last year's grant balances of 3.3 billion dollars to counter the fight against COVID: disinfection, individual protection. It's about insurance. This year's budget does not provide for the insurance of a separate budget. But in doing so, the Ministry of Education and Science, today, as part of the redistribution in cooperation with the Ministry of Finance, as part of the redistribution of existing expenditures of 540 million, we're going to be directing, trying to prepare a Kabmin ruling and directing 540 million dollars to fight COVID. But for the next year, it's separate.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-18-m0.u33	Thank you. The word is given to National Deputy Sowsun Inni Romanovni, faction of the political party "The Voice".
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-18-m0.u34	Good afternoon! For a long time, I have no further questions about the responsibility of Minister Scarlett. Please pass the word to Natalia Pipi. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-18-m0.u35	Please, Natalia Pippa. Well, if there are no questions, you probably don't have to register. Please, Mrs. Natalia.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-18-m0.u36	September 25 is the end of your probationary term. During that time, the school’s failed training, the problems were with the D.N.A., and 90 percent of the plagiarism was detected in your work. First. Comment on that, we expect. Society and Parliament believe that you should go and assign duties to a more professional minister. And the second question. What happens is you still have a few days, or will you be able to adopt the secondary education standard that the whole country is now waiting for to continue the reform of the New Ukrainian School? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-18-m0.u37	Thank you for asking, Mrs. Natalia. For the first block of questions. I don't know anything about the term "September 25." Second of all, it's about school failure. I think these are somewhat exaggerated facts. Today, in the same way, perhaps from the parliamentary rostrum you claim that the work of schools has failed, there is the vast majority of directors, heads of local self - government bodies, who have been prepared to organize the educational process quite carefully and productively today. As far as my plagiarism is concerned, you know, there are two conclusions from professional bodies, professional representatives who are published on the site and who are absolutely contradicting those things that you're specifically launching online. And I'm absolutely sure that for most scientists in Ukraine, this is a long time ago. Also, please remind us of the other part.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-18-m0.u38	[[Unheard]]
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-18-m0.u39	Standard of secondary education. Well, I think you mean the base component is 5-9. Standard 5-9 of the class is now fully transferred to the Cabinet of Ministers' Secretariat, which has been fully implemented with the involvement of professionals at the National Academy of Pedagogical Sciences, wide-ranging public institutions and organizations. And I hope we get him to the committee on 24th, and we expect his approval and acceptance on the government for the 30th. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-18-m0.u40	Thank you. The word is given to National Deputy Gerasim Arthur Volodymyrovich, faction of the political party "European Solidarity".
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-18-m0.u41	Please pass the word to Alexia Potter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-18-m0.u42	Alexiyovich Honcharenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-18-m0.u43	Alexei Hotcharenko, European Solidarity. We have an hour of questions to the government, so I have a question to ask the government. Dear Mr. Prime Minister! Mr. Prime Minister, I understand that there are important negotiations, you share a budget or something, but I would like you to listen to the MPs. So here's my question. After yesterday's decision. yesterday's decision on the Specialised Anti-Corruption Prosecutor's Office, which, by the way, marked the conclusion of the age of greatness and the transition to most duets -- "People's Servants" together with the OPCW, in the European Parliament talked about the difference of visalessness for Ukraine. For a long time, you have turned a car into a derelict, now a zero, and you would like to hear your comments on the visa and on macrofinancial assistance. And the second question. A member of your government's team, Minister Stepanov, went to the local elections. Has he gone on vacation? And what do you think, during a pandemic in the state, when the numbers hit all the records, where the health minister is in the election or in the fight against the epidemic? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-18-m0.u44	Alexiyyyovich, before the Prime Minister will or will not answer, I would like to remind you that the format of "the hour of questions to the Government" is formed by the agreed submission of factions during the Conciliation Council, and that is why two ministers have been appointed to report. And then I will, if the Prime Minister considers it necessary, please answer. But I urge all national MPs to use it as provided by the Rules. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-18-m0.u45	Good afternoon, distinguished national MPs. There's no cancelling. Our international colleagues and the European Union, from the United States, are absolutely frank about the need for a transparent competition. So, of course, we do. We have now followed all the procedures prescribed by the rules, the legislation of Ukraine. The next question remains openness, transparency of the competition. Let's see how the competition goes, all together, the whole society, the parliament. And I'm sure that everything will be done completely within the framework of current, active legislation. Regarding participation in the local elections of government members. This is not forbidden by law; the minister does not take part in the campaign. Thus, the law allows for acquittals in the event of participation, of course, that will require a leave of absence. Such measures are not yet planned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-18-m0.u46	Thank you. I invite you further to the words of national deputy Šufrich Nestor Ivanovich, faction of the political party "The Opposition Platform for Life". Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-18-m0.u47	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. Well, I see we still have the Prime Minister of Ukraine on screen. I'd still like you to point the camera at me. Thank you. Please give me a full minute. Honourable Minister of Education of Ukraine, I have a question. Everything is socially concerned about the COVID situation, and above all, how much this could jeopardize the learning process. On the one hand, it is clear that parents want their children to be in school so that they can deal with both work and family life in general. But tell me, where is the limit, do you think, where is the threshold, when the learning process is going to have to be re-routed to the remote? Is that what is planned? And under what circumstances? What is critical to us today is, of course, the health of our children, the health of our families. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-18-m0.u48	Thank you, Nestor Ivanovich, for asking. You know, really, first and foremost, it's the health and the child, the health and the teacher, the health of society. At the same time, though, both psychological health and socialization of children and the ability of parents to work and to make money while children are in school. The Ministry of Education and Science, together with the Ministry of Health and in individual mandates, have clearly developed recommendations for both distance education and mixed education. And we hope that the common sense of our nation is enough to maintain social distance, to follow all the rules of safety and hygiene. Today, most schools are ready for a mixed form of education, and for a distance form of learning, because the Ministry has made every effort to do with their partners and the Swiss EdEra Corporation, a remote online course on distance learning and teacher learning. And it's already 47,000 teachers and 65,000 teachers of vocational and technical education that have been trained to organize work under even strict quarantine when we have to go to full-scale distance learning. But I still hope that only in those areas where the lockdown will be installed, we will be working in full distance learning mode. Most will work in mixed learning mode. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-18-m0.u49	Thank you. The word is given to National Deputy Constanceevich Irina Miroslavni, "The Party for the Future." Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-18-m0.u50	Mr. Minister, first of all, I wanted to thank you for keeping the education insurance issue under control. But at the same time, there is a situation with teachers who work in preschool, extraschool, vocational, and vocational higher education. And it's not just about insurance, it's about wages. The Group for the Future has registered a number of bills that touch on raising salaries for schoolchildren. And I wanted to ask you, when is the Ministry of Education and Science a working group on wage issues that are non-fractional in these categories of education? And that's the question we're leading in our group. Therefore, please inform. And a second request. Please take control of the situation at the Lyubesev Pedagogical College in Volin. There, two years ago, the wall collapsed, and it needs to be allocated from the state budget to rebuild this building.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-18-m0.u51	Thank you, Irina Miroslavina. Thank you for asking. You know, the Ministry of Education and Science has control over not only general secondary education. In fact, both preschool and school education, and professional excellence, and higher education are also in the field of view. And I thank both the President and the Prime Minister for their support. And the fruitful work with the Ministry of Finance, with the budget committee, allowed us to put into the budget for the next year a 30 percent increase in wages, which today is and is guaranteed by the state. As far as insurance is concerned, money is not included in this year’s budget. But in cooperation with the social-oriented insurance business, we made a memorandum with five. With top-5 insurance companies that are willing to volunteer very soft conditions to provide insurance for all the categories of education students who are now in education in Ukraine. About the working group. A working group of us and the Committee on Education and Science were formed in August regarding wages. The Ministry and the committee have their own work on certain movements, but we are by no means giving up 822 Regulations that guarantee three minimum wages, and the lowest tariff rate rate is not less than four subsistence minimums. As for the College of Ljubljana, I ask you to make an application to the Ministry for the calculation of the costs needed to eliminate the consequences. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-18-m0.u52	Babak Sergey Vitaliovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-18-m0.u53	Good afternoon, Sergey Mikolayovich. Please tell us, yesterday, 200 million were redeployed from the state budget for 2020, 170 for the capital expenditure of higher education institutions, and 30 for the professional advantage. Too bad it's not about fighting the consequences of COVID, because maybe it would be better for the means of individual protection, but we'll try to resolve it with our own decisions. Maybe it's more important. So please explain where do you plan to send 170 million higher education and 30 million higher education by the end of 2020? And please ask me a second question, if you don't mind. Nine months ago, Odessa College burned, this property is on the balance sheet of the Ministry of Education, but there was no conservation work. Explain why, and what do you plan to do about it? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-18-m0.u54	Thank you for asking. Regarding 200 million, thank the Committee on Budgets, thank you 255 deputies for being able to find an additional 200 million (170 for higher education and 30 for higher education). The Ministry planned first of all to redesign, build up in those higher education institutions and higher education institutions, which already have project and cost-effective documentation, which have almost completed some construction work, including planning to invent some of these, if they remain, including fire protection. But not only did the ministry’s work. In the draft budget, we've foreseen one billion dollars for the next year's fire safety at higher and professional higher education facilities, first of all in the dormitories. As for Odessa College, the estate of Odessa College, I will find out exactly what the situation is today. But as far as I know, it's out of active use, there's no educational process going on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-18-m0.u55	Kirilenko Ivan Grigorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-18-m0.u56	Dear Minister, the Fatherland faction totally shares the concern for the health of both children and teachers and teachers. And so a faction of initiators of the Order on the allocation of about 8 billion dollars in education for this very purpose. And I hope we can praise her today. And my questions are next. First. How can a person who knows the characteristics and fineness of higher education tell you what strategy you see for his development in these new circumstances? And, in particular, what innovations are expected in 2021 under higher conditions? And the second question. What share of the subsidy and its volume are expected for the "New Ukrainian School" in 2021? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-18-m0.u57	Thank you, Ivan Grigorovich, for asking. I'd like to report from the second question first. There were a lot of questions about the allegations that the ministry had stopped the New Ukrainian School reform. I want to correct this myth and point out that the Ministry of Education and Science is constantly holding the view of reform and the continuation of the "New Ukrainian School" reform. This confirms that we have developed a standard of 5-9 classes and are ready to bring it to the government by 30 September. As for the subsidy, last year we had 1 billion 60 million. To date, some 800 million are listed in local budgets. Unfortunately, only 370-380 million were used. But then yesterday, a selector meeting was held, where once again with district directors, with professional deputy heads of district administrations, we worked on this issue. And next year, the New Ukrainian School State Budget project provides 1 billion 421 million -- almost 400 million more than it did last year. As for reform, strategies for higher education. In implementation of Presidential Decree No.210, one of the elements of which was the formulation of the development strategy for higher education, during July and August a working group involving more than 180 professionals, 63 civil society organizations, which of the 90 higher education institutions for which we worked strategically. Today, the strategy was publicized. Today, the final discussion will be among all the participants. And then we'll take it out for approval. As part of our higher education strategy, we envisioned seven strategic goals. That is, improvement.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-18-m0.u58	Thank you. It's a good word. And invite the people's deputies to the hall, and we'll move on to the budget. But a final question from the deputy head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Condratuk Helena Constantine.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-18-m0.u59	Thank you. As I continue to ask questions from my distinguished colleague John Grigorovich Kirilenko, I would still like to ask you, Mr. Acting Minister, about the modern approach of the ministry in the face of a pandemic. Is there a differentiation in the Ministry’s work on programs, forms of education when it comes to the technical equipment of schools? Because from what I understand and heard from your mouth, we now have only 74 rural schools that are not connected to the Internet. At the same time, the numbers tell me that 6,000 schools already have. How will you get out of this situation? Are there special programs designed for this, especially for rural schools, that can actually be found in the times of the now red zone in completely different conditions of learning? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-18-m0.u60	Thank you for asking. Of course, the Ministry of Education and Science has made recommendations on the specificities of education under different conditions, including mixed, remote schools for rural schools. Today, there is an online course developed jointly with EdEra, which provides for training, special training for educators in the organization of any form of education under any conditions that have already been used by 65,000 educators. And so far, there's a little bit of a discrepancy between Mincifre and MON in terms of insecurity. To date, only 54 schools with statistics are working on the school itself. Minciferi predicts an optical bond of more than 100 megabits, which will work, there is a little bit of a disagreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-18-m0.u61	Thank you. Time's up. Dear colleagues, the next question is the presentation by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine of the draft Ukrainian Law on the State Budget for Ukraine for 2021 (registration No. 4000). Please invite the national deputies to the hall. To present the draft Law on the State Budget of Ukraine for 2021, the Minister of Finance of Ukraine, Sergey Mihajlovich Marchenko, is invited up to 20 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-18-m0.u62	Dear Dmitre Alexanderovich, the distinguished national deputies of Ukraine! Allow me to introduce the Ukrainian Ministry of Finance and the government-supported draft of the Ukrainian Act on the Ukrainian State Budget for 2021. The government has submitted this document to Parliament in due time, as required by the Constitution of Ukraine and the Budget Code. I am grateful to the Prime Minister and all members of the government for their active participation in the development and support of the project at the Cabinet of Ministers. I also wanted to thank the Finance Ministry team for working together to develop a balanced document that is really real until it's done. Along with the draft budget, we presented medium-term figures by 2023 with satellites of expenditure and targets for each of the ministries. So we've done our task of developing medium-term fiscal policies and showing the definition of medium-term fiscal policy perspective. For the main macro-indicators. The budget in 2021 is based on the Programme of Activities of the Cabinet of Ministers and the strategic objectives set by the President of Ukraine. He is realistic and balanced. It is based on a macroeconomic forecast adopted by the government in July of this year. This forecast predicts an increase in real GDP by 4.6 percent, and after the decline expected this year, by 4.8 percent. Inflation is projected at 7.3 percent. A mid-term course in the Derbybudget project, 29.1 bracelets to the U.S. dollar. As far as priorities are concerned. In 2021, the Ukrainian government will continue to take all necessary steps to ensure that our country successfully undergoes the coronary crisis, the economy is restored, and we have had the opportunity to develop. So the main markers in the pandemic are to protect citizens, support business activity, and promote economic transformation. The country needs a reboot. This document can therefore be described as a budget for further development, an opportunity to support citizens after the plague of the coronary disease pandemic. Among the main priorities are: to raise the minimum wage to 6,500 dollars; to index pensions and pensions for pensioners who have reached 75 years; to provide citizens with affordable quality medical services, including channelling the budget to the COVID package; to continue the educational reform of the New Ukrainian School project; to develop culture and to support higher achievement sport. The priorities are also: the implementation of measures to improve the security of the country and increase the financial security of military personnel; the continuation of the Big Construction project initiated by the President of Ukraine and the development of rail transport; the large-scale digitisation of the economy; and the formation of financially viable regions. These are the clear priorities that allow us to increase the well-being of our citizens and ensure economic development. We've defined revenue at 1 trillion 71 billion dollars. This is more than 92 billion, compared to the 2020 budget. Expenditures and loans amount to 1 trillion 350 billion dollars. The budget deficit is projected at 270 billion dollars, which is 6 percent of GDP. This is less than 1.5 percent this year. As for deficits. The International Monetary Fund estimates that the fiscal deficit of emerging countries will average 8.5 per cent of GDP in 2021, while the global deficit is 8.2 per cent. Ukraine’s indicators in this context appear to be quite modest. And our level of budget deficit even means the rigid nature of fiscal policy in other countries of the world. At the same time, we anticipate a reduction in the budget deficit for the medium term: in 2022, up to 4.5 per cent of GDP, in 2023, up to 3 per cent of GDP. Because early, a sharp reduction in the budget deficit next year would be an additional shock to our economy, it would deepen the economic downturn under the protracted nature of the pandemic, and it could block positive trends in GDP recovery. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that our country is not unique in terms of deficit change as a result of the pandemic. According to trends in the world’s budget deficits, long - term coronaryism and the need for economic support have kept government spending high in most countries of the world. As a result, fiscal consolidation remains limited in the short term. For example. Egypt expects a reduction from 7.9 per cent to 7.8 per cent in 2021, France from 10.2 to 6.7, Poland to 6 per cent, the Netherlands to 5.5, Romania to 5.5, Indonesia to 5.7. All the countries in question had projected a significant budget deficit of 2021, ranging from 5.5 to 6.7 percent of GDP. It's about income. In preparing the draft budget, it was essential for us to achieve a balance based on the available possibilities. So we formed a budget, not from wishes, but from expected incomes and real opportunities. Budget revenues reflect what real income the economy can provide next year without raising taxes. We followed the principle of reality completely. All immediately calm down: the budget is sufficient to finance all the priority needs of the state. The revenue line will increase by 92 billion dollars compared to the current year. At the same time, the proportion of GDP redistribution through budget income is projected to decrease by 0.8 percent, to 23.5 percent. There will be no pressure on honest business and conscientious taxpayers. The following year, by restoring economic activity, eliminating schemes, eliminating VAT payments, we plan to add 82 billion dollars to the government budget. Over the past few months, DPS has achieved concrete results in combating shadow schemes for VAT and fictitious tax credit. When supplies were reduced by 14.2 percent in May-August 2019, VAT was paid by 8.1 more than during the same period of the year. For May and August, VAT paid 81.6 billion dollars, 6 billion more than last year. This is because we have a downturn in the economy, we find ways to fund our expenditures. The tax efficiency of VAT for the 21st year is projected at 2.9 percent, which corresponds to today's trend. As far as expenses are concerned. Compared to the planned figures for 2020, expenditures will increase by 65.5 billion dollars or 5.1 percent. During the 21st year, development costs amount to nearly 175 billion dollars. This is going to increase by 12.4 billion dollars compared to this year. The growth rate of development expenditure is one and a half times that of total expenditure. The main focus of the budget is the concern for Ukrainians. That is why social security, health, safety, defence, education, and cultural development costs account for more than 70 percent of all government budgets. A step-by-step increase in the minimum wage that meets the current economic conditions is foreseen. From January 1st, the minimum wage will increase from the current 5,000 dollars to 6,000 dollars and from July 1st to 6,000. In total, this increase will cost the country 41 billion dollars. Importantly, this will affect the salaries of medical professionals, teachers, and other budget workers. The minimum wage/average wage ratio will increase from 45 to 48 percent in 2021. Social spending will be financed in the amount of 323 billion dollars. The transfer fund will be worth 204 billion dollars. Of these, 18 billion -- pension index, 2.4 billion -- to help pensioners over 75 years of age. A million pensioners will receive a monthly pension of 400 dollars. Aid, aid, and subsidies amount to 104 billion dollars. In order to protect internally displaced persons, black people, persons and children with disabilities, ATO participants are about 10 billion dollars. Education. Expenditure on education is set at 174 billion dollars. That's 34 billion dollars more than in this year's budget. Of these, 103 billion dollars is an educational subsidy to pay 30 percent of teachers' salaries. About 50 billion -- expenditure on higher education, 5.4 billion dollars -- for scholarships. Separately, I'm going to highlight the need for inclusive education. The 500 million dollars budgeted will allow for the full education of 30,000 children. Health care is our key priority. In view of the pandemic and the continuation of medical reform, medical expenditures will increase to 4.2 percent of gross domestic product. That's over 190 billion dollars in the budget, plus 57 billion by this year. By 2023, health funding is projected to increase to 5 percent of WFP. In order to continue the medical guarantee program, 123 billion dollars are foreseen. These are 35 packets of health care for the population, as well as compensation for the cost of medical supplies for over 5 million people. This sum takes into account the cost of a 30 - percent increase in medical wages. Fighting COVID. The COVID package is worth 19 billion dollars next year, of which 16 billion is the provision of medical services within the framework of the COVID Health Guarantee Programme; 2.6 billion dollars is the first to be vaccinated by COVID; and 1 billion dollars is the provision of teachers' jobs by means of remote learning tools. Another priority is to support culture. This area will no longer be financed by the residual principle. We predicted spending 7.5 billion dollars on cultural support, plus 3 billion dollars on the budget this year. It is the financing of theatres, artistic groups, the provision of museums, libraries, state support for cinematography and publishing works, projects of the Ukrainian Cultural Fund. For the first time, we are directing 1 billion dollars to repair and restore cultural objects. Another 200 million dollars are planned for the first time. Because of the training and participation of Ukrainian athletes in the summer Olympics, Paralympics, Deflimpic Games next year, 7.4 billion dollars are available to support sports and training our athletes. Another priority is to digitise the economy. In order to implement electronic governance, the Dia Web portal electronic services project is planning to allocate almost 3 billion dollars, which is 1.4 billion dollars more than in 2020. We are expanding the list of public services that will become available online to citizens and businesses. For national security and defence in general, we have invested 5.93 percent of GDP in the budget. These are unprecedented numbers. This indicator meets the requirements of the Ukrainian National Security Act and will ensure the development and modernization of military technology, strengthen the personnel capacity of the army, strengthen the social protection of our defenders and defenders of the rule of law. The financial provision of military, military, and police personnel will increase to 131 billion dollars. As part of the Big Construction project, we put an additional 20 billion dollars on the road infrastructure, and the total cost of guarantees is 150 billion dollars. For the first time, the State has funded passenger rail infrastructure. We have foreseen 3.3 billion dollars for the purchase of 100 cars that will transport 2 million passengers every year, allowing us to merge east and west of our country, for example, allowing us to modernize directions such as Lugansk-Uzhrod, Mariupol-Livov by completely new passenger cars. With public funding, we're unlocking the railway connections of cities like Zitomir and Cherkasa, by electrifying and modernizing areas. There will also be a new route of the Intersity speed train of Kiev Cherkas. We continue to support the 5-7-9 program. For the first time, Ukrainian business has actually gained access to cheap credit. This program has increased the number of jobs by 10 percent. Since the start of the program, authorized banks have already issued over 3,000 loans totalling 8 billion dollars. For 2021, credit for this program was also made available. Another mechanism is portfolio guarantees. It was predicted to be 10 billion dollars. As part of the Presidential Initiative to provide Ukrainians with affordable housing, the introduction of a mortgage lending programme and a financial lysis mechanism. The mortgage rate will be 7 percent, the lysing rate will be 5 percent. The loan period is 20 years. In general, more than 30,000 families will be able to use this tool. Support for the agro-industry complex continues to be sought for credits for the development of farming, gardening, and hops. In addition, meliorate systems are supported through the provision of State guarantees. The additional resources to support the regions will be 3 billion dollars and will reach 33.4 billion dollars. State financial support for investment projects through the State Regional Development Fund is planned for 9.4 billion dollars. In addition, for the first time, funds are provided for the construction and staffing of 50 CNAPs and for the development of 50 community plans. It's about debt policy. We continue to implement the objectives of government debt management strategies. We're predicting an increase in government debt in the national currency. Even in a global economic crisis, we support the level of debt that allows us to do so in market terms. We predict the objective of a uniform government debt repayment schedule. We predict long-term Eurobonds, proactive government debt management. The third goal. Involvement of long-term debt financing This is our cooperation with the International Monetary Fund, the European Union, the World Bank and other international financial organizations. The fourth target. Continued partnership with investors. In the 21st year, the ratio of government debt to GDP is projected to decrease from 68 percent to 64.6 percent by 3.4 percent. This is lower than the average in emerging markets, where the debt rate is 66.7 percent of GDP, and noticeably lower than the global average is 103.2 percent of GDP. Our goal is to turn Ukraine from a recipient of international aid to an equal partner who only borrows funds for specific amounts, into concrete projects, into clearly defined goals at an acceptable rate. Government deficits and government debt refinancing are expected to be made at the expense of the release of government securities. At the end of my speech, I would like to emphasize once again that the budget should be a tool for development and growth. The 21st year budget is exactly what it is. There is no room in this budget for overcrowded income or hidden income. We've got all our expenses confirmed by real income. The 21st year budget allows efficient use of tax payers' costs to produce results – to benefit people and the economy. This budget provides opportunities for the country's economies and provides the basis for the necessary transformations. I stress that it is important for the budget to be adopted in a timely manner with respect to all legislative terms. We are ready for further constructive dialogue with Parliament at the stage of the budget. I want to believe that this presentation of the draft budget will only be the beginning of our fruitful cooperation and constructive dialogue. We have a common goal: to get out on as best financial contracts as possible. But this budget must be real and balanced and meet the challenges of today's and the real opportunities. Thank you for your attention. Ready to answer your questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-18-m0.u63	Thank you, Sergey Mikhailovich. Dear colleagues, I'd like you to sign up for a question to the Minister of Finance of Ukraine. The word is given to the National Deputy Abdullin Alexander Rafkatovich, a faction of the political party "The All-Ukrainian Union of the Fatherland".
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-18-m0.u64	Request to pass on the word to Alexia Kucherenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-18-m0.u65	Alexy Kucherenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-18-m0.u66	Thank you. Alexy Kucherenko, faction of Fatherland. Mr. Secretary, a few questions, but before that, I'd like to make a statement. We're around experts when we discussed this draft budget, we called it the Utopia Budget. I'm sorry, I don't mean to offend you, but I do. There was no budget declaration, in principle. The government's work programme is not approved, not for the first time, but the IMF's official 21st-year budget statement, and it's not even clear how we're going to build all of this. This utopian macro-prognosis of growth is unclear from negative 8 down to 4.6. Now, on energy, a few questions. Look, I didn't see the full support of this green-tariff upgrade of ours in the budget. So you're going to have to raise electricity prices to this government accordingly. So why are you cutting subsidies by almost 4 billion dollars? Have you considered all of this? And the last one is fast. Where are the energy-generating loans? Where's the "hot loans"?
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-18-m0.u67	Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for asking. With regard to the budget declaration. In the budget, together with the budget, we distributed materials that include medium-term budget policies across each of the ministries by 2023. You can get to know them. As far as the IMF is concerned. The IMF doesn't apply for support, but we're working with them. We're talking to them about budget parameters, income, expenditure. And at this point, there's no definite statement that the numbers that we have are groundless or otherwise. It's about energy. Energy-based costs are more than sufficient to carry out tasks. We think that if we need to, we're ready to work with you at the pre-processing stage to find ways to further finance, including hot loans, through redistribution at the expense of other programs. So we think that the budget in this case is realistic and balanced. And we don't think that he deserves such strong grades on your part. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-18-m0.u68	Thank you. The word is given to National Deputy Heratchenko Irina Volodymyrni, faction of the political party "European Solidarity".
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-18-m0.u69	Please give Nina Petrovni a word.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-18-m0.u70	Please, Nina Petrovn Yuzanin.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-18-m0.u71	Mr. Finance Minister, I really wouldn't want to say anything bad. But you've just said so many wrong names, or you've given the characteristics to your budget. And the principle of reality is respected. And the deficit is moderate -- 6 percent of GDP. And that means that the fiscal level is still high. And you're saying that raising the minimum wage to 6,500 is economically justified. It seems to me that everything I've just called is completely not what it looks like in real life. So I don't understand how you can present the budget now without adopting the changes to the Tax Code that you're adding to the government's tax revenue budget, I mean the indexation of excise rates, I mean the restriction on the inclusion of one-fifth company losses. This was the case with Azar, and even in the most difficult times, we deviated from this principle. You can't.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-18-m0.u72	Thank you, Nina Petrovna. You know, I'm always responsible for what I say. And so I think that the allegations that we have an unbalanced budget or that we don't have the minimum wage are inappropriate. With regard to budget deficits. You know, in the cycles of economic dynamics that we're in right now, it's imperative that we give economic incentives next year, including through the proposed budget deficit mechanism. I don't see any contradiction in this. So I think this deficit will allow us next year to ensure GDP growth rate of 4.6 percent. So I don't see any problem with that. With regard to the Tax Code. Along with the materials to the budget, the budget and I passed the draft amendments to the Tax Code, which includes the indexation of rates, which unfortunately has not been done in the last three years. If Parliament supports, we are prepared to justify the necessary increases at each bet. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-18-m0.u73	Thank you. The word is given to the national MP, Makarov Oleg Anatoliyovich, the faction of the political party "Golos".
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-18-m0.u74	Please give it to Olga Stefanishini.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-18-m0.u75	Please, Olga Stefanisin.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-18-m0.u76	Mr. Sergio, your budget project has already been called the "death budget," because there is neither a raise in the salaries of doctors nor sufficient funds for medical services and medicine. They came to Parliament today from all over Ukraine to tell you and us personally. I went and looked into these people's eyes today. They're people in wheelchairs, they're oncological, they're very small children, they're not going to have drugs next year, because the budget is not enough, and with this budget you're cutting the right to their lives, and you're also violating Ukrainian law, because from the state health budget you're planning to allocate only 3.5 percent of GDP, although by law they're going to be 5 percent. First of all, I want to say that the Voice faction will not vote in favour of this draft budget. And very much ask you to review these figures for medical next year and prioritize medicine and medical services, as President Zelensky has promised. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-18-m0.u77	Ladies and gentlemen, you have prepared very well for this draft budget. Thank you for the material. We have something to answer. We think that the fears that you're spreading right now are completely worthless and unenforced. Because we think that the cost is more than enough to ensure the purchase of medicines. I'm explaining. This year there are 9.5 billion dollars, and the next year there are 9.5 billion dollars. And that's because we still have a receivable of 3.5 billion dollars over the past few years. Let's see. I have to tell you, you know that very well, so you're trying to discuss it this way. No questions asked. I can prove to you, on each of these specific examples, that your arguments are worthless. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-18-m0.u78	Thank you. The word is given to the national deputy of Gončarenko Alexiyyovich, the faction of the political party "European Solidarity".
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-18-m0.u79	Alexei Hotcharenko, European Solidarity. It's about how our officials keep their word. We all remember, the first Green government promised to increase by 40 percent of GDP -- we have a minus. Zelensky’s second government promised 500,000 jobs. Gentlemen, where are 500,000 jobs except for a few new ministries you've created? So now that you're betting 4.6 GDP growth, it looks funny next year. But of course, I think you, as always, think that at the end of next year, there will be other government officials, some friction or a fourth government, and you won't have to answer anymore. I have another question for you. The deficit is enormous. In the most difficult military 2015, we had a budget deficit of 70 billion dollars or 3.8 percent of GDP. You're offering us 270 billion dollars or 6 percent of GDP. Well, it's a disaster. How are you going to finance this budget deficit? Once again, this is $10 billion in additional loans on the shoulders of Ukrainians and their descendants to their great-grandchildren? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-18-m0.u80	Thank you for asking. If possible, show the latest slide of the presentation, which clearly shows what the sources of funding for the government budget deficit are. We managed to finance the budget deficit this year, and there's good reason to believe that we're also going to fund it next year. So please don't worry, we'll be fine with the budget deficit. But to reduce the deficit from the current 7.5 percent of GDP to 3 percent, as you suggest, is a crime against the state and against the economy. And we can't afford to commit such a crime.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-18-m0.u81	Thank you. The word is given to the national deputy of Tzabal Volodymyr Vladimir Vladimirovich, faction of the political party "Golos".
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-18-m0.u82	Please give Vasilchenko Galin.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-18-m0.u83	Galina Vasilchenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-18-m0.u84	Galina Vasilchenko, Voice faction. Dear Minister, please tell me that your draft budget has raised the minimum wage to 6,500 dollars. On what basis did such calculations come about? Because it's a real manipulation, because that's how microbusiness taxes go up, especially for the second group of FOPs. You've seen well how during this week there have been major protests here in Kiev, and in other cities in Ukraine, they've been going out for a year in protest. By raising the minimum wage to this level next year, the cost per employee will be increased by over 2,000 dollars. Do you want to just destroy the microbusiness in this way? What is your goal? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-18-m0.u85	You know, my goal is to make everything fair. If you are in business, you have to pay taxes and a decent salary to your employees, pay the VAT, the EU. Because the only social contribution is not for the Ministry of Finance, it's for pension payments. The current deficit of the Pension Fund is projected at 204 billion dollars for the following year. What do you propose to say to the pensioners? On the basis of the minimum wage. There are very clear calculations and very clear figures. This is the ratio between the minimum wage and the average wage. In Ukraine, this figure is now 45 percent. Next year we plan to raise it to 48 percent. For example. The neighbouring country of Poland has this percentage of 54 percent, France 63 percent, Turkey 72 percent. So this is a co-dimensional condition, we have to go to this, not restrict Ukrainian citizens to these possibilities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-18-m0.u86	The word is given to the national deputy Kucherenk Alexi Yuriovich, the faction of the political party of the All-Ukrainian Union of Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-18-m0.u87	Please pass the word to Ivan Grigorovitch Kirilenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-18-m0.u88	Ivan Grigorovich Kirilenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-18-m0.u89	Dear Mr. Minister! Unfortunately, I support colleagues who do not share optimism. So we recommend that you just leave the rostrum, go to plan "B," read the world forecasts. World forecasts indicate that the decline of the world economy is more intense than during major depression. After a major depression for five years, they came out of the condition they were in. That's why we have the most vulnerable economy in the world -- raw, export-dependent, shrinking markets, we don't have that grain export, because no crops, no solar oil exports. Land the consumer! It's a wish. Go ahead and negotiate the cancellation of payments for external debts or even write-offs, the maximization of employment, because there will be no such landlords, there will be no such arrivals. And most importantly, go to the importification program. Look what's going on around the world. These are your jobs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-18-m0.u90	Thank you, Ivan Grigorovitch. I respect you, you really say the right things and the wise things. But there is a logic to economic processes. If we have a fall this year, next year we will have an increase. How would we have tried that? [[B in m in s a l in]] These are simple calculations. I want to say that in terms of our sectors that shape our economy. You know very well that in this year's pandemic, our main export sector is agrarian, it's almost damaged because there's a steady demand for food in the world. And that's why I don't see any problems why our agrarian sphere won't develop next year like other spheres. Thank you for your questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-18-m0.u91	Aresonkov Vladimir Yuriovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-18-m0.u92	Mr. Secretary, two questions. First. The budget provides for a fairly substantial reduction in funding for Ukrainian science, instead of 1.6 GDP -- almost 0.26, that's about 60 billion downs. That's a pretty important figure. And the second question. There has been a decision of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine since December 18th, which deals with the restoration of social benefits and guarantees for military personnel, Chernobyl, Afghans, and their social protection. There is a huge number of decisions made by European courts from human rights. We have a big government debt today in front of this category of citizens I've called. Please tell me the government is planning the budget for next year. How are we going to restore the social protection of this category of citizens? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-18-m0.u93	Thank you for asking. We conscientiously enforce laws, decisions of the Constitutional Court and other courts. Therefore, all the projected funds for payment to socially vulnerable categories will be provided. As far as science is concerned. The following year, 600 million dollars are foreseen for the research fund. For the purpose of supporting and conducting the best scientific units of the Academy of Sciences for the State of Scientific Research and supporting research by young scientists at the National Academy of Sciences, another 500 million dollars are included in the National Budget project. Also for other scientific expenditures, the total amount of these expenditures is 12 billion dollars, 20 percent more than in the 2020 budget.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-18-m0.u94	Thank you. Time. Nina Petrovna, time's up. I'm sorry. Thank you, Minister. The chairman of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the budget of Yuri Juryovich Aristov is invited to attend, with an order of up to 5 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-18-m0.u95	Dear Dmitry Alexanderovich, distinguished national MPs, distinguished Prime Minister and members of the government! The State Budget Bill for the year 2021 was submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers to the Supreme Council in due course, and today's submission of this document takes place in a legislative term. Yesterday at a meeting of the budget committee, the finance minister presented the main priorities of the budget project, followed by an active discussion on individual budgetary indicators. Today, the government is presenting a bill in the Supreme Council. According to article 154 of the Rules, the Committee on Budgetary Questions should provide members with information on the compatibility of the draft requirements of the Budget Code. In carrying out this rule, the committee had previously examined the bill in a concise manner and had pointed to a number of problematic issues, as detailed in the committee's letter to the bill. Now, given the limited time, I want to pay attention to the following. First of all, it should be noted that this year, under the initiative of the government (Article 33 of the Budget Code) on the drafting and approval of the Budget Declaration, no application is made. As a result, there is currently no government medium-term budgeting document that should determine the principles of budgetary policy, the indicators of the budget for the next three years and be the basis for the budget for the year 2021. The draft budget is systematically linked to government bills in numbers 4100 and 4101 amending the Budget and Tax Codes. Therefore, in order to achieve the balance of government and local budgets and to harmonize legal standards, all three bills need to be mutually agreed. Next. The 2021 bill, as in this year, does not define the limits of guaranteed debt and the granting of State guarantees. At the same time, the government proposes to stop the relevant rules of the Budget Code. The absence of such restrictions can lead to an uncontrolled increase in debt, resulting in an increase in debt burden on the state budget in the coming years. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the draft budget does not reflect what state investment projects will be allocated to government capital investments. Such funds are only accumulating under the relevant Mineconomy program, and article 25 of the bill suggests that they be distributed by the Cabinet of Ministers. This is not in line with the rules of the Budget Code and should be corrected during the drafting of the bill. The bill also contains a number of other provisions that also provide for the distribution of individual expenditure according to the government’s decision. In other words, it is proposed to manage government funds manually without parliamentary control. This is unacceptable, and it also needs correction. It is still premature to give an overall assessment of the bill because a detailed analysis of all the indicators is needed. The Committee on Budgets has already begun its thorough work on the document. Our goal is to study the strategic objectives of implementing key reforms, based on the project budget indicators, and to ensure the efficient and rational use of budgetary resources. It should be noted that the Supreme Council Rules do not provide for a vote on the basis of the presentation of the State Budget project, so today only its preparation for the first reading begins. I would like to point out that the National Deputies and Committees have the opportunity not later than October 1st to submit their proposals to the Committee on Budget Affairs for the bill. In formulating these suggestions, the requirements of part of article 156 of the Rules must be respected, namely, that the proposals made should be balanced. That is, if it is proposed to increase spending or reduce budget revenues, there is a need to identify realistic sources to cover them. At the end of my speech, I invite people's deputies, factions, committees and government representatives to work together, constructively on the draft budget. Together, we have to ensure the adoption of the country's highest quality financial document for the following year. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-18-m0.u96	Thank you, Yuri Yuriovich. Ladies and gentlemen, please sign up from the MP factions and groups. Please sign in. Rudik Sergey Jaroslavovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-18-m0.u97	Please pass the word to Polakov.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-18-m0.u98	Polakov Anton Eduardoovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-18-m0.u99	Anton Polyakov, Montenegro, the parliamentary political party for the future. Today, Mr. Reznikov told us about the open hearts. I understand, of course, that in order to bring Donbas and Crimea back peacefully, Ukraine must flourish. But there are no government programs yet, and you're giving us a budget that we should vote for. How do you figure that out? What kind of strategy do we have where we're going? I'm looking at your budget. The President's and the President's Office's activities are increasing by 358 million dollars. What's that for, a viscosity or something? They're a billion too old? Then, the Supreme Council apparatus -- plus 244 million dollars. That we have already conquered the age of poverty? Everyone has achieved all that can be done, can we continue to raise expenses? Then, the Kabmin is plus 190 million dollars. You haven't even given us your normal programs yet, and you're asking for 200 million dollars. State administration is the Dusia, which is where our officials rest, plus 725 million dollars. Well, of course, this is a very, very important article on expenses. Henprocuror's office, plus almost 2 billion dollars. Where are the landings, where are the landings? I won't. What are you still spending $2 billion on? Instead, for the first time in many years, minus 123 million for the Ministry of Defense. I mean, we've already won the enemy, we don't have to fight him anymore. The Department of Veterans' Affairs is back on the downsizing. The infrastructure is downsizing. The Ministry of Energy is down by half a billion and so on. The subsidy is minus 2.7 billion dollars. This is how we help our pensioners, our Ukrainians, who live on minimum wages, on minimum pensions. You've raised the minimum and you've raised the pension by 72 bracelets? Is it because this percentage of victory was in Zelensky or something, or is it just the abuse of pensioners? Less than a living minimum is a minimum pension, in which country? And you're complaining! Guys, it's a total budget failure, it's a budget vote, it's going to be a poverty vote. So, frankly, we don't support this kind of budget. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-18-m0.u100	Thank you. The word is given to Jon’s Mary Nicholas. Potter Alexiyovich, faction of the European Solidarity political party.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-18-m0.u101	Thank you. Alexia Hotcharenko, European Solidarity. Dear friends, do you remember this ad, "Do you like my love?" You know, at last I'm looking at this draft budget, and finally Vladimir Zelensky's "Golden Age" begins. He looked forward to it and came to it. Look at the President, friends, citizens of Ukraine, while the subsidies are being taken away, the President of our people, who said that each of us is the President, plus a billion dollars. Plus a billion dollars, once again. This is the office of the President, the Dusia, this is his villa, this is his cruiser, these are his planes, this is all his service. You know, I want to tell you, this is probably the most expensive hot tub in the world where our president is, in the office of Andrews, where he works as president. Well, and of course, Andrew likes us very much, we see it in numbers. Well, of course, if you love yourself so much, you need to add to the force that will persecute opposition and cover up the corruption of your friends. And that's why the Attorney General's Office -- plus 2 billion dollars, the IMF -- plus billions of bracelets. And every article. The D.B.I., the State Bureau of Repression, against the opposition led by Janukovic's lawyer, friends, about two times the increase on him, two times the increase. So we give the muscle money to protect the warm tub of Zelensky and Zelensky himself, so that it's comfortable and comfortable for it to be all right. Who are we taking it from? We take subsidies, we take the Ministry of Defense, we take the infrastructure and we still don't care about the country, in principle, who's interested, and the people who get the grant, it's not for anyone. Look at what this budget is. And that's because it can't actually be done. We're told here by government officials that, you see, we're showing you on slides how we're going to close the budget deficit. How? You have one written on your slides: new loans. So we're all with you, friends, taking the money that we give to our children and grandchildren to fund the Greens office, its muscle. Well, it's a great scheme, it's just amazing. And this budget is offered to us by saying that this is such a right, such a good budget. It's a disaster, it's a disaster. I can tell you one thing is that the budget, really, is not that there's an end to the poverty era, it's the budget of the hammock age, the hammocks in relation to their own citizens to write that in the state budget. There's only one thing left to do, my friends. We're going to do this and we're going to fight this power to get them out of the government offices as soon as possible, like a corkscrew from a bottle. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-18-m0.u102	The word is given to the National Deputy to Black Viktor Ivanovich, the faction of the political party "The Opposition Platform for Life". Please, Coltunovich Alexander Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-18-m0.u103	Thank you, Your Honor, Ruslan Alexiovich. Honourable Members of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, Honourable National Deputies of Ukraine, Honourable Voters! When you and I take seriously the draft of the State Budget of Ukraine, we sometimes give him an estimate that it is a development budget, a budget for food. But in our view, this budget is the budget of financial speculators. And the main figure that we think is critical in this budget and in general in the country's financial sector is 702 billion dollars. 702 and a half billion dollars are additional loans to the income part of the budget. Who wants to know, look at Appendix 2 to the State Budget Act. That's 66 percent of the revenue part of the budget, or two thirds of that revenue. So we live seriously in debt. If we compare the previous budgets, for example, Groysman's budget, there was only one third in the income part of the budget. Now it's two-thirds. I realize that economic hardships remain much to inherit. But there are also negative results from today’s government. And that's why it has to be taken into account. That's why it's this time. 549 billion dollars is an internal loan, and that's an RBP. Today we were reminded of plugins and slides. We see that 550 billion dollars is actually financial speculation with domestic government bonds, which are made by everyone who wants to, but not by citizens of Ukraine. Let's move on. And then we have an important social aspect that's underfunded. This is about subsidies. Subsidies are reduced to 36.6 billion dollars. I say reduced because again, 2017-2018, when maximum tariffs were set, there was a need for subsidies for Ukrainian citizens for 71 billion dollars. So there's 70, there's 36.6 -- twice as much funding for subsidies. And this is for the least vulnerable population. This is not about the citizens who receive incomes, it is not about the members of the Supervisory Boards, and so on. It's about people who survive on minimum fixed income. So notice this number. I don't think we should miss it either. Because that means that either each other, or every first one, will reduce the amount of subsidies. I'm reminding you, we don't have reduced utilities. Well, keep going. As for minimum wage and so on. Pay attention to the minimum wage of 225 dollars. So for the first tariff place, that's exactly what you're counting from. You can write 5, 6, 7 and so on, but we're still going to be. First of all, we need to raise the minimum wage for the first tariff grade. Well, a number of other points that we think are inadequate are the increase in expenditure for executive authorities and others. In today’s conditions, c.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-18-m0.u104	Thank you, Alexander Sergiyovich. Dear colleagues, 12 o'clock, I'm calling a 30-minute recess. I'll see you at 12:30. Please don't be late for the hall. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-18-m0.u105	Dear colleagues, 12:30 a.m. We continue the meetings of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I give the floor to the national deputy of Ukraine, Mr. Getmantsev, Mr. Alexanderovich, the faction of the political party "Slut of the People". Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-18-m0.u106	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, let's face it, no budget has ever been applauded by the Supreme Council. There were always questions. But let's also be honest, it's so rare. The government faced a challenge: in the face of a crisis, a financial crisis, a coronary crisis, a financial plan for the next budget period. Perhaps the complexity of the task, the complexity of the task, and the number of questions from all fractions to the budget text. Expenses. Medicine. In the presentation of the Cabinet of Ministers, let's clean up the mathematical manipulation with an increase in medical spending by 57 percent, and we recognize that medical spending increases by only 0.1 GDP, which is 4.2 GDP, which is not enough to meet the 5 percent norm and not enough, according to the health minister, to carry out medical reform. We're not doing medical reform, are we not funding COVID? Let's be honest with people or give money for these expenses. Poverty. Only 2 percent, including inflation, increases the cost of living. I don't deny that right now we can't completely bring the actual subsistence minimum to the nominal. But let's give people a program where we can overcome poverty in two years, in three years. We don't see that from the government. Industrial support. Total cancellations to Export Credit Agency, Export Support Office. Where are specific programs other than passenger cars supported by the domestic industry? They're gone. Come on. You're proposing to increase taxes again under the tree of business. We promised humans not to do so, and we will not do so. Customs. Your import is increasing by 10.6 percent and your import VAT is only 9.5. Why? Where do you lose your income? You're not opposed to smuggling, are you? Childhood. Where is the money from childhood? Deficit. The deficit is increasing, let's be honest. From 62 to 63 percent, it is projected, to 64.5 by the end of this year. 208 billion you're targeting the OGC. You're re-establishing non-residents at a frenzied rate, or are you suggesting that Nazbank print money? Where are the sources? Where are the safeguards restrictions, as required by the Budget Code? But I'm sure we'll still make a normal budget, along with the Supreme Council and.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-18-m0.u107	Dear colleagues, the word is given to the national deputy Makarov Oleg Anatoliovich, the faction of the political party "Golos". Tzabal Volodymir, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-18-m0.u108	My dear colleagues, when I saw this budget, it was not clear at first what this budget was about. But the government, when they gave us these tracts, made a very good suggestion, it says here: a budget for development opportunities. So the government has honestly admitted that this is not a development budget, and this is a budget of some sort of primary development opportunities. And now, essentially. How can you estimate any budget? It can be evaluated in terms of whether he performs the tasks and the program that the authorities perform or not. And we don't have any programs, we can't properly assess this budget. If we think the government's priority is medical development, affordable medicine, reaching 5 percent of the GDP of medical expenditure, then it's a bad budget. If we think that the priority for Ukrainians is the President of Ukraine, the State Administration, it's a good budget, because there's a 33 percent increase in expenditures. We'll follow the points accordingly. Let's move on to deficit. When we were reviewing the budget through the coronavirus, the government told us that it was once we were increasing by so many deficits that there would be no more, just once, to fight the coronavirus. What do we see in this budget? We see the second year in a row of deficits, above 5 percent, was 7.5 percent -- now 6 percent. I remind all my colleagues that a 2 percent deficit is considered normal in developed countries of the world. And in a period of crisis, well, 4, well, 5 percent, but not 7 percent in a row. Moreover, the following year the government plans to grow, not crisis. I mean, we have a history of the following peaks. So one year, we have a couple of years of money, debt, and then the next government gives away. So this government decided that let's just get some future generations to pay off money so that in the 22nd-23rd year, sorry for the word, "remember" other people. Next: Budget income. You have noted that in this budget taxes on natural persons are substantially increasing: PDF at 26 percent? While all taxes from big business: excise duties, income taxes, are falling substantially. I mean, it's planned to finance these overexpenditures: the B.S.A., the D.B.I., the President's Office, which will be funded by ordinary Ukrainians. My colleagues, I'm sorry, but I don't think we can accept this kind of budget right now. We need to thoroughly review it for the first time in order for this budget to work for the Ukrainians, not for the big business, which is then for future generations not to give. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-18-m0.u109	The word is given to the National Deputy Nikolainek Andrija Ivanovich, a faction of the political party of the All-Ukrainian Union of Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-18-m0.u110	Good afternoon, colleagues! Nikolainka, the Motherland faction. You know, unfortunately, the government has already gone to look for the possibilities that he wrote in his tract about development. But it's already clear that it's an opportunity for the development of forces and power, and it's definitely not an opportunity for the development of Ukrainians, of the Ukrainian business, which enables them to live, to exist and, in most cases, to survive Ukrainian pensioners and all those who need help, who need the subsidy that this government has decided to reduce somehow. About what? He decided to grow up. We've already heard from you. And I'm pleased that a large number of speakers, including my colleagues from the "Serial of the People" faction and even the heads of the professional committees and the budgetary and our tax and banking committees, have pointed to the right and terrible things that Minfin put in this document. I'd call that government. This government, I said no, but this budget is Utopia. It's some sort of primal country that seems to want to build, a country of dirt that can't be built if you do what that government does. You and I didn't approve his program because what they called the program wasn't there. It's not a budget that relies on any actual calculation. If we're talking about development, if we're talking about a ministry that already exists at the head of vice-premier, in the development of strategic sectors, we've created 160 million dollars with you, and we haven't created an economic security office that will control the business at the top, a billion is already being set up, and we can't account for a tax militia that's now called the DFS, and we're increasing it to 2.5 billion. So what do we have? 3.5 billion rely on those who have to control and test the business, and 160 million on the created ministry, which, apart from those 100 cars, helps the Ukrainian industry to climb up and import. We've been told that we support exports. There was a minister of finance who said what we'd do, the agrarians would get us out and help us. How, then, will we help? If we look at the support of the APC, if we look at industrial support, then the export agency is zero. So we said we needed to create it. We are Parliament, we in this State under the Constitution have the right to define strategies. And there's a government that doesn't have a program that we don't trust that's going to come out of this room the day after tomorrow with the X's, they say there's no need to support exports. Fatherland won't vote for that. I urge you not to vote. Let them go and make a normal document. It's a disgrace and it's a utopia, we're not going to build a utopia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-18-m0.u111	National Deputy Bakunec Pavel Andriyovich, "Trust". Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-18-m0.u112	Dear Lord Chairman, dear colleagues! Paul Bakunets, the "Trust" MP. I will start with general things, because the budgetary process is defined both by the Constitution of Ukraine and by the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, our parliamentary procedure. And at the beginning, it's sad, but there's no whole government with a trustee, there's only a proper minister of profile when we're going through this important budgetary procedure. Of course, the budget for the year 2021 is being implemented in a timely manner, but it is regrettable that the government has not reached its end to hear all the comments from all the factions and groups in this room. But for our neighbors, your relatives, your roommates, it's not about the parliamentary procedure, it's really important for people to have those indicators directly in this country's main financial document, because depending on these figures, we're going to live with you next year. Well, first of all, it's a deficit. The government budget deficit for 2021 is already forecasting 270 billion dollars. While the budget deficit is excessive, it is at 6 percent of GDP, the government is still planning some extra expenditure, as it were, in the pockets. If this policy continues, it is likely that we are better off waiting for either new and new loans to the IMF, or an additional issue of bracelets that will lead to inflation. Unfortunately, the average population is not overemphasized by the social indicators that are most important to people. For example, the subsistence minimum for January of the following year will be only 2,000, 189 dollars. But this planned subsistence minimum is again set at a level much lower than the actual life of our population. After all, we realize that people cannot live and support families for 2,000 dollars a month. Subsidies. They also fall from 39 billion dollars to 36 billion dollars. Nor do we realize that next year people will find it easier to pay for gas? Regarding the salaries of teachers, a lower figure has also been set than is necessary. Except for the fact that the 2021 road schedule has been preserved, the cost of upgrading Ukrzalznice’s passenger cars has been set aside. This will benefit, I think, a few million of our people. But these aren't the main indicators. So it's hard to expect in today's conditions something super original from.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-18-m0.u113	Thank you. High-ranking colleagues, there's still an offer to enroll the national MPs in order to get everyone represented, and take six minutes to do so. A record is being made of the performances of the National Deputies. Please, National Deputy Zimbaluk Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-18-m0.u114	Mikhailo Cimbaluk, Fatherland. The honourable chairman of the national parliament, when he spoke of the draft budget for 2021, did one formal thing, that is, by September 15, the Cabinet of Ministers had submitted a draft budget. When it comes to figures and the ideology of this budget, the majority of those speaking have really united in one, and it is surprising that the draft budget criticises the majority. So the government that was hired by the Supreme Council went, as they say, another way. I'd like to focus on what they said about expenses. The President's Office and the State Administration of Affairs – also a separate term of benefits, the Attorney General's Office – pluses, other powers – pluses. Where are the minuses? Almost 3 billion is a minus subsidy. I'm sorry, I'd like to ask the government, but how citizens' incomes and categories have increased, and what if we have benefits and subsidies. And it was very important that the head of one of the committees said that the main component of social assistance payments is the minimum of living. Sad to say, this government has not adopted the Consumer Cart Regulation, which includes all the ingredients for the normal life of citizens. We don't know where these starting positions are, and why 2,200, and by the end of next year, 2400 living minimum, and whether or not a Ukrainian citizen gets a minimum pension of 1,700 dollars. By the way, this government is proposing to freeze the minimum pensions, to live and to exist in this state. We think we need to look at this starting figure at the minimum of living, because it's still a 7.2-inflation for the next year, work on the Supreme Council committees to ensure that the government takes all these proposals into account and that the draft budget becomes a reality.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-18-m0.u115	Thank you. Marikovsky Alexander Valeriyovich
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-18-m0.u116	Dear Chairman, distinguished national MPs! I would like to point out that exactly a year ago on this very day, we voted with you to hold a parliamentary hearing on the priorities of the Supreme Council for the next five years. As far as environmental policy is concerned. What we can say in the context of our budget is that at conservation, we are scheduled ten times as many times as we really need. I want to remind you what the problems are right now: Mariupol, Curve Rig, Zaporozhye. We understand the environmental problems that are there. If we finance health care and don't finance environmental prevention, what we want to get is more people who are sick. On the contrary, we need to finance the environment so that we do not get sick. Now it's about deforestation. We all realize that we need to increase green plantings, resist deforestation. This means that there is a need to increase the revenue, the allocation of the budget for conservation. And what do we do now, we're going to reduce it ten times again? The previous budget was reviewed: zero for security, now 10-15 times the necessary. Well, where are we going, what are we doing? Please, the government, fellow MPs, please ask the government to form a normal budget for environmental protection together. Where will we live, where will our children live tomorrow? In the same country! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-18-m0.u117	Ariev. Nina Petrovn Yuzanin.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-18-m0.u118	Dear colleagues, there's actually been a lot of talk about raising the minimum wage. Minister, would you please tell me some irony that raises the minimum wage? Business. He pays more taxes from this increased, economically unwarranted minimum wage, and you're also able to give the budget a higher minimum wage. And we're talking about the fact that we don't have an increase in fiscal pressure on business, well, it's completely inappropriate and cynical when it sounds like that. Secondly, I would like to point out to you all once again that there is absolutely no unacceptable programme of changes in terms of reducing fiscal burden. Don't you realize that the increase in the unemployment rate, and the increase in the minimum wage, the increase in the people who are going to get the salary in the shadows, it is. such a situation will arise. It's an incredible process that can't be stopped. So when you're planning expenses, right now I'd like us all to talk about revenue. Will even that trillion dollars of planned budget revenue be received into the budget? No, it won't, because now the economy is in such a state that you can't expect growth without additional incentives. There's no such thing as miracles, that's what everyone would do. But somehow all countries are now offering great opportunities, separate programs to boost the economy. The increase in the minimum wage will definitely not result. That's why I have a big remark. Even those bills that are now to be considered for bet indexing, be careful with them. Because if we hadn't raised a few years in a row, we didn't index the excise tax on beer, because three years ago the beer industry was on the verge of survival, it was no longer in Ukraine. And it was a restrained, correct fiscal policy that allowed this sector to be restored and jobs saved, and you know it. You have to think more about the production or the agricultural sector where there's a lot of employment. We talked to you about this once. Are there such special programs? There are cultures that are cultivated only by the work of people, not by technology. We didn't see that. So actually, the budget is very difficult. I'm not talking about the 702 billion dollars of loans to be returned to the country next year. So everyone needs to be focused so that we can now find a consolidated solution to the business stimulus package and then talk about everything.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-18-m0.u119	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the final word of the Minister of Finance is up to 3 minutes. And then we'll have very little time left. While the minister is coming, there is a proposal from the Committee on Education and Science to raise and consider 3 decrees, without discussion to vote. Is there no objection? Please, Sergey Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-18-m0.u120	Dear Chairman, distinguished national MPs! Thank you for your criticism. Thank you for your suggestions. We are happy to do with you all your wishes, suggestions, and criticism. We're ready for the dialogue, we're open. We understand that the document can be improved. And there are limits to perfection, there are limits. And we're ready to discuss this with you. But what I'm trying to say is, What the budget is, it is already realistic and balanced, it can be implemented. You can provide minimum wage, you can provide indexation, you can make investment programs and projects. In part of our priorities, we are ready to discuss. The main and key wish is to keep the balance, to keep it realistic. And we want him to. When you and I work on the budget project, we're ready to look constructively at any issue. Energy? Okay, ready to look at energy. Questions for Educators? All right, we're ready to deal with the education issues. These are all questions we are willing to discuss professionally, constructively with you. We don't have where or why we can't hide anything from you, we're completely open. So thank you for understanding. Ready for dialogue, ready to work on committees, subcommittees. Prepared to find support in the hall and vote on the draft budget in the following discussions. Because the budget project is not a government project, it's a project that we share with you. So I'm asking for a design, I'm asking for a dialogue, and thank you for understanding. Happy birthday.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-18-m0.u121	Thank you. Thank you, Sergey Mikhailovich. Dear colleagues, and I understand that everyone supports my offer, don't I? Great. I would like to vote on the proposal for adoption in the whole of the draft Decree on the application to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine for urgent measures to ensure a safe learning process and quality education under quarantine introduced in order to prevent the spread in Ukraine of acute respiratory disease COVID-19 caused by the coronavirus (registration number 4057). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[12:56:33]] For 274 Decision taken. I would like to vote on the proposal for adoption in the whole of the draft Decision on the application to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine for urgent measures to ensure a safe educational process under quarantine introduced in order to prevent the spread in Ukraine of acute respiratory disease COVID-19 caused by the coronavirus (registration number 4082). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. You have, you can read, Sergey Volodymyrovich. [[12:57:29]] For 277 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, I'm putting it to a vote, a proposal for the adoption of an entire draft Law on the Safety of Pedagogical Workers of General Secondary and Vocational (Professional and Technical) Education during the Coronavirus pandemic (registration No. 4108). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[12:58:13]] For 277 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, we have been very productive today. Let's move on to the request announcement.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-18-m0.u122	But we have two questions to ask the President, so they need a vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-18-m0.u123	Dear colleagues, two requests to the President of Ukraine, they need their approval by the Supreme Council of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-18-m0.u124	Thank you. Thus, honourable national MPs view the open-ended roll-call vote in support of Vladimir Timothychuk’s request to the President of Ukraine for an improper conduct of a pretrial investigation. Please vote. [[12:59:12]] For-187 Decision taken. Thus, it is up to the President of Ukraine to vote on the decision to refer the previously supported request to the President of Ukraine. Please vote. We need 226 votes to support it. Please vote. [[12:59:40]] For a hundred and The decision is not taken. An open-ended roll call to President Anatoly Ostapenko of Ukraine for illegal land use. Please vote. [[13:00:16]] For 240 Thank you. To - 240. Decision taken. It is up to the previous vote to support this request to the President of Ukraine. Please vote. [[13:00:39]] For 242 Decision taken. Please show by factions. Thank you. The honourable colleagues received 118 parliamentary requests: 2 parliamentary requests to the President of Ukraine; 3 parliamentary requests to the authorities of the Supreme Council of Ukraine; 59 to the Cabinet of Ministers; 48 to the heads of other government bodies and local self-government bodies; and to the heads of enterprises, institutions and organizations located in Ukraine - 6 parliamentary requests. So the questions of the people's deputies are: Anatolia Ostapenka to the Attorney General regarding the illegal use of land. Anatolia Ostapenka to the Minister of Social Policy of Ukraine regarding the recipients of the pension according to the Ukrainian Law on Pensions for Special Credits to Ukraine. Anatolia Ostapenka to the Chief of Office of the President of Ukraine on the conclusions that have been drawn up before the President of Ukraine regarding the concerns about the awards of the Ukrainian state awards, the forfeiture of Ukraine's State awards, the renewal of Ukraine's rights to state awards, the issuance of duplicate awards or documents on awards. Maxim Dirdin to the Minister of Environmental Protection and Natural Resources of Ukraine to address the issue of the implementation of measures aimed at clearing the Sinucha River and so forth. Tetjana Grishenko to Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Health of Ukraine, on the issue of the acquisition of a linear accelerator for KNP "Zitomir district cancer dispenser". Alexander Kachura to the Attorney General for a comprehensive, thorough and impartial investigation into criminal conduct. Vitalia Bort to the Minister of Justice of Ukraine for the handling of complaints about the unlawful actions of private notaries of Constantine Necrylov and Victoria Mamatov (Swiddenko), which led to the raiding of citizens’ immovable property. Bogdan Thorochti to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Head of the State Agency for Road Traffic in Ukraine, on specific issues concerning the activities of the State Agency for Roads in Ukraine. Bogdan Thorochti to the head of the Ukrainian State Road Agency for Road Traffic. Bogdan Thorochti, head of the State Agency for Road Traffic in Ukraine, on the state of compliance with detection legislation. Bogdan Thorochti, head of Ukraine’s State Road Agency for the Prevention and Detection of Corruption in Ukraine’s State Road Agency and its Regional Units. Olga Saladuha to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the State Property Fund of Ukraine for speeding up the development of the draft Standard Agreement on State and Municipal Rentals and its further approval by KMU. Eugenia Bragara to the Kyiv Public Prosecutor's Office for the violations that are taking place around the Ukrainian State Enterprise. Bogdan Thorochti, head of Ukraine’s State Road Agency, on some issues regarding the functioning of Ukraine’s State Road Agency. Alexander Tkachenka and John Shinkarenko to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on the use of effective measures to secure the financing of the Wilkow City Hospital. Alexander Tkachenka and John Shinkarenk to the Ministry of Justice of Ukraine on the need to take effective action to give the participant the fighting Igor Karkuszka guaranteed by the state free legal aid. Alexander Tkachenka and John Shinkarenko to the Attorney General’s Office for the violation of reasonable terms of criminal investigation. Robert Gorvato to the head of the Ukrainian State Tax Service on the implementation of Law No.2360-VIII and the development of the production of terraforming wines and natural copper. Igor Negulewski to the head of the Mikolai district government to provide information on functional children's homes and family-type children's homes, the number of orphans, adopted children and children deprived of parental care in the Mikolaiiv region as of September 1, 2020. Groups of National Deputies (Tistics, Dmitri and others) to the head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Legal Protection, the Attorney-General on Ineffective Judicial Investigation in the case of the ex-Head of the Lviv District Administration of Marcian Malski. Michael Zimbaluka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the appeal of the Lviv Regional Education and Science Association of Ukrainian Education Workers for the need to guarantee the State protection of educational, scientific and pedagogical and other educational institutions that carry out and provide education in the context of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine quarantine in connection with acute respiratory disease COVID-19 caused by the coronavirus. Marijana Bezugola to the Kiev City Head about providing information on making changes to the legal form of the KMDA. Sergia Mandiya to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the need for allocations from the State budget of Ukraine of funds to carry out a capital repair of the consultative and diagnostic clinic of the Polonian CRL, which is located in the Hmielni district. Sergia Mandiya to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the inclusion in the second phase of the National programme "Great Construction" of the project of reconstruction of the N-25 highway by the Town of Staracostantin between Slavuta and Shepetovka, 10 km long. Mr. Ruslana Knazević to the Attorney General on the violation of the legitimate interests of TV "NDP "Impact Group" by the Regional Level Commission of the General Directorate of DPS in Kiev. Alexia Hotcharenko to the Ukrainian Defence Minister for Information. Alexander Bakumov to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, Prime Minister of Ukraine, for the resolution of the issue of the numbering (calculation) of pensions to individual categories of citizens. Sergey Demchenka to the Minister of Justice of Ukraine for the protection of the rights and legitimate interests of owners of residential, non-residential premises: the city of Kiev, the Boulevard of the People's Friends, 14-16 and the execution of the judgment. Solomonia Bobrowski to the Acting Director of the State Bureau of Investigation for failure to execute a court decision by officials of the district office located in Poltavi. Igora Kolykhameva to the Prime Minister of Ukraine regarding the introduction of editorial clarifications to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Igor Kolykhameva to the head of the Herson district government regarding the measures taken by the administrations to create a free economic zone within the Hersonian region. John Shinkarenk and Alexander Tkachenka to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on the need for a comprehensive review of citizens' appeals to improper housing and utility services. Olga Saladuha to the Ministry of Education and Science of Ukraine about the provision of information. Sergey Demchenka to the Minister of Health of Ukraine on some of the issues of improving health care for the population and working conditions of health workers. Alexander Gerega to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the financial support of the UTOS. Mikhail Zimbaluka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the provision of heat to the inhabitants of the cities of Novoyavorysk and the New Division of the Lviv region in the heating season of the 20th, 21st years. Groups of National Deputies (Road, Novikov and others) to the temporary responsibility of the Head of State for the protection of constitutional rights for high-quality medical care of patients who are in the programme hemodialysis at the Nephrology and Efferent Therapy of the State Administration of Affairs. Michael Bondar to the head of the Bousky District Council of the Lviv Region, the head of the Brodov District Council of the Lviv Region, the head of the Sokal District Council of the Lviv Region, the head of the Radehiv District Council of the Lviv Region, the head of the Kamyanka-Buzka District Council of the Lviv Region on the list of cultural heritage objects of national and local importance that require restoration, repair and construction work from the current renovation. Galina Vasilchenko to the President of the National Academy of Agricultural Sciences of Ukraine for systematic non-information on parliamentary appeals. Sergia Soboljeva to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the critical state of the state-of-the-art "Berdian Maritime Trade Port" and the need for immediate action to prevent port bankruptcy. Olega Koljeva, head of the National Police of Ukraine on the natural market in Odessa on the street of the Academy of Sciences, 86. Sergey Larina to the head of the Ukrainian State Tax Service for the consideration of complaints by entrepreneurs and the unlawful actions of civil servants of the DPS in the Ternopil and Cherka oblasts. Paul Melnik to the Minister of Infrastructure of Ukraine, Head of the Road Service in Zaporozhye Region, Head of the State Agency for Road Traffic in Ukraine for the Capital Repair of the Road Area of Area OO-82086 (Jakimivka-Novodanilovka-Tavrijsko-Petrovka). Paul Melnik to the Minister of Infrastructure of Ukraine, Head of the Road Service in Zaporozhye Region, Head of the State Agency for Roads in Ukraine for Capital Repair of the T-04-01 Road Area (Tokmak Molochnsk - Melitopol). Paul Melnik to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the need for amendments to the relevant regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on the restoration of supplies of medicines to rural areas, particularly in the Primorski district of Zaporozhye. Paul Melnik to the Minister of Health of Ukraine, temporarily acting as head of the National Health Service of Ukraine, head of the Zaporozhye District State Administration, on the lack of funding for a secondary medical care link in the Mikhail region of Zaporozhye, particularly for providing complete sugar and non - sugar drugs in 2020. Vladimir Ivanov to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Finance of Ukraine, Minister of Health of Ukraine, for the installation of the South Center for Radiation Therapy on the basis of the Herson district cancer dispenser. Alexander Guerrega to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on discrimination against citizens' rights on the basis of their place of residence. Jury Pavlenko to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the use of measures to return 53 children and their parents to the Syrian camp in Al-Hol. Jurya Pavlenko to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on urgent measures to ensure that local authorities exercise their functions to respect and protect the rights of the child. Victor Medvedchuk and Vasil Nimchenk to the Attorney General on the verification of the facts of religious hostility, the humiliation of the religious feelings of Ukrainian believers by the State edition of Voice of Ukraine, its individual officials, and the involvement of the guilty in criminal responsibility. Victor Medvedchuk and Vasil Nimchenk to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the use of measures to prevent the inflammation by the State edition of the Voice of Ukraine of religious hostility and the publication of an apology to Ukrainian citizens of the Pochai Lavra, believers of the Ukrainian Orthodox Church for the humiliation of their religious feelings. The Nekludova and Vladimir Voronova, the Prime Minister of Ukraine, are in charge of addressing the problem of security for 2020-2021. The Nekludova and Vladimir Voronova, who are in charge of Prime Minister of Ukraine, are in charge of resolving the problem of housing for young pedagogical and pedagogical workers in need of improvement in living conditions, have established the general secondary education of the Manguš region of the Donetsk Region. Vladimir Timothychuk to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the acquisition of a solid boiler for the Supreme NVC of the Supreme District of Ivano-Frankiv Region. Alexander Kunicki to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the payment of debts on salary to employees of the Kharkiv State Aviation Company (Harkow Airbuilding Plant). Alexander Kunicko to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine regarding the illegal detention of a Ukrainian citizen in the Holy District Police Department, the threat of physical execution, psychological violence and intimidation. Alexander Kunicko to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine on illegal restrictions on access to water objects in the territory of the Žuralova Hydropark of the Kyiv district of Kharkiv and systematic violations of legislation by T.O. "Contact Plus" and associated persons in carrying out activities in the territory of the Žuralovi water shelter. Sergey Eutuska to the Minister of Interior of Ukraine for the improper investigation of the intentional arson of the residence and the assassination of the head of the Kostopil Regional Council of the Plains Region, the head of the VO Party "Bakkoszczina" Tkakok S.M. Victor Mjalik to Minister of Interior of Ukraine, Prime Minister of Ukraine, Head of the National Police Department of the Plains Region, Attorney General, on the issue of quality health care for residents of the village of Udrick Dubrovick district of the Plains region. Marina Bardinau to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the definition (replacement) of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine as their representatives to the Competition Commission for the appointment of the Director of the State Bureau of Investigation. Marina Bardinau to the executive duty of the Poltava City Head to organize an exit commission to assess the emergency of the residence at the address: Poltava City, School Street, 4. Natalia Pippa to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the development and approval of the order of appointment and compensation for care. Natalia Pippa to the Minister for the Development of the Communities and Territories of Ukraine for the Restoration of Action The implementation of State architectural and building control. Igor Guza to the Minister of Health of Ukraine on the need to restore state support for transplanted patients. Igor Guza to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for refusing to eliminate the Olympic College of John Podubny as the only institution in Ukraine for Olympic education. Sergey Larina to the Prime Minister of Ukraine to consider addressing representatives of the public of the Alexandrian region of Kyrovograd as regards the poverty and social insecurity of citizens in conditions of market transformation of the economy. Alexander Aliksiyczuk to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the head of the Ravenna District Administration, the head of the Mliny Village Council of the Plains Region, the Authorized President of Ukraine with the rights of the child to immediately restore the right of children to education in the selected educational institution. Oksana Savchuk to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, head of the Ivano-Frankiv District Administration, head of the Supernatural Regional Government Administration, head of the Chief Administration of the Dergeokadastro in the Ivano-Frankiv region, Ivano-Frankiv District Centre of Hydrometeorology for the granting of the status of the mountain settlement of the Lancin township of the region of Ivano-Frankiv. Olega Kulinić to the Minister of Infrastructure of Ukraine, Prime Minister of Ukraine, Head of the State Agency for Roads of Ukraine for the provision of additional financing for the repair and maintenance of road roads for the general use of the local value of the Poltava region of 4 000 335 million dollars in addition to funding from the State budget of local budgets under budget programme 3131090 in 2021. Helen Copanczuk to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the use of measures from the construction of the 3rd and 4th Power Clouds of the Hmelnicka AES. Hanna Bondar to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the privatization of strategic state enterprises, institutions and institutions. Bogdan Torochthi to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the roadways of general use of state and local importance within the knowledge of district government administrations. Bogdan Torochti to the Director General of the Harkovovokal Municipal Enterprise on the quality of drinking water and other issues of KP "Harkovovokal". Bogdan Torochti to the Director of the Commune Company Zitomirwatercanal on the quality of drinking water and other issues of KP Zitomirwatercanal. Bogdan Torochti to the Director of the Communiversal Company, Colomiawater Channel, on the quality of drinking water and other issues of KP's Cologne Channel. Anatolia Kostuha to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for granting individual territories to the Zakartat region the status of resorts. Anatolya Kostuha to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for information on payments to citizens who live work (teaching) in the mountainous settlements of the Zakartat region. Solomonia Bobrovsky and Mikita Poturayev to the head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine regarding the allocation in the premises of the administrative buildings of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of a room for religious purposes. Igora Krivosheev to the head of the Zacarpathian District Attorney's Office on the legality of the production of the sand and gravel mixture in the territory of the village of Zaričovo Perecino district of Zakarpatsk. Igora Krivosheyeva to the head of the Zakarpatsky District Attorney’s Office for Criminal Conduct regarding the illegal possession of funds for the construction of a school in the village of Kwasi in the Zakarpatsk district. Romana Lozinski to the head of the Donetsk district public administration for the restoration of the pool in the town of Drzykowka Ulya Ovičinkova to the Minister of Defence of Ukraine, Director of the State Enterprise of Uzhgrad Military Forestry, on the ownership of the forest areas of the Uzhgrad Military Forest Company to pralis, quasipralis and natural forests. Anatolia Ostapenka to the head of the Cherka District Council, Director of the National Anticorruption Bureau of Ukraine, on corruption offences related to the illegal use of land. Sergey Ljowczina to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the threatening level of debt burden on the economy as a result of the increase in government debt. Ladies and gentlemen, these are all parliamentary inquiries. We'll probably ask everyone who wants to take part in the Miscellaneous to join the Supreme Hall to invite all the deputies to the Hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-18-m0.u125	The only thing I have is another announcement if you'll excuse me.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-18-m0.u126	Yes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-18-m0.u127	A statement was made in the name of the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Dmitry Alexanderovich Razumkova, from National Deputy Savechuk: "Please do not take my vote "for" into account during the consideration of the draft Ordinance on the appointment of the Supreme Council representatives to the board of directors of the Special Anti-Corruption Prosecutor's Office in connection with the apparent technical malfunction in the work of the Council-3 system and the incorrect work of the system buttons. Please include my voice "against" during the review of the draft Decision on the appointment of representatives of the Supreme Council of Ukraine as part of the commission to hold an administrative competition in the Specialised Anti-Corruption Prosecutor's Office." Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-18-m0.u128	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, please sign up for who wants to take part in the question of "Virgin." Please record. Please, let's start with the question "Crazy." And here comes Julia Grishin, the "Serve of the People" faction. Please, Mrs. Julia.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-18-m0.u129	Dear colleagues, dear Ukrainians! Today the draft State Budget of Ukraine was submitted to Parliament for consideration. Today, we listened to a report by the finance minister of Ukraine, listened to speeches by Ukrainian national deputies, and heard many critical moments. And, of course, as a representative of the Parliamentary Education, the representative of the Committee on Education, Science and Innovation, first of all, I drew attention to the State Budget figures that offer us funding for education and science. And I want to hear a couple of these here. The first is science. For scientific and scientific and technical activities of higher education institutions and scientific institutions, the project provides 820 million dollars. There are also 100 million dollars available to support the priorities of scientific research in higher education institutions. As for the support of talented youths. It's in the budget project -- that's good. There is funding for the Presidential Fund for education, science and sports of 500 million dollars. The development of higher education and vocational higher education is provided by funding, a development fund of 1 billion dollars. A total of 21 billion,900 million dollars are available for the training of staff by higher education institutions. In the preparation of personnel by higher education and vocational higher education institutions, it's 4.8 billion dollars. It is worth noting that the government has heard our proposals and that this State Budget project already envisions a new subsidy to local budgets for measures aimed at fighting COVID in general secondary education facilities totalling 1 billion dollars. That's good news. Because the government has pointed out that our educational institutions, which are managed and financed by the founders, i.e. the local authorities, are not being managed right now, lack of funding to ensure the safety of the learning process, to ensure the protection of our children, and therefore that 1 billion dollars has been allocated in addition to the new budget programme. That's just a few. description of only a few budget programmes. Am I satisfied with the amount of funding I personally receive? No, I'm not satisfied. And that's why I'm going to be preparing and advocating an increase in funding for the education system, first of all, in the wage increase for our students. They are to receive a decent salary, and we will stand for this proposal and this requirement to be foreseen in the state budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-18-m0.u130	Thank you. Michael Volintz, the "Fatherland" faction, is invited to the floor. Please, Mr. Mikhailo.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-18-m0.u131	Dear colleagues, dear Ukrainians! We started looking at the draft budget in Parliament today. We've seen here in the full cabinet of ministers led by the Prime Minister. I'm going to stand on one side right now, but it's very important. The coal industry is the fundamental foundation of all of Ukraine's industries. It's energy, it's fuel, it's chemical industry, it's coxochemical industry, it's metallurgy. This employment is not just hundreds of thousands of people but millions of people. But what is happening? The draft budget has a total of 4.5 billion dollars. It's just weird. This, in view of the fact that in previous years, money was also invested in the budget, and problems were accumulated over the years. To date, debt on wages is nearly 1 billion dollars. It is not hard to predict that if this happens, by the end of the year the debt will be 1 billion. Two billion dollars. To prevent such a disaster, I developed changes to the budget project for the current 20th year, and yesterday we discussed in Parliament. Surprisingly, the budget committee did not support this proposal, but it was promised that the Cabinet of Ministers was in the search, and that decisions would be found so that this debt would no longer increase and allocate funds from the budget. I thank the people's deputies as well as my colleagues from the Budget Committee for listening to the proposals I've been developing along with Michael Bondar and supporting the Fatherland faction, and 50 million dollars have been allocated to pay off the current payroll debt. But when we developed these proposals, the debt increased by another 10 million, taking into account the August month’s wages. And now the next. The humanitarian disaster that is now unfolding in Bloody Rose, which is being talked about worldwide. All the rights-based organizations of the world are now raising questions, global organizations: The International Labour Organization, the United Nations, all others, except our authorities, keep this topic quiet, our central media. Today 170 miners are underground. I've had a couple of calls from miners downstairs calling and talking, and notice why in Parliament we don't hear about it, why the media is silent and so on. I went to the miners and under my own guarantees, and after the talks with the representatives of the Ministry of Economics, I went to the miners today: send your full representatives to negotiate with employers.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-18-m0.u132	Thank you, Mr. Michael. Thank you. This is Dmitri Lubbott, the "Serve of the People" faction. Please, Mr. Dmitri.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-18-m0.u133	Dmitry Lybota, 177th District, Kharkish, "Serve of the People" faction. Today we were presented with a draft budget for Ukraine for 2021, so from this high-priority rostrum I am addressing Prime Minister Dennis Schmigal of Ukraine. I would like to point out that according to Part Five of the Final and Transitional Regulations of the Ukrainian Education Act, the founders of educational institutions have been recommended for five years to introduce the establishment of educational institutions in accordance with this law. So by September 2022, public education schools and educational complexes can function and receive state funding. At present, however, the U.S. and N.S.A. budget codes provide funding for the U.S.A. and N.S.A. only for 2020. Thus today, there is a situation in Ukraine that such a type of education facility, such as public education schools and NHCs, will be without funding in 2021. Taking this into account, I propose to amend part of the 50th Final and Transitional Regulations of the Ukrainian Budget Code, namely to establish that prior to the introduction of educational institutions in accordance with the requirements of the Ukrainian Education Act, their financial security is carried out in accordance with the order in force in 2020. A proper MP's address has already been sent to the Prime Minister on September 17th. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-18-m0.u134	Thank you, Mr. Dmitri. And we invite Mr. Michael Zimbaluk, the "Fatherland" faction. Please, Mr. Mikhailo.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-18-m0.u135	Thank you. Honorable Presidium, distinguished national MPs, distinguished listeners, television viewers! Mikhailo Cimbaluk, Fatherland. I'd like to focus today on two things. First. Ukraine is in the process of electing local councils. To this day, the Cabinet of Ministers has neither worked nor approved a list of the mandates of the newly created district councils. And I am addressing the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Ministry of Regional Policy, to immediately produce and approve a list of the mandates of the newly created district councils whose deputies have already begun their registration. And the second question that I wanted to focus on today throughout what my colleagues said about the draft budget. Indeed, the Cabinet of Ministers fulfilled its duty under current legislation and submitted a draft budget by September 15 for consideration by Parliament. Do these numbers primarily satisfy me as the first deputy head of the Committee of Social Policy to protect the rights of veterans? Of course not. When we talk about subsidies, the government is proposing in the budget for 2021 that only 2 billion 722 million be allocated to subsidies. Excuse me, has the purchasing power or the citizens' income increased? We warned that when the Act on Strengthening Government Powers to Review Subsidies was passed, we said that the law provided for the removal of a large number of citizens of subsidies, so the government reduced them to such a large amount. We're going to need a review of this particular control number. Next thing. When we talk about "whom have we reduced," the Ministry of Defense is minus, the Ministry of Veterans is minus. We think we need to review the numbers to finance the defense. And the second. How many veterans have we lost? No, it's not. They demand the support of the state. And to the end. The government, the previous governments, adopted the Consumer Basket Regulation in October 2016. In 2017 the Constitutional Court cancelled. To date, there is no consumer list.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-18-m0.u136	Thank you, Mr. Michael. And here comes Vladimir Aresonkov, a faction of the MPs' group "Trust." Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-18-m0.u137	Thank you. Dear presiding fellows! It's too bad Friday is so few of us again at the end of the day. This means that we will still have to work on the Rules. Nevertheless, I thank all who are. On a specific subject that I want to raise right now. Today, when the finance minister was sounding the 21st year budget, I asked him a simple question. There is a decision by the Constitutional Court in 2018 that required the full restoration of social benefits and guarantees for many categories of our citizens. They're veteran wars, they're labor, they're citizens who have suffered from an accident at the Chernobyl nuclear station, they're Afghans, they're military personnel and so on -- a large enough category and number of our citizens who have been suspended in their time. I didn't hear a specific answer. And unfortunately, I want to say that the draft budget for the following year does not practically provide for these costs. So our "Trust" MP insists that this issue now be addressed when the budget is formed. What is more, the Committee on Social Policy has raised this subject, but, as far as I know, today the issue of adopting a new state programme with a view to fully meeting the debt owed to Chernobyl is unfortunately not being addressed at the level of government. Clearly, then, we will demand its acceptance. Now on the subject of support for education and science. I also talked today about the catastrophic decline in the funding of our Ukrainian scientists. Of course, this is unacceptable. The ministers promised that this issue would be addressed. But I want to remind you that for this year, the Ukrainian government's action to raise salaries for educators was suspended: teachers, preschool workers, out-of-school institutions. We demand that specific measures be taken next year to increase the salaries of teachers, and that we have to deal with this imperfect formulation, means whether it's the minimum three wages, or whether it's the minimum wage, or whether it's the minimum wage. We have to make it clear to teachers and teachers that since the 21st year, they're going to have a substantial salary raise. Of course, it is extremely important to finance the health sector, namely, everything related to the social protection of our citizens. It's ours.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-18-m0.u138	Thank you, Mr. Volodymyr, for your performance. And here comes Alexander Bakumov, the "Serve of the People" faction. Please, Mr. Alexander.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-18-m0.u139	Good day, Your Honor, colleagues! I would like to inform you that a committee hearing on the activities of the State Bureau of Investigation took place yesterday at the Committee on Law Enforcement. Representatives of the judiciary, the Attorney General’s Office, other law enforcement authorities, and the scientific community of our State took part in this action. In addition to some of the positive points that were pointed out accordingly during the discussion, we found some gaps in the work of the State Bureau of Investigation. And I would like to inform you and highlight the need for the leadership of the State Bureau of Investigation to study and resolve these issues. First. This is the conduct and implementation of human resources policies of the State Bureau of Investigation, such as the holding of competitions. Orders and criteria should be more specific, and the publicity and publicity of all vacancies should be guaranteed. So far, there has not been a public board of control at the State Bureau of Investigation, so far since its inception. As a result, there is also an unformed Disciplinary Commission of the State Bureau of Investigation, and this issue needs to be addressed immediately. The results of the Committee’s recommendations on the subject of law enforcement have not yet been implemented today, and they too have had to be implemented. We've recorded that all the documents that are graphed under the DTC, which is unacceptable, and so the members of the committee, as well as the national MPs, have no opportunity to get to know a particular type of information. And finally. Transparency and openness in the activities of the State Bureau of Investigation must be guaranteed, which is not enough to date. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-18-m0.u140	Thank you, Mr. Alexander. Well, ladies and gentlemen, it's high time we asked the "Virgin" question. Please, Mr. Ruslan.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-18-m0.u141	Dear colleagues, I, you know, have been looking at this hall for a week now on Friday. I strongly believe that this may not be the right approach and not the rational use of time, state resources, budget resources, and just the attention of the viewers to be shown by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I'm very sorry that a maximum of 10 to 20 people's deputies find it necessary to listen to what the real problems are today and are coming out of their colleagues' mouths. So I just go to the caregivers who are here every Friday and then together, in a small company like this, wave a photographer to get a picture of them being in this place. After all, we need to think about and review the question of the "Variance" in the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Moreover, since I still have a little time, I would also like to make a statement about how much we national MPs have to live up to the requirements that we set out our own laws and how we will follow them ourselves. The main issue is the masked regime in the walls of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Honestly, I'm tired of repeating that we don't have a zone here that's free of COVID, and the national MPs are probably the largest percentage of people who got sick with the coronavirus, and unfortunately, we have a plus one other colleague who was confirmed by the COVID-19. So I'm still asking all the people's deputies who are in this room, or maybe they're going to hear this, let's still be examples of how we have to follow the sanitation requirements that we set ourselves and ourselves. So two questions are a question of looking at the "Victory" and the question of self-discipline. And the time has come to be a model of how the rule of law should be implemented in our country. Thank you, Helen Constantine.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-18-m0.u142	Thank you, Your Honor. The morning meeting of the Supreme Council is closed.
