ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-13-m0.u1	Good afternoon, dear fellows! Please prepare for registration. I realize that today some have not arrived or arrived in connection with traffic jams. But I hope that everyone will be in their jobs in the near future. Are you ready to register? Please register. [[10:19:02]] There are 317 Ukrainian national deputies registered in the hall. I now declare open the plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. In accordance with article 83 of the Constitution of Ukraine, part of the eighth article of article 19 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine regulations, we are holding an extraordinary plenary session today, requiring 150 national deputies of Ukraine. Dear colleagues, there have been statements from two factions replacing the performance, the Voice and the EU. Who will act? It's a slogan. Lozinski Roman Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-13-m0.u2	Dear colleagues, Ukrainians, three years ago, a decision was made on sanctions for Russian services, such as Odystic social networking such as "Contacts", "Odnoklasniki" and others, about 1.5 thousand legal and physical persons, who are the arms of the invader. One time and 14 hours is the time that remains until these Russian services, like Russian Kremlin weapons, are unlocked. One time and 13 hours is the time left for the Council of National Security and Defence to gather and President Vladimir Alexandrovich Zelenski signed this decree. What do these sanctions mean? These sanctions have reduced the use of Vkontacts, Oden classers, and other Kremlin weapons dozens of times. These sanctions not only block the social media, they block Mail.ru Which is a weapon that collects data about Ukrainians blocking the map of the Yandane, which at the time of Midan, when you and I were building barricades on Krestatika, they showed that the bridges on the left bank of Majdan were covered. It's the weapons of the invader that they wash their brains with which they form the zombie apocalypse in the Ukrainians, and these are the sociosmers that are the weapons that should be banned as long as Russia wages an open war against Ukraine, and even longer. Dear colleagues, a month ago, we were with you, the Voice faction, the faction of European Solidarity, Fatherland and the Servant of the People, and we registered the order to continue these sanctions. Today, we are collecting signatures for an extraordinary session with only one question: the continuation of sanctions on Russian occupation services, the closure of networks in Ukraine, such as the Vkontacts and the Educators, where brainwashing is still taking place, where the invader is still pursuing his rematching policy on both holidays and symbols and other issues that are the acquisition of the Russian world. These sanctions are necessary for the victory of Ukraine in war, these sanctions are necessary for us to win the information campaign that is currently under way. Therefore, honourable colleagues, one time and 13 hours is the time that remains for us, the Supreme Council, to accept this decision. One time and 13 hours is the time left for President Vladimir Aleksandrovitch Zelensky of Ukraine to sign this decree, which should continue these sanctions. Ukraine will win the war with Russia, today this is one of these steps. The sanctions against Russian networks, the arms of the invader, must be extended.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-13-m0.u3	Thank you. Another statement came from two factions replacing the performance. Timishenko Julia Volodymyrna.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-13-m0.u4	Dear colleagues, I welcome everyone in this room. But I would like to remind you that the main position of politics is not to follow double standards. And if we're meeting in the hall one more time today, including when we're about 50 to 60 centimeters away from each other, and we've gathered almost 400 people in this room, please tell us, and others in our country who want to work together, they can get together, they can make money for their families, can they do their job? And if Parliament were to do so, if quarantine were no longer available, and no one was obliged to do anything, would it be more honest for others to be able to gather themselves, work in masks, gloves, something else? But if this is how Parliament works and the country sits without money, it's not fair, it's double standards. But I wanted to tell you something else. There was a temporary commission of inquiry, and a temporary commission of inquiry had been placed on a full, perfectly worked-out commission, which in four years NAC Naftogaz had not counted 72 billion dollars into the state budget. 72 billion is as much as we expect from the International Monetary Fund this year. Do you understand the amount of money? And when we raised the question of inclusion in the agenda on a temporary commission of inquiry, not just taking 72 billion dollars, but immediate inclusion in the income part of this money, it was just a political shock for me when, frankly, I was used to the politics of eight MPs from the People's Service in this temporary commission of inquiry voted against the inclusion of 72 billion NACs in the agenda of the day's work. Can you please tell me why? Because the phone law works. Because they were called and told not to vote for it. And the interim commission of inquiry was unable to provide incomes of 72 billion dollars. So I would like to ask the faction of the Servants of the People, the President and the government that is present here to consider this issue immediately, to give their "ministers of the people" in the interim commission of inquiry the right to accept this issue and to count these revenues into the state budget, and to bring Cobolev and all of this to the criminal responsibility. Or we're working for the state -- or we're continuing corruption. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-13-m0.u5	Heroic glory! Thank you. Dear colleagues, today is the birthday of our colleague Nagornyak Sergey Volodymyrovich. Hello! [[Applause]] And we're moving to the agenda of today's session. Today, the Prime Minister of Ukraine Denis Anatoliyovich Schmigal and members of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine are present at the meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Hello. Dear colleagues, the list of issues that have been presented today by the Supreme Council of Ukraine, has been distributed to you. Let's move on to the first question of the agenda, this is the question of an hour of questions to the government. At the suggestion of the deputy factions and groups, members of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine today will answer questions about the state of the fight against the coronavirus, coronary disease, and government action to overcome the negative economic consequences caused by the coronavirus. If there is no objection, the next order for the "hour of questions to the government" is proposed. Denis Anatoliyovich Schmigall, Prime Minister of Ukraine, is given 20 minutes to speak. Next, one question from the MPs and the MPs. One minute to ask, two minutes to answer. The same question from the national MPs, by the same procedure. If there's no objection. Is there no objection? The Prime Minister of Ukraine, Denis Anatoliyovich Schmigal, is invited to attend. The timetable is up to 20 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-13-m0.u6	Dear Mr. Head of the Supreme Council, the honourable presidency, the distinguished national MPs, the Ukrainian-respected situation with the coronavirus and the world, and Ukraine remain complex. In the last century, 14 people died from the Coronavirus in Ukraine. In total, 439 people died, 23 of whom were medics. I offer to honor the memory of these people by a moment of silence that died from the Coronavirus both in Ukraine and in the world. Thank you. [[A Minute of Silence]] Thank you. So the pandemic is making adjustments to the policies of the countries of the world, and we are not an exception. That means we have to work twice as effectively with you. We must respond effectively to the coronary pandemic and continue to work on the reforms Ukraine and Ukraine had been awaiting for 28 years. Now, of course, one cannot separate from the other, and when planning changes, we must consider the issue of the pandemic. As to the situation in general, it's developing in a moderate scenario, so we're going now, thanks to quarantine, in the Polish scenario, it's much better than the pandemic scenario in other European countries. And we have graphs that show the evolution of the situation in Poland, Italy, Spain, France. Sadly, there has been no day today when the number of people who have recovered has exceeded the number of people who have become ill. Over the past period, 402 people have become sick, and the number is steadily decreasing, about 3 percent, 3.3 percent of the total number of patients. 343 people recovered. So somewhere we're already reaching that plateau and the peak that we talked about. In total, the number of patients in Ukraine is 16 thousand 425 for today. Today, we can sum up the government's steps that we've been doing over the past two months to effectively overcome the coronary crisis and its consequences. Of course, this process is still going on and we're not going to stop or stop. We have taken these steps, not without the legislative support of the national deputies, for which we thank you, for our fruitful cooperation. First. It's a quarantine issue. Let's go back a little bit and remember why the government introduced quarantine so quickly. The main task was to prevent the overload of our medical system. The second and most important question is the preparation of our medical system to fight the pandemic. This is the provision of HlV hospitals, the means of individual protection, these are the treatment protocols, the increase in the number of tests. Are we ready for 100 percent now, or are we ready to accept 100,000 COVID patients now? My honest answer is, are we tens of times better prepared? More than two months ago. As evidenced by this, our medical system is not overburdened by the sick. The data for today are as follows. They're in the readiness of 2,000 271 devices in the first row hospitals -- these are 240 designated hospitals -- of which 138 devices are active today, that's 6.1 percent of the quantity that's being prepared. 381 health care facilities are ready for a total of 33 000 669 beds for treatment of COVID-19. 26 000,301 beds in first - minute health care facilities, of which COVID - 3000,367, are occupied in other health - care facilities, 162 beds occupied by patients with coronary disease. In addition, another infrastructure has been developed, including sanitation. 8 airships of the IMF system are ready for aeromedical evacuation if necessary. This means that our hospitals today do not need to choose whom to treat. This means that thousands of lives have been saved, and this is certainly a merit of quarantine, and, of course, doctors, let us not forget that. Now we've started a quarantine reduction, and since May 11, we've introduced the first phase of the government's plan of action, just as we planned. We will be careful to monitor the dynamics of the sick so that we can understand clearly where we are going next. We will certainly move on to the model of adaptive quarantine, which we have already talked about, advertised and on which we are working and developing. The second question. This is exactly what was done by the authorities during the quarantine period to reduce the negative effect of the pandemic crisis is the medical and social spheres. A month ago, you and I adopted a budget for an extraordinary situation, we set up a fund to fight the coronavirus for 65 billion dollars. What's with the money? We have 20 billion dollars for pension reform, 6 billion dollars for funds to help the unemployed, including those who have lost their jobs in recent months, and 196,000 people who have officially registered on the market are only officially registered. Another 1.6 billion dollars is the help of families of natural persons entrepreneurs with children. In fact, for 2 billion dollars, various medical purchases were funded for hospitals, and the latest decision was to allocate 3.1 billion dollars to the Ministry of Health for additional hospital purchases and medical fees. Now I want to put the dots over the "and" for 300 percent that we promised our medics that are in the advanced fight against COVID-19. Last month, the government listed all the necessary funds in the region. Instead of providing doctors with supplements, some incomprehensible paper transfers, and the braking of processes began. Let's not let just a few areas pay off the corresponding allowances, the others don't. Today, payments are made in March, and payments for April are currently being made. All areas have the same conditions, instructions. I'm personally talking to the medics in the regions, and they're asking why they didn't check the profile department level? This is unacceptable in today’s conditions. From now on, it's a question of control. It was in control, and it is under the control of the President himself, the Prime Minister himself, the Minister of Health every day and every hour. Last week, Health Minister Maxime Stepan was commissioned to report to each hospital for 300 percent of the payments. Today the government plans to hear such a report, and the minister has actually collected the information by name. They have to form lists in each hospital and show who and how they received them. So we expect a report from the Ministry of Health. They also do a parallel follow-up check in Holdprac. We definitely don't want to be embarrassed by doctors. The third aspect of our discussion today is the economic policy of government and business aid. The logic of our actions now lies in the following. At first we're helping micro, small and medium-sized businesses, where the coronation hit the hardest. Cheap lending programs are already running in this direction. And we want all entrepreneurs to have access to the credit resource actually below zero percent. The second aspect of support is the partial payment of wages to those enterprises where workers had reduced their hours of work, that's what Western countries do, and what our government did by spending almost 5 billion dollars on this program. We've had 7,000 entrepreneurs in one week, and we're going to make the right reparations for them, and this program works. To refinance the loans at zero percent, with the repayment of the body's loan in this year absolutely real, the program works. An additional New Money program that will also work for the next few days. In parallel with small and medium-sized business support, we are planning a programme to support industry and export-oriented industries. There will also be a question of credit and localization, support for the Ukrainian manufacturer. What I'm saying is that for our government, supporting Ukrainian producers is a priority that will form the basis of an economic strategy for the coming years. We now have a number of pilot projects that will be the first step in creating special zones that will help us attract foreign investment and help create new industrial power in Ukraine. All these applications are also designed to save existing jobs. Of course, the crisis crown has had a negative impact on the labor market and we have to react. Since its inception, nearly 200,000 people have been unemployed. According to our projections, this year's unemployment rate is projected to rise sharply to 9.4 percent. In 2019 this figure was 8.2. So our goal is not only to save jobs, but also to create new jobs. We've talked about this before, and it's not an empty statement. At a government meeting today, the Ministry of Economics will also present a programme with a clear timetable where, when and what jobs will be created or created. Along with business support, the government continues the President's Big Construction programme. There is a clear understanding that public investment should become a catalyst for economic development. And we have invested more than 100 billion dollars in road farms alone. It is also very important that the Big Building program becomes part of our plan to create 500,000 jobs in Ukraine, directly in the area of road construction and transport infrastructure, we will create 154 thousand jobs in the same area, plus related industries and businesses. Another important question. There was a meeting yesterday with the Committee on Energy and Housing. The committee fully supported the decision of the government’s anti-crisis energy headquarters. I think that's an example of the work of power as the only team. Thank you to the National Deputies for the appropriate position that will allow us to get out of the energy crisis that our nation is in as soon as possible. The measures proposed and supported by the MPs will allow us to balance energy, taking into account both consumer interests and energy interests and the interests of entrepreneurs. And once again, what I've said is that this year, the price of electricity for the population is going to remain constant -- December 1st, 68 copies per kilowatt. The other one. The measures that we have proposed will allow us to stabilize our energy supply and not allow for bulwarks. Third. We preserve the safety of the atomic generation, the nuclear industry. Four. We provide the work of Ukrainian miners and Ukrainian energy workers working for the entire generation. Today's energy situation is really difficult: consumption fell by 9 percent in total, and we were forced to look at the balance that actually approved the anti-crisis headquarters and the relevant Supreme Council profile committee. So today, the question of stabilizing and fixing prices for the population remains critical this year, as I mentioned earlier, and what the government guarantees, as well as lowering prices for our industrial producers. And for today, we can talk absolutely openly and firmly about the price being lower than it was last year for industrial private consumers. There are corresponding graphs, there are Eurostat statistics where Ukraine, at the price of electricity for the population, is the last place among European countries. The price for manufactured consumers is the fifth one down among European countries. In fact, the government, apart from the measures I've been making, is also the anti-crisis plan, i.e. implementation of anti-crisis measures on energy, there is an anti-crisis plan for small, medium-sized businesses, which we have developed together with the Economic Development Council and with the professional committees, together with the individual heads of the relevant profiling committees. And this is a complex action that involves a variety of sectors and the direction of small and medium-sized business, including creative industries. And thank you to the National Deputies, the Committees, the Heads of Committees, who are directly involved and deeply involved in the development of these measures, which are really important and will produce their results for the economy of Ukraine and for the small, medium-sized business this year. A separate anti-crisis plan is for industry to support export potential. A separate major plan of anti-crisis measures to support the agrosector in Ukraine has also been developed. Today we are working on developing further steps to exit quarantine and to move to an adaptive model. May 22 is a quarantine date. It will be continued, but with a gradual transition to, in fact, an adaptive model, when we continue to mitigate, depending on the development of the situation, quarantine measures against the epidemic, but we will be transferring more and more authority to local self - government authorities to localize the disease where it occurs. Because the problem of coronary disease is already different in various areas of Ukraine, and it may be inappropriate to make the whole country’s lokdown in June or July months. At this point, we're going to go completely to an adaptive quarantine model. And so this model, once again, is going to predict the location of the disease at the point of the outbreak or at the point of origin. The issue raised by carriers today regarding suburban and intercity transportation remains in this regard. Unfortunately, subways and intercity or suburban transports contribute to the extremely rapid and widespread spread of the disease and the epidemic in the country as a whole and make it impossible to locate them by means of adaptive quarantine. So only from the third stage will we be able to afford, not the second stage, we will be able to implement, under certain rules, with certain maintenance of sanitary, hygienic, epidemiological discipline and behavior, we will be able to restore the work of suburban transport, further intercity transport, further metro. Now this will definitely lead to an explosion that will bring the country back, to the start of a quarantine that we've been fighting since March of the month, which has led to the downturn that we have in the economy today, and to the crises that we're going to be dealing with throughout the year. In fact, today, when we talk about other measures that we have -- this is the work of checkpoints, the work of the police -- the report on these things is also there. Using the funds allocated, I already actually said where they were going. We supported our pensioners, paid 500 dollars to all pensioners 80 plus years, paid 1,000 dollars to all pensioners whose salary is less than 5,000 dollars. Indexed in May months, retirees will receive an increase of 11 percent, all pensioners, as of May. It's also an important economic step that needs to be taken, on the one hand, economics and consumption, on the other hand, to support pensioners who need more support today than ever before in order to buy medicines, products. And this is our social and moral responsibility to the older generation. Regarding the continuation of our work. I've already talked about 500,000 jobs. Since March 12, 197,000 registered unemployed people have been officially registered. The total number of registered persons who received unemployment status at 12.05 was 486,000 764 yesterday. But virtually every week, this number is increasing and people are actively registering as unemployed. Thanks to our cooperation with you, we have made changes to legislation, and people have been given the opportunity to receive unemployment assistance since the first day of our unemployment registration. So you don't have to wait 3 weeks or 3 months on any grounds, freeing them at your own request or at the consent of the parties. A person comes in, registers in the center of employment. By the way, we can do this remotely. The program also allows this, so today the software complexes allow it to do so. And one begins to receive help from the first day of the jobless registration. When it comes to creating conditions for increased employment. I've already said that building roads, building bridges, building large buildings are just the kind of directions that allow us to create a lot of jobs. Another area is the area of well-being, the development of agriculture, the return of jobs in small and micro-enterprises. Today, this programme will be presented by the Minister of Economy at a government meeting. And we'll show you a detailed analysis of where people can find a job for themselves. It's just for today and the number of unemployed, 486,000, as I said, who need a job and will be able to find it in our country. Thank you for your attention. I've got all my reports. And I'm ready to answer the questions if they are. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-13-m0.u7	Thank you, Dennis Anatolyovich. Dear colleagues, please sign up for questions from MPs and groups. Ivchenko Vadim Evgenovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-13-m0.u8	Please pass the word to John Krulk.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-13-m0.u9	Again, Krulke? Ivanovich Krulko.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-13-m0.u10	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. Mr. Prime Minister, we have a question for you regarding the Ukrainian medics. Question of the next character. It was promised by the government, and Parliament voted in favour of 300 percent of the medical pay to their salaries. Question of the next character. First. What is the specific number of these supplements that will be paid to the medical community at last, since no cash has been paid so far? And one more question. Why pay for April alone? We demand that medical supplements be in March and 300 percent in April 2020. Answer specifically, when will the medics receive their payments? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-13-m0.u11	I have already reported this in my introductory account. 905 million dollars were listed by the government of the March month subsidy, from which a payment of 300 percent was to be made to medical personnel in March. Today, the government’s minister of health has been instructed to report March months to all hospitals where they were chronically ill in March. So in March of the month today, information is collected, and there is statistics that all payments are made. But I personally control this issue, and I'm not leaving it until in March every doctor who's going to get 300 percent gets 300 percent. As for April of the month. Today, contracts of municipal nonprofit institutions, such as medical institutions in Ukraine today, are being signed with the National Health Service in Ukraine. It's been signed virtually 45 percent of the contracts for today, yesterday and today, we're running this stat. The Ministry of Health and Public Administration are also tasked with controlling the signing of all contracts as soon as possible by the end of this week. According to the first signed contracts, payments will go to appropriate medical facilities today. The package for the treatment of coronarys provides for an automatic payment of 300 percent to the wages, not to the salaries, to the wages of medical professionals struggling with the disease. So the month of April will be paid automatically through the NHRI package. March we control every facility and we keep it under control, and the President, and I personally. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-13-m0.u12	Thank you. Vasilevska-Smagluk Olga Mikhailovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-13-m0.u13	Dear Mr. Prime Minister, the government budget deficit is almost $300 billion. We were counting on this money to cover the IMF loan. But at the moment, it's just that they're giving us $1.5 billion. Where are we going to get another $8.5 billion? And would you please point out, specifically, who from the International Monetary Fund, with the name, the name, according to his father, said that we had to approve amendments to the land bill, as well as the Banks and Banking Act, in order to obtain this loan? And Galina Yanchenko wants to add her question.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-13-m0.u14	Good afternoon! If you don't mind, I'd like to draw your attention to the problem of public transport first. In your report, you said that public transport would be opened from the third stage. Such statements are easy to make to an official who uses a car and a service driver, but in a very different situation there are millions of Ukrainian citizens who own small businesses who cannot provide their employees with access to jobs, and so are the same workers who.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-13-m0.u15	As far as the IMF is concerned. Thus, the IMF negotiations are held at the level of the President, the Prime Minister and the relevant ministries with the IMF leader, Mrs. Crystalina, and accordingly with the heads of the respective departments. The negotiations are not easy, you know, they're about big money for Ukraine, and more in times of crisis. It's about mutual trust. And today we are at a stage close to signing a memorandum and getting the first tranche, just as it was agreed that it would enable us to avoid financial problems. So we hope that by the end of May we will have signed documents and received the first tranche of funds, as agreed. The IMF. Regarding public transportation. I've already shown you the graph today. It's a very simple answer. The situation in Ukraine, Poland, Italy, Spain, and France Here we are, down here, and these are peak disease graphs, when the medical system fell and failed, and the doctors were forced to decide who to save lives and who didn't. So it's not very easy for an official to make decisions about 20-30, about tens of thousands of lives. And I suggest that we not speculate politically on these issues, but clearly and responsibly approach quarantine. There are no other mechanisms in place in the world today. Until the drugs are found, we are forced to enter and quarantine according to the proper rules. I repeat, this is a question of saving lives and health.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-13-m0.u16	Pavlenko Rostislav Mikolajovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-13-m0.u17	Please pass the word to Alexia Potter.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-13-m0.u18	Alexei Hotcharenko, European Solidarity. As we have learned from the British Embassy, Ukraine restricts the right of Ukrainian employees to leave abroad, primarily by means of an airline. Have you, Mr. Schmigal, read article 33 of the Constitution of Ukraine, which guarantees Ukrainians the right to free movement? Please remember, Mr. Schmigal, and please tell Mr. Zelenski that, although we are ladies, the Ukrainians are not strong. Please comment. That's the first question. And the second question. Yesterday, it was reported that the Ministry of Public Health’s Public Health Center in Ukraine had denied hundreds of thousands of tests that the government had purchased from a private company. I quote, "taking into account the results of the verification, the use of such a test system cannot be carried out in health care facilities for the etiological diagnosis of COVID-19." How much money has been spent, and who will be responsible? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-13-m0.u19	As far as getting out is concerned, it's a fairy tale and a lie. No restrictions were imposed by the government. Today, there are negotiations with European governments about if our people are being invited to work in European countries to do jobs, so it has to be official work, it has to be medical guarantees, it has to be a guarantee that people get back here, it has to be a guarantee of their normal working conditions and living there at the official level. For the first time, we have been able to hold a dialogue on equal terms to protect the interests of our people in European countries. And today, the companies that invite our people to work there are totally following these conditions. It's just about taking care of our citizens. In addition, what's important is what we're saying, if today people are going to work in Europe, it shouldn't be a two-week tour there, import-export of the coronavirus. We haven't held the country for two months, and all of Europe keeps its countries closed to bring in 100 to 200,000 infected people every two weeks and constantly fight and crash the country's economy. So the important question is to guarantee our people decent working conditions in Europe. This is the first thing the government is fighting for. And the second is to ensure the security of the country inside, of those people who live and work here, to take import-export coronavirus from other countries where there are outbreaks. As for the second question, let's prepare the information. I don't know what you're talking about. I think it's also a fairy tale. Let's get the information ready and put it in the media field.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-13-m0.u20	Sukhov Alexander Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-13-m0.u21	Please pass the word to Oleg Kulinich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-13-m0.u22	Good afternoon, dear colleagues. Oleg Kulinich, trust MP. Mr. Prime Minister, on April 8, the government was created by the Economic Development Council, where they entered, apart from government officials, leading experts, experts, national deputies. So is there any work that the Economic Development Council has done to overcome the global economic crisis to overcome the Coronavirus pandemic? And what concrete steps does the government plan to take in the near future to deal with the effects of the Coronavirus pandemic, to deal with the consequences of the global economic crisis? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-13-m0.u23	Thank you for asking. This is about 10 percent of the work of the Economic Development Board. There's, I've already announced, an anti-crisis plan for small, medium-sized businesses, an anti-crisis initiative plan to support industry, to support agrisectors, to get out of the energy crisis. And these are, once again, the percentages of 10 of the work that there is. We're doing think-tanks, we're engaging all the scientific institutions. We are grateful for the active position of the MPs, the deputies, and the committees who are directly involved in the preparation of anti - crisis materials. Here, indeed, is the consolidation of all the efforts of all who want to help get Ukraine out of economic and coronary crisis. Thank you for asking.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-13-m0.u24	Thank you. Kucher Mikola Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-13-m0.u25	Please pass the word to Taras Batenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-13-m0.u26	Batenko Taras Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-13-m0.u27	Good afternoon. Dear friends, dear colleagues! We actually didn't hear anything from the Prime Minister's mouth today about the state, the energy situation, the energy situation -- the situation where nuclear reactors stop. And despite the fact that we understand that the Prime Minister is actually today carrying out the undiscovered lobbying of a monopolist in the field of energy, he is constantly grateful to the Ukrainian National Deputies. So in the context of giving thanks to the Ukrainian National Deputies, Mr. Prime Minister, do you have an informal meeting last year between the members of the Energy Committee of the Supreme Council and the management of the DTC? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-13-m0.u28	It's a lie, it wasn't, it couldn't have been. That's the first one. The other one. Lies about any lobbyism, we maintain the interests of the state. You saw yesterday's support for the profile energy committee of the anti-crisis plan, developed by the government's anti-crisis headquarters, which includes all representatives of the energy and energy sectors of Ukraine. There's an anti-crisis status, there's a completely dynamic of the prices and dynamics of the current energy situation. First. We have a stay in hydropower during the dry winter and spring when there is a shortage of water to balance hydropower in the energy market. Atomic energy is now fully filling the amount of power that can be filled in the base base. Appropriately, about 6 megawatts of renewable energy sources were added. We are negotiating today with owners and managers of renewable energy companies about the cost of this renewable energy. It's about Energoatum's work. Again, the decline in total consumption in Ukraine was 9 percent, which means that the generation was to be lost in general. We've made a balance in such a way that the loss of Energoatum is minimal and no block shut-offs that don't need planned repairs are happening. Today, those blocks that are put out for repairs are quickly moved from autumn to spring. Other exclusions and threats to the work of the nuclear energy sector in Ukraine are neither visible nor present. It is important to balance the atomic generation, not to be a waste, but to be able to earn.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-13-m0.u29	Thank you, Dennis Anatolyovich. Clemensa Julia Leonidivna.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-13-m0.u30	Good afternoon! Good afternoon, Mr. Prime Minister! I would like to point out that Parliament, on its part, has done much to make the government work effectively for two months to combat the coronavirus. 65 billion, 300 percent to doctors, part-time unemployment, and much more. Sadly, in two months virtually nothing was done. Two months later, we're in the same state that we were in two months ago. In this regard, I have one, more faithfully, two questions. First. How much longer do you need to prepare the hospital, and they were ready for the coronavirus? Also, when will the air- and rail connections and kindergartens open, transportation? Because people can't work. If you care about a small, medium-sized business, it can't work if there's no public transportation, no kindergartens. People don't go to work, they don't have anyone to leave, and they have no way to get to work, and for 300 bucks a cab, they're definitely not gonna make it. Please tell me how much more time it takes to figure out how we're going to be.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-13-m0.u31	An up-to-date issue that concerns our entire society today. I absolutely support your concern. First. Today, no one in Europe or in the world plans for more than 100 days. And to answer how the pandemic will develop, how the disease situation will develop, how no one in the world can die. So today we're seeing and doing a retrospective analysis and the right projections for short terms. We see that the situation in Ukraine today is not reversed, I have already said. The number of people who recovered did not exceed the number of people who were sick in Ukraine for a day. We're still growing. So today it is impossible and impossible to talk about how we overcame the coronavirus in Ukraine. We realized that we got to the plateau of the so-called, peak and plateau when there's an equal amount of disease every day. And then, of course, depending on the situation, whether the number of patients will decrease and the number of patients will increase, we'll be able to speed up the steps that are being heard when quarantined, the reduction of quarantine measures. Until that happens, it's impossible to say, because it's going to continue to peak growth, and we're going to get Italy, Spain. I'm not scared right now, that's the truth that all of Europe lives with and the world lives with. Regarding the preparation of the medical system, he has already sounded. A clear ministry and medical system are now being prepared for the first, second, and third waves. The first-wave clinics are 240 medical facilities, where there are 2,000 270 artificial lung ventilation devices. Today, six percent of those involved, today we have enough beds. And that's important, because we understand today, there are boards that show the fullness of hospitals: first, personnel, equipment, personal protection. We're not ready today as we were two months ago, or we weren't ready two months ago, we need to speak the truth and be honest. So that's the answer to your question that happened in two months: both the costs are allocated, and the human factor, and the time factor. Absolutely.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-13-m0.u32	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, please sign up for a question to the Prime Minister. Questions from the National Deputies. Bondarev Constantine Anatolyevich. Julia Volodymyrna Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-13-m0.u33	Dear Mr. Prime Minister, you know that a temporary commission of inquiry has been formed that deals with corruption over non-calculation of funds into the budget. And during the work of the interim commission of inquiry, it was discovered that the documents handed over to us that NAC Naftogaz had not paid 72 billion dollars to the state budget in four years. You wanted to check it out and do a public audit there, but then you canceled it. And plus on the interim commission of inquiry, eight deputies from the People's Servant voted against investigating the case. Tell me, what are you going to do with it? Because 72 billion dollars is just as much as we expect from the International Monetary Fund. How are you going to take the money away from the corruption structure?
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-13-m0.u34	Last week, at a government meeting, Naftogazu, the head of Naftogazu reported on the company's profits, the funds received from Gazprom, and gave a full report on Naftogazu's economic activity last year. If the interim commission of inquiry has the relevant documents, please refer them to the law enforcement authorities for a thorough investigation in the criminal area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-13-m0.u35	Pippa Natalia Romanovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-13-m0.u36	Stefaniz's Olga, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-13-m0.u37	Stephanie Olga Anatolyevna.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-13-m0.u38	Good afternoon! I want to tell you that you've talked a lot about protecting doctors here. There's a very simple way to protect the doctor from the Coronavirus, which is called the "medical protection suit." I want to tell you that your Ministry of Health in the face of Mr. Maxime Costume, uh, Stepanova, bought costumes on April 17 twice as much as the market price. And, you know, these suits are supposed to come on May 1st, but they're not there yet. Today, the Ministry of Health has 35 million dollars to pay for these suits that are not available. I have two questions: When will there be protective suits for doctors, 70,000, and who will be responsible for spending 40 percent? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-13-m0.u39	All purchases of personal protection are made in accordance with procedures through appropriate enterprises and open sites. Accordingly, if you have, I repeat my proposal, if you have data that prices have been overstated, that something has not arrived, please hand it over in writing to the Cabinet of Ministers and the law enforcement authorities for violation of relevant criminal conduct, cases and investigations, if you have such facts. I'll be grateful.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-13-m0.u40	Anna Constantine's speedboat.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-13-m0.u41	Please tell Anton Polakov.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-13-m0.u42	Anton Eduardoovich Polakov.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-13-m0.u43	Dear Mr. Prime Minister! Please give us an answer when you create the promised 500,000 jobs in Ukraine. That's the first question. And the second question. Your position on the abolition of anti-Fopian bills, namely the adoption by the Supreme Council of Bills 2644, 2645. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-13-m0.u44	Unfortunately, I don't even know what to tell you, unless you want to rephrase your question.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-13-m0.u45	Rušin Jaroslav Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-13-m0.u46	I ask that Solomonia Bobrowski pass on the word.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-13-m0.u47	Samantha Bobrowski. Samantha Anatolyevna Bobrowska
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-13-m0.u48	Samantha Bobrowski, the Voice faction. Good afternoon. Mr. Prime Minister, yesterday we had a very interesting situation where, in one of the Telegram channels, information from about 26 million Ukrainians, personal data, was poured into completely public space. I have a question. What are the initial steps taken by the Mincifre to protect personal data? How, though, did the data get into public space? That's the first one. The second question. You didn't answer my colleague's questions about kindergartens. There's a lot of calls from directors of private and state utilities about opening gardens, and they don't know when to wait for children. And what can parents do with their children at home? And the third question. You. I understand correctly the answer to questions about the departure of Ukrainians abroad, does that mean that the government restricts the right of Ukrainians to freedom of movement and employment? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-13-m0.u49	The first part is about registers. What you see on the Internet has really happened. This is a criminal case, and it happened more than six months ago when there were old databases. The new registers are completely protected, and the "Dia" plugin, which works today and is created by the Ministry of Digital Transformation, is protected and there are no problems, no information thefts from there. So if you're interested, you're going to ask, and we're going to give you a complete schedule and chronology of what's going on. Today, the app that was presented, completely protected, there was no leak, there was no event. I'd like to take a look at where the Internet came from. With regard to gardening, I think I answered very carefully. We have a step-by-step quarantine plan, it's clearly described when preschools, educational institutions are in place, and how quarantines will be reduced, and how to move to adaptive quarantine. Today, really, there's a lot of conversions from all the branches that are currently suffering from quarantine, but there's a choice between, again, tens of thousands of people who might die because of the coronavirus, if we don't get out and move on to an adaptive quarantine, or we're going to stop abruptly as the epidemic rises in the country, to a normal life. Unfortunately, we have to face it now, and even if for a few more weeks, perhaps a month, we have to get positive results when we go down in the number of patients and grow in the number of people who have recovered. It is very important that children are unsympathetic. Kindergartens in gardens also have the right to their own protection, to health, and not to disease. Therefore, the question of gardens will be considered when the issue of intercity and suburban transport is considered.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-13-m0.u50	Thank you. Vlasenko. Kirilenko Ivan Grigorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-13-m0.u51	Dear Mr. Prime Minister, the global pandemic has made many countries approach this problem in a complex manner. In particular, a number of countries, given the infertility and drought in the world, are banning food exports, and some are sharply reduced. What are we doing at this time? We boast of the record export of grains on a regular basis. And we're not expecting any crops, and you know it, and you're talking about it. So what do we have going on in the country right now? It's empty. What's going to happen in the fall? What will happen next year? We have registered a special decree of the Supreme Council, consider it, let us make a decision, for hunger is not aunt. And the second question. Under these conditions, the government decides to increase the school fees sharply, motivated by the need to move closer to the middle European level. How did we motivate this? We're going to be out of young people again, and we're going to be empty institutions again. Where did this decision come from, who offered it? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-13-m0.u52	Regarding food exports from Ukraine The government keeps its hand on the pulse every day with regard to food supplies in Ukraine, our reserve and quotas for exports or imports of appropriate food into Ukraine. The first thing that was done. An appropriate quota was introduced for the removal of Greek grain from Ukraine. Because, in fact, a month ago, there were, well, quite a lot of panic about this product. That's why we signed and initiated the signing of additional contracts for the importation of Greek into Ukraine and the ban, the actual ban on exports from Ukraine. It's wheat. Ukraine is absolutely the livelihood of the world today, not just Europe. We have enough, and we have a six-month reserve to consume Ukraine for a new crop. We work with farmers, we work with appropriate agro-company to conduct a weekly analysis of how to run a policy on grain exports, including. And if we don't export the quantities that we have to do today at the 6-month reserve that is exactly enough for the next crop, we're going to get just the grain that needs to be thrown into the trash. And the agribusiness, Ukraine's budget will lose currency, lose the budget, we won't be able to keep businesses, and we won't be able to keep what we have planned. Once again, we're clearly pursuing that there's not a 3-month supply, as counted, but a 6-month supply of food today in Ukraine. To a new crop, when we get back to a fairly normal crop, which is estimated to fit those projections virtually, regardless of the large spring drought. Let's rain, we expect better crop forecast. And the analysis on this subject is being carried out.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-13-m0.u53	Savrasov Maksim Vitaliovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-13-m0.u54	Please pass the word to Vladimir Ariev.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-13-m0.u55	Arjev Vladimir Igorovich
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-13-m0.u56	Like one classic said, "I have a dream." But you, in the power of Ukrainian today, also had "Mria" -- an entire plane loaded with medical supplies. Even Zelensky met him in the mail. Very nicely then I recorded a video in which I told you how much you would get from these defenses. But these defenses ended up in the Epicenter supermarket. So I have a question: How many were there for the medics? They're very interested. And the second. And why did the customs take all the information about the nomenclature from the database and all the information about that shipment that "Mira" brought in? Is it that we now have secret documents, secret cargo? The medical profession is very curious: Where did all the tools that Zelensky had so beautifully encountered in the mail go?
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-13-m0.u57	And whose press office did they take the report from? What does the Cabinet of Ministers have to do with your question, please tell me? Regarding the situation you are asking, there have been many discussions, there have been answers, there have been detailed reports. And our task, and today this information is absolutely open, is to provide medical facilities with personal protection, equipment and professional health workers. This information is open, it's posted on the COVID-19 site, where you can clearly see the security work on the boards. There's no 100% security, that's true. But we show these things openly in order to understand the situation and to show it to society. This is a work that the Cabinet of Ministers does with the medical community, together with the local authorities, together with the Parliament. This information is outspoken, and no one took it anywhere. All the rest of the things or accusations that are, I've already proposed on a number of occasions today: there's an indictment -- we have a mechanism for recourse to law enforcement, bringing it to court, initiating an investigation. Please, let's use this.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-13-m0.u58	Arjev Vladimir Igorovich
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-13-m0.u59	I'm handing over the word to Nina Petrovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-13-m0.u60	Eugene Nina Petrovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-13-m0.u61	Mr. Prime Minister, you just said the government has done a lot. We've been quarantined for almost two months. And I'm actually stressing to all Ukrainians, and I'm pointing out to you that these two difficult months and Ukrainians, and the business are being affected by the two laws adopted by the Supreme Council that were actually created for the initiative of the national MPs, and that allow both Ukrainians and businesses to get minimal protection and minimal support, the very minimum and only some categories. You just said you have an anti-crisis plan for small and medium-sized business, for industry. I'm sorry, but a small and small business is now standing next to the Cabinet of Ministers. What is this plan that you haven't presented yet? You haven't applied it without making any changes to any law, to the Tax Code, that's where it's most needed.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-13-m0.u62	There are programs that work, and I've been sounding them today, credit holidays, lending to small and medium-sized businesses. These are the key things that business in our dialogue with the right associations is asking today. We are in the same daily dialogue with business, with different sectors, with national MPs, who are also carriers of this information from people and from business. We respond accordingly to the needs of business today. And today there's a need for a cheap credit resource, today there's a need to support those people who have partially or completely lost their jobs, and that's also in most small and medium-sized businesses, they just have to be supported financially and creditily. That's what we do, and in principle, thanks to the same laws that have already been passed. So the plan that is proposed is based on an active legislative basis, on the existing norms that are in force in Ukraine. The additional needs that will be, together with the training committees, we will work together and bring them to the Parliamentary Hall. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-13-m0.u63	Kucher Mikola Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-13-m0.u64	I'd like to give it to Larissa Bilozer.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-13-m0.u65	Larissa Mikolayevna Bilozer.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-13-m0.u66	Dear Prime Minister! Larissa Bilozer, 17th constituency, Winnitzkina. The government and the President have recently admitted that most of the NHRI tariffs, the National Health Service, are underperforming. And you know, 49, doctor's advice is 49, X-ray 49, biochemistry 49, which is less self-sustainment. I'd like to know if there's a cost estimate going on. It was stated that only for strokes, for heart attacks and for COVID-package. Is the correction factor still being applied? And if so, how much should the service cost be higher at the secondary and third levels? The same thing I wanted to remind you, I've asked you more than once about support hospitals. There's $1 billion allocated to the support wards, not COVID. I think they've been artificially approved. And is there going to be a review of the government of these hospitals?
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-13-m0.u67	With regard to NSO tariffs, you are right, we have reviewed NSO tariffs and corrected some of them because they need to be corrected in connection with the pandemic we have encountered, because the second stage of reform today is being implemented in crisis situations, including when all medicine, all over the world, is working on maximum load. So we're counting very carefully the NSO tariffs. In fact, some of them have, say, lowliness of mind. Today, we bring it to its proper state. And I'm sure the medical system feels that way today and will feel that way. Because once again, reform needs to bring benefits and health care in order for the medical system to become stronger and more effective, and for patients who also need to feel it. And here's the important thing to do. There were also inaccuracies, not only in the size of tariffs, but also in the principles of tariffs. I mean, there are diseases where you have to heal and pay for it, and there are hospitals that, the longer they stay without patients, the more they have to pay for it. Because this means that the system, such as the epidemiological system in the country, works properly if there are no infectious hospitals, but these hospitals should be in good condition and ready. And this pandemic has shown that there are hospitals, there are professions of health workers who have to be independent of whether they are sick at this point in the country. It's about support hospitals. They are. So this is actually one of the stages of reform. The reform continues. We're going to implement it. Perhaps with some adjustments introduced by the coronavirus and the world pandemic in principle into the organization of the world’s medical system, Ukraine is not alone. So, of course, we are very attentive today to all the work that we have done. And very carefully with the expert environment, we're looking forward to how we're going to move forward with implementation and completion.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-13-m0.u68	Anton Eduardoovich Polakov.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-13-m0.u69	Please pass the word to Anna Speedhod.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-13-m0.u70	Mr. Prime Minister, when we voted for you, we were hoping you weren't a propane. So I'm asking you very much to answer Anton Polakov's question when 500 thousand promised jobs will appear in Ukraine? That's the first question. The second question. When will the FOPs and small businesses cease to be destroyed? And the third question. Why did you switch off atomic blocks instead of reducing the heat generation?
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-13-m0.u71	Thank you for asking. Now I'm going to find the graph and I'm going to give you an answer. So the first part is 500,000 jobs. I've just said it four or five times today. Today, this program will be presented by the Minister of Economics of the Government. There's a clear understanding of where we're going to be creating. In which sectors and where these 500,000 jobs will be created. There's a program. I won't show it to you right now. So it's clear in the fields where, we see, we have 400 today, almost 500 thousand, half a million registered unemployed. We understand clearly where they will be created. They will not be created tomorrow in one day. Some of them are already created and created. Part will be created in a week, part in a month. But our job is to get all the unemployed, registered in Ukraine, to get a job when we get out of quarantine and move to an adaptable one. And that's what we put and implement. It's about energy. The energy balance graph last year and this year in energy. As you can see, the power of thermal energy has been reduced in the new balance that has been approved, including the anti-crisis headquarters, and over the years. So you see: 2018, 2019, 2020 is a new balance. There's a layout of the corresponding generations as well as how the decrease took place. Thus, the decline has touched all areas of energy other than renewable energy. There, because this is summer, the sun is rising, the power is building -- it's good, it's green, it's increasing power. The question is to make it cheaper and more affordable for the Ukrainian industry. The heat generation has reduced its power this year, and the new balance has been calculated including. So this is the wrong information that someone gives you that you operate on. With regard to small, medium-sized businesses, they expect.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-13-m0.u72	Thank you, Dennis Anatolyovich. Dear colleagues, the time for questions to the Prime Minister has run out. Deputy Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Elena Condratjuk, final question.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-13-m0.u73	Thank you. Mr. Prime Minister, I have, in principle, a question about money, quoting you, about big money, and the trust of our international partners. It's about what our foreign partners in Ukraine can rely on a large amount of financial assistance to combat the negative effects of socio-economic in front of COVID. In particular, the EU has announced its intention to allocate 1.2 billion euros of macro-financial assistance to Ukraine. The Eurocommission allocates 190 million euros. 170 million euros of aid will be provided by Germany, including for individual protection. United Nations entities are allocating $165 million. The U.S. makes $14.5 million. Please tell me, how much international financial assistance has already arrived in Ukraine? How is this aid distributed? And who specifically got it?
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-13-m0.u74	Thank you for your questions. Absolute true numbers you have named. In fact, all of these things are what I'm talking about, they're trust and cooperation with our international partners, and all of this help is interconnected. The first funds came from our international financial organizations. We received the first part of the unbound financial loan from Germany. The total amount of aid from Germany (we spoke to Mrs. Angela Merkel, Chancellor of Germany yesterday), we received from Germany a total of 1.4 billion dollars over the last two years, including early this year we also expect the next 90,000 euros from Germany. And it's also going to be a sector support, we talked yesterday about where to put it: to fight the coronavirus, to support small and medium-sized businesses. All of these funds that you've been talking about this year total over $10 billion in financial support from the various financial institutions of the international financial institutions, the International Monetary Fund, the European structures, the European Union and our partner countries in general. That's why the money's coming. Of course, most of our partners are tied to our negotiations and agreements with the IMF. So is the World Bank, the European Bank, the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, the European Investment Bank -- all of these partners are of course looking at success today in our negotiations with the International Monetary Fund. So it's very important that we move forward and get this money so that next year we can have plus 7 percent of GDP, not fall into the gap today and not be able to get out of it for the next 10 years. Thank you for asking. It's very important.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-13-m0.u75	Thank you, Dennis Anatolyovich. Thank you, distinguished members of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. "The year of questions before the government" is over. Let's move on to the next question of order of the day. Dear colleagues, in accordance with article 240 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and article 51 of the Ukrainian Act "On the National Bank of Ukraine", we turn to the report of the Head of the National Bank of Jacob Vasilovich Smolija in the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the activities of the National Bank. Jakov Vasilovich, please. The following rules are proposed: within 20 minutes – a report by the Head of the National Bank, up to 21 minutes – questions from MPs and groups, a speech by the head of the Committee on Financial, Tax and Customs Policy, up to 3 minutes, and statements from MP factions and groups, discussions, each faction and group. Is there no objection? Please, James Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-13-m0.u76	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs! Greetings to all, dear fellows! Thank you for the opportunity to tell us how the National Bank is helping the Ukrainian economy to deal with the effects of the Coronavirus epidemic. Spoiler's a success. Coronacrosis is the first crisis in Ukraine's history when there is no bank bankruptcy, a surge of inflation, a catastrophic fall in international reserves, a long line of investors near ATMs. Unlike previous crises, today’s banking system is not a burden for the economy but a life cycle. We're not saving her, she's saving the economy. This is the result, firstly, of the National Bank's consistent policies and reforms of the past years. For more details about what we did last year, see the 2019 annual report. Secondly, this is the result of the rapid and effective actions of the National Bank in response to the pandemic and quarantine. In this we are moving forward with the central banks of other developing economies, and even the world's leading economies. Personally, it is very important for me that the Ukrainians have noticed and appreciated our efforts. According to the Center of Razumkov, the balance of confidence in the National Bank has increased more than twice as intense for the country in March-April. So what we've done to confront the crisis. Our actions were directed at four goals. The first is to protect the health of all those who actively use financial services and those who only deal with cash. The second is to ensure the quality and continuity of the financial system during quarantine. The third is to support the economy with affordable cash resources during this difficult period. And the fourth is to create conditions in which once quarantine is completed, the economy will quickly restore growth. And now that two months of quarantine is behind, I can safely say that we did it, and more, without imposing any painful restrictions. We responded very quickly. By March 12th, we had reduced the bill to support the economy in the context of pandemics and quarantines. In April we continued to reduce it. Overall, in two months, the account rate fell from 11 to 8 percent. This is the lowest bill rate in the history of Ukraine, which is a real tool for the influence of the National Bank on the value of credits, not just on paper. We've introduced new tools to support the economy. First of all, this is long - term funding for banks for a term of between one and five years. Last week, the first tender took place, where 11 banks had already received 2.4 billion dollars from us for a period of 1.5 to 5. We also set up a currency swap yesterday. On Friday we set up a currency swap with the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development for $500 million. We get dollars from an international organization that fills international reserves, and the EBRD in exchange gets a bracelet that will be used to lend to Ukrainian companies that have lost their pandemic and quarantine. So we've created conditions where businesses can get, at affordable rates, not just short-term needs, but large-scale business projects that need long-term investment. For example, infrastructure projects such as road construction are important for the state and for job creation. For the population. For the population, lowering the interest rate and curbing inflation are already working to make the mortgage under 10 a reality tomorrow. At the same time, we made it easier for banks to access funding. We've increased the frequency of tenders. We've increased the lending deadline from NBA to banks from 30 to 90 days, and we've already issued this three-month refinancing by almost 7 billion dollars. We've expanded the list of pledges banks can lend to the NBA, now we're going to accept not only state bonds, but municipal and state-guaranteed corporate bonds. The banking system today has high liquidity — about 200 billion dollars. However, if any bank feels a need for funds, now it can get loans from the NBA even faster and easier. In order to maximize bank spending in support of the economy, we delayed the formation of capital buffers and recommended that banks refrain from paying dividends. Also in March, we introduced an anti-crisis system that has 5 key solutions to ensure the continuity of the financial system: First. Credit. We introduced credit holidays -- a special credit-service period for those who still paid fairly for the loan, but faced financial difficulties through quarantine. The result. Banks allow lenders to make payments for consumer credits after quarantine without fines and pennies per ticket. Most banks are already allowing the restructuring of credits to help customers handle debt after quarantine. The other one. Deposits. We have forbidden banks to impose any restrictions on the withdrawal of deposits. We've made a bet on the bank's reliability and trust of the investors, and we haven't made a mistake. The result. Deposits remain in the banking system. In the first weeks of quarantine, population spending was but much smaller than in the 2008-2014 crisis. However, the population’s deposits were rapidly renewed. In the last two weeks of April, the population’s money was generally at the maximum since the beginning of March. Third. The work of the banking system. From the beginning, we worked hard with banks to maintain the availability of financial services despite quarantine while ensuring the health of consumers of financial services. We've made recommendations which separations should remain open, how banks should work in places. In order for banks to concentrate all the resources now in charge, we delayed stress tests and bank exit checks during the crisis. The result. Banks continue to fully service customers, all central bank offices and 77 offices in the country are open, banks have sufficient funds to meet customer needs, they work more than 96 percent of ATMs, they are regularly supported by cash. Four. Currency. We saw intense nervousness in March in the foreign exchange market and constantly went out with the currency sales to reconcile the fluctuation. We sold $2.2 billion in March for this. The result is an extensive demand in the foreign exchange market since April. The net currency supply is now even higher than it was in February before the outbreak in Ukraine. The currency exchange rate was again somewhat strengthened, and the National Bank restored the cautious purchase of currency to international reserves. We also quickly solved the lack of cash currency that was caused by air traffic disruptions. We provided cash and euros to Ukraine and conducted a weekly cash exchange operation. The result is that we gave banks over $550 million and 42 million euros and fully met their cash needs. There's no problem getting cash in bank accounts right now. Fifth. Payments. We urged the Ukrainians to move to remote banking services as soon as possible. To make non-cash payments more convenient, we cancelled tariffs on the electronic payment system during quarantine, and for owners of payment cards that end during quarantine, together with banks, we anticipated the possibility of extending their deadline. The safety of accounts is also a priority for us by means of a purse. The probability of being infected with the coronavirus because of the cash is low, but we decided that caution would not interfere, so the cash that is removed from the circulation is transferred to the National Bank's warehouses for quarantine. In order to stimulate the economy, we are likely to be able to further reduce this year's bill. There's room for that. By our balanced monetary policy, we together provide, as required by our mandate, price stability, i.e. stable low inflation, which remains within our target of 5 plus minus 1 percent. Of course, like the rest of Ukraine, there is a need for large - scale government spending to combat the coronavirus and sustain the economy, but the medicine should not be worse than the disease. Recall the history of Ukraine. Uncontrollable printing of money to finance government spending always results in catastrophic consequences for the economy. Of course, we can make everyone a millionaire, but these millions will no longer be worth anything. A much better way is to complete negotiations with the IMF and get cheap funding for the budget from the official donors. And for the National Bank, there's only one legal way to help the government directly with living money by counting the income of the NBA. And we've already done that. In April, we counted the entire income of NBA for 2019 -- 42.7 billion dollars. That's two billion more than it's put into this year's state budget. So we provided almost half the budget income in April months. I'm often asked if the National Bank is too optimistic. We really look to the future with cautious optimism, but we should not entertain illusions. The level of uncertainty is never higher. Our macroprognosis is repelled by the fact that the quarantine will be completed in the third quarter and will no longer need to return to it. And if not, if there's a second wave of pandemics in the world, if we have to go back and forth to quarantine, nobody in the world today will give you clear answers to these questions. That is why we are prepared at the National Bank to respond quickly and effectively to new challenges when needed. We're constantly tracking the situation, assessing the risks, checking our projections for reality. Our instrumentation is and will be effective even if quarantine continues. I'm talking about the bill, the financial support for the economy through banks, the large international reserves, the response tools and the regulation of the banking sector. Moreover, today every Ukrainian can contact the NBA for protection of his rights if they are violated by a bank. And soon we will have even more opportunities to ensure financial stability when we become the regulator of non-bank financial institutions from July 1. The main thing for a healthy economy today, tomorrow and tomorrow is price and financial stability in the country. The National Bank has done, done and will do everything to preserve it, but it is our shared responsibility. The financial system does not work on the economic island. How beneficial the economic environment is, how institutionally strong the country, how protected the rights of creditors and investors are, the financial system can be the engine of economic growth. So the question that each of us in this room should ask ourselves right now is not where to get the money, but how quickly can we implement the reforms. After all, the Ukrainian economy will fall by 5 percent or less in our hands. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-13-m0.u77	Thank you, Jacob Vasilovich. Ladies and gentlemen, please sign up for questions from MPs and groups. Davidenko Valerius Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-13-m0.u78	Please pass the word to Boris Viktorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-13-m0.u79	The alien Boris.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-13-m0.u80	Good afternoon! Boris Adjective, "Trust" group. Dear Jacob Vasilovich, we all, the financiers, realize that the main function of the National Bank is to achieve and maintain price stability. For the past five years, the NBA policy has been focused solely on achieving this goal of inflation. But there is another side to the medal. Explain why the nominal industrial lending rate in March 20th was 20 percent and inflation was only 2.3? Why does it make such a big difference? And that's where the next question comes from. Do you have a clear programme of activities for the National Bank for the next six months, a year? Are you just going to extend the list of securities to refinance and loan holidays? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-13-m0.u81	Thank you for asking. I want to say that today's tools to support the liquidity of commercial banks allow us to control the situation and to contribute both to lowering the interest rate and to lower the interest rates on loans after Ukraine's exit from the crisis. And the whole business can now and then go to the banking system, both in the part of restructuring loans and reducing the burden on their balance of payments, and in order to get cheaper costs to restore the economy, to restore the business.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-13-m0.u82	Thank you. Larissa Mikolayevna.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-13-m0.u83	Please pass the word to Bondar Victor.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-13-m0.u84	Bondar Victor Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-13-m0.u85	Thank you. I have three short questions. First. There are, as far as I know, eight decisions of the Supreme Court of Ukraine that are not being implemented today by the National Bank for Bank Recovery that have been eliminated over the past five years. 20 decisions are still in the way. The National Bank refuses to implement these decisions, which is the issue of deposits, the issue of repayment of loans, the return of deposits and the order of the stolen assets of these banks. You're not making this decision. Why? And the second. You've issued a re-financing to state banks at 8 percent. State banks immediately bought government securities, and under 11.5 percent of them received government funding. 3.5 percent you gave essentially to state banks. What kind of politics is that, and why was it conducted? And the third. What will be the industrial support program of the National Bank for this year?
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-13-m0.u86	Thank you for asking. The decisions of the courts that are now in the process of restoring banks and putting them on the market. I want to say that there is no legislative regulation today, as can be done. And the law that will be considered in this room today will be able to resolve these gray spots that are now in law. It's impossible to get the bank into a market that's been in the 1.5-2 year fund in liquidation mode. To that end, there must be other tools to ensure or enable owners to receive compensation if such losses are proven. As far as refinancing and supporting the liquidity of commercial banks is concerned, we have introduced these instruments in terms of, as I have said, 30 to 90 days, and there is a long-term refinancing at an accounting rate of up to five years. Where the commercial bank directs the money, we don't trace the target use. Our task is to ensure that banks have constant liquidity to ensure that their customers' funds are serviced. What is involved in industrial support. The National Bank is the lender of the last facility, and we don't lend business to that is the banking system. We are, as I said, ready to support the banking system and liquidity if we need it.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-13-m0.u87	Thank you. Vasilevska-Smagluk Olga Mikhailovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-13-m0.u88	Dear James Vasilovich, two brief questions. I analyzed economic activity and showed signs of corruption. For example, you paid 16 million dollars to the Republic Strategic Communications for writing 2 articles in the media and celebrating the Nationalization of Private Bank. Your coworkers are also insured in the country’s company, which is associated with former President of Ukraine, Peter Prashenko. My second question is that the amount of the commission fee paid by the National Bank of Ukraine for the unused loans of the International Monetary Fund amounts to 1.5 billion dollars in the last four years. Please tell me, who will be responsible for this?
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-13-m0.u89	Thank you for asking. I want to say that the health insurance issue is today's trend around the world, and the National Bank has been doing this purchase for the last four years, many insurance companies are participating in this purchase. The purchase is done openly, at the open market, on the ProZorro site you can see the whole procedure as it happened. Today, 4.5 thousand employees of the National Bank are able to receive medical assistance from leading medical and private clinics in Ukraine, which is 1.5 thousand employees of the Banking and Monetary Court, who provide banknotes and coins, 300 employees of the bank paper factory in Malin and about 3,000 employees of the central office. What's relevant to the commission fee paid by the National Bank for the International Monetary Fund's unutilized loans is the world practice, these are the terms of the International Monetary Fund that are conditional, and the cost of servicing loans is made into an agreement between Ukraine and the International Monetary Fund. In the case of samples of these costs, we don't pay anything. But in view of Ukraine’s failure to review the IMF program, we had to pay this commission fee.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-13-m0.u90	Rušin Jaroslav Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-13-m0.u91	I'll ask Klimenko Julia to pass it on. Klimenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-13-m0.u92	Clemensa Julia Leonidivna.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-13-m0.u93	Mr. Smolius, I have a question about the motivation for stimulating small, medium-sized business. You've already reduced the NBA rate to 8 percent, an account rate that allows you to take cheaper loans in commercial banks. What are the next steps and plans? Do you plan to lower this rate and when? And are you interacting with the government on this issue? Do you have a common policy to stimulate small, medium-sized business lending? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-13-m0.u94	Thank you for asking. A program to stimulate small, medium-sized businesses is government programs. For our part, we support the liquidity of commercial banks if they have such a need. Regarding the account rate. We have actually reduced the rate from 11 percent to 8 percent this year. In general, from 2019 onwards, the bill was reduced from 18 percent to 8 percent, by 10 percent. All the conditions, all the macroeconomic forecasts today are saying that the National Bank has the ability to lower the interest rate this year.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-13-m0.u95	Please, Klimpush-Cincadze Ivanna Orestovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-13-m0.u96	Please pass the word to Gerasim.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-13-m0.u97	Gerasimov Arthur Volodymyrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-13-m0.u98	Thank you. Dear Jacob Vasilovich, today we see that in five years, the reform of the banking system and the real independence of the National Bank, which was acquired at that time, have proved their effectiveness. And we can see that, despite the economic distortions, despite the crisis, the banking system manages it without shocks and is quite successful. But, you know, there's a constant debate about the monetary policy of the National Bank. Can I ask you a question, very specifically, what did the NBA do to support the economy? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-13-m0.u99	Thank you for asking. You practically answered him in your question. For the last 3-4 years, the National Bank's activities have indeed been aimed at maintaining macro-financial stability. We have a healthy, living, recapitalized banking system today. The liquidity of the banking system today is over 200 billion dollars, and they don't need any extra funds to lend to the economy at this time. Low inflation and lower interest rates have contributed to a decline in the cost of resources that commercial banks today can use to support business and economy. And the main task that the banking system faces after quarantine is when we gradually start to emerge from the crisis is to support enterprises so that the economy can quickly recover and the fall of the internal gross product is as minimal as possible during this difficult period for us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-13-m0.u100	Thank you. Please, National Deputy Nikolainko Andri Ivanovich, faction of the political party "The Fatherland"
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-13-m0.u101	Dear Mr. Smolius, during your presentation on the committee last week, we also heard that everything was fine. Now we're listening again, like we're living in another country. So the economy is collapse. And I'm surprised to hear that you're not willing to admit your own rule, your own guilt for keeping the surplus account in fact with your lieutenant, the former Minister of Finance of Markarova, to build a pyramid from the UDP. Because it is the return on the GDP that is somehow linked to the account rate. That's why you buried Ukrainian exports, which at the end of last year, due to the tightening of the bracelet, you didn't get a few tens of billions of dollars of income, so Ukrainian people couldn't make a profit, and that's why they started to provoke a crisis that you can now say you're blaming the government's former leadership, which is now, but exactly what's causing this crisis is the National Bank. So, questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-13-m0.u102	If you can, give me 10 seconds, but please form a question so that it can be. Please, come on.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-13-m0.u103	Is Nazbank’s leadership ready to admit the loss of exports?
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-13-m0.u104	Thank you. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-13-m0.u105	I want to say that budget deficit financing is a well-known world practice at the expense of government securities issued by the Ministry of Finance. And putting them in the internal market or involving external investors is also a global practice. The pyramid you're talking about looks like when you're a cheap resource, you're a cheap paper and you're replacing the debt with the short and the expensive. Everything that happened last year and the past year looked exactly the opposite. The Ministry of Finance went to market and placed securities that were cheaper, involved, and longer. So about building a pyramid, that's what you're sending to this room today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-13-m0.u106	Thank you. Please, Yuri Anatolyovich. Alexander Sergiyovich Koltunovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-13-m0.u107	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. I'll have a few questions for the Head of the National Bank. The first is about steps from inflation targeting. Don't you think overcoming galloping inflation today is good, but given the international environment, even if the price of gas were to be reduced twice and so on, we should have deflation. That's the first one. The second point is about monetary policy instruments. I want to remind you that the 2013-2014 account rate was 6.5 percent and today it is 8. You can at least go back to the parameters that were before you. This is the second moment. Third moment. That policy that was about exchange rate. We have 3.5 times, or, more specifically, 3.4 times the national monetary unit has been devolved. These investors and bank lenders suffered substantial losses. This is another moment. And the last. As for the decline in the number of banks and the pseudo-health of the national banking system. Minus 105 banks in 6 years of National Bank activity. What steps will you take, and will you continue to kill the country’s financial system? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-13-m0.u108	The National Bank moved into a regime of floating exchange rates and inflation targeting in 2015. And the actions taken by the National Bank have proven that these tools are effective, and we have a result today. From inflation, which was over 40 percent in 2014-2015, we have today our corridor -- 5 plus minus 1, and even below. We expect inflation to enter its corridor this year, as predicted. Thus, monetary policies and actions carried out by the National Bank justified themselves. We have today's lowest accounting rate in all of Ukraine's history, an active accounting rate that reflects the cost of money in the economy. And the exchange rate is a mirror of the economy that's shaped by a pitiful supply on the market. As today's exports, imports, individuals, banks, all of the foreign exchange market participants, are forming a course. And these are today the results of monetary policy and those instruments that were introduced in 2015. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-13-m0.u109	Thank you, colleagues. Thank you, Jacob Vasilovich. Because all those who wanted to ask us asked us. Please take your place. I give the floor to the Head of the Committee on Finance, Tax and Customs Policy, Daniel Alexander Gettmantsev. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-13-m0.u110	Dear colleagues, good afternoon! Good day, chairman, good day, distinguished national deputies! An analysis of the activities of the National Bank, which we conducted on the committee on several occasions, is a very difficult matter because it gives rise to really conflicting feelings. On the one hand, it's a really good solution by the National Bank to the question of demand, the widespread demand for bracelets at the end of March this year, the resolution of the issue by market methods, without administrative action. But on the other hand, this is an unwarranted sharp reduction in the rate of the bracelet, strengthening the rate of the bracelet, sorry, in the second half of 2019, which caused damage to both the state budget and our exporters. On the one hand, it's currency liberalisation and debarring currency, it's cancelling mandatory currency sales, and on the other hand, it's a cash currency deficit in March, when the cash exchange rate was different from the cash-free exchange rate on the dollar-peater. On the one hand, this is the lowest inflation that the National Bank was able to achieve in December last year, and for today's annual calculation is 2.1 percent, this is the decrease in the rate that it was talking about. The account that the head of the National Bank was talking about, up to 13.5 percent in 2019, and up to 8 percent now with the prospect of further decline; and, on the other hand, this is the lack of cheap lending resources for the Ukrainian business, is actually a reduction in the credit portfolio of the commercial banks that he's lending to the business. On the one hand, this is an increase in, of course, the stability of the banking system, the increase in commercial banks' profits -- 60 billion in 2019, and 2019 -- we went bankrupt; but on the other hand, it's the price of this decision and the loss of investors, the loss of commercial banks, and the profit of the OCHA. What do I want to stress? The activities of the National Bank raise many questions. We know that the NBU is an independent body, but the main thing is that there is no NBU in a vacuum, there is no NSA autonomously, it's not a state in a state. We want the National Bank to keep its constitutional function in mind.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-13-m0.u111	Thank you, Danilo Alexanderovich. Ladies and gentlemen, please sign up from the MPs and groups. Dubinsky Alexander Anatolyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-13-m0.u112	Dear colleagues, good afternoon! Now a very interesting thing is that the head of the National Bank has come to the Parliament Hall to legalize all that is going on. Five years of what they were doing, robbing the country. The National Bank is an institution that has been represented by people over the past six years and is actually managed by Valery Gontarev, who doesn't even want to appear for questioning at the Attorney General's Office, a person who has destroyed more than 100 banks and robbed virtually investors and businessmen and small businesses and medium-sized businesses for about 500 billion dollars. Now you and I have witnessed an attempt to legalize all the actions that took place during this robbery and to present the work of the National Bank as one that helped restore the Ukrainian economy. This is not the case, because all the actions of the National Bank over the past few years have been directed towards individual financial groups, transnational corporations and speculatives making money on Ukrainian debt. The Ukrainian budget will now pay about 350 billion dollars as external debt payments. This is about 200 times more than the budget we spend on road and medicine. We're spending money on financial speculators making the world's largest interest rate in fact, and in European countries in particular. We watched with you the people who run the National Bank first raised the rate from 12 to 40, then dropped to 27, and robbed the investors for the first time in 2014-2015, when Mr. Smolius was already working there. Now, in 2019, the same thing happened: the exchange rate of 28 dollars per dollar went down to 24, although everyone knew it had to stay in place, and so the investors and businesses were robbed again, the exporters lost the ability to make money in the external markets, the economy was even colder. And that's all the consequences of the work of the National Bank of Ukraine, Mr. Smoliya, Mrs. Hontareva, who's still giving him instructions on how to run the National Bank, directly from London, and other people who are now in power of the National Bank. And now we're going to be asked to adopt Law 2571-d, which will allow the National Bank to be removed from the Ukrainian legal field and transferred completely to external government, and to make it a super-national structural financial unit of external governance that will decide for itself how the economy of Ukraine will develop. We need to move to economic nationalism for the sake of Ukraine and the citizens, not for the profit of foreign financial speculators. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-13-m0.u113	Thank you. Kabachenko. Julia Volodymyrna Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-13-m0.u114	Dear colleagues, what's really scary right now is what's happening here, what this House of Parliament is doing, what's happening at the National Bank is business is business itself, that's business as usual, everything's fine. It's big enough cynical deception. The National Bank of Ukraine has been a group that has been engaged in high-intellectual corruption, high-intellectual money-laundering from Ukraine’s budgets, and from the National Bank’s resources for six years. I can tell you that, according to Ukrainian scientists in 2014, 2015, more than three times was artificially, manually, started an inflation of 300 percent over the next five years, and in the background of this, the National Bank built a financial pyramid called "deposit certificates." Depositary certificates are withdrawals from certain banks, strictly defined, withdrawal of resources at interest, attention, complex interest up to 50 percent of the annual currency of the National Bank. During the 5 years of previous authority through deposit certificates and interest on them from the Ukrainian banking system, more than $14 billion was withdrawn from the National Bank. Do you understand how our country has been robbed? This was followed by specific people — the country’s previous political leadership, the country’s Hontarova, and its immediate surroundings. Then what they're doing, they're taking money out of Ukraine's economy through deposit certificates, they're giving these deposit certificates below 30-32 percent of the year-olds, the economy couldn't raise that percentage, and it couldn't compete with the National Bank for the inclusion of financial resources. 105 banks destroyed. Do you have any idea what that is? 450 billion dollars were taken in the middle class: offices, machines, equipment, business, land. Tell me, where did this 450 billion go? For billions of dollars, it's a deposit guarantee fund. They're criminals! The new president, who came, had to resign them all, investigate and break criminal cases, and he continued to work with a team that was destroying Ukraine's economy. I believe that we must immediately send all the leadership of the National Bank to resign, appoint a special national commission to investigate and rescue Ukraine and the Ukrainian economy.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-13-m0.u115	Thank you. Please, National Deputy Ariev Vladimir Igorovich, faction of the political party "European Solidarity".
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-13-m0.u116	I want to contact the citizens of Ukraine now with a message. Given the way it works during the crisis, during the coronary infection, the coronary epidemic, our government, if it wasn't for the National Bank of Ukraine and its literate monetary policy, and the decline, the correct and timely decline in the accounts, I don't know what could be in the financial situation in the country right now. We could be on the very day. From the very beginning, the National Bank of Ukraine has now taken control of the situation, and the fact that the bracelet today is within 10 percent of the fluctuation is due to the right decisions, but no one appreciates them. I see there is now a desire to take control of the National Bank of Ukraine in today's power, just as the DBD has taken control of today's anti-political opponents to open criminal cases, as today's "95th Quarter" National Television and Radio Council, most of which today are former colleagues of Greens in "95th Quarter". Where, then, did his promises of friends and Godfathers not lead to the authority he gave at the very beginning? The National Bank of Ukraine has recently capitalized the banking system, created a sufficient resource base of banks, and done everything to make them liquid, liquid, and account for the deposits they have. Acceptable interest rates protected by creditors' rights. But it didn't really let the financial system of Ukraine go down because Private Bank was robbed by its former owners for $5.5 billion. And it was the National Bank that conducted the necessary investigation today to save the Ukrainian financial system from the collapse of the largest bank in Ukraine! This would just cause the collapse of the Ukrainian economy and finance. So what I'd like to say is that today's stability island in Ukraine is the National Bank. And if you touch it, then don't be surprised that the International Monetary Fund will even collapse the cooperation program with Ukraine, as it's already cut from a 5-year-old to a 2-year-old program. And today it is very important to preserve this stability in Ukraine, which is now guaranteed by the National Bank, the only one who can do anything in this chaos. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-13-m0.u117	Please, Jaroslav Ivanovich Železniak, faction of the political party Voice.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-13-m0.u118	Good afternoon, dear fellows! We have, of course, a lot of questions in the Voice faction to the National Bank. But here I can't help but agree with my colleagues, and at a difficult time for Ukraine, they were providing financial stability. Many questions about what to do next. There's a financial crisis following the coronavirus. And we've all voted with you on March 30th that the National Bank has called for, and the government to provide credit programs to make sure that our business, the Ukrainian business, gets the money to pay at least the basic wages. We see that part of this homework was done by the National Bank. Sadly, however, the government has not put in place a normal program. Now from this high rostrum, I call on both the National Bank and our government officials to change their policies so that the money and liquidity that is now in the banking market go to the real economy. We don't invent a Ukrainian bike here. We're looking at what all the developed countries of the world are doing. They throw away all the resources, all the liquidity, all the money to make their national business live and survive in this difficult situation. We support the National Bank in their laws and legislative changes. We support them in their right to be independent. But it's up to us as parliamentarians and you as a regulator how the economy will continue to develop. Whether it will continue to survive on the loans it has, or whether we will continue to reduce the interest rate, do everything we can, do credit programs, even if maybe it's not so economically justified, to save the economy. So once again, we urge the National Bank to comply with the laws of Ukraine that have been passed in this room, and we urge the government to carry out the tasks that they face, so that the Ukrainian business can soon get cheap, affordable and easy money to run the economy and somehow survive this crisis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-13-m0.u119	Thank you. I invite you to the words of Viktor Vasilovich Bondar, the Group for the Future.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-13-m0.u120	Thank you, Your Honor. You and I have heard a report from the head of the National Bank of Ukraine. And it feels like we have the very best banking system in the world and the best banking conditions for the population, for the industry. And it feels like nothing's happened in the last five to seven years. In fact, I think you've heard here repeatedly, even in the last 10 minutes, in five to seven years, the banking system has been robbed. I asked a direct question: Why is the decision of the Supreme Court of Ukraine not to return the banks that were disposed of, the former owners? These owners are willing to make an international audit, to calculate all the losses that have been caused by the National Bank's management and the temporary administrations, the Deposit Guarantee Fund to those investors who have invested in these banks. The property was sold at a price of 3, 5, 10 percent. Mortgage loans were sold by 2-5 percent of the value of these loans. Tell me, what is the policy of the National Bank and the Deposit Guarantee Fund? No one has an answer. So the National Bank wants to extend this law today, which goes on to make such an indulgence legal for the National Bank. In fact, the National Bank is being removed from the government system of Ukraine and is being removed from the jurisdiction of Ukraine. I asked the committee a question: don't you believe the Ukrainian courts -- let's determine which courts you can try and which courts you're going to admit: London, Brussels, Stockholm, whatever you want. They're against it because they're about to suffer the damage that's been done. Part two. The second part of me is what the National Bank does in terms of our economy today, how it helps to get out of this crisis. I haven't heard back from the National Bank, there's absolutely no answer. Where is the industry support program? Where is the population support program? Where is the loan restructuring program? Why are foreign banks with cheap and long loans not being introduced into the banking market today? Why aren't there conditions for these banks to run here with pleasure so that there's a so-called European half-shore zone so that money can be saved and invested in the Ukrainian economy? The National Bank regulates everything so that 10, 20, 30 Ukrainian banks remain in the banking market and there is no competition. As long as we have this policy, we're going to have 20 to 25 percent credits, like today, we're going to have no idea how to guarantee them, and whether they're going to return them or not, no one knows. And it's not a policy that stimulates domestic production. There is no program for a powerful relaunch of industry, no program for supporting youth construction, no youth lending, no small business and no medium. Neither from the government nor from the National Bank. So if you put it to a vote right now, it's the government of the National Bank that needs to be filmed and pushed. I'm sorry, but it's the truth of life.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-13-m0.u121	Thank you. Coltunovich Alexander Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-13-m0.u122	Thank you. Dear Mr. Head, honourable national MPs, I have examined and realized that today will be the National Bank's report, and I have examined directly the results of Nazbank's work in the first place in the six years that they have been in power, and remain, despite the transformation that took place in 2019. What I would like to pay attention to and what we have talked about in part. In terms of monetary policy instruments and, in fact, the interest rate. 6.5 percent was an account rate when you came to power, now 8 percent. So you didn't even go to the cross-checks in 2013. Only when you get out, then it's not 6.5 is at least what it was. I'm not talking about a real downturn. One second. If we're talking about competition in external markets, we should also get the cheap and long money that our European competitors have. And they have, let me remind you, the European Central Bank account rate is 0.025 percent. Can we compete with such expensive and short money with them? Obviously not. And that breaks even the same implementation of the Association Agreement. First. The other one. Inflation targeting is what we said about overcoming galloping inflation. And you didn't think that galloping inflation, 43 percent of inflation, was the result of devaluation of the national monetary unit, the result of that so-called stable floating rate? I wonder what this stable monetary corridor is: 8, 40, 24, 26? This is ridiculous! Those people who have dollar loans, they're, excuse me, they're freaking out about you and your policy at the National Bank. Because they were borrowing 7.99 in foreign currency and they're returning 26. Many have courts, and they are not implemented and have no further way of paying even if they can. This is the second moment. Third. The same is true of lenders and people who had bank deposits in their national currency. Those people who gave a thousand, they're now at 3.5, they've underestimated their investments. That's what this National Bank policy has led to. What else are we talking about? 105 banks. Minus 105 banks. We had 180 banks when you came to the beginning of 2014. Now it's only 75, and that's 35 of them with foreign capital. Where is minus 105 banks? Why does the Council today have a law that wants to legitimize your criminal policy activity in relation to 105 banks? And it's a very important moment. We're talking about stimulating the economy, lending the economy and so on. When are we going to have long, cheap loans? When does our mortgage system work? When are our citizens going to be able to pay 20 percent of the loans at zero -- as is the case in many countries of the world? And another very important point that was mentioned today is, in fact, the gold reserves and their structure. Yes, indeed, 25 billion dollars is gold reserves. But no one says that in the structure of these reserves, only 1.3 billion is monetary.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-13-m0.u123	Thank you, Alexander Sergiyovich. Dear colleagues, the time for talks and discussion is exhausted. I would like to thank the Head of the National Bank of Ukraine, Jacob Vasilovich, thank you. And, honourable colleagues, I give my orders, as a result of my consideration, to the Committee on Financial, Tax and Customs Policy on the outcome of the examination of the report by the Head of the National Bank to prepare and submit to the Supreme Council an appropriate decision. Danilo Alexandrovich, this is primarily for you and the members of your committee, please. The result of the decision is because it is. You can raise the Rules and see the report of the Head of the National Bank of Ukraine. The result is the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. [[B in m in s a l in]] Report. Report. According to the report. Next question of the agenda. Dear colleagues, the next issue of the agenda is the inclusion in the agenda of Bills 3415, 3415-1. This is a draft law amending the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the special procedure for the second reading of draft laws. But a shortcut is proposed. We need 226 votes to put the day session in order. This is the question that we discussed at the time of the adoption of Bill 1043, which will need to be taken into account. Please prepare for the vote. There's no time here, my dear fellows. It's a day-to-day inclusion. No, it's not here for a minute, there's no question. Dear colleagues, you can't do what isn't included in the agenda of the session, let's just not comment, because it's going to be a turn again. Dear colleagues, I am voting on the proposal to include in the agenda of the draft Law amending the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on a special procedure for the second reading of the bill (registration number 3415). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[12:28:38]] For-286 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, I am voting on the proposal to declare the bill urgent and shorten the deadlines for the introduction of alternative bills by 15 May 2020. Please support and vote. [[12:29:09]] For-286 Decision taken. Let's move on to the next question of order of the day. Dear colleagues, you have been invited to consider the draft Act amending the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on optimizing the procedure for the second reading of draft laws. Bills of registration 3313 3313-1. Yet. Did you mean, yes, something? Applications were received from the authors about the repeal of Bill 3313. To whom should I give my word? You're not the author, I'm sorry. Author of who? By the authors. Arjev Vladimir Igorovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-13-m0.u124	Dear colleagues, we have called off this bill for further work because its draft does not take into account the rights of national MPs who want their amendments to be taken into account, not in part, but in full, as well as national MPs who want to make amendments that have been approved by the committee, for confirmation. And since this was done in a quick way then, in order to get out of the crisis situation that we found ourselves in as a result of 16,000 amendments to the banking law, the bill was quickly passed. And now, after discussing with our colleagues, including other factions, we have filed an application to respond to the refinements and perhaps to impose these limitations on the quarantine that is currently in effect because of the Coronavirus epidemic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-13-m0.u125	Applications were received from three authors of Bill 3313. But there is also Bill 3313-1, Polack Anton Eduardoovich. Anton Eduardoovich, maybe you won't insist on this bill either. Please turn on Polakov's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-13-m0.u126	To be honest, I'm very glad that you changed your mind about your bill, because, in fact, I was offering an alternative, which leaves the rights of the people's deputies and does not violate the Constitution of Ukraine. That's why I won't insist on my alternative bill either. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-13-m0.u127	Thank you, Your Honor. Then the question is removed and we move on to the next question. Dear colleagues, the President of Ukraine, Vladimir Alexanderovich Zelenski, attends the meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. [[Applause]] Please sit down. Dear colleagues, I would like to give the floor to Vladimir Alexander Zelenski, President of Ukraine. Vladimir Aleksandrovich, out of place, right?
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-13-m0.u128	Thank you. Yeah, I can get out of here. Good afternoon, honourable deputies, Head of the Supreme Council! I wish everyone health. Thank you. I wish you and all the Ukrainians well. I think, first of all, I would like us to support those people who are protecting the health and life of every Ukrainian today and cheering our medics. [[Applause]] You know, I won't be for very long, I think the question of banking law is still very long. The medics protect the lives and health of our Ukrainians, our military protect our sovereignty, our territorial integrity, and the lives of all Ukrainians, they are heroes. Today, there is a question of protecting our economy. I'll make it very simple for you. I think that throughout my cadence, the most important thing during your cadence, will be several important historical laws, bills that should unite the whole country, bringing all parties together. This is exactly how I want the vote to go today. I address you with respect and I want you to support this bill, which must protect the Ukrainian economy, at least it must protect it and help Ukraine right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-13-m0.u129	Thank you, Volodymyr Alexanderovich. Dear colleagues, we move on to the next issue of the agenda: this is the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislative acts to improve the operation of banking regulation mechanisms (registration number 2571-d) The report is given to the head of the Committee on Financial, Tax, and Customs Policy, Mr.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-13-m0.u130	Dear colleagues, it's a truly historic law, a historic law of its own at this moment in history, a historic law based on the number of suggestions and amendments received from the national MPs. I'm just going to remind you of the history of this bill, 2571-d. 16,000 579 rights reviewed our committee during the week and referred the bill to the Supreme Council. On April 30, the Supreme Council adopted a special procedure for considering the bill in accordance with Article 119. Rules. As a result of this procedure, MPs and individual deputies have filed their orders, on which they insist and previously rejected by the committee. So today, the table that was given to you and approved in the decision of the Committee on May 8, 2020 contains 241 suggestions and amendments, 11 of which have been rejected, 186 taken into account, 17, taken into account, in part - 8, taken into account, 19. The Committee proposes the adoption of a draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislative acts to improve certain mechanisms for regulating banking activities (number 2571-d) as set out in the revised comparative table, drawn up in accordance with the requirements of article 119, para. 117 and 118 of the Ukrainian Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. It's a committee decision. We can move on to the repairs.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-13-m0.u131	Thank you, Danilo Alexanderovich. Amendment 7, Timoshenko Julia Volodymyr. The MP's "Fatherland" faction came up with an offer. From where, Julia Volodymyrna, this is the committee head standing. There are papers from both Julius Volodymyrni Timoshenko and Vlastenek Sergey Volodymyrovich. Five minutes to give a speech to Julia Volodymyrni, two minutes to Vlasenek, instead of the 10 minutes provided by the Rules. Is there no objection? None. Julia Volodymyrna.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-13-m0.u132	Dear colleagues, now that this banking so-called law has begun to be considered, I think there's going to be a hysteria in the country that it's an anti-Privacy Bank law that's going to protect national interests. I just want to say it's a lie. Deception, because our team has submitted to the Supreme Council a bill that clearly stipulates that Private Bank and any other bank can't be returned to the owners if they're not compensated to the state, to the people who have deposits, and to the National Bank all debts. But that law that really fairly sets all the points above the "and" nobody cares. Interesting is this law that has nothing to do with Private Bank. And I mentioned one of the public speeches by the leader of the "minister of the People" faction who said, "Yes, this law is banking anti-constitutional, but it needs to be accepted to get a loan from the IMF." What are you turning the country into? What do you allow to trample the Constitution of Ukraine in exchange for laws that directly contradict the national interests of Ukraine, such as this so-called banking law? Why does it contradict Ukraine’s interests? Because the National Bank is now the sixth year, as a minimum, not subject to the will and national interests of the Ukrainian State. The administration is carried out from the outside, not on the basis of the national institutions of Ukraine. This law stipulates that now the National Bank will not simply be outlawed, but it will be outlawed beyond the jurisdiction of Ukraine. This law stipulates that for the National Bank, which will continue to emphasize the "shooting" of the national Ukrainian commercial banks, there will be no administration, because for it the judgement of the court will no longer be law, the decision of the court may no longer be enforced, and this will mean that the decision of the court by the name of Ukraine is simply insolent, cynically overturned, because they govern a country of puppets who do not even understand what they are doing, and they declare Ukraine's obvious defeats by victory. This law is not against Private Bank, remember this, it's a manipulation to make it easier for the gullible people to mate these decisions. This law is directly against the sovereignty of Ukraine, because the sovereignty of Ukraine is the right of the Ukrainian people to rule their state, and in this law the Ukrainian people are deprived of the right to run the National Bank and deprives the National Bank of the constitutional obligation to comply with the decision of the court. It's just the first story. And the other story is different. The second story is that the last six years have been bullied by 105 Ukrainian banks, over the middle class, where they took essentially everything they had, through destroyed banks. In addition, the Deposit Guarantee Fund, which practically stole the middle class's property and gave it away for nothing, and also the people who lost their savings as a result of and on the basis of the criminal activities of the National Bank for the past six years, will all remain unpunished and people without justice. This law essentially amnestys those who run the National Bank, the Gontareva and the company, those who run the Deposit Guarantee Fund, the Vlorosin and the company, they're going to be fineless, and they're not going to return a penny to people, because everything's already stolen. Yes, I think we should not vote in favour of such laws, which violate the 11 articles of the Constitution of Ukraine. And this law, by the way, maybe the International Monetary Fund and the puppeteers of global space don't know that once this law is passed, it will be repealed in the Constitutional Court because it is deeply unconstitutional. That's too bad. Our faction will vote against this propaganda and against this crime against the sovereignty of Ukraine. And we will be obliged to sign a petition to the Constitutional Court so that no one else, dilettantes, or ignorant people can just think of such things.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-13-m0.u133	Danilo Alexandrovich Getmants.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-13-m0.u134	Thank you. Thank you, Julia Volodymyrna, for characterizing my personal and my colleagues who supported this law. You're actually a person who's much more professional than we are in politics, and that's why you're really, I'm sure you understand what this law is about. This law really isn't about Private Bank or any other bank, this law about the stability of the financial system. This investor law, this business law, has money in it. This law that the bank that has been destroyed cannot be restored to its original state, thus violating all the legal processes that have resulted from the decision to liquidate the bank. That's what this law is about. And unfortunately, you're manipulating and giving birth to some myths. Among these myths, the decision of the National Bank cannot be accused. It can be accused according to the law. With regard to the amnesty of Gottari, there is no provision in the law that changes to the Criminal Code or depriving someone of responsibility.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-13-m0.u135	Thank you. The replica is a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-13-m0.u136	Dear colleagues, I think that the assessment of this law will be given by the Constitutional Court when it makes clear that the 11 articles of the Constitution are grossly, brutally violated. We have an arbitrator in the country so far, this is the Constitutional Court. Until this court is overturned and placed in the service on the outside. And once again, if you think that the National Bank may not be subject to the ruling of the Supreme Court of Ukraine, you're ruining not only the sovereignty of Ukraine, but you're ruining the rule of law of Ukraine and you're turning us into a third world country, a banana republic with which no one can count and with whom anyone, to whom it's convenient, can essentially say, accept this law, and we'll give you another piece of food, lady, another piece of paper. That can't be right!
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-13-m0.u137	Vlasenko Sergei Volodymyrovich, 2 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-13-m0.u138	Thank you, Mr. Head. Today, we have heard a series of reports about another historic bill. Remember, Mr. President, how did you from this high rostrum praise the historic bill of 1008 on the reform of the Supreme Court of Justice? And then the Head of the Legal Committee, today’s Attorney General, also spoke of the rule of law. I want to remind you, the whole opposition then said it was an unconstitutional bill. Today, Bill 1008 is declared unconstitutional. Ukraine's been given a face-to-face by the Venice Commission for this legal ignorance. This bill has the same fate. I have a strong belief that those who are "pushing" this bill now want to help the former owners of banks go to the Constitutional Court and get a decision there on the unconstitutionality of this bill. Just two moments. First. What is the task of justice? The task of justice is effective, I emphasize this word, the effective protection of violated rights, this task of justice. But if this law tells us that even if violations are established during the bank's liquidation, even if it is recognized that those actions were illegal, you can't restore your control of the bank, what is it? What is it, Mr. President? What is it, Mr. Head? Where is the effective protection of violated rights? There is this principle of the trial, if you don't know the honourable colleagues, it's called equality in the trial. And we have a participant in the process, a superresponse, a National Bank that receives a number of rights that are much larger than all the rights of all applicants in this country. Because the courts, under this law, are bound by this, I stress the word that is bound to be guided by the findings of the National Bank when dealing with cases. It's called a superresponse. This is called getting Nazbank out of the jurisdiction of the Ukrainian courts. I mean, instead of adopting an apparently unconstitutional law, I call for a vote on the law.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-13-m0.u139	Danilo Alexandrovich, position of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-13-m0.u140	Sergei Volodymyrovich, you're an expert lawyer, I'm sure you understand that there are cases in which you can't do that. And that's exactly what happened. If you were illegally seized, then destroyed, and the skyscrapers were rebuilt on this building, you have no right to exterminate this skyscraper. And we have this situation: when the bank was a bankruptcy, then it was recapitalized, it was paid to the investors, and you want to bring it back. This is not the same object, this object is not identical to what was at the time of the decision. So it's perfectly logical, it's the exact right design. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-13-m0.u141	Thank you. Burmitz, number six. Are you insisting? Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-13-m0.u142	I've got some rights there. I can give you two minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-13-m0.u143	Give me another minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-13-m0.u144	Thank you. This law is really an anti-Colomoy law and it's not a law on the stability of the financial system. This is a law that not only rehabilitates the criminal acts of officials of the National Bank, because the left-hand side of those 105 destroyed banks are destroyed artificially. It's an order outside. Why is it done? It is to rehabilitate even today’s actions and future actions after the destruction of the remaining banks in Ukraine. Ten to 15 banks are planned to leave the Ukrainians, and they are planned to be set up by foreigners. This law is bound up with the law on the earth. How? Let me explain. When foreign banks enter here, the lending of land will be foreign banks and our land will go to foreign banks. And so those who want to own Ukrainian land will get their property. And we're told it's an anticolomian law. No, it's not. If it's anticolomyal, let it only apply to Private Bank, only to those banks that took the refinancing and didn't return. And all banks need to do research, and law enforcement checks, and bring the guilty to justice if the banks are destroyed artificially. Today, we know that NABU has already rehabilitated the actions of Huntarev, and she is no longer innocent in any way. With such ways and with such laws we go to complete cabal and surrender independence. You can't vote for this law, it's anti-national, anti-Ukrainian. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-13-m0.u145	Thank you. Mother Grigory Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-13-m0.u146	Ladies and gentlemen, I will try more professionally, without politics. Politically, I support opposition colleagues who express their thoughts. My amendment number 48 is a change to article 173 of the Criminal Procedural Code. This law introduces a new concept and definition that for me, as a lawyer, does not create obstacles or even a mechanism to implement such rules of law. We're introducing a new criterion -- it's a ban on doing things to other people while implementing the Fund to guarantee the investments of natural persons of the bank's assets, which are classified in the category of insolvent persons. What do I mean? That an arrest is a temporary ban on the owner or person who has the right to deal with matters of management, the use of property, but that right is being challenged. What is involved in banning others from doing things for a certain period of time??
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-13-m0.u147	Thank you. Gregory Mikolayovich, do you insist on voting? I'm betting on the vote number 48, National MP Mamka. Please identify and vote. [[12:52:07]] For-83 The decision is not taken. Amendment number 67, National MP Mamka. Are you insisting? Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-13-m0.u148	This law introduces many new concepts. The first concept is professional judgment. The professional judgement, I apologize, has already been said by colleagues that the National Bank is essentially replacing the competition of the parties in the trials. This must be acknowledged after the bill has been signed, which will become law. We give the National Bank, it's the defendant, it's a participant in the process, it's an increased right of use, it's using it, it's protecting it in the courts. That's not supposed to happen. We're breaking the competition process, which is the main principle in the trials. We grant the right to say "professional judgement." I'm sorry, do we have non-professionals working at the National Bank? Professionals. We also introduce a new concept of "motivated and well-founded."
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-13-m0.u149	Thank you. Do you insist on voting? I'm betting on the vote number 67 of Mamka's national deputy. Please identify and vote. [[12:53:45]] Z-79. The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. Next item 237. People's MP, Greeb. You insist. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-13-m0.u150	Dear colleagues, we have heard today that this law is not ideal. And it's definitely not perfect because it gives the National Bank authority at a level that, unfortunately, does not correspond to the Constitution of Ukraine right now. But we also understand, as Mr. President has said, that we need to adopt this law just in order not to destroy the country's economy and save it from the default. I'm proposing an amendment that will be a compromise that will only affect banks that haven't yet paid what they're guilty of, which they've received, which exceeds the amount of 5 billion dollars. So I ask you very much to vote for that amendment, and we will find consensus here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-13-m0.u151	Thank you. Danilo Alexandrovich, position of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-13-m0.u152	We think by studying your law, the law has a sign like the public. It should apply to all subjects. And you suggest in your right hand that we exclude the application of this law to entities with less than 5 billion debts. So we're going to say no.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-13-m0.u153	Sadly, there was no replica, since there was neither a name nor a name for my father. Do you insist on voting? I'm betting on a vote of 237, People's Deputy Greeb. Please identify and vote. [[12:55:48]] For-56 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. The next issue is 238, the Mamka People's Deputy. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-13-m0.u154	Dear National Deputies, we essentially give and increase the right of the Deposit Guarantee Fund and give the National Bank the right not to recognize the decisions of the courts, i.e. not to execute them, which we violate more than 10 articles of the Constitution. I want to tell all the people's deputies what the Deposit Guarantee Fund is. In my opinion, these data can be checked in the open media, that the Deposit Guarantee Fund is a pad that is not responsible for anything: (a) and (b) is not even entitled to account with bank investors. If you open up the media, if the bank is eliminated, the Deposit Guarantee Fund will allocate a liquidator to the state by way of compensation orders, and through other banks that are unliquidated, it will pay. Where is the role of the Deposit Guarantee Fund? It's missing, and it's legislative. It is simply necessary to say that this law should be political, not legal.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-13-m0.u155	Thank you. Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-13-m0.u156	The position of the committee is that this item, to which the bill is applied, removes the gap that exists today in legal relations because some decisions on liquidation are declared illegal but eliminated by the court. cancelled, but liquidation cannot be completed. So this rule regulates these relationships, it's purely technical. The committee suggests that the amendment be rejected.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-13-m0.u157	Thank you. Do you insist on voting? Yeah? I'll bet you a vote. Edit No. 238, People's Mamka. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[12:57:59]] Z-70. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. Dear colleagues, we've been through some of the proceedings that have been rejected by the committee. National MP Polakov, three confirmation papers. Prepare to vote. Amendment No. 2804. Anton Eduardoovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-13-m0.u158	Respectable citizens! When the "Serial of the People" Party went to Parliament, they promised us that they would abide by the law and work for the benefit of our citizens. Instead, we see a violation of the Constitution of Ukraine and the likely destruction of our banking system. In order not to sell out our land, but to take away their last savings from the people. At the same time, the authorities are cynically explaining the need for a tranche from the IMF. At the same time, we did not get the billion promised by the President and the IMF. The IMF tells us that the program will not be implemented and that they actually cancel it in one-sided order. And it's the same program. (Sorry to bother you so much.) The same program that we were supposed to get billions of dollars already.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-13-m0.u159	Anton Eduardoovich, you're now calling editing the old table. That's 45 revisions, 2804, right? She was counted by the committee, that's Polyakov's readjustment. Are you ready to vote, Your Honor? Prepare for the vote, please. This amendment was taken into account by the committee, just so everyone would understand, the amendment by Polack Anton Eduardoovich, now he's putting it on the stand. Ready to vote? Daniel Aleksandrovitch, position, if possible committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-13-m0.u160	All the corrections that have been taken into account by the committee are requested to be supported by the Hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-13-m0.u161	Thank you. I'm betting on a vote of 45 people's deputies, Polakov, for confirmation. Ready to vote? Please support and vote. This is number 45 on the new table. [[13:00:50]] For 291 Edit is supported. It's number 46. Polakov Anton Eduardoovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-13-m0.u162	Instead of shutting down the real corruption schemes that every citizen of our country is already talking about, and thus actually filling the budget with billions of dollars, our government is doing what all the demands of international creditors are. The anti-bank law is an open manipulation, because if the "ministers of the people" really wanted to ensure that the past owners of their banks were not returned, they would have listened to my own. and my colleagues and our requests to draft a real bill on this very subject. And I'm against this bill because it violates the Constitution and all the rights of our citizens, and I call upon all the representatives of the majority who associate themselves with the "ministers of the people," not with the servants of Western investors, to support me in this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-13-m0.u163	Anton Eduardovich, with all due respect, but they listened, and they took this amendment into account. It's number 46. Amendment 46 of the Polish National Deputy was counted by the Committee, and is now in favour of confirmation, the author of the amendment. I'll put her to the vote, 46 percent. Please support and vote. [[13:02:39]] For 281 Decision accepted, correction confirmed. The next issue is the number 47 of the Polish National Deputy. Also for confirmation.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-13-m0.u164	Dmitri Alexanderovich, I can read very well, but one of the adopted regulations does not change the whole bill, which is a violation of the Constitution of Ukraine, is a violation of international conventions, and you read the conclusions of GNEU, which have finally appeared on the Supreme Council website today. I want to tell our president that I'm 32, and I'm not bad either. You promised our citizens otherwise. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-13-m0.u165	I'm betting on the vote of 47 people's deputies in Polakov. She was counted by the committee. Please prepare for the vote. Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[13:03:54]] For 273 The decision is taken, the amendment is taken into account. 273, I'm sorry! Dubinsky. What adjustments? Alexander Anatolyevich!
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-13-m0.u166	293, 294, 295.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-13-m0.u167	293 papers, Dubinsky. For confirmation.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-13-m0.u168	Dear colleagues, good afternoon! I'm not going to make any political statements right now, because there's no time for that, too.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-13-m0.u169	Wait, Alexander Anatolyevich, there's no such thing. That's an old table. That's an old table. In the new 240 rights of everything. Perhaps you won't insist, Alexander Anatolyovich? Can we get to the vote? Thank you. Dear colleagues, please prepare for the vote. Ready to vote? I am voting on the proposal to adopt a second reading and, in general, with the necessary technical and legal regulations, the draft Act amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine to improve certain mechanisms for regulating banking activities (registration number 2571-d). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[13:06:00]] For 270. Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Show the factions, please. "The Servant of the People" - 200, "The Opposition Platform for Life" - 0, "European Solidarity" - 23, "The Fatherland" - 0, "For the Future" - 3, "The Voice" - 18, "The Trust" - 16, "the Non-Factional" - 10. Thanks again. Next question. There's a five-minute recess. Thank you, Vladimir Alexandrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-13-m0.u170	Dear colleagues, back to our work. It's been five minutes. While colleagues are meeting, there is an offer. I'll put her to the vote a little later, because we're going to work. Well, we started work at 10:00, until 2:00. I suggest after the second technological break for an hour and a half. This is necessary in order to bring the hall into normal condition, to quark and to clean up the premises. If there is no objection, we can now put this question to the vote. Is there no objection? Please prepare for the vote: at two o'clock, take a break for an hour and a half to take the necessary sanitary and epidemiological measures. Is there no objection? I'm betting on a vote that's just been made. Please prepare for the vote. Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[13:11:11]] For 236 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, we go to the next question, this is the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Tax Code and other Ukrainian laws on additional support for taxpayers for the period of implementation of measures aimed at preventing the emergence and spread of coronary disease (COVID-19). It's a second reading. Registration number 3329-d. Reported the deputy head of the Committee on Finance, Tax and Customs Policy, Jaroslav Ivanovich Železniak.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-13-m0.u171	Dear colleagues, good day again. This is the same bill that goes on to tax and other benefits for our Ukrainian business. As you remember, when you accepted it in the first reading, there was a very long discussion about the release of our medics from the income tax on individuals. I am very grateful to all the colleagues who have joined this committee discussion: Mr. Black, Ms. Nina Petrovna Jujanina, other colleagues who represent practically all the factions and groups, and we have found together on the committee a joint decision to make this exemption from payments so that we do not take money into the local communities but support our doctors. And now, if you look at the table, this proposal is counted. And we've also continued to do some of the benefits that were offered in the first reading, we've improved the issue of unemployment aid, we've improved the question of who might be looking for this kind of help, so that our FOPs -- the individuals who are entrepreneurs -- can get this help, we can continue the moratorium on checks, and so on. The Committee on Tax, Financial and Customs Policy considered this bill 3329d for second reading and recommended that it be adopted in general with appropriate technical and legal developments. Dear colleagues, I very much ask you, this bill is actually waiting for our Ukrainian business. Unfortunately, the quarantine took longer than planned in the early editions, so we are now simply obliged to accept these changes so that our business can somehow survive these months, which unfortunately proved to be very difficult for them. And we very much hope that this, although small, but helpful, Ukrainian doctors and Ukrainian businesses will enable them to survive this turbulent time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-13-m0.u172	Thank you. Dear colleagues, will anyone insist on any remedies that have not been taken into account? Just you? Which ones? Black, line number six. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-13-m0.u173	Dear colleagues, the bill is designed to support taxpayers and reduces the risk of conflict between payers and controlling authorities, and will speed up the budgeting of the value added tax due to the fact that services of a regular nature will be able to reflect tax obligations on added value to service providers during the actual period of provision of such services. In the end, we have to build a relationship between an entrepreneur and a state on the basis of understanding, support and all-inclusive promotion. And what's more, we have to definitely avoid bureaucratic phenomena that not only create artificial problems, but also undermine the authority of public authorities as such. Please put Amendment 6 to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-13-m0.u174	I'll bet you vote number six, National Deputy Black. Please identify and vote. [[13:15:22]] For-47 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. The next one, which one? 58? 58th Amendment, National MP Black.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-13-m0.u175	Colleagues, this proposal creates a favourable economic climate, because taxation on foreign company dividends is an important motivation for foreign exchange in the domestic economy, which in turn is one of the important conditions for stabilizing the national currency and for strengthening the economic sector as a whole. This decision is a certain response to the difficult economic situation that has taken place in the country, because the economic crisis in the pandemic has particularly threatening prospects and global scales. That's why we need to activate all possible mechanisms to improve and stabilize the country's socio-economic situation. And one such tool is an initiative that I have proposed that creates favourable conditions for foreign financial investment, which is extremely important and relevant today. So please also put Amendment 58 to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-13-m0.u176	I'm betting on the vote number 58, National MP Black. The committee's dismissed. Please identify and vote. [[13:16:46]] For-43 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. Next number 65? Black.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-13-m0.u177	Colleagues, in connection with the introduction of quarantine measures in Ukraine, have introduced certain benefits for the payment of a single contribution to the general public social security scheme for private entrepreneurs, such as single tax payers, farm members, and persons engaged in independent professional activities. However, the persons concerned can use such benefits in paying the EU for themselves. At the same time, the issue of paying the EU to such persons for hired workers remains unresolved during a period of simple employment. I think the approach is inconsistent and illogical. In other words, it is a form of discrimination that must be corrected. The initiative is a reflection of the interests and needs of representatives of the domestic business sector. Therefore, I would like to request regulation 65 to be put to the vote as well.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-13-m0.u178	Please tell me, is this your last amendment? Last update?
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-13-m0.u179	Yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-13-m0.u180	Dear colleagues, this is the last piece of paper that comes up. Oh, no? Is it a mushroom yet? How much do you have? Two minutes. Wait a minute, wait a minute, wait a minute, wait a minute, wait a minute, wait a minute, wait a minute, wait a minute, wait a I see, Trawler. Colleagues, I asked you, who's going to insist on law enforcement? Everyone kept quiet, only Black said he would. Well, don't go out then, colleagues. Not "just walked in," but, well, with all due respect. And we're starting right now. A few people. I'm putting number 65 on the vote. She's been rejected by the committee. Please identify and vote. [[13:18:44]] For-63 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. People's MP, Greeb. People's deputy mushroom, what's the readjustment?
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-13-m0.u181	Yeah, yeah, I've got a few. Now.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-13-m0.u182	Two minutes, right?
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-13-m0.u183	Yeah, give me two minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-13-m0.u184	Give me two minutes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-13-m0.u185	Dear colleagues, we have. Today we have heard that there is a major energy crisis. And the law that we're looking at right now is absolutely the right law, and it's helping during the coronavirus pandemic. But the energy crisis started early in the fall, and it didn't work out, and the Coronavirus pandemic is getting even more complicated. And these are the adjustments I'm proposing that help make the calculations in the energy sector more transparent and normal directly for players in that market. If we don't, unfortunately, the crisis will continue. And we're also seeing today that already DP's debt of energy to market players is over 30 billion. So at least with these regulations, we can help the energy plant. I very much ask you to place all the clearances and vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-13-m0.u186	The license number?
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-13-m0.u187	I have number 14, number 21, number 28 and 63. [[B in m in s a l in]] No, they're not included, unfortunately.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-13-m0.u188	They're not considered by the committee. I'll bet on the vote number 14, People's Deputy Greeb. The committee's been rejected. Please identify and vote. Amendment number 14. [[13:20:59]] For-45 The decision is not taken. Amendment number 21, National Deputy Grib. The committee rejected the amendment. Please identify and vote. [[13:21:18]] For-39 Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. 28th Amendment of the People's Deputy Greeb. Please identify and vote. The committee's dismissed. [[13:21:38]] For-41 The decision is not taken. Number 63, National Deputy Grib. The committee rejected the amendment. Please identify and vote. [[13:21:58]] For-41 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. Nina Petrovna Jujanina, what's the readout?
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-13-m0.u189	77.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-13-m0.u190	Seventy-seven.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-13-m0.u191	Dear colleagues, as you have already learned from the Prime Minister’s report today, we are the only ones here offering truly, though minimal, but realistic, measures to maintain a small and medium - size business. Therefore, our proposal, 77 amendments, refers to the release from the EU of taxpayers — these are natural persons — for themselves, not until the end of May, but by the end of June. We counted, and the Ministry of Finance told us that this could result in additional losses of up to 900 million dollars. In fact, the figures given to us today by the Prime Minister are completely unfounded and no one has checked them. And secondly, if we don't have the ability to raise money for business to go up and start working, even though we have to do it with these minimum tools. I am still asking, however, for this amendment to be supported, because the people who are standing in front of the Cabinet today are demanding it.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-13-m0.u192	Thank you, Nina Petrovna. Jaroslav Ivanovich Železniak, position of the committee
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-13-m0.u193	Nina Petrovna, thank you for your active work, you've actually done a lot to finalize this bill. Unfortunately, as you recall, on our committee we discussed this was the firm position of the Ministry of Finance. Since it is not resourced, the committee has decided not to take this into account.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-13-m0.u194	Thank you. I'm betting on the vote number 77 of the South. She was rejected by the committee. Please identify and vote. [[13:23:52]] For-100 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. And, I take it, the last amendment, right, 114, Dirdin? No one insists on the papers anymore. Then we go to the vote. Invite the national deputies to the hall. Amendment 114.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-13-m0.u195	I insist on heading 114 is about reducing the statutory capital of the bank from 500 million to 200 million dollars. In addition, I do not deny the need for this bill, but there is a question of whether it should be included in this bill. I think we should look at it in a separate bill. And the second. What is suggested for the second reading to make changes to the second paragraph of this article, which also allows me, in my view, unlimited powers of the NBA. That's why I'm asking you to support this.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-13-m0.u196	Jaroslav Ivanovich, position of the committee. And prepare for the vote, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-13-m0.u197	Dear colleagues, we had another discussion on the committee on this amendment, and you know that before that there were many bills related to it. In fact, by making this change, we're now allowing the banking system to take out this money that they're actually freezing, and now we're sending it to support the Ukrainian economy. We discussed a lot. I'm sure that this bill was adopted unanimously on the committee, and there were professional associations, and they asked for it. Can it look better? I'm sure he will. But for that, I'm sure our committee will continue to work on it. But now this is the first step we can take. Therefore, I ask you not to support this amendment and to support the committee's position to leave the first reading in the editor's office.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-13-m0.u198	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I'm putting to the vote number 14 of the national MP, Dirdin. The committee was rejected. Please identify and vote. [[13:25:56]] For 113 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to voting for the law. Please prepare for the vote. Invite the national deputies to the hall. Ready to vote? I am voting on the proposal to adopt, in the second reading and in general with the necessary technical and legal regulations, the draft Law amending the Ukrainian Code of Taxation and other laws on additional support for taxpayers for the period of action aimed at preventing the occurrence and spread of coronary disease (COVID-19) (registration number 3329-d). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[13:27:09]] For 333 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Hello, colleagues. The next bill is the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Collection and Accounting of the Only Contribution to the General Compulsory State Social Insurance (removal of discrimination over the payer's circle) (registration No. 2166). A member of the Committee on Finance, Tax, and Customs Policy, Petrunjak Evgen Vasilovich, reports.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-13-m0.u199	Good afternoon, Reverend Head, distinguished colleagues. The bill 2166 was designed to improve the rules of current legislation of Ukraine on the numbering and payment of EU citizens engaged in independent professional activities, the elimination of discrimination against the law of EU taxpayers and the cessation of unfair payment by self-employed persons and natural persons entrepreneurs of the EU in the event that they do not receive income from their activities and penalties for their failure to pay. The bill was discussed in the hall, and on the first reading, the hall was unanimously supported in 04.02.2020. Since then, 29 proposals have been made to the bill. Similarly, seven suggestions were made by members of the committee during the committee’s consideration of the bill. Most of the proposals for this bill have been taken into account. In particular, proposals have been taken into account for the elimination of double social contributions for themselves from entrepreneurs, if they are at the same time accounted for as self-employed persons, or from entrepreneurs and/or self-employed persons in employment relationships with an employer who pays them the only social contribution in the amount of no less than minimum insurance payments. It is also very important to take into account the Committee's proposals for a single application for payment to payers after the release and/or after completion of the treatment (rehabilitation) exemption from the sole obligation of the payer for the entire period of their unlawful deprivation of liberty in the territory of the Counter-Terrorism Operation and/or the operation of the United Nations. In general, the Committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council the adoption of this bill as a whole as the Law of Ukraine with technical and legal proceedings. Thank you for your attention. Please support everyone. This is really a necessary bill, and the case law of the higher courts also shows this.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-13-m0.u200	Thank you. Dear colleagues, would anyone insist on drafting this bill? Oh, no? Can we go to the vote for the law as a whole? Please prepare for the vote. I am voting on the proposal to adopt a second reading and, in general, with the necessary technical and legal rights, the draft Law amending the Ukrainian Law on Collection and Accounting for the Only Contribution to the General Compulsory State Social Insurance (to Eliminate Discrimination Behind the Circle of Payers) (registration No. 2166). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[13:31:01]] For 321 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Hello! Dear colleagues, next question. This is the draft Decision on the organization of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine (Registration No. 3434). It is suggested that this issue be considered in a simplified manner. Please support and vote. [[B in m in s a l in]] Without discussion, can we? Then I would like to put to the vote the proposal to consider the above-mentioned issue under reduced procedure. Dear colleagues, looking at how many questions we have today, you may not have to worry about anything to talk about. Please vote. [[13:32:04]] For 265 Decision taken. Show me the factions, please. "Serve of the People" – 212, "Resistance Platform for Life" – 8, "European Solidarity" – 0, "Fatherhood" – 0, "For the Future" – 7, "Voice" – 13, "Trust" – 14, non-fractional - 11. Decision taken. The report is given to the head of the Committee on Rules, MPs, and the organization of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Sergio Vitaliyovich. Out of place, please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-13-m0.u201	Honorable Presidium, distinguished national MPs! At its meeting, the Regulatory Committee considered draft Decree 3434, which is proposed to recognize paragraph 1 of the Order of 17 March, and the Supreme Council to take note that, as of 18 May, Parliament is working in accordance with the calendar plan approved by the Order of 16 January. The committee decided to adopt the opinion and recommend to Parliament, in accordance with Article 138, to accept it as a basis and as a whole, but taking into account the Committee's clarification of the date of entry into force, namely, paragraph 3 of the draft text: "This ruling takes effect from May 17, 2020." Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-13-m0.u202	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please sign up: two for, two against the factions for the performance. Kabachenko Vladimir Viktorovich. Vadim Evgenovich Ivchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-13-m0.u203	Vadim Yvchenko, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear colleagues, you want to start the work of the Supreme Council -- the right decision. And when are you going to let a small, medium-sized entrepreneur work? When will you open the country? I went out to this rostrum to talk about your double standards. Do you remember that night when you discovered quarantine under cover all over the country, and here you gathered 450 deputies and quietly sold Ukrainian land? Colleagues, do you remember the TSC we created with you? Why? To investigate what didn't come into the budget. And when the Fatherland faction raises the question of Naftogaz, that the budget has not received more than 70 billion dollars, you vote as the Servant of the People against. I went out to talk about double standards. You've closed down food markets in all the district centers, and you've left large retails and some wholesale malls. These are double standards. Fellows, you're talking about restaurants, you're talking about closed restaurants, you're talking about services, and your deputies are opening their own shops and their own restaurants! These are double standards. Colleagues, you're talking about doctors, you're talking about an extra 300 percent. No medic in the country has yet received 300 percent, and a brigade in the Sumskie region has been told: 150 tests a day to get a supplement. Brigades that travel to rural areas You're talking about starting work at 18.05, and you're going to keep Ukraine quarantined for a week, and the Ukrainian business is not going to get profits, and the employers are not going to be able to pay people a decent salary. These are double standards, these are your double standards. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-13-m0.u204	Sophia Romanovna Fedina.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-13-m0.u205	Please pass the word to Irina Heratchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-13-m0.u206	Heroceno.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-13-m0.u207	Dear colleagues, "European Solidarity" draws the attention of the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to the need to comply with the Supreme Council of Ukraine. So today the second item of the agenda was the report by the head of the National Bank of Ukraine, which is contained in all the documents that the Ukrainian national deputies received from all the factions. Indeed, according to the Rules, the report of the head of the National Bank of Ukraine does not require any decrees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, but the report does. In fact, after the report by the head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine was completed, we were surprised to hear that a decree would be prepared. Excuse me, Head of the National Bank of Ukraine. We were surprised to hear that a decision would be made. We urge our colleagues not to violate the Rules. Now with regard to the Supreme Council of Ukraine Ordinance. They have to define, in fact, double standards of authority to the Ukrainians. We haven't heard from the government manager today, so what's going on with the quarantine. How is it that the Ukrainian national representative, who owns restaurants, is not even fined for his restaurant working at a time when the whole country, the whole small, medium-sized business, was quarantined? And what's more, in their interview, the "servants" bragged that even from the President they didn't get "yayyyyyyyyyyyy" and "yyy-yyy" when the whole country, everyone who bathed there in Dnieper, you know, got caught and fined for 17,000 bracelets. In fact, we are surprised to learn that today we have not heard from the leadership of the country, from the government, really when the medical allowance is paid. The president called for a round of applause for the medics. So do not give them a round of applause, but pay the promised 300 percent of their wages, dear colleagues. Similarly, be careful that you do what is voted here and not.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-13-m0.u208	Papiev Mikhailo Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-13-m0.u209	Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine, Your Honor! During my consideration of this draft ruling at the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the Rules, I had a proposal, a very simple and further point to ask the Prime Minister of Ukraine to explain the situation in general when the quarantine was extended until May 22 and the Supreme Council of Ukraine as a senior legislative body which, according to the Constitution of Ukraine, controls the government and actually appoints this government to explain to people, so who is right: the Cabinet of Ministers, who says quarantine is up to 22, or the Supreme Council, who says that we should work from the 18th? And the important thing is that we can explain it to people. So in fact, when the Supreme Council of Ukraine now votes on this draft decision, the government has to resign. So we're actually saying that we don't care about the government's decision, that the decision that he made accordingly on the extension of quarantine to 22 numbers, and the whole country, all Ukrainian citizens live in this situation, and the Supreme Council of Ukraine says there is no pandemic, nothing, we'll work from the 18th. Dear colleagues, so the law must be one for all. I mean, if the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopts laws and then says that all citizens have to follow them, please tell me, we are actually showing an example today that the Supreme Council of Ukraine does not respect in general the decision of the government that it has appointed. Yes, we can react differently to the government's decision, to its unconstitutionality, but what do we do now to people, to ordinary people, to ordinary Ukrainian citizens who sit without a job, without a salary, without a pension? What should they do? So when we're done with quarantine: the 18th, when does the Supreme Council start working, or the 22nd, what does the government say? Dear colleagues, this is a complete deception. I think there will be a time when all the people will see that this one.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-13-m0.u210	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I think. Well, to be fair and honest, first of all, the Supreme Council never stopped working. We've changed the way we work, we've worked more on the committees. If any of the national deputies at that time did not work, that would be a question for the national deputies who did. And then the second question to the Regulatory Committee is to look into. [[B in m in s a l in]] No. No, Nestor Ivanovich, for reasons just now, a man has emerged from your faction, excuse me. Next. The Supreme Council is changing its mode of work. We are moving to work more in plenary sessions than in committees, as we have done before, if this will support the Supreme Council of Ukraine Hall. But I hope that the Supreme Council of Ukraine, as the only legislative body in this country, will never cease its activities. Thank you. Julia Leonidina? Clemensa Julia Leonidivna. After that, Shahov. And let's go to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-13-m0.u211	Klimenko, the Voice faction. The Voice faction supports an exit from the 18th number and urges the government to also come out and see if they can get someone out of 18 to work, including public transportation, kindergartens, creative industries, cultural industries and much more. Let the people make money. You can't give people a chance of state support, let people make their own money. That's the first one. Secondly, if we have heard today that the government has no plan for quarantine, exit, public transport, air and rail, I urge my colleague to sit down and do it in Parliament if we have such a government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-13-m0.u212	Thank you. Sergei Volodymyrovich Shahov.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-13-m0.u213	Sergey Shahov, Luhanščina, Deputy Group "Trust". Dmitri Alexanderovich, you said correctly that Parliament has not stopped its work and worked in these walls. Let's see, 400 people's deputies. Raise your hand, who else is sick? I can't see. Thank God! This is true of all our nations. The double standards discussed today should disappear forever. The people have already removed the quarantine. And not only should Parliament work from May 18th, but our whole state. Instead of starving people, we should feed our families. We need to go out and work normally, but with limited quarantine for those in danger today. It is enough to frighten people today by the fascist, Nazi regime. Thank you. Sergey Shahov, Luhanščina, Deputy Group "Trust".
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-13-m0.u214	Thank you. Dear colleagues, let's go to the vote. Please prepare for the vote and invite the national deputies to the hall. I am voting on the proposal for adoption as a basis and as a whole, taking into account the Committee's proposals and the necessary technical and legal rights of the draft Decision on the organization of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine (registration number 3434). Ready to vote? Please be prepared. Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[13:44:25]] For 251 Decision taken. Thank you. Next question of the agenda. Congratulations, out of the 18 of all of us with the usual mode of work. The next question of the agenda is the question. draft Decision on the application of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to the national parliaments of foreign states, international organizations and their parliamentary assemblies on the occasion of the 75th anniversary of the end of World War II in Europe in 1939-1945. We need to include this in the agenda of the day session. Please prepare for the vote. I would like to place a motion for inclusion in the agenda of the above-mentioned session. Please support and vote. [[13:45:41]] For 279 Decision taken. It is suggested that this issue be considered in a simplified manner. Please support and vote. [[13:46:03]] For 247 Decision taken. The report is given to the deputy head of the Committee on Foreign Policy and International Cooperation, Bardini Marina Olegni.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-13-m0.u215	Good afternoon, dear fellows! First of all, I want to thank President Vladimir Zelenski of Ukraine for his policy of uniting our country from east to west, from north to south. Yes, on the outstanding days of May 8 and 9, the President of Ukraine visited Lugansk and Sapping to honor the feat of everyone who approached the victory over Nazism. The president has annotated a design of memorial symbols in the form of four different bells in various parts of Ukraine, which are ringing at the same time when peace comes again in Ukraine, we will return our people and our lands. On 5 May, the Committee on Foreign Policy and Inter-Parliamentary Cooperation unanimously recommended to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the adoption of a draft decree on the application of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to the national parliaments of foreign states, international organizations and their parliamentary assemblies on the occasion of the 75th anniversary of the end of World War II in Europe in 1939-1945. The Address on Respect and Appreciation for Warrior Heroes and All Those Who Through Their Daily Work During the Years of World War II Have Performed and Granted Peace to the Peoples of the World. We also call on the world community to take into account the importance of strengthening international co-operation and solidarity in the question of ending international armed conflicts in the world, restoring international law and ensuring the peaceful development of free and democratic societies, and to counter any attempt to resuscitate totalitarian ideologies and the inadmissibility of manipulating history to achieve political goals. Thank you for your attention. Please support the committee's decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-13-m0.u216	Thank you. Needed to Be Discussed? Sign up: two in, two in, and no in, from the MP factions and groups. Lopushana Andriy Jaroslavovich
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-13-m0.u217	Andrew Lopushanski. Please pass the word to Irina Heratchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-13-m0.u218	Irina Volodymyrna's character.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-13-m0.u219	Unfortunately, the "ministers" have not even been able to accept the necessary declaration of the Supreme Council of Ukraine in time for the anniversary of the end of World War II in Europe, as suggested by the European Solidarity Council last week. As a result of the anniversary of Zelenski’s presidency, Ukraine is disappearing from the world arena and returning because of a rematch in Moscow’s historic narrative. We've seen a real acquisition in this post-Radians style on many Ukrainian television channels. And even the Supreme Council of Ukraine itself for the first time in years has not celebrated the Day of Memory and Reconciliation, which leaves Ukraine in the European context of realizing what this is the key summary of World War II. When the whole world says, "Never again," and only Moscow throws weapons and yells with guns, "We can do it again." In fact, this misunderstanding of the key positions and conclusions of World War II also leads to the fact that in this room, for very many people, "what a difference." Excuse me, but as a country we would expect from President Zelensky, from this power on the day of the end of World War II in Europe, to be able to phone with world leaders to remind not only of the huge contribution of Ukraine and Ukrainians to fighting the two largest totalitarian regimes of the 20th century, but also to remind us that Russia today continues to cross the borders established after World War II in Europe, taking over Crimea by taking over the second part of Donbas by taking arms. And what's more, these divisions that were supposed to go to the so-called victory parade in Moscow, they're fighting at Donbasa today. But unfortunately, this authority has "what difference." And even in this statement that we're going to vote with you today, there are no accepted amendments to our faction, because they're afraid to tell Putin that he's an aggressor.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-13-m0.u220	It was Mikita Ruslanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-13-m0.u221	Dear colleagues, it is strange to hear words that our faction does not seem to have a political position. It is strange to hear and bitterly hear manipulations and speculations that the President of Ukraine seems to have no political position regarding World War II. Who, unlike Ukrainian President Vladimir Zelensky, made it clear that it was the two totalitarian regimes that shared responsibility for the outbreak of World War II? For me today is a special day: exactly 75 years ago my grandfather Valentin Mikitovich Poturayev, the head of 1032 artillery regiment of the 107th archery division, ended the battle path. Only today, 75 years ago, they buried the last of the dead, because in fact the Prague operation ended on May 12. And these last fights were, they didn't make any sense, because they were chasing the woods and losing people to owners, just to satisfy the ambitions of the Soviet Union's senior political leadership. I call on everyone to support the decision. It is timely because, in fact, the Red Army, composed of millions of Ukrainians, ended the war in Europe yesterday. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-13-m0.u222	Nestor Ivanovich Šufrich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-13-m0.u223	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman, Your Honor. About our previous decision on the calendar plan. I appeal to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to give orders, if we work in plenary, let the press be present. The prisoner is a prisoner, so what do you say? As far as this decision is concerned. First of all, I want to remind you that May 9 is over a little bit, and we've been meeting a few times, and our faction is long ago, on March 1st, it's a draft decree to mark Victory Day, and it's Victory Day. The Queen of Britain thanked and defined this day as Victory Day. Even the Germans acknowledged this day as the Day of Victory over Fascism, and, by the way, they had the courage to admit their guilt. And you can't be a greater Catholic than the Pope of Rome, they say, and you can't be a bigger German than the Germans themselves. Therefore, the imposition of a situation that does not exist in the Great Motherland is only the Second World, well, it certainly is not in Ukraine to speak. Because the beneficiaries of the corresponding agreement that was signed in August 39th, we understand who and what territories they came to. That's why I think we should thank those who, along with the Ukrainian people, won the Great National War. It was the Great One who liberated our territory that destroyed Fascism and saved Europe from the Hitlerites. And this is our victory. And no one's going to rewrite it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-13-m0.u224	Rachmanin Sergey Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-13-m0.u225	Please pass the word to Solomia Bobrowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-13-m0.u226	Again, I'm sorry? Samantha Anatolyevna Bobrowska
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-13-m0.u227	Samantha Bobrowski, the Voice faction. Thank you for the faction of the OPCW, which was mentioned here in the 39th year. I'll remind you that on our land, which stretches from Volina to Luhansk, World War II began in 39th, September, on September 39th, we call it, Mr. Shufric, the representative of the Zacarpathian region in this room. That's the first one. Maybe we're just not one people. And your people are out there somewhere, behind the rooster. That's the first one. One second. You know, this statement makes it so much harder for me to vote, probably than my colleagues from the LLC. Why? Because there's very little Ukraine left in this statement, you know. If any of you have read it here, except for the committee that worked on this application, well, there has been no amendment to this statement from either the Voice faction or the European Solidarity faction. This statement looks like any other statement, another post-Radians republic -- a satellite of the Russian Federation -- because there is no mention of the contribution of the state of Ukraine or the contribution of Ukrainians to the victory over Nazism. Of course, we mention all those who have worked hard and fought Nazism in our territories, but let's not forget who today the aggressor and whose occupation we were in 91st year, and whose occupation continued in 2014. Do we think like children, hide in the house, and the aggressor disappears? Because by calling it. One UN member state, not even the UN Security Council, and without calling it a name, will it make it easier for us, or will they leave our country? Yes, of course, continue to watch Gordon’s interview with Worship and make sure that Crimea is not ours. I am ashamed and ashamed to actually vote in favour of this statement, especially when it does not carry any meaningful loads and is completely inconvenient. Because it was you, colleagues of the "Serial of the People" faction, who refused to submit this motion to the agenda on May 7th. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-13-m0.u228	Nemira Grigory Mikhailovich. There was no last name, dear colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-13-m0.u229	Dear colleagues, the Restless, the Fatherland faction. Look, we're discussing the appeal of the Supreme Council to parliaments of other countries. What is the turning point of this discussion? Charges against each other and vice versa. They call names, say more importantly, the 8th Day of Remembrance and Reconciliation or the 9th Day of Victory? And we forget, by exchanging political attacks on each other, that this day is most important for all citizens of Ukraine: the 75th anniversary of the end of World War II in Europe. Has anyone mentioned the veterans of World War II in his statement? Did anyone remember what situation they were in during quarantine, when their children would not even be able to earn money to feed them, buy them medicine or food? There's no mention of it. That's why the faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-13-m0.u230	Thank you. All those who wish to speak? No, I'm sorry, everyone from the faction is speaking. Let's go to the vote. Nestor Ivanovich, look, his name. Samantha Anatolyevna, did you call her by name? No, it's not. Well, I'll get the stenographer up. It was said, "My colleague from the OCJ. I don't know that name of a national MP. Was it a last name? [[B in m in s a l in]] Nestor Ivanovich Schufrich, a replica, a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-13-m0.u231	Thank you. As a native of the city of Uzhgrad, I want to tell you that we were the first to be occupied, the city of Uzhgrad, in the 39th year. But it has happened that Bukovina and Lvivščina have become part of the Soviet Union, and to this day they are a territory of Ukraine free. Do you understand? So if we didn't do the right thing in the 39th year, we'd have some other boundaries today. So I always urge you to pay the utmost attention to your claims and demands. And Victory Day is the day my grandmother fed the guerrilla and we won. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-13-m0.u232	Dear colleagues, let's go to the vote. Please prepare for the vote. Ready to vote? I bet. [[B in m in s a l in]] Maxim Arkadyovich! Dear colleagues, I am voting on the proposal to adopt a draft decision on the application of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to the national parliaments of foreign states, international organizations and their parliamentary assemblies on the occasion of the 75th anniversary of the end of World War II in Europe in 1939-1945 (registration number 3431). Ready to vote? Please vote. [[14:01:52]] For-200 The decision is not taken. Next question. Dear colleagues, show the factions. Dear colleagues, next question. Dear fellows, be quiet! Please, next question. Dear colleagues, second hour. We voted for a break from 2:30 a.m. to 3:30 a.m. for technological reasons. We return to the hall at 3:30 p.m. and continue our work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-13-m0.u233	Let's get back to our work. You are invited to consider the draft Law on the Defence of Procurement (registration number 2398-d). Reported to the head of the National Security, Defence, and Intelligence Committee of Kopitin Igor Volodymyrovich. Dear colleagues, who will insist on their work? Baby, I remember. Except for Lubinac, no? Dmitry Valeriyovich, three papers and a five-minute speech instead of 58 rights. How many licenses do you have? One show, how many minutes, three minutes? Three minutes? Okay. Lubenets, what are the adjustments, what kind of adjustments do you insist on?
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-13-m0.u234	I see I've been on for five minutes. Dmitri Alexanderovich, I'd like to ask you to give me one minute of correction and five minutes of the next minute of my speech. Do we have a deal? I want to. In one minute, ask the committee representative. We used to talk today, including in the hall. A particular issue is the activity of the PNB. According to the Constitution, it is this body that can coordinate between the forces in our country. Under this law, you rely on these functions as part of the purchase of the Ukrainian Ministry of Defense. I have one simple perfectly logical question. I want all the national MPs to listen to him. Please tell me.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-13-m0.u235	Dmitry Valeriyovich, you've gotten so mixed up in yours. Another minute out of those five? Yeah? Give me a minute, please. There's three left.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-13-m0.u236	No, I want to remind you, we agreed on three revisions and five minutes each. So three minutes. Make it two minutes, and then five more. A specific question to the committee representative.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-13-m0.u237	You're from Odessa, I see.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-13-m0.u238	How will the Ukrainian Ministry of Defence coordinate procurement for such bodies as the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, and the Department of Foreign Intelligence? How can the Ministry of Defence coordinate procurement for a closed intelligence body? Please, I want an answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-13-m0.u239	Thank you for asking. Dmitry Valeriyovich, look, he's in charge of Mert, the Ministry of Defense isn't in charge of purchasing. The Ministry of Defense only controls the development of DCRs, and that's the only function they're doing. In the law you say is not indicated.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-13-m0.u240	Thank you. Five minutes is a performance, yes, I understand. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-13-m0.u241	Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to make a statement. Today, you can only vote for one decision: you can re-read the bill and then two weeks later, you can work with it normally, and I can say, when I say "normal", you can invite all the national MPs who have filed their petitions to the committee meeting. For example, I submitted 58 rights, and I was not invited even to a committee meeting when this bill and its amendments were considered. So here's the principle of remarks about what I said, a bill, I don't know why a committee representative doesn't answer, what doesn't do this Ministry of Defense, what rules you give the law, the main authority that coordinates and agrees with the defense order, will be the Ministry of Defence. In view of the fact that 16 entities are involved in defense purchases, including the Foreign Intelligence Service as a closed intelligence agency, you have the right to agree that they will buy. We automatically understand that a term like "closure" is not actually going to exist. The bill significantly weakens the presidential authority by bringing out the only presidential organ of the RNB from the process of reconciliation and coordination of defence purchases. According to the Constitution. I would like to say separately that if we adopt this bill today, we will violate the Constitution, because according to the Constitution of Ukraine, the only body that is responsible for national security and defence in a comprehensive way is the National Security and Defence Council. Why you want to break the Constitution and in this law, I don't understand. Similarly, this bill proposes to enforce the law of buying into a number of international organizations by purchasing with them on the inside instructions of customers, which is completely unacceptable. There are a lot of technical comments. I would specifically point out that once this bill is adopted, the cost of defence products will be increased, a large proportion of the enterprises currently engaged in defence purchases will lose state preference. And you and I realize that now there are a lot of businesses that are part of the Ucroborprom structure, and they have tax preferences to the state. After the adoption of this bill, you're actually comparing them all, and so it's quite possible that national manufacturers will reduce production, automatically release their staff. Loss of control over the production and production of complex OTT samples. In Ukraine, all the complex weapons and military techniques that have been adopted to arm the Ukrainian Armed Forces have been developed under the guidance of general designers and the creation of technology for defence security. There has been a separate order since 2001 No. 392. This fact is not included in this bill at all. So we understand that coordination in purchasing, in manufacturing defense orders. There must be coordination. There will be no such thing in this bill. The next is the disclosure of all information on state defence procurement. I'm not going to tell you that under the terms of the war with the Russian Federation, what this could lead to. You are creating the ability to block purchases. You are creating an opportunity to block Ukrainian manufacturers. Mr. Igor and I spoke yesterday, and I set an example of a particular Ukrainian production that after the adoption of this bill would not be able to produce. Similarly, the destruction of the existing system of planning in the field of security and defence will be automatic. So, dear colleagues, once again, when I speak from the rostrum, I often, almost always, draw your attention to the conclusions of the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration. So, the Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority of this bill has made a number of observations that are unregulated for the second reading. I urge everyone to vote only for the second reading. The law is inappropriate, "cheese" and cannot be accepted today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-13-m0.u242	Thank you. Valentin Alexandrovich, don't you insist? You insist. Three minutes. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-13-m0.u243	Valentin Nastavajchenko, faction of the Fatherland. Dear colleagues, I'd like to be heard by all the Ukrainian citizens, especially the professional Ukrainian military, who are at the forefront. For us, for the whole of Parliament, the number one task is to make purchases, defence purchases first and foremost the provision of a specific military, whether it be women or Ukrainian men, for advanced troops in Ukraine. As a result, weapons, weapons, medical supplies, and tactical medicine. And the third is the protection of the armyman himself: the armored vests and so on. First of all, what the defense is going to do is to start supplying to the forward and other mobile combat units of the safety modules, the sanitation modules, as soon as possible. The presence of our military, I repeat, of both women and men in the context of World War I, on the fore, in particular, is in no way adornment or reinforcement of the Ukrainian army. The other one. For the Fatherland faction, it was essential that we all understand, 2020 -- this year, the defense of purchasing for all the Ukrainian Armed Forces will be 22 billion 700 million dollars. This is the resource that we can and should invest in, Ukrainian manufacturers, weapons developers in our country. So, in principle, I thank the committee that took into account the amendment on equal conditions between Ukrainian manufacturers and foreign for testing weapons. But it is also very important that the tests of weapons and the acceptance of weapons already manufactured or purchased be decided by professional Ukrainian military personnel who will use them, using the weapons that the State must purchase to the Ukrainian Armed Forces. One more. We all have to understand that very little has been allocated, just 1 billion 200 million dollars this year for the development of Ukrainian examples of modern weapons. It's very small, colleagues, it's only one twenty from the budget that's foreseen for the Ministry of Defence. So I believe that. And the whole "Fatherland" faction, we insist that a national security strategy be developed and approved. In this strategy, the President and the RNB will have to answer clearly, as every neighbouring country has already answered who our enemy is, what armed forces we provide, what we provide. And most importantly, the Ukrainian military is the man, the military officer for whom these laws are being created and for whom we have to use the budget rationally and strategically. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-13-m0.u244	Thank you, Valentin Alexanderovich. Dear colleagues, please invite the national deputies to the hall and prepare for the vote. Are you ready to vote, Your Honor? I am voting on the proposal for adoption in second reading and in general with the necessary technical and legal rights, the draft Law on the Defence of Procurement (registration number 2398-d). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[15:50:53]] For the 220. The decision is not taken. Let's see the factions. Dear colleagues, pay attention! I am voting on the proposal to return the committee to work with the second reading of the draft law on defence of procurement (registration number 2398-d). Please prepare for the vote. I'm betting on the second reading again. Ready to vote? It's a second reading again. Dear colleagues, please support and vote. [[15:52:25]] For 236 Decision taken. Thank you. Show me the factions, please. The next issue of the agenda is the draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on improving the appointment and discharge of members of the Cabinet of Ministers (registration number 3198). Dear colleagues, we need to include this issue in the agenda of the day session. This requires the support of 226 Ukrainian national deputies. Ready to vote? 3195. Excuse me. 3195 registration number. Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[15:53:25]] For 219 The decision is not taken. For 219. Dear colleagues, to the right of the presiding officer, I declare a recess until 4:15 p.m.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-13-m0.u245	Dear colleagues, let's get back to work. You are invited to consider a bill amending some Ukrainian legislation on network optimization and the functioning of administrative services centres and improving access to administrative services provided electronically. Dear colleagues, this is Bill 2679. It is suggested that we consider it as a simplified procedure. Please prepare for the vote. Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[16:22:43]] For the 250. Decision taken. The report is given to the head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the organization of government, local self - government, regional development, and the construction of Belarus’s Larissa Mikolayovni.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-13-m0.u246	Dear Mr. Head, honourable national MPs, honourable voters, the bill to amend some of the Ukrainian legislative acts on optimizing the network and improving access to administrative services is a joint work and some consensus between the author group of our national deputies, the Ministry of Digital Policy and the expert community. Today, deregulation, dijitalization, and the transfer of authority to local authorities are at the forefront. This document is expected to resolve the legislative co-operations in view of the decentralization process and to make the service of administration more accessible and simpler for Ukrainians. Now the myths that exist around decentralization, about the fact that services are to be followed only to the district center, will be developed and people will be able to obtain services in CNAPah, in local governments, and in every community. The bill submitted for Parliament's consideration should change the quality and simplify the provision of administrative services in Ukraine and correct the existing shortcomings of legislation, in particular the provision that the RDA CNAP will now be transformed into a CNAP of local self-government authorities, and the range of services provided there will be expanded. It's also planned to implement a single national web portal that actually works is the "Dia" portal, which will allow for full electronic delivery of services. And most importantly, a monitoring mechanism is in place, and the state will get an effective tool to improve the quality of the public service throughout the country. Colleagues, the Committee on Public Authority, Local Self - Rule, Regional Development, and Urbanization reviewed and supported the bill. And the committee concluded that this bill recommended that the Supreme Council of Ukraine accept it as a basis for the first reading. Please be supportive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-13-m0.u247	Dear colleagues, for technical reasons, a break of 30 minutes is announced. But the request is not to be dispersed by the Ukrainian National Deputies.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-13-m0.u248	Dear colleagues, please return to your workplace and prepare for further work. Please insert cards to see how many national deputies are in the hall. Ladies and gentlemen, let's get back to work. Take your seats. [[B in m in s a l in]] I mean, Sergei Volodymyrovich Vlasenko, what does that mean? We'll work. You can see how intense the remote can be, even if the remote can't handle it. Dear colleagues, let's get back to work. Are you ready to work? The words for the report are given to the head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the organization of government, local self - government, regional development, and the construction of the Belarusr Larissa Mikolayivni. Just a minute. Dear colleagues, I'd like to tell you why there was a break. There were technical problems with the remote, now it's been replaced, we're continuing our work. Larissa Mikolayevna.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-13-m0.u249	Colleagues, I'm going back to our bill. So this bill proposes to solve such problems. This is creating comfortable and clear access points for the administration. By the end of the year, according to Moncifera, it is planned to create 952, where more than 100 public services are available. This bill also limits the possibility of providing services directly to the CNAP, not through the CNAP, as it is now. When life’s problem, for example, is illustrated by the fact that in some CNAP a person with the necessary pact of documents goes to the administrator and then returns again because he is transferring these documents to a nearby office. So this bill is called upon to solve this problem. It will also eliminate differences in legislation that hinder the development of the provision of services through electronic and postal services. Today, no passports, no licenses, no licenses, no license plates are available by mail, and it will finally be available after the adoption of this bill. And the only public service portal is already unnecessary; it does not meet the requirements of today. The portal is an outdated interface and software. And, for example, it's impossible to use smartphones today. So there's going to be an I-portal that's already running, Dia. So once again, I would like to point out that the Committee on the Organization of State Authorities, Local Self-Government, Regional Development and Urbanization has reviewed and supported this bill and adopted the conclusion to be adopted on the first reading as a basis. Please support and thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-13-m0.u250	Thank you. Sign up for factions: two for, two for, two for, one for. Ivchenko Vadim Evgenovich. Larissa Mikolayevna, thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-13-m0.u251	Vadim Yvchenko, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear colleagues, the state is above all services. And the more quality the services are provided, the more satisfied the citizens are. Citizens should come to the center of providing administrative services and receive real services, not stress. Most services that don't have to be provided through CNAP really have to be provided in back offices. For example, why take help that the flag of Ukraine is red and blue? And so in most services, they have to wear back office. Indeed, services should be provided directly at the centre of administrative services, not by a person submitting documents, and then the second time coming -- and someone is solving the issue. But, colleagues, I remember when we started our work with you, we always paid attention to the Science and Experimental Authority. And what worries me is that there are as many differences as there are in the powers of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, as many differences as there are in the Rules of the Supreme Council. The idea, as always, is beautiful, and the implementation that is being proposed today must be in line with many legal and regulatory acts. So "Paternality" as an idea of course supports, and understanding that the more quality services the State will provide, the less stress will be given to our Ukrainian citizens, but taking fully into account what the Scientific and Experimental Authority says, we will apply the regulations, and if they are supported during the second reading, we will give our votes. For the time being, we will refrain from adopting the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-13-m0.u252	Katchura Alexander Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-13-m0.u253	Alexander Kachura, "Serial of the People" faction. You know, these administrative services centers that exist, they work the same way as the remote in our national deputy Tuckenka. It's like it's working, but it's smoking, it's going and it's not working now, they're not actually working. I worked a lot with the so-called CNAPs, with the administrative services centers. There is now a need for reform of the administrative services centres. Every citizen should have access to quality services provided by the State because he should not go from village to district center for help. Everything should be in place, everything should be optimized, all administrators should be within one territorial unit, and that's what the bill is about. Mrs. Bilozer, a fellow MP, has done a great deal of work. This bill is in agreement with all the ministries of profile, this bill that every Ukrainian citizen can implement their constitutional right to administrative service, it just comes and gets everything in one place. He will not have to follow the help of a single center, then to agree and sign it — to another center, and then to travel 80 kilometers or 200 miles [80 km] in the area, and then to receive a third aid. In one place, all administrative services. And we support this position, and I ask my colleagues to vote in the first reading and to support this legislative initiative, because it's a bill for people. If you have chosen for the people, if you work for the people, if you are the Ukrainian national MPs, then vote on the bill for the people, though simplify their lives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-13-m0.u254	Fedina Sofia Romanovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-13-m0.u255	I give the word to Alexia the Potter.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-13-m0.u256	Alexei Hotcharenko, European Solidarity. Dear friends, you have no longer been able to withstand iron here in the Supreme Council. The smoke curtain is already coming, because in fact what's going on has to be covered up, and here's this smoke from one of your colleagues' remotes -- it's very showy. Now, let's talk about the bill that we're considering. You know, CNAP, Dia is all very interesting. Why don't we say now that millions of Ukrainian citizens are trading their personal data online today? Where did they come from, from which administration centers, these databases, have been stolen, and now everyone can learn anything about anyone? Where's the personal data, where's personal data protection? There's nothing to it. What does our cyber police do at this time? And the cyber police are doing very important things. I want to let you know, in my constituency, in the Podil district of Odessa, there's this Yuri Kapilchuk. He did this post in Facebook simply: "Greenish for selling masks abroad made hundreds of billions of dollars. It's springtime to plant the greens." And a bunch of smiley faces, and so you can see all of this, and even I'm demonstrating it, of course, in the camera, you probably won't see it. What do you think happened next? And here's where the cyber police worked: they found Yuri Kapilczuk, they set up a case on article 173-1, "the spread of false rumors." Now, when you write a Facebook joke, you're ready to make a joke in our country, and they don't need any competition. They've certainly moved to their majority in the government district, but they still won't allow competition and they'll judge people for joking on the Internet. And what's trading in databases is nobody cares. Why? You don't have to do that. Well, the main CNAP in the state knows where: the Velour restaurant on Volodimirska Street. There's all the administrative services, the whole country already knows that.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-13-m0.u257	Cabal Volodymyr Volodymyrovich. No one's insisting on the performance anymore? A kiss?
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-13-m0.u258	It's a slogan novel.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-13-m0.u259	Lozinski Roman Mikhailovich. After that, he's a baboon. And let's go to the vote. Please invite the national deputies to the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-13-m0.u260	Dear Ukrainians, you've been chased by the state around the office for a long time, chasing for help, chasing you on the floor. The state of February this year is 1 thousand 229 administrative services. These are the issues that have to be resolved by the citizens of Ukraine every day. One thousand 229 administrative services are issues that have been constantly solved in different cities, in different streets, in different offices. This was what took time, money, and very often the health of people in line who simply resolved their own questions. Now it's important that we step by step to modernize the country, and now it's important for us to step by step to reduce the Ukrainian's access and distance to these services so that they can forget about the permanent cabinets, about the arrangements, call a friend, find a relative to solve their own problems. So the Voice faction clearly supports any initiatives that help the Ukrainian solve their life problems: register a birth certificate, act of civil status, any help and anything else. This should all be online. This should all be at a distance of an outstretched hand. And each of these 1 thousand and 229 ideal services should eventually be right here, but protected, right, and without these risks that we see on other issues right now. So as far as the centres of administrative services are concerned, they should be clearly at community level, they should be every mile closer to the communities every day and with each month the work of Parliament and decentralization. That's why the Voice team supports approaching services to people, simplifying people to get help, including fighting corruption through the CNAP. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-13-m0.u261	Thank you. Bacunec Pavel Andryovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-13-m0.u262	Dear Mr. Head! Dear National Deputies! Indeed, as my colleague continues to think, every day, every week during decentralization, we come one step at a time to meet our inhabitants. For example, a few years ago, a local RDA in the city of Yavorov opened an administrative service center, making life easier for both the city and the whole area. The city councils have also created their own CNAPs. And this has happened, and it has made people much easier and more comfortable to live in these areas. This bill. The main innovation that administration centers will now be created only by local self-government is to increase the role of local self-government and to continue the process of decentralization, and that's a plus. The Trust MPs will support this bill. I urge everyone in the hall to support him, take a step to meet our residents.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-13-m0.u263	Thank you. Dear colleagues, let's go to the vote. Please take your seats. I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Act amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine concerning the optimization of the network and the functioning of administrative services centres and improving access to administrative services provided in electronic form (Registration No. 2679). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[16:48:26]] For 261 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, the next question is the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Code of Procedure, the Ukrainian Civil Procedure Code, the Ukrainian Code of Administrative Justice on the conduct of procedural periods during quarantine established by the Cabinet of Ministers for the Prevention of the Dissemination of Coronary Disease (COVID-19) (Registration No. 3383). We need to include this issue in the agenda of the day session. Please prepare for the vote. Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[16:49:26]] For 259. Decision taken. Dear colleagues, it is suggested that this issue be considered in a simplified manner. Please support and vote. [[16:49:46]] For 255 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, the word for the report is given to the national deputy of Ukraine, Dirdin Maksim Evgenovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-13-m0.u264	Honorary colleagues, voters, are being submitted for consideration by the Supreme Council of Ukraine Bill 3383. This bill provides for automatic extension of procedural periods to the quarantine period. However, an automatic extension of one stage leads to the Court’s failure to proceed to the next stage, such as the automatic extension of the appeal period. It does not matter whether an appeal is filed at such a stage, in such a case. This completely deprives the court and the parties of the case in any way of influencing the possibility of dealing with the case in substance. In addition, the current norm prevents the court from conducting any civil, economic or administrative action, as it will force the court to wait until the quarantine is complete. This leads to an end to such cases during quarantine. In order to resolve the problem that has arisen in the area of extension and renewal of procedural periods under quarantine, it is proposed that the parties concerned submit their application. The Final and Transitional Positions of the Bill provide that the procedural terms which were extended in accordance with Law 540-IX of 30.03. In 2020, it ends 20 days after this law takes effect. During this 20-day period, the participants have the right to continue the processual periods. So we're giving you the opportunity to consider and make decisions on things that are closed. I'm asking you to support this bill because after May 22, this year, the quarantine will not be complete either, and this will allow you to re-engage where they were automatically stopped. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-13-m0.u265	Thank you. Paulus Paulus Vasilovich, a member of the Committee on Legal Policy, is given the floor for the report.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-13-m0.u266	Good afternoon, fellows! Good afternoon, Presidium! The committee at its meeting reviewed the bill and recommended that the Supreme Council of Ukraine include it in the agenda, adopt Bill No. 3383 as a basis and as a whole. This is indeed a very important bill for the time being. And practice has shown that completely halting the decision of the legal force is not appropriate, since many decisions of the court are not being contested at all. It is therefore necessary to adopt this bill in order to improve people's access to justice. Thank you, colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-13-m0.u267	Thank you. Dear colleagues, is there a need for discussion? Sign up: two in, two in. Kamelchuk Yuri Alexanderovich
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-13-m0.u268	Dear colleagues, I'll be very brief. Here we often discuss matters that are important. And we go into these kind of discussions that basically lead us into some kind of, like, incomprehensible thing. There's a perfectly clear bill that's practical. Please all support and vote. And don't make anything up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-13-m0.u269	Princess Mikola Leonidovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-13-m0.u270	I'd like to speak to my colleague Knyazevitch. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-13-m0.u271	Knyazevich Ruslan Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-13-m0.u272	Thank you, Mr. Head. Dear colleagues, well, it's not as simple as it seems to some of the speakers. The point is that the rapporteur is the author of the bill, he said that a valid codex provides that all procedural periods continue automatically during quarantine. But we had just more than a month ago. This did not occur a few years ago. This is specifically under the COVID committee, unfortunately not in legal policy, and another committee has formed a general bill where it has written such an editorial. Imagine, in this month, over a month, a month, and almost two weeks, we've had court practice. There is no objection in either the judges or in the proceedings concerning such practices. And we want now that we have quarantines that actually fit the finish line, we've changed even the order of the Parliament today because we think that the quarantine decline is coming, we want to change the rules of the court system. Do you have any idea what that would lead to? This will lead not only to the various application of the law but also to the precise application of the Constitutional Court. And he has a great prospect of being one that is declared unconstitutional. Such things cannot be allowed. This bill is fundamental. It actually applies to, imagine, millions of people and a few million trials that are happening simultaneously in different judicial institutions, in different institutions and by subject and by territorial investigation. So I would ask you not to take lightly, and such bills cannot be adopted today as a whole, and we need to understand the substance of the bill. And it's no big deal if the current edition continues to work. It has shown its effectiveness and is accepted by all parties. Those courts and those parties in the process as an exception, if there are force majeure circumstances and there's some way to react adequately, it's already a precedent that they react differently, and that's an exception rather than a rule. In general, the system has understood this story, and allowing the possibility of changing the rules on the march is totally unacceptable.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-13-m0.u273	Thank you. Vlasenko Sergei Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-13-m0.u274	Thank you, Mr. Head. I'd like to fully support the previous speaker and point out the following. Less than a month and a half ago, the Supreme Council of Ukraine passed the relevant law and established rules that certain court terms continue automatically for a period of quarantine, without a court decision. And that's right, because people were limited in access to justice, people weren't always able to get to the courts, to participate in meetings, and so on. Now that we've already decided that out of 18 Supreme Council numbers work, that we're about to remove quarantine restrictions, we're completely and completely changing the rules of the court system when we're considering litigation. This is totally unacceptable, it will lead to chaos, because the courts will not know how to apply, when, and what standards. The other one. If an earlier term has continued automatically, the term is now renewed by a court decision. What does that mean? This means that not all participants in the trial will always know that renewed terms, that not all participants will always be able to use their rights, because not always, as in Kiev, district courts are within reach. It is not always possible for a person to get to the district center from a certain location, to get to the appropriate court, to express his position, and to find out that certain periods have already been extended procedurally. Therefore, the offer is balanced and the decision is made. There is such a principle of lawfulness. So let's leave this principle of the continuity of the law. Let's leave the rules of the game behind for that period that has been quarantined. And I really agree with my previous colleague that there are no such massive complaints either by the judicial system or by the lawyer. And where there are roommates who want to solve matters quickly, there are, of course, complaints. Therefore, I ask you not to vote in favour of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-13-m0.u275	Suffritch Nestor Ivanovich. Don't insist. Thank you. All those who wish to speak? Dear colleagues, let's move to voting for the bill. Right off the question. The committee recommended acceptance as a whole. What factions against? 3 factions against. Okay. I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Code of Procedure, the Ukrainian Civil Procedural Code, the Ukrainian Code of Administrative Justice for the Execution of Procedural Periods for Quarantine Activities, established by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine to prevent the spread of coronary disease (COVID-19) (Registration No. 3383). Please prepare for the vote. Ready to vote? Ready. Please support and vote. [[16:59:38]] For 253 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, the next question is the bill amending the Ukrainian Law. David Georgiyovich Arahami, of the procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-13-m0.u276	Colleagues, we have today, signed 150 signatures for us to adopt the Supreme Council's decision to support the sanctions of Russian Internet services. They end up there on May 15. And in order not to get together on Monday, I propose today the final questions to call a new outpost and just vote on it. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-13-m0.u277	See, if no one objects, I can issue orders to convene an extraordinary meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine today at the end of this meeting. Okay. Please prepare an appropriate management project. Let's move on to the next question. You are invited to consider the draft Act amending the Law on the Court of Justice and the Status of Judges concerning the temporary transfer of judges to another court (registration No. 2823). We need to include this issue in the agenda of the day session. Please prepare for the vote, and support is needed for 226 Ukrainian national deputies. Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[17:01:44]] For 272 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, perhaps without discussion? Is It Discussed? Discussed. It is suggested that this issue be considered in a simplified manner. Please support and vote. [[17:02:10]] For 266 Decision taken. The report is given to the Ukrainian national deputy Babia Romano Viacheslavovich. [[B in m in s a l in]] Well, they insist on talking to their colleagues. Look, "ES" and "Fatherland" against, they insist on talking. I don't mind, I can put it to a vote, but my colleagues say no.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-13-m0.u278	Good afternoon, dear colleagues. Baby Roman, "Serial of the People" faction. Your attention is on the proposal for amendments to the Ukrainian Act on Judiciality and the Status of Judges, which refer to the extension of the term of the judges to other courts. According to the current legislature, a judge may be assigned to another Supreme Court of Justice only for a term of not more than one year. Changes are proposed to grant the right to continue the deployment period for a period of not more than one year. Such an extension will take place according to the judge’s own consent and according to the statement of the judge’s head of the court in which the judge is serving. Why are such changes proposed? Well, we all know that when a judge is deployed, it's mostly in cases where there's not enough judges in other courts for one reason or another to deal with cases that have accumulated. In order for the matter to be considered within acceptable terms, or in principle considered at all, this institution is used. Obviously, one year of normalization is often not enough. Accordingly, when a referee fails to settle a certain number of cases in a year’s time, these cases are referred to a new judge who begins the proceedings. That's why it's proposed to grant the right to an IDP, taking into account a certain situation, to continue the shipping period. This will help ensure that citizens have access to justice, a timely hearing of cases, and sometimes, in principle, to their consideration in those courts where there is a difficult situation with a large number of cases or a lack of judges. I will note that this bill also requires prompt adoption. On the day of the submission of the bill, 26 judges were on duty, and their terms of service ended. Because of the quarantine regime, the Supreme Council came to consider this law a little later. However, for half the judges, about 13, this situation can still be rectified. I'll give you an example of the Redwater Court of Kharkiv, where only seven judges work, of which two are on leave. I mean, after. If we do not accept, the number of judges will be reduced by a third. Please, colleagues, back up the bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-13-m0.u279	Thank you, Roman Veacheslavovich. I invite a member of the Committee on Legal Policy, Paul Vasilovich Pavlich. Please, Paul Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-13-m0.u280	Dear colleagues, indeed, there is a great problem in our judicial system with the number of judges who are now assembled. And this bill, we understand that in general it can't solve this problem. But the bill provides an opportunity in those courts where there are really few judges, yet the judges who are in a deployment, which you already realize is also a complex part of a person's personal life, staying there and working for another year. And I think that in this period we will somehow be able to set up work on the loading of the courts themselves through the High Council of Justice. Therefore, the Committee on Legal Policy, at its meeting, recommended that the Supreme Council adopt the bill as a basis for the first reading, shortening the deadlines for proposals and amendments to the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-13-m0.u281	Thank you. Dear colleagues, since there was a request to include a reduced procedure with discussion, please sign up: two-for-two-against to discuss this bill. Please, National Deputy Germano Vasil Ivanovich, faction of the political party.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-13-m0.u282	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that this has started in the 14th year since this illustration was conducted with regard to judges. We lost two thirds of the ship's hull. And you can see that today we are united because there are no judges. In fact, we have denied citizens the right to defend their rights and interests, which is the reason. And we're looking for consequences. And the second. What my colleagues have offered is really what there is, there are problems like this. At the same time, let's look at the other one. Why we cannot bring the law, the law, and not the Higher Council of Justice to decide whether to continue or not. Right in the law to write that it can be shipped for a term of two years, that's all. We rule out confusion, eliminate all problems, we protect the families of judges, because they are also people, and we do not need to view them as outcasts, both in exile and in other ways. And so, colleagues, I would like to say that this bill actually has the right to exist. At the same time, let's take a look at its relevance and the adoption of a standard where the law provides for two years of shipping rather than giving the organization the right to continue that term. So I would like to support us in our first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-13-m0.u283	Thank you, Vasil Ivanovich. That's just the conclusion of the committee where you represent it. Thank you. The word is given to National Deputy Michael Mikhailovich Laby, faction of the political party "Serve of the People". Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-13-m0.u284	Please pass the word to Roman Babi.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-13-m0.u285	Please, Roman Babi.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-13-m0.u286	The only thing I'd like to add is that my colleagues, that this bill was being considered at the High Council of Justice meeting, and the High Council of Justice has declared it appropriate for adoption, has made some observations and suggestions. I'm sure we'll consider these proposals and consider the bill for second reading. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-13-m0.u287	Bigwich. Knyazevich Ruslan Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-13-m0.u288	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear colleagues, some have forgotten, I'll just remind you. Here, when we were in trouble, we adopted Law 1008, which allowed ourselves to draw on the constitutional and legal responsibility of the Higher Qualification of Judges by putting an end to the powers of its members for a period of time, precisely because it did not provide for the speedy qualification of judges, which would allow all vacancies of judges to be filled in those courts where there were not enough or no judges at all, and which would make it impossible for judges to continue to be properly deployed in their posts. It's been six months. We know the fate of this bill. He's declared unconstitutional, and what the Venice Commission actually did to him. But it turns out that the CDC was released for nothing, because time and ability to form a new CDC is gone, and obviously, from the information that I have for the next few months, no one is going to form it anymore. And it turns out that once again, once again, every year, those judges, whose, you can imagine, time of departure has ended. So we want to spread the tail number, I don't know, 27 of these judges, or 25, I definitely don't have any information, but actually some of them have already left their jobs, they've already come home. And you want to make them do it without their will! Friends, where's your promised word "reform"? It is urgent to address issues in a complex manner, to launch a CDC, to reform a judicial corps, and not now to try to make serious mistakes of a kind that is as vulnerable as I am to things that, frankly, degrade the work that has been done for several years on the qualifications of judges. Please don't vote for the bill, but on the contrary, we are looking forward to the long-awaited initiatives that are likely to come to us as soon as possible on a comprehensive reform of the judicial system. And in the context of such comprehensive reform, including automatically removing this issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-13-m0.u289	Thank you. Vlasenko Sergei Volodymyrovich. Then we go to voting for the law. Please prepare for the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-13-m0.u290	Thank you, Your Honor! I actually understand what this bill came up with. I understand that this is a bill that is a way to make up for the holes that were created as a result, in fact, as a colleague said, of adopting Bill 1008, when we essentially destroyed or destroyed the work of the Higher Qualifications Commission of Judges. And it is clear that today there is no body in the judicial system that would make a selection of judges. Yes, perhaps we should direct our energies and the course of peace? Not to tackle holes, but to systematically address this issue, to re-establish the work of the Higher Qualifications Commission of Judges in its entirety, to ensure that the Higher Qualifications Commission is able to conduct competitions. Don't send people away for a year, then add another year. It's no longer a expedition, colleagues, it's already a full transfer of the judge, in fact, for 2 years to another court. Maybe we'd better adopt a bill fast enough to reinstate the activities of the High Qualifications Commission of Judges, provide an opportunity for a newly created High Qualification Commission of Judges to quickly select judges in those courts in which there is really a systemic lack of judges right now? And then it's going to be a systemic solution to the problem, not the patching of the holes that they're offering us right now. With all due respect to my colleagues who are the authors of the bill, I emphasize once again, I understand their motives, I understand that they're only seeing a way out of this today. But it's not a systemic solution, it's not a systematic approach to the system of the system, it's not a systematic approach to the formation of law enforcement practices, when a judge worked two years in court, made a decision, then went back to his court and started making either other decisions or the same decisions. That's why I'm for us to be systematic so that we can adopt a law that allows us to work systematically in the judicial system, so I'm sorry for some tautology. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-13-m0.u291	Bacunec Pavel Andryovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-13-m0.u292	Dear Mr. Head, honourable national deputies, we really need a full relaunch of the judicial system in Ukraine. And the reality of the day is that we often lack human resources in towns and renegotiations, lack of judges, and considerable overcrowding of local courts. And we, as major MPs in the Trust Group, know about this problem directly from the residents of the districts that we represent here. And actually this bill should help at least temporarily overcome this human deficit and prevent destabilization from happening. Of course, the IPR is granted the right for one year to continue shipping the judges to the same level court, and this may prevent us from allowing even more redefinition of our judges today, and perhaps in part upholding the authority of the judicial branch of power before it is fully reinstated. I propose to support this bill on both the basis and in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-13-m0.u293	Thank you. However, the committee recommended it as a basis. Therefore, a motion for adoption on the basis of the draft Act amending the Law on the Court of Justice and the Status of Judges (Registration No. 2823) for the temporary transfer of judges to another court was put to the vote. Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[17:15:51]] For 275 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, I am voting on the proposal to cut the deadlines for the submission of rights and proposals and prepare for the second reading of Bill 2823. Please support and vote. [[17:16:21]] For 248 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, the next question is the draft Act amending articles 188-19 of the Code of Administrative Offences concerning the increase of responsibility for failure to meet the legal requirements of Ukrainian National Deputies, the Court of Auditors, member of the Court of Auditors (registration No. 3354). We need to include this issue in the agenda of the day session. Please support and vote. [[17:17:13]] For 293 Decision taken. It is suggested that we consider it. Can we not discuss this? [[B in m in s a l in]] Well, maybe we should do it in full procedure then? Oh, no? [[B in m in s a l in]] I'll put it up, you don't vote. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to make a motion to consider this issue in a simplified manner. Please support and vote. [[17:17:51]] For 248 Decision taken. The report is given to the Ukrainian national deputy Stefanchuk Ruslan Alexiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-13-m0.u294	Your Honourable Head, my fellow Members, I ask your attention, literally for a moment, I will not report on this bill for a long time, because I am pleased that it was unanimously supported by the committee and this law on the philosophical approach and understanding of the importance and role of the MP in social life. You know, a lot of you have been getting a bunch of references, getting write-offs, inappropriate reactions from any organ, I'm not taking a specific case that could happen at any given time. That's why there's this initiative and I'm asking you to support it as well as supported by the committee on both the first and the basis, and in general, to take the first step to get people's MPs as representatives of the people of Ukraine to give proper and normal treatment to any official in this country. So I ask, and I want to thank my colleagues, and Alexandra Katchuri, and Julia Yatzik, we worked together on this bill, and it's being put to the vote today. That's why I'm asking you to back me up. It refers to increasing administrative responsibility for failure to reply to the National MP, failure to reply, or inappropriate response, as well as increased criminal liability for obstructing the activities of the People's Deputy. Please support and vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-13-m0.u295	The word for the report is given to the Head of the Committee on Law Enforcement in the Monastery’s Denis Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-13-m0.u296	Dear colleagues, I think that this legislative initiative is supported by an absolute majority of our hall because it is about strengthening the control function of Parliament, and every national MP in particular. Let me give you some prime numbers. To date, failure to comply with the legal deadlines for responding to the request of the Ukrainian national deputy, giving false or incomplete information on such a request is punishable by a fine of 170 dollars. Our proposal, and it was supported that this amount should be increased 20 times. Accordingly, all subsequent articles also need to be increased in the Ukrainian Code on Administrative Offences, on increasing responsibility and fines for such offences. In addition, the Penal Code, article 351, also adds fines. And that's why this bill was unanimously supported by our colleagues at a meeting of the Supreme Council Committee on Law Protection, and I think it will be supported today in the Hall. We also voted in favour of it as a basis and as a whole. So I also ask myself to support this important bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-13-m0.u297	Thank you. Sign up: two in, two in, two in, two in, two in. Or those who wish to speak. Katchura Alexander Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-13-m0.u298	Alexander Kachura, the nard servant faction. I am now taking this opportunity to welcome all shareholders, law enforcement leaders, various state-owned enterprises, who have written letters to the National Deputies for their parliamentary appeals. It was a brilliant answer from the head of Naftogazu, who wrote that his wages are intimate information, that's information that contains an intimate character, imagine. The manager of the Crossroads wrote that he was not given information and permission by members of the Supervisory Boards to pay him. The head of the Ucroborprom wrote that I'm not from the profile committee, which means I don't need information on pay in the Ucroborprom. So we were chosen by the people of Ukraine to get the information we needed to work, and we are not given that information. And for the first time in the history of these recent calls, I'm taking on the responsibility of a stockholder who owns a state, and we're being closed off as people's representatives of what kind of wages they have! This has already become a dot. And we've drafted a bill that needs to be voted on. Because the person who gets millions of dollars and some dollars, and we don't know exactly how much, he says, "Maybe a million, maybe two, I don't know." The factions came to us, and they can't decide how many, either a million a month or a million a day. We have to put a dot on this. Criminal responsibility for the lack of information to a national MP. And so it must be once and for all. Please vote on this legislative initiative. You don't need it, you need it, you need it for the people we work for and for the interests we write parliamentary appeals. The fact that individual leaders are now alerted must be stopped. And let's do it today. That is why I propose the bill as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-13-m0.u299	Thank you. Jacenko Anton Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-13-m0.u300	Dear colleagues, Mr. Head, indeed, if any deputy can mention when, for example, he calls and wants to sign up for either the minister or someone else, in reply that the minister is very busy and "you are a lot and he is alone," so cool. And I'm not talking about answers that don't always come out. And it's made up of the impression that just deputies are seen as officials as an appendage, either to the Cabinet of Ministers, or to the Office of the President. And we have, we remind you, the parliamentary-presidential republic. That's why this situation is "Bobby in Barboss," remember that cartoon? - we have to finish. It had to be done before. So I think we should vote in the first reading right now, and I think we have to add: and all the way to getting fired from work, if, for example, the deputy is not provided with immediate reception, or if there's some kind of haughtiness going, there's a transfer through the assistant that he can't, he doesn't want to, and so on. So a deputy elected by the people of Ukraine, and all the officials are appointed, most of them if they don't take local authority. So let's, in principle, as they say, prove that the Supreme Council is the Supreme Council, not just an appendage. I think that's what we need to do right now in the first reading to support and finalize this law carefully. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-13-m0.u301	Papiev Mikhailo Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-13-m0.u302	Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine, honourable citizens of Ukraine! First of all, I want to thank the author for this legislative initiative, because it is absolutely, let's say, in the spirit of what is written in the Constitution of Ukraine. In the Constitution of Ukraine, Ukraine’s national deputy is a representative of the Ukrainian people. That is why it is necessary today to fill the work of the Ukrainian national deputy with the purpose of affirming in our lives that we are a parliamentary-presidential republic, in order to restore respect for the Ukrainian people's deputies, and so that we can defend the interests of the Ukrainians both in the Supreme Council of Ukraine and in the executive authorities where we mostly have to look for the truth for people. It is also symptomatic that such laws actually appeared at the end of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's office when the authorities felt that they had to go into opposition, so it filled itself with real meaning. That is why I would like once again to thank the author of this bill, because we need to strengthen the supervisory functions of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. One more thing I'd like to pay attention to is the functions of our temporary commission of inquiry. Let's somehow limit their numbers and numbers, and let the initiators be not the national MPs of Ukraine of power, but the national deputies of opposition, so that we can once show the principle and approach of the United States of America, so that every official is afraid to go to a meeting of this temporary commission of inquiry, because he can either get out of there without a job or get out of there in handcuffs. We need to direct our activities so that we can defend people’s interests. The Opposition Platform for Life voted in favour of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-13-m0.u303	Zbrodsky Mikhailo Vitaliovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-13-m0.u304	Thank you, Mr. Head. Irina Heratschenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-13-m0.u305	Dear colleagues, it is funny to adopt laws when all the work of this Parliament is devoted to the destruction of the institution of parliamentaryism. For the first time in the history of the Ukrainian Parliament, for example, we found ourselves with the families of the Heroes of the Heavenly 100 in a situation where a former colleague of yours, the "servants", when she was acting as D.B.I. Manager, simply wouldn't let the deputies of the Supreme Council of Ukraine meet. And through trial, we made a commitment to break the case because we had been hindered as Ukrainian national deputies to meet with the leadership of this body in order to make such a meeting with the families of the Heroes of the Celestial Sotny. It's funny to vote on this bill today when the "servants" broke the Law on the Defense of Purchasing, which strengthened the control role of the Supreme Council of Ukraine over procurement in defence structures. You can take whatever you want, but when you forget that you're a parliamentary republic and you don't even know, for example, who you're assigning to the government, you see ministers for the first time, when you still can't assign 3 ministers, especially the Energy Minister, the Minister of Education, and you're trying to talk here about increasing your powers, that's all, you know, imitating violent activity. Actually, another example. For example, ours. We can tell each other hundreds of times when we get the receipts, and our colleague Nina Yuzanin sends this dissatisfaction to his leadership of the Supreme Council for such a receipt, and the Supreme Council's management is written to our colleague, the deputy, "Yes, no, you've been answered correctly." You take care of yourself at all, friends, whatever you want. We will vote in favour of this law, but you have destroyed Parliament as such, and this law will not help you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-13-m0.u306	Shahov Sergei Volodymyrovich. It's a motive.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-13-m0.u307	Sergey Shahov, Luhanščina, Deputy Group "Trust". Dear colleagues, this bill at least brings Parliamentaryism back to this state. We're all majors. When people come to us and we can't answer, water goes to the sand every time. They're sitting in the office, they're sitting there like warts in chairs, they can't get them out of there, they're making millions of dollars. And the administrative regime won't help. We just have to plant, root out this disgusting thing that doesn't even answer the people's MP today, who was chosen by the people on a constitutional basis and given us the right to sit in this room and accept the bills. So the fines of 17,000 dollars, 34,000 dollars won't help. In just six months, we will return to this law and fully increase Parliament's authority to allow and plant those bastards who are sitting in the offices today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-13-m0.u308	Cimbaluk Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-13-m0.u309	Mikhailo Tsimbaluk "The Fatherland." I thank the authors for their legislative initiative because it is time for order. Because if the Rakhunkov Chamber is no longer allowed into Naftogaz Ukraine, then what state do we live in? If the ministers, the heads of administration don't answer the questions, the national MPs, it's already legal nihilism. And the "Fatherland" faction will support this bill in the first reading. But, honourable colleagues, the Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority of the Supreme Council stressed that it has been the Department of Control that has been pointing out for several years now that it is impossible to bring about administrative responsibility simply because the subject who is attracted to such responsibility is away from the Supreme Council, and the courts are not considering it. The second part of the first 255 article of the Code of Administrative Responsibility should be amended to read in the second part of article 1. And then this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-13-m0.u310	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I'm putting a motion to the vote. The committee recommends acceptance as a whole. Is there no objection? None. Are there any who deny it? Dear colleagues, I am voting on the proposal to adopt a bill on amendments to article 188-19 of the Code of Administrative Offences concerning the increase of responsibility for non-compliance with the legal requirements of the National Deputy of Ukraine, the Court of Auditors, the Member of the Court of Auditors. Draft Act amending the article of the Code on Administrative Offences and the Criminal Code of Ukraine on strengthening responsibility for non-compliance with legal requirements and hindering the activities of the National Deputy of Ukraine, the Court of Auditors, the Deputy Local Council. Please support and vote. Based on the base. The first time is based, you know. [[17:33:50]] For 312 Decision taken. Dear colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-13-m0.u311	Dear colleagues, I do have a request, let's take the whole, and these changes that you're talking about are changes to the Procedural Code. We'll do it in parallel and we'll accept it. Let's vote in general. Because it's not about parliamentaryism, it's about voting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-13-m0.u312	3 factions against. It's all right. Four. No, I won't. Are we voting in general? "Es" against? "The EC" is against it. What do you mean, "no"? You see. Let's cut the lines by half. I am voting on the proposal to shorten the deadlines for granting rights and proposals for second reading to Bill 3354. Please support and vote. [[17:35:10]] For 291 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, the next issue of the agenda is 2207, 2207-1, 2207-2. The draft Law on the Management of Domestic and Other Wastes. It is suggested that this issue be considered in a simplified manner. Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[17:35:54]] For 260 Decision taken. The word for the report is given to Ukraine’s national deputy, Speedhod Annie Constantineni.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-13-m0.u313	Dear colleagues, we all know about the terrible environmental situation both in Ukraine and around the world. Unlike Europe, which has been sorting garbage and processing waste for decades now, there is no regulation in Ukraine to deal with waste management through lobbying of its interests by garbage collectors and single-user garbage disposal users who do not want to pay for the package or for its processing, and to refuse to make money on garbage exports and dump it in municipal garbage dumps. By signing the Association Agreement between Ukraine and the European Union, Ukraine has undertaken to implement Framework Directive No 208/98/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council since 19 November 2008 on waste and repealing certain directives. The draft bill provides for the adoption of a series of sectoral and special waste laws, creates a legislative precondition for the creation of the most necessary central executive authorities and determines their authority in the system, thereby ensuring the development of regional plans and the implementation of the national waste management plan, and opens up opportunities for private and institutional investment. The bill is a framework for the introduction of a directive, but it contains a number of inaccuracies and questions for further development. Since the bill 2207-1 has been put to the vote, which lobbies the interests of the packers, and the working group created by the previous minister of Orgel has long been engaged in the bill and contains a number of very important comments and suggestions to be included and taken into account, I ask that the bill be submitted for further consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-13-m0.u314	The report is given to the Ukrainian national deputy Jurchenk Alexander Mikolayovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-13-m0.u315	Good afternoon, fellow head, electors! You know, we're all witnessing that Ukraine is just being turned into a garbage can today. The three callings of the Supreme Council cannot accept a framework bill on waste. The increase in natural debris is happening every day, and today there are hundreds of thousands. All of this works because certain financial groups that are directly manufacturers of the package lobby for nothing to happen in Ukraine, for no processing, and for Ukraine to become a wastebasket for all. Three bills were registered: 2207, 2207-1, 2207-2. There was a very long and fruitful discussion on the environmental committee of Parliament on the definition of the mechanism that could regulate all positions and all the parties that could actually help us. I personally asked the committee to reject my bill in order to support 2207-1 with the work of the working group, after the Ministry had established a working group, which was joined by all the parties involved in the ministry, the public sector and all the steakholders of the process. So I would like to support Parliament, to support Bill 2207-1 in the matter of going to the committee, and we from there, from the committee, with the work of the working group, we can see a real regulation that would work and that would finally stop the horror that is being done in Ukraine today by packers and other structures that are making money on the fact that garbage is getting more and more in Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-13-m0.u316	Thank you. Bondarenko Oleg Volodymyrovich, head of the Committee on Environmental Policy and Use.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-13-m0.u317	Good afternoon, dear colleagues. Indeed, all three bills — 2207, 2207-1, 2207-2 — are aimed at overcoming the critical situation that has arisen in a country with the formation, stockpiling, collection, storage and disposal of waste. We all know what the problem is in this country. With the aim of making the most important decision, a working group was formed, which held about 11 meetings, involving about 100 experts: representatives of the public, representatives of the public authorities. And really, all three of these bills were very well worked out. As a result of the work of this working group, a decision was taken on supporting Bill 2207-1 and on sending it to the committee. We really want to create a really active bill. You all know that this bill is a waste management bill, it's our commitment to the 30th Appendix to the EU Directive, and we need to adopt the entire waste management legislation system. This will be the first framework bill. It has to contain all the necessary positions, and this is the introduction of a waste management system, and this is the introduction of an extended responsibility of the manufacturer, and the introduction of standards in accordance with European legislation and so on. We ask you to support the committee's decision to submit this bill for further work, 2207-1, to the committee, for a few weeks we will return it to the hall again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-13-m0.u318	Dear colleagues, since the committee recommends that Bill 2207-1 be sent to prepare for the re-reading of the first reading, I propose that we vote in favour without discussion. Is there no objection? I'll bet you a vote on the motion to refer you to the committee for a rerun. to prepare for the re-reading of the draft Domestic and Other Waste Management Act (Registration No. 2207-1). Waste Management Bill (2207-1). For reprocessing, for re-reading. [[Noise Nodes]] To read again. Look, we can put this on. [[Noise Nodes]] To be sent to the committee for re-reading, the committee's decision. [[Noise Nodes]] No, look, I'm voting on the committee's proposal. I am voting for a motion to refer to the Committee for Re-reading the draft Waste Management Act (Registration No. 2207-1). Please support and vote. [[Noise Nodes]] I mean, you're offering to pass some kind of wrong law, Mr. Papiev, with all due respect. Please support and cooperate. I'll bet you a vote. Please support and vote. [[17:45:09]] For 256 Decision taken. Mikhail Miklaiovich, I'm sorry, but it's not accepted right now. I see you've got some personal interests here. [[B in m in s a l in]] Let's move on to the next question of order of the day. Draft Law on Amendments to Certain Legislations of Ukraine (on Strengthening Protection of Telecommunications Networks) (Registration No. 2654). Is this bill needed to be discussed? Can we vote without discussion? I am voting on the proposal to adopt a second reading and, in general, with the necessary technical and legal regulations, the draft Law amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine (for strengthening the protection of telecommunications networks) (registration No. 2654). Please support and vote. [[17:46:16]] For 288 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Next question of the agenda. This is a draft law amending some Ukrainian legislation in connection with the adoption of the Ukrainian Act on Amendments to certain Ukrainian legislation on the Simplification of Pretrial Investigation of Certain Categories of Criminal Offences (registration No. 3314). We need to include this issue in the agenda of the day session. Please support and vote. [[17:47:01]] For 276 Decision taken. I'd like to take this matter up by a reduced procedure. Please support and vote. [[17:47:22]] For 256 Decision taken. The report is given to the Head of the Committee on Legal Protection of the Monastery’s Denis Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-13-m0.u319	Dear colleagues, good afternoon again. The bill, which is now being proposed to you, is the conclusion of a long-term reform that has been under way for many years since 2012, and has previously approved the concept of reforming criminal justice, where it has been stipulated that criminal delinquency is divided into two categories: crimes and criminal offences. And the point is that criminal offenses should be investigated for a simplified procedure. This can actually speed up the response of law enforcement agencies and the largest law enforcement agency — the police on petty crimes, criminal offences. It's really going to be able to do with the police, the questions that she's not objectively getting to today because of the long circle that she's running through every criminal procedure. So, colleagues, this bill is actually technical, it provides for changes to almost 125 laws, which replace the term "crime" with "crime". On July 1st of this year, this great reform is being launched, and I ask you, there is a need to reconcile these laws with the legislation already adopted two years ago, a legislative act that will change this position. Therefore, colleagues, the committee at its meeting on 9 April 2020 unanimously decided to recommend to the Supreme Council Bill 3314 to accept as a basis, colleagues. That's why I'm asking you to support me. This is a really important bill for our entire country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-13-m0.u320	Thank you. Dear colleagues, is there a need for discussion or a basis? I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislative acts in connection with the adoption of the Ukrainian Act on Amendments to certain Ukrainian legislative acts on the Simplification of Pretrial Investigation of Certain Categories of Criminal Offences (registration No. 3314). Please support and vote. [[17:50:01]] For 280 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, the next issue of the agenda is the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislative acts to improve the legal principles of the Ukrainian National Guard (registration No. 3105) We need to include this issue in the agenda of the day session. Please support and vote. [[17:50:35]] For 228 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, it is proposed. No discussion? I'm betting on the voting proposal for acceptance as a basis. [[B in m in s a l in]] What's "no"? Discussing? Dear colleagues, it is suggested that this issue be considered in a simplified manner. Please support and vote. [[17:51:13]] For 206 Decision taken. The report is given to the Ukrainian national deputy Bakumov Alexander Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-13-m0.u321	Good afternoon, Your Honor! Dear colleagues, you will be mindful of the draft Act amending certain legislative acts to improve the legal principles of the Ukrainian National Guard (3105). I would like to stress that it is about improving the principles of the National Guard's activities, but there is no way to expand the functions and powers of the National Guard. Before this law enforcement agency was created, it was created as a law enforcement agency. Its basic idea and philosophy of establishment was to perform a law enforcement function. The fact that it's military formation is secondary. And it is during special legal regimes or during a special period that the National Guard applies to military tasks. So today, in the National Guard of Ukraine Act, the National Guard has the right to take preventive and coercive measures that police officers are responsible for, in particular, the National Police Act, which sets up. However, the Ukrainian Code on Administrative Offences does not identify an entity as officials of the National Guard in order, for example, to produce administrative material, such as a protocol. The law of Ukraine proposes that officials of the National Guard should be provided with administrative material when involved in the civil order service, i.e. a protocol for appropriate warehouses of administrative offences, such as: petty theft of foreign property, petty bullying, tobacco smoking in forbidden places, drinking beer, alcohol and soft drinks, leading a minor to a state of drunkenness, and others. Thus, by the decision of the committee, we also ask that the bill be supported and adopted in the first reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-13-m0.u322	The report is given to the Head of the Committee on Legal Protection of the Monastery’s Denis Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-13-m0.u323	Dear colleagues, today the right to draw up administrative protocols has been given to a number of subjects, a large number of them, as defined in the Code of Administrative Violations. They also include public inspectors, representatives of the public. Since September of last year, the National Guard has been involved in street patrols. We've all seen and know what role she's played in resisting the disease that she is now, after COVID-19. And that's why it's been a question that's been coming up for years now that the National Guard has the right to make administrative protocols. A number of articles that require administrative protocols are, of course, subject to discussion and will be further developed for second reading. There are also many questions and comments that will be further elaborated on the second reading. At the same time, the committee adopted and adopted a conclusion to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine to support Bill 3105 on the basis of the Committee's proposals, which you have reached in the appropriate conclusion. Colleagues, please also support this bill. In case there's a question, there are National Guard representatives who can comment on any question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-13-m0.u324	Needed Discussion? Sign up: two in, two in. Aresonkov Vladimir Yuriovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-13-m0.u325	Dear colleagues, of course, the issue of settling the activities of the Ukrainian law enforcement agencies is extremely relevant today. You can see how many drafts have been tabled even in recent times, which are deeply debated about whether or not to give any additional specific functions or powers to one or more law enforcement authorities. And so in this case, these scarecrows are going to be given some non-proprietary powers, some illegal or hidden photo shoot, etcetera, etcetera, etcetera. Believe me, look at the bill, it's not a question of that at all. At the same time, however, we need and respect those law enforcement agencies that we create and give them the necessary powers to perform our tasks. Today, the National Guard is in the lead. This is really the law enforcement agency that will help to ensure order in the state. So I would now like to ask you all to vote in the first reading. All that is needed will be further worked out in the final adoption of this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-13-m0.u326	Germano Vasil Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-13-m0.u327	Dear colleagues, I'm referring, like all of you, to the patriots of our independent state. At the same time, I'd like you to pay attention to what this bill is about. In fact, about the ultimate formation of the power structure that we buried, I'm responsible for what I said, the structures that are to resolve my individual powers. Dear colleagues who are older remember when heavy arms were placed on the National Guard when these boys were thrown into the boiler by nonprofessionals. Today, we're making them not law enforcement, but we're creating a repressive organ, we're building the last floor of a police state, because please look at what the National Guard is, what the police are, and then tell us, please, on what grounds did the military prosecutor's office get killed when we had armed confrontations and he was killed? What was behind this? And it was directed to unite in one hand, and we will see, recently, how six months later, who is behind it, and who is arming and repressing the National Guard, which by its very nature must stand guard over the rule of law and the welfare of its citizens. This is the National Guard. And if we let it, we'll reap what we have.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-13-m0.u328	Klimpush-Cincadze Ivanna Orestovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-13-m0.u329	Please pass the word to Goncharenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-13-m0.u330	Alexei Hotcharenko, European Solidarity. Dear friends, our way back to you USSR, back to the owl, we see it go on. At first, we were told that we needed permission from the State to leave. It's such a story, you know, as it used to be in the Soviet Union: there was a car, and now there's no exit. Now, a new story: let's make the National Guard of Ukraine the internal armies of the Soviet Union, and not even the times of Brezhnev, but the times, such Stalinary times, are like, you know, the moss when they have the right to make up the adminprotocol. Excuse me, this is something the police are specially trained to do in appropriate institutions. What do you mean, they're just going to make up the military's admin protocols? Take a photo, video, audio. Excuse me, who are they filming, and why? Do we have a small police force in the state? No, it's not. What do we want to turn the National Guard into? In the Cardinal Guards, who will do anything they want to do in the streets of our cities? We don't need that. We thank the National Guard fighters who are protecting Ukraine, but we don't want them to be turned into a repressive body that can start a rally that can work to shut the mouth of people who are going to ask questions about power, and about what's going on in Minsk, and beyond Minsk, and everywhere, because today there's a lot of resentment in people. And we see in this bill an attempt to create a tool -- a baton that will be given in hand and in the head to anyone who wants to say his word. No new Berkut! Do not vote for this law. It's a red button.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-13-m0.u331	Stephanie Olga Anatolyevna.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-13-m0.u332	Samantha Bobrowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-13-m0.u333	Samantha Anatolyevna Bobrowska
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-13-m0.u334	Dear colleagues, especially those who voted for the government for the second time. And I have a question: Is there any limit to the appetites of the Ministry of Internal Affairs? I'll remind all of you who didn't read this bill, which tells us about the possibility of now being able to function in Nacgardia, not just to create a protocol, an administrative protocol, not just to search personal things and so on, but also to do photo, video, audio for a person, a place or a thing. In fact, these are potential indiscretions that, according to our CPC, can only be carried out according to the court’s decision and the appropriate authorities. That's the first one. The other one. If this is not being handled by the National Police, then I have a question: why don't we see a report on the National Police? Let's talk about what it's not coping with, how much is needed, how much reform is needed? We're not going around. In the Circumstances of the National Police Act and in fact create and duplicate another organ that will actually be informally the second National Police. Dear colleagues, I think we're not moving that way. And we remember very well the year 2013-2014, and the internal troops, and part of our hall that were present at the Maidan on this side, the warring side of the barricade. That's the first one. And the second. I think we should build a strong defense and a strong army, not a police state. Thank you. We don't mind.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-13-m0.u335	Thank you. All those who wish to speak? For a minute, Balan Mikola Ivanovich, commander of the National Guard of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-13-m0.u336	I wish you health, dear national deputies of Ukraine! I'm very short. I won't explain, I'd like to stop for three moments. The National Guard of Ukraine is not involved under the National Guard of Ukraine Act, which was adopted in 2014, but rather serves on many patrols on its own. But we're not talking about criminal crimes right now. When any administrative offence occurs and the offender is delayed by the National Guard, he has no right to file an administrative protocol and let this person go. I'm sorry. The other one. This practice is common in all European countries. In civilian guards, in gendarmerie, in carabiners, and in all law enforcement agencies in military formations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-13-m0.u337	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-13-m0.u338	Ladies and gentlemen, Deputy Minister of the Interior, Anton Gerashchenko. What do Ukrainian citizens want? They want security on the streets of our cities and villages. For the past two and a half years, the National Guard has been patrolling the Ukrainian cities. During this time, 16,000 928 persons were detained for administrative offences, 1 000 806 for suspected criminal offences. The National Guard is helping police patrol our streets. The bill proposes to introduce such frightening, destructive issues as granting the National Guard the right to draw up administrative protocols to usurp power on petty bullying, on detention for small thefts, on the issue of drinking alcohol in public places, and on ten other components of administrative offences. This is necessary to make the National Guard and the National Police for Public Order more effective. There is no politics in this bill, and everyone who has read it understands that the country needs it. Please support in the first reading. If there's any comments, let's develop them together and accept them. This is an MP's bill, so let's make our streets of cities better and safer together.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-13-m0.u339	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I'm putting a bill to the vote. Please take your seats. I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislative acts to improve the legal principles of the Ukrainian National Guard (Registration No. 3105). Ready to vote? Please take your seats. Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[18:06:22]] For-179 The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, I am voting on the proposal to refer to the Committee for a re-reading of the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislative acts to improve the legal principles of the Ukrainian National Guard (Registration No. 3105). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[18:07:08]] For 215 The decision is not taken. Return the subject to the right of legislative initiative for further development. I'm putting this motion to a vote. No "no," sorry, you read the Rules, respectable colleagues! Draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislative acts to improve the legal principles of the Ukrainian National Guard (registration No. 3105). Please support and vote. [[18:07:52]] For 208 The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, I'm voting on a motion to reject the bill. All, my fellow Members, the bill has been rejected. Dear colleagues, you have been invited to consider the draft Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Code of Masters (for the non-requirement of fines on loans during the quarantine period established in order to prevent the spread in Ukraine of COVID-19), (registration number 3297). We need to include this issue in the agenda of the day session. Please support and vote. [[18:09:06]] For 288 Decision taken. I'd like to take this matter up by a reduced procedure. Please support and vote. [[18:09:29]] For 257 Decision taken. The report is given to the National Deputy of Ukraine, Victoria Alexandrovni, of Kinshasa.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-13-m0.u340	Dear colleagues, the bill 3297 is proposed for your consideration, the essence of which is simple: to prohibit the counting of irregularities, fines, pennies on loans and business loans during quarantine periods and in the 30-day period after quarantine. However, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the bill does not exempt borrowers from the obligation to pay the body credit and interest on the use of credit. It's just a restraining order on late payments. Let me remind you that earlier, on March 17th, we had adopted a law that would protect individuals from crediting fines and pennies during March-April. Today we have extended that term, but we have done so only for individuals. Today I ask you to support legal persons. Please support the adoption of Bill 3297 and help business overcome the difficulties caused by quarantine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-13-m0.u341	Thank you. The report is given to the head of the Economic Development Committee, Natalusi Dmitry Andriyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-13-m0.u342	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues! Indeed, as Mrs. Victoria said, the bill is as simple as possible, as simple as the door, let's say. It's about legal persons, about small businesses, about medium-sized businesses, about any business, about any company or firm that has taken credit in any way, and is now facing the impossibility or complexity of its payout, and so we're giving you the opportunity not to pay these fines, understanding the difficult situation in which they are. Therefore, the Committee on Economic Development at its meeting considered the bill and recommended that it be adopted on the first reading as a basis, shortening the deadline for comments and proposals by half. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-13-m0.u343	Needed Discussion? Please sign up for factions: two for, two against. Arjev Vladimir Igorovich
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-13-m0.u344	Please give Stepan Ivanovich Kubi a word.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-13-m0.u345	Kubi Stepan Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-13-m0.u346	Dear Mr. Head, honourable colleagues, the basic idea of this bill fits into the general logic of those laws that we have already passed in this session room to support business in quarantine. At the same time, what I want to say is that the project provides for a ban on instability, fines, pennies for late payment of loans, allowed during quarantine periods and within a period of thirty days after quarantine, by introducing appropriate supplements. At the same time, the GNEU's observation has to be done between the first and the second readings, they're substantial and justified, we talked accordingly on the committee. What I'm saying is that the faction of the European Solidarity Party will support this bill, but I would like to stress, in the first reading, with the development, taking into account the proposals of the GNEU. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-13-m0.u347	Danuca Alexander Anatolyevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-13-m0.u348	Colleagues, I think we all understand the situation in which people who were being credited today, so I'm absolutely convinced that this bill needs to be supported. And with the committee, he's well-worked, we're working on the second reading. And let's still defend the rights of our citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-13-m0.u349	Please, Mother Grigory Mikolaiovich, faction of the Political Party "The Opposition Platform for Life."
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-13-m0.u350	Please pass the word to Coltunovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-13-m0.u351	Please, Coltunovich Alexander Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-13-m0.u352	Thank you. The Honourable Chairman, the Honourable People's Deputies of Ukraine, will certainly support our faction "The Opposition Platform for Life" on the basis of this bill. We also looked at it on the Economic Committee, and we agree with those observations that gave the Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority that it was inappropriate to impose these fines on all legal persons, because there are those organizations that worked during quarantine, and, in principle, some of these proposals are right. But as we go on with this, I want to focus on both, and above all, the people's deputies from the ruling majority, the time to launch anti-crisis projects, draft laws that will change the structure of the national economy, which will shape in principle a new economic post-crisis policy that will contribute to the restoration of the national economy and industry, jobs and so on. Because what we are doing today is a fragmented, isolated thing that does not contribute to the systematic recovery of the economy, and, as we can rightly put it, it only gives the pillow for a softer fall. We're not recovering. That's why we're looking at the future of both the profile committee and the MPs from all and all the other parliamentary, first of all from the majority, we're looking at these anti-crisis drafts of laws that will, for example, encourage the introduction of modernization and modern new technologies, the introduction of special economic zones, the promotion of greater competitiveness of the national economy and so on, and so on and so forth. It's enough to make it softer, it's still necessary to take steps to make the country's economy recover at the pre-crisis level in 2013 and move on gradually. Or, more precisely, at an earlier rate of growth. We cannot be where we are today. I repeat, we support, but we are waiting for other initiatives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-13-m0.u353	The word is given to the National Deputy Vasilko Lesi Volodymyrni, faction of the political party "The Voice".
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-13-m0.u354	I give the word of Volodymyr the Cabal.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-13-m0.u355	Please, Mr. Vladimir Cabal.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-13-m0.u356	Vladimir Tsabal, Voice faction. Dear colleagues, surely the Voice faction supports this law. This is one of the important laws that we need to help our business, which pays off to ordinary citizens, survive this crisis. At the same time, I would like to point out that this law needs to be redrafted before the second reading. As mentioned by several other colleagues, this law provides for fines. They can be freed from fines not only from those payers who have actually suffered from the crisis, but also from anyone else. I mean, of course, we have a very large part of the economy, more, let's say, 50 percent is still working, and they can do what's called Free Redding in English, which is, of course, someone can take advantage of the situation without actually having problems. Appropriately, this needs to be further worked out. And the last thing I'd like to say. In fact, we've been told here that we are now as the Supreme Council in the fire-fighting business. It's been more than two months now. It seems to me that it is time to stop not only putting out fires but to start doing something more specific, and first of all with more strategic things that will boost the economy. And first of all, we're waiting for these steps from the government. The government should present a truly true program of action. There's been a government for two months now, and the program that we've seen, it's been 11, according to the latest information, the committees, that's half of the committees rejected, and we don't see anything new. And everyone's waiting. So I have a big call to the government: please, as the Supreme Council, we're helping you, we're putting out fires, but let's get something more strategic so that people can understand what's going to happen next and how we're going to get out of this quarantine, out of this crisis later. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-13-m0.u357	Thank you. All those who wish to speak? Let's go to the vote. I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Law amending the Ukrainian Code of Masters (for the non-requirement of fines on loans during the quarantine period established in order to prevent the spread in Ukraine of COPID-19) (registration No. 3297). Prepare to vote. Ready to vote? Everybody ready? Please support and vote. [[18:19:02]] For 278 Decision taken. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-13-m0.u358	Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the next question. The question is, the registration number of the 2030 project, the draft Ukrainian Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on State Registration of Legal Persons, Business Persons and Public Forms (for granting free registration to persons with disabilities and persons affected by the Chernobyl AES accident). Dear colleagues, I am considering the matter with a reduced procedure. Excuse me? Are you ready to vote for him without talking? Dear colleagues, then the vote is taken. Excuse me? You're ready, aren't you? There's no objection, is there? Okay. Dear colleagues, then the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on State Registration of Legal Persons, Business Persons and Public Forms is put to the vote (as regards granting free registration to persons with disabilities and persons affected by the accident at the Chernobyl AES) (registration number 2030). There's a proposal. The committee's conclusion is to take it as a basis. [[B in m in s a l in]] I'm betting on the vote on the basis, right? [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, I am voting on the committee's proposal to adopt a bill (project number 2030). Please support and vote. [[18:21:23]] For 277 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, I propose to cut the deadlines by half to make proposals and amendments to the second reading, the 2030 bill. Please support and vote. [[18:21:55]] For 241 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, the next question is Bill 322: on amending the Code of Bankruptcy Procedures (for non-abuse of bankruptcy). First I have to ask the question of including it in the agenda. Dear colleagues, please support and vote on the issue of inclusion in the agenda of Bill 3322. Please support and vote. [[18:22:41]] For 246 The decision is not taken. Decision taken, I'm sorry. I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Dear colleagues, there is an offer. from the report, no report, no discussion, how? We can do this without talking, right? Dear colleagues, the committee's proposal is to accept it as a basis. Ah, there's a proposition on the ground and in general with the necessary technical and legal ones. Dear colleagues, the chairman of the committee asks that we lay the groundwork and shorten the deadlines. Is that what I'm saying? Dear colleagues, I am voting on the draft Law 3322 amending the Code of Bankruptcy (for non-abuse of bankruptcy for periods of action aimed at preventing the occurrence and spread of coronary disease (COVID-19). Bill 3322. The offer is to be accepted as a basis. Please support and vote. [[18:24:26]] For 238. Decision taken. Dear colleagues, at the suggestion of the chairman of the committee, ask questions about the shortening of the deadlines for the submission of proposals and amendments to the second reading. We need to get 226 votes. Please support and vote. It's Bill 3322. Please. [[18:25:00]] For 236 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, the next bill under my authority. I'll ask Helen Constantine if I can.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-13-m0.u359	I ask you, Mr. Vlasenko, silence in the hall. Thus, Bill 3355 is being considered: the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Anti-Corruption Act to clarify the listing of the subject(s) of the declaration. The rapporteur is Ukrainian national deputy Stefanchuk Ruslan Alexiyovich. Please, Mr. Ruslan. And now we have to put it in the agenda first. There is a vote on the inclusion in the agenda of Bill 3355. Please vote. [[18:26:09]] For 244 Decision taken. Puts the vote to a reduced procedure. Please vote. [[18:26:30.]] For 225 Decision taken. I therefore invite you to the report of the Ukrainian National MP, author of the bill by Stefanchuk Ruslan Alexiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-13-m0.u360	Dear Chairman, the honourable ones are present! This is another initiative that relates to the issue of communication with the Ukrainian National Deputies. Honorary colleagues are taking the initiative, according to which the Ukrainian legislation will now clearly define who are the subject of the declaration, taking into account managers, deputy directors and members of the boards of state shareholders, as well as associations that are "daughters" and "grandchildren" based on state ownership. There is a proposal that the individuals concerned should be the subject of the declaration. After the proposal was made, an initiative was taken by our colleagues from our faction and from many other factions (I very much hope this decision will be supported) to expand the subject matter. In particular, we have also decided on the issue of assistant judges of the Constitutional Court, and a new model has been proposed on how to determine how to declare children and how to deal with the Office of the President. But I think we're going to have a reporter -- Mr. Ionushas, he's more clearly. But I'm asking you to come to the hall. Today, we have been very supportive of the first initiative; they are linked to each other. Responsibility, if simply set, does not work without imposing an additional obligation to open information. So I also ask you to support the committee's decision to support this bill on the basis and in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-13-m0.u361	Thank you, Ruslan Alexiovich. The author of the alternative bill 3355-1, Ukrainian national deputy Ionushas Sergey Kostinović, is invited to speak.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-13-m0.u362	Dear Mr. Head and fellow national MPs, I have prepared a bill of 3355-1 with my colleagues to amend some of the laws of Ukraine regarding the definition of subjects on which anti-corruption legislation is spreading. The bill is designed to solve and improve the three main directions. First, the management of individual state-owned shareholders does not consider it necessary to publish information on the size of their work and they are not subject to financial control. At the same time, officials of such associations sometimes manage huge financial resources belonging to the State and thus have certain corrupt risks regarding their conduct. This bill proposes to establish that the Anti-Corruption Act extends, in particular, to conflict of interest and financial control positions, to officials and members of the Supervisory Boards of State Banks and Commercial Enterprises. Secondly, in the context of the fight against COVID, it is necessary to engage a wide range of public and volunteers, who temporarily and on a free basis provide assistance, carry out medical measures, ensure the return of Ukrainian citizens. Often, individuals need to have legal status as a representative of our nation in order to implement these provisions. These are often the positions of counselors, helpers, and officials. For the purpose of eliminating contradictions and legal certainty, the bill excludes persons who work on social grounds from the subjects. And thirdly, as Ruslan Georgievic has already said, the bill deals with issues related to the circle of persons who are members of the declaration bodies, particularly children. In general, the bill is designed to eliminate differences and legal differences, to protect the rights and interests of the entities of the declaration, the integrity of the acquisition, and the transparency of their assets. Dear colleagues, I ask you to support the bill, which is sponsored by most factions and groups, on a basis.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-13-m0.u363	Thank you. The word for the report is given to the head of the Anticorruption Policy Committee of Radin Anastasia Olegni.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-13-m0.u364	Good afternoon, dear colleagues. The Committee on Anticorruption Policy considered Bills 3355 and 3355-1. As a result of the review, Bill 3355 recommends that the Supreme Council reject Bill 3355 and Bill 3355-1 approve as a whole. Thank you very much, colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-13-m0.u365	Thank you. Dear colleagues, do you need a discussion? Yeah? Please sign up: two for, two for, and two against the MP factions and groups. Lozinski Roman Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-13-m0.u366	Please pass the word to Jurchisin.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-13-m0.u367	Juršin Jaroslav Romanović.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-13-m0.u368	Ladies and gentlemen, let's imagine a situation where a minister suspected of being a National Anti-Corruption Bureau has a son or a daughter, and it doesn't matter much who's studying abroad. 14 years old, Royal College in London, or, more simply, a charter in Warsaw. And now. Actually, there's a team out there screaming and sending the kids right to learn. That's the plus sign. Well, this team is rewriting all property legally for their child. Under this law, not in 3355, which really applies to state enterprises, but in 3355-1, this property is no longer declared. You are now, if you vote for this law in the state it is, you're taking back the anti-corruption reform proposed by President Zelenski, because you're creating a legal scheme for top-corruption workers, and you're just going to be applauded to hide property. And then you can complain about why we don't have anti-corruption organs working. It's spring, you have to punish those who steal, not create legal schemes how to hide it. That is why this law needs to be broken.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-13-m0.u369	Thank you. Ivanovich Krulko.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-13-m0.u370	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear colleagues and honourable Ukrainians who listen to us are actually the case that I cannot agree with my colleague, because this bill is quite different. It's not about underage children who can't be molded because they live with their parents and have limited civil rights and competence to acquire adulthood. Everybody knows that. This bill is about something else. After its adoption, I hope that today, as a whole, members of the supervisory boards who receive disproportionate wages, heads of state-owned enterprises such as Naftogaz, such as the Crossroads, will start making electronic declarations -- and the whole society will know how much they really get. And when people's deputies are asked about what they're paying for, they don't need these calls anymore, they won't write: it's an intimate matter that I have to pay for -- there's no answers to that. That's what this bill is about. I want to call on colleagues from all factions: let's not cover those who are not assigned from Ukraine to their posts, and those who are now speculating in the Ukrainian state, getting wages that they haven't earned. Why does a nurse have to get 3,000 bucks a month and they get 500,000 dollars? The nurse can't make as much as they do in one month's time. Is that fair? Is that fair? And so what I'm saying is, this bill needs to be adopted in general, we need to put an end to it. And I'm going again to the Servant of the People. Colleagues, let's listen to Naftogaz, who's been hiding 27 billion, and he's not letting the House of Accounts in there, or the State Audit Service, no one. We can't do that in the country, we have to get everyone out on clean water, show how much they earn, how much they live. And most importantly, it's stolen back into the country. This is our task as a parliament with you. Thank you. And this law needs to be upheld.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-13-m0.u371	Thank you. Arjev Volodymyr Igorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-13-m0.u372	Victoria Sumar, please give me your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-13-m0.u373	Victoria Petrovna Sumar.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-13-m0.u374	Sumar, European Solidarity. I, colleagues, listen and wonder how under beautiful slogans "we'll make the boards of state enterprises show their declarations" we can sew up a lot of their personal heres, narrower actually, fractional interests and skins. How can supervisory boards be shown at the same time - and reduce, for example, the number of state-owned declarants, when the various advisors, the heads of state-owned enterprises, simply withdraw money? This is already a known corruption story. I'm surprised at the "children don't live together" approach. And you don't even know the simple thing that parents are responsible for their children? I'm very surprised when the political power that came under the slogan of fighting corruption never once filled out a declaration, killing an electronic declaration on a drop. Because you're actually narrowing it down very much, and this declaration was a requirement, by the way, and the main thing is getting Ukraine a visa-free regime. You actually talked during the election campaign because you want to expand and show everything, and now on the basis and in this entire room you're actually narrowing it down, because now it works for you. So I strongly recommend that we all get along with our children, understand how they live and what they live for, and then, well, there's no hope that you're going to bring together other state-owned enterprises, and not accept those that are obviously set up to solve the personal problems of those who are sitting in this room right now.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-13-m0.u375	Coltunovich Alexander Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-13-m0.u376	Please pass the word to Germany.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-13-m0.u377	Germano Vasil Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-13-m0.u378	Dear colleagues, I'd like to take a look at the subject of the study put into the fairway of this bill. First, according to the subject, look at the noise. They've got the sorority, and they can take control of both the NABA and the NCRE, and wherever you want. And here we see, I'll tell you, Mr. Jurchisin, we had one such discoverer, his family was Sobolev, he disgraced the entire system of control and the fight against corruption. We're saying it's a case study. This is true of subjects. Now for the subject. You see what this is about, what should be under control. We're told, here's the kids, here's the property, here's the other thing. Dear colleagues, we must put under control a relationship that has corruption, and no more. We live in a free state where private property is sacred. Are you already canceling it? Do you need police measures to control everyone? And the third. I would like to bring you back to the Constitution of Ukraine that the activity of the State, including the organs of coercion. The right to force and the monopoly of force was reserved solely for the protection of the health, life, dignity and honor of the citizen. And look who you were going to propose against today.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-13-m0.u379	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen. Jurchisin, the line. Please turn on the microphone, Jaroslav Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-13-m0.u380	I'm not surprised that they're actually fighting so hard to hide the children from a faction that's constantly fighting for it. I'm surprised that we make changes to the electronic declaration system on the tenth, and every time we weaken this system. And that's not what we promised. The declaration procedure must be completed on June 1. Don't hide, declare! Thus, the law must protect good citizens and officials; it cannot protect thieves; do not create theft schemes.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-13-m0.u381	Thank you. Dear colleagues, let's go to the vote. Please prepare for the vote. The committee recommended the bill as a basis and as a whole. Anyone against the whole, raise your hand. Against it, huh? Four factions against. Dear colleagues, I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Anti-Corruption Act to clarify the list of declarants (registration number 3355-1). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[18:42:01]] For 244 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, it is suggested that the deadlines be reduced by half by the application of the rights and suggestions for the second reading. [[Noise Nodes]] Vasil Ivanovich, if you don't. You can't vote. Well, let's not make you think the same thing to each other, okay? That's the committee's offer. I'll bet on the vote on the above-mentioned proposal. Please support and vote. [[18:42:51]] For 236 Decision taken. Show me the factions, please. Next question of the agenda. Dear colleagues, you are invited to consider the draft Law on the Partial Loan Guarantee Fund. ( Registration numbers 3205, 3205-1) We need to make a decision to include the above-mentioned bill in the agenda of the day session. Ready to vote? It takes 226 votes in favour of the Ukrainian national deputies. Please support and vote. [[18:43:46]] For 261 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, it is suggested that this issue be considered in a simplified manner. Please support and vote. [[18:44:09]] For 234 Decision taken. The report is given to the National Deputy of Ukraine, Black Sea Artem Olegovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-13-m0.u382	Black Sea Artem, Santa Claus. Dear Mr. Head, dear fellow national MPs! I can see in your eyes it's getting tired, but please have a moment of your attention. Today, in our agrarian country, a small and medium-sized farmer needs support, and the Committee on Agriculture and Land Policy at its meeting on April 24, 2020, considered a bill (registration Nos. 3205 and 3205-1) that proposes the creation of a partial guarantee fund in agriculture as a specialized non-bank financial institution that provides support to small and medium-sized business entities operating in agriculture by partially guaranteeing the performance of such sub-contracts. Considering that the majority of the provisions of the alternative bill are in line with the relevant provisions of Bill No. 3205, the Committee decided on the results of the review to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft Ukrainian Law on the Fund for Partial Guarantee of Loans in Agriculture (Registration No. 3205) to adopt it as a basis. Dear colleagues, the main position and purpose of this bill is to help our small and medium-sized farmer, who now needs support. Therefore, the criteria for obtaining loan guarantees are the following: The operator must be the primary producer of agricultural products, and the borrower’s land fund should not exceed 500 hectares [500 ha]. Colleagues, please support.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-13-m0.u383	Thank you. The report is given to the national deputy of Ukraine, Tsabal Volodymyr Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-13-m0.u384	Dear colleagues, the Voice faction has consistently advocated the opening of the land, but for opening the land for small farmers, for rural communities and for landowners, not for large agroholdings. And that's why Voice passed the previous law on the land market, and only 10 of them along with it, just 10 rights that were just protecting the interests of these key categories. In particular, the four key directions that we stood for were the security -- a 50-kilometre zone, that's the stage that farmers can buy land first, and then the lawyers, that's the money going into rural communities, and the fourth is the establishment of a loan guarantee fund, so not only large companies can afford to buy and process land, but also small farmers. And according to this law that we're looking at right now, this is address, this is this fourth requirement. If it is accepted, it will be a great success for all of us. I want to remind you why we are. The history of this law. This law was passed by the previous government, but then the new government immediately called it back as soon as the minister of the economy, who was associated with one of the agroholdings, appeared there. Now, thanks to me and colleagues from Voice, colleagues from The Servant of the People, who have passed, the glory of God, this law, we are considering it, and we have the opportunity to accept it. Now essentially. How does my law differ from that of a committee? In fact, laws are almost identical. The first key difference is that we're offering up to 200 hectares, a farmer who can claim this kind of help, what the committee is offering, is 500 hectares. And secondly, what we're proposing is that not only would Kabmin be able to participate in commissions that would take the board of this fund, but also international organizations, such as the UN, profile organizations. So I urge you to support both the committee version or my law if this doesn't pass. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-13-m0.u385	The report is given to the head of the Agrarian and Land Policy Committee, Solski Mikola Tarasovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-13-m0.u386	Colleagues, we were often in this room, especially when we were discussing land issues, talking about support for small and medium. What's the situation that's always been in the last 10 to 15 years, and this shows the practice, the small and the medium? When we talk about getting loans, they have two main problems, and they talk about it openly. The first is that there's not much of a wager. Second, there is a need to speak the truth about it, not always in order and correct documents. This document, this law, what does it say? A farmer who can handle up to 500 acres [500 ha] when receiving a loan may apply to the fund to guarantee a return on his loan, thus reducing the mortgage on his property. Given the above, I ask that this bill be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-13-m0.u387	Needed to Be Discussed? Please sign up: two in, two in, and two in, against, from the MP factions and groups. Please have a seat, Mikola Tarasovich. Juršin Jaroslav Romanović.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-13-m0.u388	Please pass the word to Galina Vasilchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-13-m0.u389	Again, I'm sorry, who?
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-13-m0.u390	Vasilchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-13-m0.u391	Vasilchenko Galina Ivanovna
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-13-m0.u392	Thank you very much. The Voice faction has consistently advocated the support of small, medium-sized entrepreneurs, including small-scale farmers. And this law allows them not only to be guaranteed credit, but also to be able to compensate for interest on loans. And it's actually this law that's aimed at small farmers, not big agroholdings. We will definitely support this bill. And our position is to vote it immediately and in general.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-13-m0.u393	Thank you. Germano Vasil Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-13-m0.u394	Dear colleagues, first of all, I would like to say the legal nature of this bill. Look, this is the whole foundation of this bill, starting with the word "fund" in the non-banking system. This is, this is daltic raw materials, this is farmers' money, this is producers' money that will accumulate where? In the Cabinet of Ministers. And regarding whom? To solve the question of who to control farmers, who is advantageous to those behind the fund. And so I'd like them to understand right now and give up, write in the NABU that there's a corrupt system. Where is our Ministry of Justice, which is obliged to draw conclusions on a bill regarding whether or not there is a corruption component? Unfortunately, we don't see Tiny or Little Boy who's sitting on the table. He should give us a conclusion on this. We go to the law, to the nihilistic field of law, behind which benefits, and through the institutions of state authority. And the second. Look at the subjects. Why is it set to 500 hectares? What's behind this? Who has already predicted who will have the land that they will be able to acquire when a fellow of ours arrives and collects it, dear fellows of honor? In the right hand side, it's called non-residents. They will enter our country, both legal persons and others, and will buy up the land. We're going to vote for this law -- we're going to create a site. Let's not let this happen!
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-13-m0.u395	Julia Volodymyrna Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-13-m0.u396	Dear colleagues, I think that, in principle, today's emergency meeting was held to address two issues. The first is the so-called Banks Act, and the second is this corrupt lavatress that opens up. I'm not going to criticize this law right now. I just want you to listen to what he's talking about, and appreciate, in the paws, the beauty of the game. A fund is being created at the expense of government money, and it is even prescribed — 240 million dollars. This fund creates a council, independent of a state of five members — one from a state and five from an independent international agency — to make sure that, well, worthy people are selected, which are totally independent of the country. And then this independent council for the state's money with you is going to raise small farmers as collateral, because they're going to give guarantees, and they're going to be bets for guarantees. And they will also choose which foreign banks they will then distribute. And it's all preposterous in the law. I want to ask you, what are we here with you Papuans, and we have everything we have in common? We're completely out of our minds to not understand when for 240 million dollars that are not in the budget, there's nothing for doctors to pay for, there's almost a private fund being created, and it's going to be managed by Ukraine, and it's going to guarantee that farmers are mortgaged land to lend. I'm just thinking, either we start living and working intellectually, or we have to complain about nothing else, we're just, like, ignorant. And that's why I'm asking to vote against this law, because this is exactly the mechanism for de-terminating peasants. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-13-m0.u397	Eugene Nina Petrovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-13-m0.u398	Please pass the word to Arthur Gerasimov.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-13-m0.u399	Arthur Volodymyrovich Gerasimov.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-13-m0.u400	Respectful colleagues, respected Ukrainians, do Ukrainian farmers need support? Of course, he needs a lot of support. Is there a good idea in this law? Yeah, good. But, you know, when I had a teacher, she said, "There is an idea, but sit down, two. And so to this day, the way this idea is spelled out, the technical execution that is now laid down in this law is causing a lot of questions from the point of view of corruption risks. If it's easy, it's a big risk of creating a time line using budget funds. That's why we won't be supporting this bill today. But we hope that until the second reading on the basis of amendments, based on the development of the profile committee, through the work that will be being done by deputies from different factions and groups, this bill will really be in line with the name and philosophy that it has in place. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-13-m0.u401	Thank you. All those who wish to speak? Shahov Sergei Volodymyrovich. Then we go to the vote. Please invite the national deputies to the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-13-m0.u402	Sergey Shahov, Luhanščina, Deputy Group "Trust". Dear colleagues, we certainly need to support the agricultural sector, the small and medium-sized business, the big business. But we have no right today to support corruption schemes that will rob hundreds of millions of dollars that can be distributed to pensioners, disabled people, miners, blacksmiths, Afghans. So in this situation, there are huge bombs that are going to explode. And then you, most of all, will have to be responsible for it. Think when you vote. Thank you. Sergey Shahov, Luhanščina, Deputy Group "Trust".
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-13-m0.u403	Colleagues, please prepare for the vote. Invite the national deputies to the hall. I am betting on a motion for adoption on the basis of the draft Law on partial guarantee of agricultural loans (registration No. 3205) Ready to vote? [[B in m in s a l in]] Don't make any noise! I understand you're crying for Victor Fedorovich. Mikhailo Mikolaiovich! Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[18:59:24]] For 207 The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, I'm voting on a motion to refer to a committee to prepare for a re-election. No, wait, I'll bet -- I'll pass one if it's not supported. Excuse me, this is head's mandate, colleague. I would like to vote on the proposal to refer to the committee for the re-reading of Bill No. 3205. Please support and vote. [[19:00:21]] For 216 The decision is not taken. I am voting on the proposal to return the subject to the right of legislative initiative to draft a bill on the Fund for Partial Guarantee of Agricultural Loans (registration No. 3205). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[19:01:00]] For 221 The decision is not taken. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, I'll put it to a vote. Wait! [[Noise Nodes]] Dear colleagues, please study the Rules. You don't have to wave, I'm sorry. Dear colleagues! Mikhailo Mikolaiovich, you know the rules, come on. What do you mean, 3205-1. I'm betting on a motion for adoption on the basis of draft Law 3205-1. [[B in m in s a l in]] Everyone's voting, well, Vadim Evgenovich, don't you know the Rules? Let me give it to you. [[B in m in s a l in]] Let's not have a circus! A national MP, your colleague the Cabal. I'm betting on her. [[B in m in s a l in]] I'll bet you a vote. I'm betting on a motion for acceptance on the basis of Bill No. 3205-1. Please support and vote. [[19:03:07]] For 209 The decision is not taken. I'm betting on a motion to refer to the committee for a re-reading of the bill registration number 3205-1. Please support and vote. [[19:03:39]] For 237 Decision taken. Thank you. Next question of the agenda. A bill to amend some. [[B in m in s a l in]] Let's see the factions. Some legislation on State support for culture, creative industries, tourism, small and medium-sized businesses in connection with restrictive measures related to the spread of coronary disease (COVID-19) (registration number 3377). Dear colleagues, we need to include this issue in the agenda. Please prepare for the vote. Please support and vote. [[19:04:46]] For 260 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, it is suggested that this issue be considered in a simplified manner. Please support and vote. [[19:05:06]] For 232 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, the word for the report is given to the Ukrainian national deputy Tkachenk Vladislav Vladislavovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-13-m0.u404	Guys, thanks for waiting. Cultural and creative industries face similar challenges. This law essentially suggests that we extend our hand to meet the sphere of culture and creative industries, because it already stands with an outstretched hand. Even the Kabmin culture and the creative industries have suffered the greatest in the wake of the coronavirus crisis because of the closure of many spheres of activity. We also cut their budget. What are creative industries? These are the books you read during quarantine. It's music you've been listening to during quarantine. And this is the movie you were watching. This law offers a measure of mitigation during quarantine and by the end of the year. We're introducing a state grant support system for creative industries and tourism, which is that we're expanding the experience of the UCF at the Book Institute, the Agency for Tourism, Derkkino, etc. Our next step should be to take other steps that we are now working with the Kabmin and the professional committees, namely, to reduce taxation. But most importantly, the return on funds to be institutional and individual through all grants to support culture and creative industries at this time. I would like to highlight the President's active position in supporting these initiatives, as well as constructive cooperation with the Cabinet of Ministers. I would also like to point out that this law has been passed unanimously on the committee by all the factions on our committee. We even met this morning. So I'm pointing out to you that we're asking you to adopt this law as a basis and to exclude one of the paragraphs devoted to reducing the cost of the RRT Concert, as well as some of the changes that are included in this decision. I would stress that this is the law in the first reading. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-13-m0.u405	Thank you. Can we not discuss this? Dear colleagues, I'm voting on a proposal for acceptance on the basis of a committee proposal. Discussing? Okay, wait, no. Then reports Deputy Head of the Committee on Humanities and Information Policy Krawchuk Eugenia Michaelna.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-13-m0.u406	Dear Lord Chairman, dear colleagues! Under quarantine, which has been introduced to counter the spread of COVID-19, Ukraine has to preserve the ability of business and business activity. This applies in particular to the spheres of culture and creative industries, which are extremely vulnerable. Our task is to take all possible steps to support the creative tourism industries at the level of medium and small business. The bill will allow the State to provide such support directly and effectively through the grant system through short-term, 2020 and long-term programmes on a permanent basis. Similarly, we have to give a clear answer to the question of rent during a time when business couldn't use its premises and other property and just ate the last; the rights of journalists, the suspension of competitions conducted by the Board for licences; and sanctions for violations, because the system is practically paralyzed by quarantine measures. We can create additional opportunities for radio work by amending the Ukrainian Advertising Act, by supporting state and municipal cultural institutions, by allowing them to feed themselves at the expense of renting their property. It's not about making money, it's about survival. The committee recommended that the draft law be adopted on the basis of the commission of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Humanities and Information Policy to prepare it for second reading, taking into account the comments and suggestions made by subjects of the law of the legislative initiative, as well as proposals and amendments to the structural parts of the bill that the committee concluded. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-13-m0.u407	Please sign up: two in, two in, and two in, from the MP factions and groups.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-13-m0.u408	Please, Mikhail Mikhailovich Zimbaluk, faction of the political party "The All-Ukrainian Union of the Fatherland."
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-13-m0.u409	Mikhailo Cimbaluk, Fatherland. Please give the word to a colleague of the Ivchenko Wadima faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-13-m0.u410	Ivchenko Vadim Evgenovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-13-m0.u411	Vadim Yvchenko, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear colleagues, of course, need to maintain more than just television during the quarantine period and not just pay for the relevant areas for licenses there and so on, small business, medical professionals. But there's one thing I want to tell you: Today, the head of the Agrarian Foundation has been released. You know what? During his reign, he suffered 300 million losses at the Agrarian Fund. I mean, on the one hand, we're helping, and on the other hand, we can't make any money. So think about it, the Agrarian Fund, which doesn't sow, which doesn't harvest, it buys cheaply, stores and converts into flour, and it's going to take the manager to do 300 million damage. And of course, you and I are thinking about how to support in our context the medical community and everyone else. Colleagues, we need to support the Chernobyls! What, you don't have to tell me that we have a second category that we don't even have? The fourth category, the third category, we released them, they have today, they have a limited number, and they have to be supported by us today. And we do not draw conclusions from the staffing assignments that are taking place in the country today. "Paternality" supports this bill, we are co-author, but let's systematically approach and be responsible, especially for the staffing positions, for those people who today do so that the state budget does not receive a colossal amount of money. And I'm talking about the manager of the previous Agrarian Foundation. 300 million damages to the state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-13-m0.u412	Vadim Evgenovich, this is, with all due respect, but it's not about the Agrarian Fund, it's about the creative industries. Princess Mikola Leonidovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-13-m0.u413	Thank you. Dear friends, you know that. Remember when Vladimir Zelensky performed at the Shevchenkow Prize and spoke about Churchill’s allegedly saying that he could finance culture and reduce the financing of culture because why then fight, immediately after which we cut the financing of culture. Thanks to many colleagues in our "European Solidarity" faction, we have insisted that part of the funding be returned, but only part of it. Culture suffers a lot. We see that in Western European countries, 50 billion euros have been allocated to culture in Germany, hundreds of millions of euros in Finland because of existing structures. We have considered the practice of European countries to be an experience. We are well aware that when we stopped paying taxes on land in the regions, what did representatives of local governments do? They called themselves leaders of the orchestras of symphony, philharmonics and said, "See you later, there's no money for you." There's no money for books that aren't sold in bookstores, no money for movie theaters, because movies aren't made or delivered. And even when the quarantine is complete, these cultural establishments will still be very difficult to restore. And all we've been able to do over the past five years for a Ukrainian cinematographer is now on a very big issue. This law, of course, has many questions for him. And our "European Solidarity" faction will only support it on the first reading, but it solves a few progressive things. It allows grants not only to the Ukrainian Cultural Fund, but also to the Book Institute, Derkkino. He allows these funds that the Ukrainian Cultural Fund now has, and maybe all of them will be difficult to spend. You know, the Kyiv arsenal is gone. Asked about the Lviv book form. Asked about our film festivals. This law allows these funds to provide systemic support to creative groups, yes, under the control of independent councils that exist in all these bodies. In a word, it is.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-13-m0.u414	Thank you. A word. Please, Jaroslav Ivanovich Železniak, faction of the political party Voice, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-13-m0.u415	Dear colleagues who were in Kiev last night must have seen the action of creative industries called Stop Cultural Quarantine. In fact, it must have been the largest sector affected by the restrictions that unfortunately resulted from the Coronavirus pandemic. Those demands that, as representatives of power, regardless of coalitions, opposition, political views, put creative cultural industries out there, they're very simple. First. These are plans when they can start at least part of the job, do exhibitions, conferences, other activities. The other one. Still, these are some of the answers from the government, how these measures can be carried out: how many people there should be to protect security, how limited their activities should be, but it should at least start in part. Third. And that's what worries them the most, that's real help. Dear colleagues, we can reduce the income tax any bit, but as long as they don't have any income, there's nothing to reduce. So we need to think together about a temporary or permanent reduction in taxes. VAT and other tax facilitation. Dealing with prepaid issues, which are also acute, unfortunately, is an economic relationship, but we're going to have to intervene because the problem is very high. And the last thing that many of my colleagues have been talking about is we need to think about how to find additional funds in the current budget to support these industries. It's a very important question, and we're addressing the committee head, and he's got another bill, including tax, and we're waiting for them to be developed as quickly as possible to give a package of measures that actually supports the creative and cultural industries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-13-m0.u416	Please, Vasil Ivanovich Germany, is that what I understand?
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-13-m0.u417	Dear colleagues, first of all, I'd like to say what culture is. It's a clot of patriotism of the nation, it's a Ukrainian nation, and culture is the moral of the nation. What should we go out of? Look what we have in this bill. Look at the lease. And for the lawyers, I want to say to everyone that all the buildings are in the operating department today. In fact, it's government property that's in the cultural institutions, starting with the silbud, the dance floor, and everything else. And you can see they're trying to translate it here and put it under control. We've heard here today that we want to extend the hands of culture, not the arms you're stretching out, but the claws to take away the film industry to take cultural institutions under our control on a material basis, where the dollar will craze. That's what you see there. And we can see it in Odessa's film studio. And we can see it from the way to the Long Man cinema. The following question. When we see that the legislator. I mean, the authors of this bill are in their own atmosphere with regard to regulating cultural issues through a programme of financial support again for medium and small businesses. Dear colleagues, well, it's not that hypocrisy, it's that I'm going to tell you, there's a hub to trade, to trade minds in our country. And that's not to be forgotten. If we take it off the agenda, we're going nowhere. We have a culture to protect. And I'll remind you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-13-m0.u418	Thank you. I'd like to invite Constanceevich Irina Miroslavovna, the National MP. And I'm going to ask you to prepare for the vote. Please, Irina Miroslavina.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-13-m0.u419	Irina Konstanovic, Future Group. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, first of all in my word, I address the Marjorie MPs who know the best state of culture in their districts. Practically now, cultural development in the regions is paralyzed: there are theaters, there are concert halls, there are theaters. Cultural life stopped staring. But in fact, Ukrainian culture cannot be stopped, as it was impossible for centuries to stop creative life in the Odessa region, and here our deputies represent the region as it could not be stopped, and Donbasi, in Lugansk, Volina, as it could not be stopped in every corner of Ukraine. So I ask you to support all creative workers who spend two months in penniless labor, but they actually believe in the creative potential of the Ukrainian nation. That's why the Group For the Future is through.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-13-m0.u420	Thank you. Dear colleagues, have all those who wish to speak? Please prepare for the vote, invite the national deputies to the hall. Dear colleagues, I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of a proposal by the committee to take into account the proposed clarifications when preparing for second reading in accordance with Article 116 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Rules of Procedure, the draft Act amending certain legislative acts on State support for culture, creative industries, small and medium-sized tourism in relation to restrictive measures related to the spread of CROVID-19 (3377 - registration number). Ready to vote? Everybody ready? Please support and vote. [[19:22:13]] For 260 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, the next question is the draft Act amending some of Ukraine's legislative acts (registration number 2494) (second reading). Reported to the head of the Committee on Social Policy and Veterans’ Rights by Trelyaków Galina Mikolayovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-13-m0.u421	The Honourable Chairman, the Honourable People’s Deputies, the Honourable People of Ukraine, has long awaited his turn. The bill aims to increase social security for orphans and children deprived of parental care who are in custody or in custody. It also harmonizes the principles of granting State aid to families with children and also establishes the targeted approach that our nation long dreamed of. During the drafting of the bill, 143 proposals came to the committee, of which 36 are included, 13 are partially counted, 94 are rejected. Members of the committee included, inter alia, the proposal of the Ukrainian National Deputies, including a change in the name highlighted by Ruslan Alexiyovich Stefanchuk, First Deputy Head of the Supreme Council. The rules on the inclusion of non-working persons with free work of a temporary nature, as well as the definition of the concept of "food minimum for the family", have been removed from the bill. The bill foresees an increase in the amount of assistance for children who are cared for or cared for from 2 to 2.5 living minimums for a child of appropriate age and for children with disabilities to 3.5 living minimums for a child of appropriate age, as well as social assistance for those who have reached the age of 80, they will be paid an additional monthly salary. The bill also instructed Kabmin to report annually to Parliament on the status of implementation of the Act. In view of the above, I ask the committee to take such a decision, to support the text of the comparative table in the proposed edition, and to adopt the Ukrainian Act amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine (registration number 2494) as a second reading and as a whole as a law. Thank you all. And I ask everyone to vote in favour of this social bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-13-m0.u422	Thank you. Dear colleagues, do you need a discussion? Sign up for factions, two for, two for, two for, one for. Oh, no, sorry, second reading. It's me. I'm sorry. Amendment number one, Royal. Who's going to insist? Tymoshenko, who else? It's our chess. Okay. Amendment number 11, Yvchenko. Don't insist. Amendment 13, Shahov. He insists. Turn it on, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-13-m0.u423	Thanks for the readout, there were 5. And 10 are unaccounted for, so the 13th amendment I ask you to set up and maintain the hall, because people shouldn't work without pay and they shouldn't be slaves. I ask the whole room to unite: opposition, coalition, nonfractional, and vote in favour. And for those 10 right-handers, Dmitri Alexanderovich, I'd like two minutes, if you please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-13-m0.u424	Give me two minutes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-13-m0.u425	Thank you. Thank you. I'm sorry. [[Unheard]]
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-13-m0.u426	Sergey Shahov, Luhanščina, Deputy Group "Trust". What's up? I can't see. Dear colleagues, I am from a simple mining family. And I remember my parents working, and my mother worked four jobs. And if there was a quarantine that was threatened by Ukrainian society today, and my mother would sit at home, what would she feed her children? This is also true of many families, children with disabilities, mothers who today do not even receive alimony from men who have drowsy from the country. People today sit there and don't even get one, and there's nothing to feed the baby, there's no money! They walk around with their hands stretched out in the neighborhood. This situation should also be taken into account and provided assistance from the State to such families. I don't speak for miners again, for pensioners who are suffering from this today, for black people and Afghans. Thank you. Trust MP, Sergey Shahov.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-13-m0.u427	Do you insist on voting? I'm betting on the vote number 13 Shahova. The committee's dismissed. Please identify and vote. [[19:27:09]] For-86 The decision is not taken. Number 16, Pavlovenko. Don't insist. Chess won't insist anymore, will it? Who but Timoshenko insists? Tymoshenko. Four minutes, Timoshenko instead of 12 rights and we're going to vote. Please invite the national deputies to the hall. Timishenko Julia Volodymyrna.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-13-m0.u428	Dear colleagues, I'd like you to read this bill very carefully and mention that rule of the Constitution that expressly prohibits the deterioration of the human condition in the country in relation to the laws that exist. I want to tell you that this law invalidates the standard that the size of assistance to a low - income family cannot be less than 75 percent of the subsistence minimum. In general, the situation as a minimum of living is reversed, and assistance to low - income families is no longer regulated, but it is paid to the government as a ransom. This cannot be the case, we must have certain guarantees clearly laid down in the law. And if we're subtracting these guarantees as a minimum standard of living and counting all the benefits to low-income families, it would mean that no more guarantees are provided by law for low-income families. In addition, the following standards are unduly and unjustifiably deleted. For example, the level of assistance for children from low-income families increases by 10 percent and for children with disabilities by 20 percent. That the size of assistance for children from low - income families increases to specific amounts, which is also a guarantee. In addition, the law is fully enforced and is very fundamental in fighting for all the rights of low - income families. This means that we're going to save money on them, which means that, on account of low-income families, we're going to give something and give it to someone, maybe 250 million dollars for funds that we're actually celebrating God, we haven't voted in Parliament that are essentially private money. I want to remind you that we have today the very fundamental things in the laws that also protect families with children. That is, for children to be born, they also have to be given very fundamental help, and here everything is preserved. I can also tell you that here in the amendments to the Law on State Social Assistance to low-income families, the change in article 1 of the medium-term total income of the family, calculated on average per month, the income of all family members, calculated for the purpose of assigning state social assistance in accordance with the law, all of this cancels. For children deprived of parental care who have been cared for for for six months preceding the month of the appointment of state social assistance in an orderly manner determined by the Cabinet of Ministers. And so on. As far as total income is concerned, it is greatly increased by additional sums that have not been counted before. So this whole story with this law is an attack on the rights of low-income families. And so there can be no such thing as giving out spices at the expense of low - income families. The guarantees laid down in Ukraine’s legislation today should not be affected. And where are we going with low-security families? Why? You can't do that. Therefore, we propose not to vote in favour of this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-13-m0.u429	Thank you. Let's go to the vote. Dear colleagues, ready to vote? I am voting on the proposal to adopt a second reading and, in general, with the necessary technical and legal regulations, the draft Law amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine (registration number 2494). Please prepare for the vote. Ready to vote? Ready? Please support and vote. [[19:32:35]] For 224 The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, I am voting on the proposal to return the committee to work on the second reading of the bill (registration number 2494). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[19:33:18]] For 246 Decision taken, thank you. Dear colleagues, I hereby declare the meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine closed.
