ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-17-m0.u1	Thank you. [[Applause]] Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, thank you very much. Good morning! I hope everyone's in a good mood today, and we'll go through very professionally, and today's agenda is in order. You can see that the situation is not easy: there are a lot of people around the Supreme Council, they demand, too, they actively demand to be heard. And the main task of the Supreme Council is to hear people, to understand people. And people need to understand what's going on in the walls of the Supreme Council. Dear colleagues, we can prepare for registration. We don't forget how the registration goes. A green button, please. Are you ready to register? Please register. [[10:12:32]] There are 226 national deputies registered in the hall. I think that's a good sign to start with. So I declare the plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine open. Ladies and gentlemen, today we also have good news: today's birthdays are marked by Mikhailo Ananchenko, "Serve of the People." Please welcome him. [[Applause]] Michael Bondar, European Solidarity. Congratulations, too. [[Applause]] And Ella Ripin, "Serve of the People." Hello, too, please. [[Applause]] Well, and luckily for me, I have a birthday today, too. So thank you very much. [[Applause]] Thank you. Thus, according to article 25 of the Rules, we have 30 minutes to speak on Tuesday for the authorized representatives of the MPs and groups. And I'd like the factions to sign up for the performance. Please record. The People's Deputy Sophia Fedin, the faction of European Solidarity, is invited to the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-17-m0.u2	Honorable National Deputies, distinguished Ukrainians! The economic and epidemiological collapse in Ukraine, which has been warned by all sobering people, has unfortunately become our reality today – the authorities have failed to prepare for the second wave of the epidemic and are once again forced to resort to questionable decisions that will have negative economic consequences. I'm convinced that the quarantine of the weekend is not a struggle, it's a simulation of the fight against an epidemic from Green and today's power. This decision will not help to counter the proliferation of the Coronavirus, but it will harm small and medium-sized businesses and Ukraine’s economy in general. Instead of buying HlVs, getting hospitals ready to increase the number of patients, the government spends money on what's called big theft, recording videos about winning the crown virus. And now your unprofessionality has become a serious threat to the whole country. Regrettably, local officials and their allies fled nearby from Kiev’s dilettants. Sadly, in Lviv, authorities came up with what they thought was a brilliant step to continue the work week for two more weekends. But the political essence of this continuation is to avoid responsibility, to put entrepreneurs under attack. And today the authorities have tried to collide entrepreneurs with law enforcement officials in both Lviv and other cities in Ukraine. It seems to me that the authorities today are repeating such an ancient story about Pope Hapon and seem to be his follower. The official mayor of Lviv turned to entrepreneurs – work! In fact, he simply set them up and gave no protection. What must we do today in these circumstances? My plan is three points. The first item is the support of entrepreneurs. We have to do this today in this room: delay the fiscalization of cashiers. Business is hit anyway. So today, this decision must be taken in the same way that Law 3853-1 should be voted on. Second thing. We in this room today have to vote on the decree to vary the quarantine of the day off and move on to a completely different decision. The second thing we need to do today is stop our doctors, our paramedics abroad. So I'm convinced that today we have to sign contracts and pay out money for doctors, like at least 80, ambulances -- 40 and nurses -- 60,000 dollars. And the third thing. We should eventually get the money from the COVID fund to help those who need and protect our people.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-17-m0.u3	Thank you, Mr. Oleg. Fries Igor Pavlovich, the "Serve of the People" faction. Please, Mr. Igor.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-17-m0.u4	Good afternoon, dear fellows! You know, I accidentally pressed the "word" button, and I thought that one day I would be able to say a few words from the Supreme Council's rostrum as a reference, let's say, to my colleagues. You know this week was very interesting for the people standing around the Supreme Council, for most of them. Believe me, we weren't all deputies once. We did everything we could, many were entrepreneurs, many people were doing private business, and they know what it is like to provide for themselves, to provide for their families, to provide for the people, the team with whom you started your own business, and to whom you are responsible. Every small and medium-sized entrepreneur has people who are with him in a working relationship, they pay them their wages in white, they keep their families. And every entrepreneur is at least a wife, it's parents, it's kids, it's an opportunity to pay for education, it's an opportunity to buy drugs during a coronary infection, it's an opportunity to eat something and pay for an apartment. And this is the responsibility of these entrepreneurs to these people. Thus, the decisions of the authorities are linked to certain restrictions on the pursuit of entrepreneurial activities, to which the Constitutional Court, in its own time, has called attention to such an hateful decision. Regarding the illegal, illegal, and unconstitutional restrictions on the rights of citizens to work, the right to support the family, and the right to maintain jobs. Therefore, we today need to reflect on those drafts and regulations that will now be voted on by the Supreme Council. First of all, it's about restricting the right to work on weekends. You know, I'm a lawyer, I'm not an immunology specialist, and I'm not a pandemic specialist. But as a person who has gone a certain way of life, it seems to me that for two days the problem will not be solved. If we have to go, we need to go to a large two or three - week bowdown, as is done in all parts of the world, to break this chain of disease. But to do so, we also need to support people. And the compensators have to come up with you, have to come up with a government to keep people out of trouble, problem, lack of money, and need to pay taxes, both for themselves and for their employees. And that's why today, there's a second bill -- this is about the introduction of the RRO. Think ten times, or do you support it? Notice the nuances that arise between the lines in it: this is the need to keep the original documentation, this is the need to report the cash that remains in the business case, this is the need for us to introduce a new factor that allows the DFS to measure the space instead of the available equipment. That's all people stand against in the street right now. Ten times before you press the button. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-17-m0.u5	Thank you. This is Taras Batenko, Faction Party for the Future.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-17-m0.u6	Good afternoon, dear colleagues. We believe that for us today, for the Ukrainian Parliament, it is a fundamental day. Millions of our citizens are looking at us today, and they want us to see solutions to problems, urgent problems, not just their conspiracy, and not just what we promise and do nothing. We promise people to solve their problems in part of the RRO to entrepreneurs and we throw these people away. That's what people see today when parliament doesn't execute, they don't keep their word when the majority MP factions agree in the session room, and then they come and fail with the majority vote. And I think that's the shame that the Ukrainian Parliament is having today. And going back today to the quarantine painting of the weekend. We stress that such a decision is more harmful today than the benefits of the entire country. Instead of introducing mass testing to detect infected persons, you thus limit the spread of coronary disease, rather than providing health care to all the necessary, protection and equipment for the care of patients and having seven months of the March-April months needed to do so. The government has chosen the simplest way of fighting: to stop people from earning their living. Give a clear plan to people getting out of the economic crisis, give a clear plan to fight the pandemic if you're sure you're capable of giving it. And so you got mixed up: doctors who don't get paid, entrepreneurs, FOPs who want to survive and feed their families. Small and medium-sized business support. Against this background, the government has overturned the limits of wages for business leaders, foreigners, members of supervisory boards, and a number of state - owned strategic enterprises in Ukraine. This is because such a restriction was introduced in April. And this snowy coma of incompetence and inefficiencies of non-governmental decisions is being made, and it can take over not only the power, but it can take over the state. Let us not be afraid to make the decisions that the nation is waiting for. Let us return the subjects of the Ukrainian Parliament. And today, my friends, if we don't solve the problem with the RRO, if we don't help solve this problem for our FOPs today, today our parliamentary group "For the Future" and I'm more than convinced that other factions and MPs will join us, and non-fractional deputies, will initiate the registration of the draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the release of Mr. Getmanzev from the post of head of the profile committee. Either we solve this problem in the session room or we. this session hall, and we're gonna have the street talking for us. [[do not hear]] So after a meeting with the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the quarantine of the weekend, our parliamentary group, together with the faction "Fatherland", is initiating a recess on the urgent discussion of this issue regarding the FOPs and the specific solution in the sessional room. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-17-m0.u7	Thank you, Mr. Taras, for sure we will take a break at your request. The word is "Trust" by Oleg Kulinich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-17-m0.u8	Oleg Kulinich, trust MP. Madam Chairman, honourable colleagues, unfortunately, the Coronavirus pandemic is gaining significant turnover, we have sad daily statistics -- 10-12,000 patients, there's a problem with testing. And the situation is actually even worse. To get an answer and get a test result, especially in rural areas, it takes up to 10 days. These days are critical of treatment, especially for older ones. And plus these people are in contact with other people. I think that within eight months quarantine could have been established in each area of the infection ward, especially considering that most of these units of the CRL have been shut down in connection with an incomprehensible medical reform. To equip them with all the necessary equipment, oxygen, drugs, and we would take away the very many problems that are currently in place, especially in rural areas. Because now there's chaos and people just don't understand where to go and who to get to. Even the minister of health himself realized that the hotline didn't work and that it was very difficult for people to get hospitalized. Oxygen problems. I'll give you an example from the Poltava District Hospital. If there was a need for 700 liters a year before the pandemic, now more than 2,000 a day. And there's a huge amount of difficulty in getting oxygen, because there's tender procedures. Well, a few words about quarantine on the day off. Our group was approached by a great many private entrepreneurs, the mayors of cities. It's completely out of the question. We believe that such things should have been discussed with business. And in civilized countries, compensators are included in these relevant regulations. So today we'd like to hear concrete ways from the government, the outcome of this crisis situation, and we'd like to know how the ruling that the Supreme Council voted on October 20, 4228 is being implemented. And I also want to raise a very important problem that concerns social protection for the population. In August of this year, the National Social Service was established. The service was created and no one was assigned to perform it. Many government programs have been put on the OTG, and in fact there are no relevant departments or people who will perform these functions. And how, then, will these functions be brought closer to humans? For example, in the Poltava region, four departments will work instead of 33. How will they physically do so? So the government needs to work urgently and run an effective social protection model at the base level so that there is no chaos and disorder. About the RRO. We definitely don't support the position taken yesterday by the profile committee. I personally did not vote in favour of this decision and the MPs of our group. It doesn't solve anything, so we need to hear business and adopt laws that are important for business, for small and medium-sized business. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-17-m0.u9	Thank you. Nestor Ivanovich Schufrich, faction "The Opposition Platform for Life", please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-17-m0.u10	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. Dear colleagues, nearly 12,000 sick people, 159 lost lives of our citizens is a sad summary, not of today's and not of yesterday's day, but of a week ago, because we get the test results 5-7 days later than it was actually done. Please tell me where the second wave of COVID, which the whole world knew about, was just not aware of. He sang to us in May: All good, beautiful Marquis. And now it's not just the horses that will catch up. The house is on fire. Ukraine is on fire. And we're told now that we're good, we're ready and we're ready. This idiotic quarantine of the weekend was introduced. I can tell you with responsibility that there is no point in this, except for the cheap pierre and the complexity of life, and until that difficult life of our citizens. Today we demand that we abolish the quarantine of the weekend and tell the Ukrainians the truth of what's going on with COVID in our country. Ukrainians have a right to know what awaits them, not to decorate the situation by calculating what they pass through and not to see what happened. Regrettably, the dead can be seen very well. Today, we have received information from the National Health Service of Ukraine that 5.6 billion dollars is not available to provide care for the sick. We now know that an additional 9 billion dollars are being drawn up by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Of course, our political power will support the allocation of more funds to deal with the consequences of COVID and the treatment of our citizens, and the protection of our doctors, who are our real heroes and how much thank you. But I'm asking you, where are the 67 billion dollars that we've all set aside here together. Where's the money, Zin, I'm asking you. You sit here, you talk, like it's none of your business. I'm asking the question, eight months after a hard-on, the people of Ukraine have made it possible to prepare for everything. What are you doing? We were already able to help and delay the introduction of cashiers, and today they came back and rightly came, and our faction is proud that we are coauthors of this law and today require its adoption. I am absolutely convinced that this government must be quarantined! And this Supreme Council has to take responsibility and change power in one day! I've seen it done, and it's possible. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-17-m0.u11	Thank you. Julia Volodymyrna Timoshenko, faction of Fatherland. Please, Julia Volodymyr.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-17-m0.u12	You know, what's going on in the fight against COVID, in the fight against the epidemic, is that you and I, as a parliament, have invited a government led by the Prime Minister, and we're going to have enough time now to be able to talk to the government quite frankly about what's going on with the epidemic. But right now, I would like the people who hear me to know that thousands of representatives of small and medium-sized businesses are now gathered around Parliament. All entrances and exits are locked in the Supreme Council. Now the police, the power structures are using enough force to influence entrepreneurs. There is a sense of resentment and sometimes hatred around the parliament. And I think they have a basis for that, because during the pandemic around the world, every country thinks about what to do to help their business, especially their little ones. There are trillions of dollars being allocated to provide direct subsidies that protect people from unemployment and entrepreneurs from loss of profits. We're the only country in the world that's since the pandemic started to screw up small businesses, middle class, and take even what they had, so they can barely make ends meet. And such a move is the introduction of cashiers, a reinforced still accounting account, in fact, when we have to help them, we destroy them with laws that are passed in Parliament. And so I want to go to all the factions' deputies right now, see what's going on outside the Supreme Council window: there's Ukraine that's paying taxes that pay wages, that's trying to keep the country from the economic divide. I'm asking you to meet them and adopt two laws: 4313 without the letter "d", which will prolong more than a year their right to work without cashiers, and the second bill is 3853-2, the bill of our faction, which eliminates violence against small and medium-sized enterprises. I want to tell you right now, I've been talking to people in Parliament, 4313-d, who worked for the committee, who don't accept them, and they don't accept them, they're definitely against them. And if we want to be fair now, we have to accept 4313 without the letter "d" and 3853-2 is the law of "Paternity." And they'll go home and work and live. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-17-m0.u13	Thank you, Julia Volodymyr. Kira Rudik, the Voice faction, is invited to the floor.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-17-m0.u14	Friends, this Sunday the Cherkas will choose a new mayor. They will choose between a representative of the old oligarchic systems and a modern and progressive candidate. Victor Evpak is a candidate for the Voice Party, an Aitisher, entrepreneur, patronage. It unites people around the values of our party: professionalism, patriotism, and above all zero tolerance for corruption. That's why his first step after the election is to have a total independent audit of all the local self-government, because every churchman has the right to know why there is no normal sewerage in the city, why there is no clean air in the city, why the city is absolutely not ready to fight the coronavirus. Victor Eupak knows how to change this, and he will work to see that these changes take place. You know, the main feature of these elections is the very high weight of each vote. We now see how the fate of each city is resolved by the hundred people who have chosen to come or not to the elections. That's why I'm talking to every Churchman. Your dreams of an ecological, safe, efficient and progressive city are real. And to do that, you only have to take one step: this Sunday you're going to come to the election and you're going to select a candidate from Victor Epaka's Voice. Even though Victor is running from the Voice party, thanks to his exclusive qualities as a candidate, he has received huge, broad support from democratic parties throughout Ukraine. And I thank today those present at this European Solidarity Party and the People's Servant Party for actively supporting Victor's candidacy. And I urge every Churchman to do the same, to choose between the past and the present, between the oligarchate and modern innovation technology, and to come to this Sunday's election and support the Voss of Victor Epaca.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-17-m0.u15	Thank you, Mrs. Kira. There's been a statement from two factions replacing the break, so I understand. Peter Alekseiovich Prashenko is invited to attend. Please, Mr. Peter.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-17-m0.u16	Dear colleagues, first of all, I want to address the thousands of people who are currently under the Supreme Council, and I would like to stress that we, together with them, are demanding a continuation of the tax system for corporate individuals. This must be a shared response from the Supreme Council of Ukraine in order to protect the middle class. The other one. In a few days, we will celebrate this anniversary of the Dignity Revolution. And after Zelensky relieved the defendants of Berkut at the request of Putin, after returning from Russia to the troops of Yanukovic Zelensky, who placed his post in the Ukrainian law enforcement system to prosecute the opposition, no one will be surprised by yesterday's verdict: from which he was arrested, from running Yanukovic. It won't surprise anyone. And the attack on anti-corruption infrastructure, which was created by our team in the last five years, is clearly rejecting our country's cooperation and movement towards the European Union. It threatens the European choice of a 45 million-dollar state. It, this attack, deepens the crisis in its relations with the European Union and NATO. And these Greens maneuvers clearly threaten the freedom to move Ukrainians around the world and the European Union. Because it is the Office of the President and it appears that the majority is blocking the consideration of a bill under which most factions, including the European Solidarity, have put in place with regard to the reinstatement of criminal responsibility for lies in electronic declarations. I would like to point out that last week we didn't consider this because we have a representative of the "Serve of the People" whose "mother loves speed," and he's a servant of the people, not of the people, but of the Cologne. Today, this is not an issue that is being considered because there are no votes in the "Serve of the People" and their satellites in this room. We demand, Madam Chairman. Welcome, by the way, to your birthday! Today, we demand that the question of reinstatement of criminal responsibility by electronic declarations be considered as a lie in them. We are confident that by a successful vote we will confirm the European choice and preserve our movement to Europe. And I would like you to join this requirement for all democratic factions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-17-m0.u17	Thank you for the talk. Dear colleagues, we are about to have our first vote on organizational issues. The leaders, please, of the MPs and groups, please inform the national deputies that we are about to have our first vote. Thus, in connection with the rapid spread of coronary disease, both among the national deputies and among the Supreme Council of Ukraine, we proposed yesterday at the Conciliation Council of Deputies and Groups in accordance with part two of article 19 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules to amend the calendar schedule for the holding of the fourth session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, namely, the period from 18 to 20 November for the work of national deputies in committees, commissions, factions and groups. If necessary, the Supreme Council of Ukraine will meet in turn. Is it clear what we're voting for? Thank you. Please prepare for the vote. Ladies and gentlemen, please take your seats, see if all your neighbors are in masks. Not only do masks wear beards but they close their noses and mouths tightly. Thank you. I ask the National Deputies to support this proposal, and I ask, in accordance with part two of article 19 of the Supreme Council Rules, to propose that we move our calendar plan: the period from 18 to 20 November should apply to the work of national deputies in commissions, factions and groups. Please vote. [[10:42:31]] For 282 Thank you. For 282 national deputies. Decision taken. So on November 18-20, we're working with you online. Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, yesterday at the Conciliation Council, a decision was taken to review today's meeting of information from the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine regarding the state of security by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine to implement the Ukrainian Supreme Council decision of 20 October, the reasons for the imposition of quarantine on the day off and the restrictive measures envisaged by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on 11 October, as well as the use of funds from the National Budget of Ukraine allocated for the implementation of measures aimed at overcoming the effects of the Coronary Disease pandemic. The next order of business is proposed: to take up to 20 minutes to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for a speech, to the Prime Minister for a question from the MPs to 21 minutes, to the Prime Minister for a question from the National Deputies to 20 minutes, to give one minute to each oral question and two minutes to answer it. If there is no objection, please follow such a rule. No, we're just asking questions. So I invite you to the rostrum for the speech of Prime Minister Denis Anatoliyovich Schmigal of Ukraine. Please, Mr. Dennis.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-17-m0.u18	Dear Madam Chairman! Congratulations on your birthday. Honorable national MPs, respected members of the government, respected Ukrainians, wish everyone good day and good health. The opposition to the pandemic is now the main theme for the President, the government and the Supreme Council. So today, we are here to explain the logic behind deciding on change and on anti-epidemic measures, as well as our future plans to combat the epidemic and the economic crisis. In the last few days, we've heard a lot of baseless and manipulative statements about quarantine on the weekend and that the government seems to think that the virus is only spread on weekends and that restaurants can't be closed if the subway works. Let us explain today the logic of the quarantine of the weekend so that our national deputies and our Ukrainians can understand it. First of all, it's not Ukrainian know-how. We saw the effectiveness of quarantine on the weekend when Turkey and Israel introduced it. In Israel, for example, the quarantine of the weekend helped to reduce COVID disease, reduce it, not stop it, but reduce it by 20 percent. Second, the German Institute of Robert Koh conducted a thorough study based on an analysis of more than 200,000 cases of infection. So scientists have studied more than 200,000 anti-epidemic investigations. And the main conclusion is that intensive and long-term and personal contact in closed rooms is linked to the highest risk of transmission of infection. What are some places where people are infected, according to German scientific research? The first, of course, is household and workplaces. In families, of course, no government can or will bring about an epidemic and break the disease chain. As far as jobs are concerned, the limitations of contact in this case are full of lockdowns that we don't want to talk about and implement today. Although we urge companies to step up security measures for their employees. Those who are able to work remotely have to move to a distance form of work. Of course, those whose work is impossible without presence at work have to keep to all known and understandable means and measures of social distance and masks. But it is not possible to completely avoid the risk of infection in the workplace. The second source of the virus is a closed room where different social groups cross. And another key conclusion, which is reflected in German research and modeling at Stanford University, is that in places of cultural and social leisure where people spend a lot of time, the risk of infection increases considerably. And most of the time in places of leisure, as scientists say, and on the basis of a study of travel data, is spent on weekends. When profile associations give an example that on weekends restaurants and bars earn an average of 40 percent, up to two thirds of their weekly income, their weekly turnover, this information is actually confirmed. So the main conclusion is that if we reduce people's social contacts at least on weekends, we can at least partially break the disease chain. According to a study forecast, which I mentioned, including for the city of Chicago, a 57 percent drop in mobility allows for a 6.2-fold reduction in the number of possible infections. What happened this weekend in Ukraine? According to the National Security and Defence Council, the activity of citizens in large cities with a population of more than 100,000 on Saturday fell by almost 19 percent and on Sunday by 27 percent. So people stayed at home, and it reduced mobility, and we see this decrease in mobile operators' data. It was actually the greatest achievement and the smallest movement of people from the spring when a hard quarantine took effect. This means that the quarantine of the weekend gives its results, and we very much hope that its observance will help to stop the increase in the number of patients. And we encourage Ukrainians and businesses to follow all the rules and quarantines of the weekend, and all the rules every day: wearing masks, disinfecting people, keeping social distances. The result of the reduction in disease due to the quarantine of the weekend will be seen within the next two weeks. Yesterday we had such a frank conversation with the mayors of the district cities. We'll have the same conversation on Thursday. We invite our authoritative epidemiologists to this conversation to also explain that anti-epidemiological research and restrictions are not a requirement of government or a political solution, that is to save people's lives. We are grateful to those mayors who are willing to work with us. And I'm sure on the next weekend we'll be able to solve all the differences and jointly ensure that quarantines are implemented. Now for further action. If on the quarantine of the weekend, in fact, you and I are not going to provide the necessary reduction in social contacts, we can cross in three weeks, according to National Security and Defence Council analysts. The government uses forecasts from the National Academy of Sciences, the National Security and Defence Council, independent expert centres. If we don't take action, we may be out of bed in a month. That's because in the last few months we've doubled their numbers. And then there's only going to be one way -- it's a hard quarantine up to a full lockdown. At this point, the lockdown will have to be entered for at least three weeks. This is what France, Germany, Austria, Britain, Italy, Poland, Greece, Czech Republic, and most of the countries of Europe have done. Not only do cafes and restaurants, movie theaters and cultural activities close, but not just on weekends, they introduce curfews, they impose restrictions on travel between different regions. In France and Austria, you can only leave the house for a valid reason, like going to a store or a pharmacy. We understand that the introduction of a long-term full-bloddown will strike our economy. In the last two or three months, export recovery, consumption recovery, construction growth, and industrial improvement have been observed. In the third quarter, compared to the third quarter, the economy grew by 8.5 percent, which is a positive signal and a reconstruction scenario. So we're saying that the decision on the full lockdown will not be made until we have an alternative, but we need to work on this alternative, work together, and reach even if the plateau and stop the epidemic. I'm not going to decorate the situation, we're going to have difficult times in winter, so I want to report from this rostrum that we're working and we're going to implement most of the measures that are required, especially in the Supreme Council's decision, the measures that are set out in the action plans and the development scenarios for the reconstruction, economic recovery of Ukraine, and the fight against the epidemic. The main task of quarantine on the weekend is to make sure that we get on the plateau by the number of people who are sick, i.e. to record it at no more than 12,000 to 15,000 cases a day. In the next two weeks, we need to see its first results if we follow absolutely all the rules. If that does not happen, we will, of course, begin to prepare for more stringent quarantine restrictions. We're going to have to do this. Once again, each day of effective quarantine delayes the adoption of more stringent measures. The quarantine of the weekend is only six days in November, six weekends in November, which may give Ukraine a chance to avoid having a footdown and an economy to work, a budget to fill, a state to fulfil its social obligations. And, of course, we should have a coherent plan of action for adoption and a more stringent quarantine. The Ministry of Health, the Chief Sanitary Doctor, is charged with consulting business, associations, and, of course, with the Supreme Council, with the city’s heads, as we have begun to do, and adopting a definitively harmonized plan of action that can be implemented in the event of a more severe illness, as necessary. So I am addressing all Ukrainians, please stay at home if possible, and limit your social contacts. And let us bear in mind that our responsibility to comply with all the anti - epidemic rules depends on the introduction or nonintroduction of the future lokdown and the continuation of the economic growth that began in the third quarter. Now, with regard to the preparation of the medical system that has been going on for the last six months. I want to start with two specific examples, and then I want to go to the totals. In 2019 the hospital in Poltava consumed 700 liters [700 L] of oxygen per year. 700 liters of oxygen per year. Today, this hospital consumes 1,500 gallons [1.5 L] of oxygen to save people. That is, conditions were provided so that there could be more than twice as much consumption in the past year. To reach this system throughout the country is hundreds of thousands of times to increase its ability. Another example. At the beginning of the pandemic in Ukraine there was only one automatic station for preparation for RNA extraction, that is, PLR testing. So one station that actually did 200 PLR tests with practically no staff. Such stations are now about 60 and will be 68 by the end of this year. Work to improve the ability of our medical system is done daily, without exaggeration. The number of PLR tests in mid-April, i.e. exactly 7 months ago, the number of PLR tests was 3.5 thousand a day, and now we're going to go to 50,000 tests a day. By the end of the year, the goal and the goal are for the Ministry of Profiles: to go out with 75,000 PLR tests per day, in the next year at the beginning of the next year, to achieve 100,000 tests per day. In fact, the work of state laboratories was restored from scratch. In general, the laboratories during this time are funded by 1 billion dollars, and additional payments are made to their employees. At the beginning of the epidemic in Ukraine, only 12.5 beds were ready for admission, now numbering 54,000. And every day, the government adds between two and four thousand new beds. At present, we do not see the need to open up mobile hospitals, but such preparations are under way. Regarding active HVLs. Now we have about 700 of them involved, and there are almost 5,000 devices in hospitals. So the employment of machines in artificial lung ventilation is less than 20 percent across the country, but in any case we're continuing to complete this equipment fund. The main task right now is to provide oxygen. In fact, 1.5 billion dollars were allocated to these needs by the government. All certification has been maximized. Every day we talk to oxygen manufacturers, cheating systems, concentration suppliers to effectively coordinate the whole process and logistics. 18 licenses for oxygen manufacturers are issued for the production of medical oxygen, and today production in Ukraine is entirely sufficient to meet all the needs of today. Of course we can increase the number of beds, increase the percentage of oxygen supply, but the main thing in the medical system is doctors. Thank them on occasion. Provide them with protective measures that are worthy of payment. To this end, the government has set two simultaneous levels of supplementation for doctors who are in the lead against the coronavirus: this is a 300 per cent supplement to the doctor's salary, and the second one, the government has established additional supplements – 26.76, and 126 per cent depending on the workload of medical teams. I would also like to remind you that since September of this year, the government has increased everyone’s salaries by 25 percent, 50 percent, and 75 percent. These are additional costs to the salaries of medical personnel ranging from 1.3 thousand dollars to 3.5 thousand dollars. The following year, doctors ’ wages will also grow by another 30 percent. Next question is the implementation of the Supreme Council of Ukraine decree of 20 October this year, "On measures to combat the spread of coronary disease (COVID-19) and to protect all systems of activity of the country from the negative effects of the pandemic." This document is likewise a guide for us, and we carry it out and constantly confide in it. I'm going to go through the key points that are now at work that will be implemented in the near future. This is the organization of the pandemic response process under the leadership of the President of Ukraine. Practically every day, meetings were held and meetings were held, and the pandemic headquarters had been working, and on a permanent basis was held by the State Commission on Technological and Environmental Safety and Emergency Situations, which had held 42 meetings since the beginning of the pandemic, and had been held almost twice a week by the State Commission on Technological and Environmental Safety. Also, three selector meetings are held every week with heads of government. A selector meeting was held yesterday with the mayors of the city’s district centers. The appropriate meeting will also be held on Thursday. All of this is done to ensure maximum coordination of authorities in the fight against COVID. Regarding citizens' information on the coronavirus. For each area, there is a multichannel telephone line that advises citizens who have Coronavirus symptoms. A national contact centre has been created at the Ministry of Health, where 170 employees are working today, and an all-U.S. hotline is being created, which is now working effectively and coordinating all the phone calls in Ukraine, the number of such a contact line is represented on the Ministry of Health website, and people are actively using this tool to get information about COVID and the steps they should take if they have encountered this disease. Information on the Internet is also available to the government, the Ministry of Health, and there is all the information that is open to the provision of individual protection for each hospital. As regards the increase in the number of tests. Just a month ago, when the national MPs took the appropriate decision, 34,000 PLR tests were made per day. Now we've come up with the ability of the medical lab to do 50,000 tests and we're doing over 50,000 tests. So in a month, the number of tests was increased by about 15,000. This work continues, I've already said, the target by the end of the year is 75,000. It's about vaccination. We expect that about 8 million doses of Ukraine will be available in the third quarter of next year. In addition, the government and the Ministry of Health are constantly negotiating with world companies to purchase additional batches of an effective and tested vaccine. These companies include Pfizer and Moderna, who have already announced the success of their vaccines. With regard to improving the working conditions of emergency medicine. There's an upgrade to the car park, an increase in payments to the feds. For example, by July 1, an ambulance in the Kyiv region had received 23 million dollars, now 33 dollars, or more than a third, had been paid for emergency medical care. With regard to the protection of medical personnel and the improvement of the capacity of hospitals. The necessary resources for individual protection, medications, and ELVs have been developed, and work continues to increase oxygen intake. Last day, the hospital was funded by the NHRI in all regions for a total of over 8.8 billion dollars. Also, 7.3 billion dollars have been funded through the COVID Fund. That's almost 4 billion more, that's the cost of local budgets. So in 7 months, more than 20 billion dollars have been spent in the fight against the coronavirus alone in medicine. Further information on medical insurance. Some areas have already insured 60 to 70 percent of the medical staff. A medical officer who's struggling with COVID-19 is like a military officer. In addition to disability or death payments in various areas, additional medical care programs are now being implemented in case of illness. I can now officially confirm that a sum of one and a half million dollars is being paid for the family of the deceased worker, as well as for the benefit of the children of the medical staff. Regarding the conduct of anti-epidemic investigations. The Supreme Council gave the government the opportunity to implement complex anti-epidemic investigations, including through the creation of a single electronic register and corresponding digital solutions. Today, I want to present five major digital solutions to help curb the pandemic in Ukraine, which will be implemented soon. They're being developed and we're going to introduce them. Digitalization and centralization of information collection on suspected and infectious diseases; improvement of the mobile home plugin with automatic fines for infringements of the self-insulation regime; launch of an electronic prescription for antibiotics and extension of the "Available medicines" program to antibiotics needed to combat COVID; launch of an e-direction on PLD, which will allow track queues and not create them in real time; and QR codes for public places, which are centrally generated, place the facilities themselves. A similar system operates in Britain, the only country. We're going to move fast, and we're going to be the other side of the world that's going to take similar measures. Regarding business support formats. We now offer support to the families of the first and second groups who have children under 10 years of age. Second, a partial unemployment program where the government takes on part of the employee’s salary to keep him from being released. Thirdly, the 5-7-9 credit holiday program and the quarantine of the weekend, the recognition of it as a force majeure, which we are working on in conjunction with the Chamber of Commerce. The Ministry of Economics, Trade and Agriculture, together with the Ministry of Finance, is also calculating the possibilities of sectoral support for individual sectors and during quarantine on the weekend, and c.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-17-m0.u19	Thank you, Mr. Dennis. I think you'll continue to answer the question. Okay? Ladies and gentlemen, we turn to questions from the Prime Minister of Ukraine from the MP factions and groups. Members of the MPs and groups, please sign up for questions. Please, Julia Klimenko, the Voice faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-17-m0.u20	Please pass the word to Volodymyr Cabal.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-17-m0.u21	Please give me your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-17-m0.u22	Dear Denis Anatoliyovich, 24 billion dollars saved in the MoH in 10 months. They used, they spent only 90 of the 114 that were scheduled for this period, which were allocated by the budgetary committee, the Supreme Council, and so on. These 24 billion could go to battle with the coronavirus, to fight other diseases, but the MOH was unable to spend them not because it was saved, but because it was unable to organize processes. A similar situation is actually in the Minobron, where 16 billion have been misplaced. And, you know, forewarning your answer that you don't know where I'm getting the data from the State Department, which is a member of the Budget Committee, they send it every month. I have a question. What are you going to do with that? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-17-m0.u23	Thank you for asking. It is the answer to the availability of funds for NSOs for November and December. 22 billion dollars is a bill for NSOs to pay, including cod bags, by the end of the year. It's not an economy, it's not over for a year. These are unused funds that are allocated by the end of the year. And in fact, 22 billion, today's data and early treasury, is the difference between 86.5 billion dollars allocated to NSOs through the Ministry of Health and 68 billion dollars spent on cash. This is the difference that is available by the end of the year for the needs of the Ukrainian National Health Service. There's other money, there's capital costs. Of course, capital spending programs have changed in connection with the pandemic and the coronavirus, but in every major direction the COVID costs are being used today. There's a question for the supply of equipment, the whole world's in line today. There. Nor am I going to hide or somehow reduce the problem faced by Ukraine now, as the whole world is facing a pandemic, crises, delays in supply, and delays in cash costs due to such crises. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-17-m0.u24	Thank you. To the question from Lady Bullach, the "Serial of the People" faction, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-17-m0.u25	Mr. Dennis, I have a question. I have two questions for you. First question. The budget deficit of the National Health Service is nearly 6 billion dollars by the end of the year. Nearly nine billion more people have spent the National Health Service covering expenses and supplements by overcoming the epidemic, paying for contracts to all health care facilities that provide care to patients and with suspicion of COVID-19 patients. 6 billion dollars in budget deficit. Do we have the opportunity to close this deficit immediately? And the second question. How do you plan, I'm sure, to plan, to influence those measures and those of the ODA, and those of the cities that don't implement government decisions that just imbalance the Health Ministry's quarantine strategy and fail to meet those requirements?
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-17-m0.u26	Thank you. Regarding the likely deficit of funds for NSOs. I just said that the difference between allocated funds and cash costs is 22 billion dollars for NSOs. But, of course, both this month and the next month, in the event of such an increase in avalanche-like disease that is now, and the hospitalization of people, it is likely that such a deficit will occur. So today we ask the Supreme Council to support an appropriate bill to ensure that NSOs have the money and the Ministry of Health in any case, under any circumstances, can fully fund all the necessary expenses. So this deficit, it's, of course, it's calculated, it can arise, but it may not be, depending on how we deal with the situation right now. As far as action is concerned. But in any case, going back to the need, of course, the government is asking for the support of the bill. Because by the end of the year, we need to create the necessary funds. We do not know how the situation in the world and Ukraine will continue, especially by the end of this year. Although calculations and projections are all there, unfortunately, they are inconvenient, the quarantine of the weekend should improve the situation, as I reported today. It's about the second part of the question. I also said today that we had a completely constructive, responsible dialogue with the mayors of the district centers. We agreed to work together practically every week. There'll be another meeting on Thursday. In fact, it measures to present its vision of further development and cooperation with the small, medium - size business that today suffers from quarantine. We also have sectoral meetings with industry representatives of those sectors that are under pressure today because of quarantine: this is the restaurant industry, the film industry, the industry of decay. With all of them, we're going to talk about the support measures that we have today, six tools, we're ready to look at and implement very quickly with the help of the Supreme Council, including additional support tools for those businesses that are being quarantined. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-17-m0.u27	Thank you. Taras Batenko, "For the Future" faction. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-17-m0.u28	Good afternoon, Prime Minister! I understand that you have no doubt about quarantine, the effectiveness of quarantine on the day off, when society is questionable, the country is questionable, the MP Corps, which is not being consulted on these issues, is questionable. Maybe it's already worth consulting with Parliament, with all the factions that are represented, which are actually part of society, and the moods of society, and the expectations of society. Because we will now adopt an appropriate draft decision, and how will the government react when the Supreme Council of Ukraine obliges the government to review the quarantine of the weekend itself. You've had enough time, Mr. Prime Minister, six months, seven months to actually do whatever it takes to provide the hospital with beds, CTs, oxygen and so on, the appropriate funds that would come into the region. Is it effective enough for you to use these funds? And one last question. This is my appeal to the death payers who were previously directed. Please give a concrete answer to this question to the Ministry of Social Policy profile. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-17-m0.u29	Thank you. So it's about quarantine on the day off. I've said a lot about this today: it's six days, six weekends in November, that are called to stop this exponential development of the epidemic in Ukraine. And this is really about saving the lives of Ukrainians. It's about saving the business. This is a separate conversation that we're having, I've already told you, with the Supreme Council, and with the mayors of cities, and with the professional businesses that are suffering from this quarantine. Of course, we're working with the profile committee and the committees of the Supreme Council. Of course, we're going to have a dialogue with professional associations and businesses. Regarding further action. In case and in principle, the government is very respectful of the decisions taken by the Supreme Council, we are working and taking into account all the decisions and documents of the Supreme Council that are being taken here, and we are working with these documents. I just took it with me to make you understand, and that decision that was taken by the Supreme Council is my desk paper. He, you see, is completely marked by what we're doing, how we're doing work, there's a lot of very specific proposals that we're working on and that are already being implemented. So green marked, green stickers, those proposals that the government has introduced before or after the decision has been made. As far as the region is concerned, they are listed. Unfortunately, not all regions are effectively managed by these funds, but we are putting these issues under control and, of course, we will continue to control the use of these funds. As for your second part of the question, I'm going to ask Lazebne Marina Volodymyrovna, and last time we've given her this information, we've given it again.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-17-m0.u30	Please turn on the minister's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-17-m0.u31	Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to inform you about the insurance and investigations that have been carried out. 114 cases completed. The investigation is carried out by the State Department. Of these, 35 were recognized as related to production, 79 as unrelated to production. Thirty - five cases of deaths were paid to families. the corresponding funds are set up where there are family members of the dead. Now, as far as I'm concerned. What's going on? 136 cases are still under investigation. Yeah, it's been going on. Nor am I satisfied with the fact that the investigation takes place for two or three months. But we actually know the problem. For example, the commission must include a professional such as a professional. They're in Ukraine today. And that's all holding back the quick investigation. We'd love to, too, because the insurance fund costs are, these are the costs that are allocated from the hedge fund. We're willing to pay the people, the families of the dead to pay all the necessary payments. But we are now dependent on the conclusions of these committees. And I also want to inform you that, in fact, the M.E.C. is already setting up the disability of the medics, and that disability payments have already begun. Second, the third group has also paid medical workers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-17-m0.u32	Thank you. Nina Yuzanin, faction of European Solidarity.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-17-m0.u33	Please pass the word to the Synth of Oleg.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-17-m0.u34	Oleg Blue, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-17-m0.u35	Mr. Prime Minister, I have a very simple question for you. I think that's the question that most Ukrainians have today. Please tell me, when will your government resign as a government that had eight months to prepare the country and not use a situation that is not helping people at all today? Because when you talk about people, unfortunately, you haven't been able to provide testing. As far as doctors are concerned, there have been many questions about insurance, payments. I'll ask you one more question. Doctors, if you don't make them extra disposable material payments, they'll just go abroad. And one last question. I thought that you would go to Parliament today to vote on a resolution on a different quarantine, so that Parliament would vote on the decision that entrepreneurs would have the opportunity to work today, not to live.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-17-m0.u36	Thank you. So it's about supporting business. I've said it and I'll say it again, it's very important to me. First. The forms of business support that we are proposing today, which have justified themselves in the spring, and for which hundreds of millions of dollars and billions of dollars have been allocated to support. First. This is the support of the FOPs of the first and second groups who have children under the age of 10, and during quarantine, they are forced to stop their activities in whole or in part. The program provides 1.1 billion dollars. It has already proved its effectiveness, making payments to almost 90,000 families during the quarantine that took place since the spring. The other one. This is a partial unemployment program where the government takes on part of the employee’s salary to keep him from being released. And this program has proven itself well, and it has benefited 400,000 Ukrainians, including 183 thousand entrepreneurs. Third. It's a loan holiday for business under 5-7-9, there's actually four directions. More than 13 billion loans for 5.5 thousand different businesses -- small, medium, large, across the country and in different fields -- have already been issued today. Recent changes in the program have excluded mandatory business profitability requirements and extended use of credit funds. And the fourth. It's the recognition of quarantine on the day off by force majeure. This is the period during which the quarantine of the weekend is introduced for those areas that are under pressure from similar measures. We work with the Chamber of Commerce to recognize it as a force majeure that will make it easier to pay rent and other possible payments, to execute contracts at the time of such a business stop. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-17-m0.u37	Thank you. Aunt Placzkova, "The Opposition Platform for Life".
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-17-m0.u38	May I have a word with the People's Deputy of Frost?
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-17-m0.u39	Deputy Frost, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-17-m0.u40	Dear Dennis Alexandrovich, I have a few questions. The first question is painful. We don't have a four-month salary for miners. And so over and over and over and over and over and over and over and over and over and over and over and over and over and over and over and over and over and over and over and over and over and over and over Sailors, they get sick, their families get sick, they don't have enough money to buy drugs to treat families and their children. How to get out of this collapse, please tell me. And the second question. The third question. There are no drugs in these cities, no antibiotics. Antibiotics can only be purchased in major cities — Mariupol, Kramatorsk, and Slavyansk. Please provide order, pay the miners and bring the medicine. None.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-17-m0.u41	Thank you for asking. It's really sharp and really very relevant. And the government has asked the Supreme Council a few weeks ago to adopt a bill that will allocate an additional 1.4 billion dollars, actually to pay the miners their wages. Members of parliament, please, and I hope that this bill will be supported today in order for us to be able immediately, within the next week of adoption, to make such calculations to state-owned enterprises, and miners could get them proper wages. 1.4 billion, if today's law is voted, signed, we'll understand that we'll provide wages. Regarding the treatment of miners. We're ready for a dialogue with trade unions, extremely powerful mining companies, ready to work with them on the possibilities and support of miners with different mechanisms. They exist today, social security exists, trade unions are doing their job, and their obligations are required, and there is a very quick and specific dialogue on the need for support. Antibiotics. Now, I'm going to give the floor to Mr. Victor Lyszek, Chief Sanitary Epidemiologist, Deputy Minister of Health, so that he can give a professional opinion on antibiotics. But I'll make it simple for you. Antibiotics should only be taken according to a doctor’s prescription. You don't have to buy them in the pharmacy and eat them yourself. In Ukraine, the smallest, most loyal, resistance to antibiotics is the highest. This means that people use antibiotics because they have heard, someone has told them, they should do so only on prescriptions and advice from doctors. This is an outpatient treatment, and medical institutions provide antibiotics. I'll also ask Mr. Victor Laczyk to explain this question more clearly and specifically with regard to the possibility of antibiotics being used in the treatment of COVID, including self-medication.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-17-m0.u42	Please turn on Victor the Light. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-17-m0.u43	Good afternoon! I'm really pointing out that the consumption of antibiotics has increased by almost 40 times over the course of 2020. We are seeing a significant increase in antibiotics, including those purchased on the pharmacy network, including those not purchased at the doctor’s appointment. Today, the Ministry of Health controls the availability of antibiotics in the treatment network. I'll give you examples of a few groups. For example: "Ceftriaxone" on the leftovers of the treatment network today is 735 thousand ampoules, "Moxifloxacin" is 117 thousand, "Azithromycin" is 177 thousand. Including Meropenem and Amoxiklav, we're also in national warehouses today to make a national reserve if there's not enough antimicrobials in any area to immediately send the leftovers. But I want to take another look at this: uncontrolled antibiotic intake leads to the formation of antibiotic resistance. And we must now talk about the possible distant effects of this epidemic, which will have a significant impact on the health of the population and on antibiotic resistance. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-17-m0.u44	Thank you. Larissa Bilozer, trust MP.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-17-m0.u45	Larissa Bilozer, Winnitzkin. Please pass the word to Mr. Shahov.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-17-m0.u46	Mr. Shahov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-17-m0.u47	Sergey Shahov, Luhanščina, Deputy Group "Trust". Dear Mr. Prime Minister, today the test situation is catastrophic. And I'm convinced that the MOH is misleading you. Why did Slovakia protest in a week, and we cannot do so in eight months? Why are there no Ukrainian tests? Why are there no antibodies tests? Why are we today buying tests for billions of dollars in other states of the world? The other one. Please tell me why doctors are blocking social security today. Soccer payouts for dead doctors who are like the military? Today, the situation is very difficult in the state. And the third. What we're saying is, why is there no oxygen in hospitals today, in Rubizny, for example? Sergey the Great was personally there as a Ukrainian national deputy from that district and watched what was happening in the hospitals. And that's what happens throughout our country -- there's no oxygen. There's no food, and there's no oxygen!
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-17-m0.u48	Thus, regarding the situation in Slovakia and Ukraine. First. I've already told you in my speech that we are expecting, as a matter of fact, 8 million doses of fast tests for Ukraine that we can do. We've actually had negotiations, we've made deals, and we've been negotiating with global companies about the purchase of vaccines. Quick tests will be purchased, the first 2 million are expected in the near future. If we're talking about Slovakia, it's a country with a population of about 5 million people, it's about Kiev and the Kyiv region. We've studied this experience in detail, in great detail, and we've watched how this test took place: with the involvement of the army, the police, the colossal human resources, the cost. Then there was the severe isolation of the people. So there was actually an emergency situation that would require an emergency to be implemented in Ukraine. I'm not sure that business, that people will, too. will enjoy this introduction. Thus, a study of this experience gives us some reason to speak about the need for such ones. increasing rapid testing in certain groups of people, populations, regions. We'll do it. To do that, we buy about 8 million of these tests. Up to six million are actually being contracted. As far as oxygen is concerned. 18 oxygen manufacturers in Ukraine are licensed by the Ministry of Health. I would also like to ask Mrs. Mikiczak, Deputy Minister of Health, to comment on the situation in health care institutions regarding oxygen supply. In particular, if there is any information on Rubižny, please give now, if not, then in writing to the national deputy give an answer. With regard to medical payments, Marina Volodymyrny Lazebna has made this very clear today.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-17-m0.u49	Please give me one minute, Deputy Minister.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-17-m0.u50	Thank you. Gentlemen, at the beginning of the epidemic we had oxygen supply in hospitals for no more than 10 percent. The situation today in various areas is very different, but we have to bring at least 80 percent of the provision in the near future. Two subsidies allocated by the Cabinet of Ministers for oxygen financing are 5.5 million and almost 9 million dollars. The full responsibility of the local authorities, because they own utilities, also in cooperation with us, at all exits, we will monitor this, and we will provide additional information in writing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-17-m0.u51	Thank you. Gregory Nemira, faction of Fatherland. Julia Timoshenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-17-m0.u52	Mr. Prime Minister, today you have been invited by Parliament to explain what is being done, what is not being done in the Supreme Council ruling, which has been adopted to prevent all the terrible events of COVID. What's done is done is done. I have this decision in my hands right now, just like you have it on the table. I'd like to ask you, it says a hundred percent free tests. They're not here today. Why? It prescribes 100 percent of free medicine for the sick. It's not there. Why? This decree states that a hotline must work so that people can call a mobile brigade or an ambulance, and the patients didn't go to the lab, to the hospital, to the clinics, and so on. They're on their way. Why? 15 living minimums for doctors who are ill. Don't pay. Why? Please explain, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-17-m0.u53	Thank you, Julia Volodymyrna. I've already said today, I'll show you again, this is the work desk paper that I use every day. Most of these measures are taken either before or at the same time or after the adoption of this decree. We have great respect for the documents, regulations, recommendations made by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. About a hundred percent of the free tests. One hundred percent of the tests are given free in Ukraine by doctors for testing. So we have a test for people who have become ill in Ukraine who have a family doctor's direction is provided free of charge. One hundred percent of medicines for people who are ill and are directed by family doctors are treated in hospitals, are provided free of charge, and should be given free of charge. There may be questions for hospitals, before the funds are allocated, but the funds allocated through NHRIs and cod packages are calculated provide for the availability or free availability of all necessary medicines for the patients. In addition, according to the Supreme Council’s recommendation, we are currently working on a separate program of medicine or, here, it is very difficult to supply medicines uniformly to all people because a family doctor’s prescription must be prescribed. We are working today to improve the cost reimbursement program, that is, to compensate for the cost of medicines to people who have been prescribed prescriptions. It's about the hotline. I've already said that the established all-U.S. contact center that works today is a hotline. Thousands, tens of thousands of references now, actually, after this decision is adopted, the "hot line" of the whole country works and is extremely popular with people from the point of view of getting information, from the point of view of development. I'll also ask Mr. Victor Laczyk to complete these questions on the hotline and the supply of drugs and tests. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-17-m0.u54	Thank you. Dear colleagues, distinguished national MPs, we turn to questions from national deputies. Please sign up for the question. Let's keep going. Vadim Ivchenko, faction of Fatherland, please. Sergey was sore.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-17-m0.u55	Mr. Prime Minister! Sobolje, Fatherland. I have a question, in fact, one. Do we have quarantines for the sick or for the healthy? If this is a quarantine for the sick, without free tests, without what these tests are immediately done at home, without what is actually isolated by people with disabilities and diseases that can cause complications, elderly people are isolated, as they do in other countries, then it is a quarantine for the sick. Unfortunately, all you do is quarantine the healthy. It's a stop to the economy, it's a stop to small business. Give an answer, a quarantine for the sick or for the healthy, and then we'll understand why you're doing this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-17-m0.u56	Thank you for asking. Of course, quarantine is called upon to stop the spread of the epidemic. Quarantine to ensure that the medical system does not fall from the number of patients who may be ill if nothing is done. Epidemiologists leading today and yesterday, by the way, have participated in our meeting with the mayors, who clearly say that there is not yet an effective vaccine, until there are no effective cures for coronavirus, no other tools besides reducing mobility and disrupting social contacts in the fight against the coronavirus. So quarantine is to protect people from infection, to protect people from getting into a hospital and getting into trouble. Of course, the quarantine is designed to preserve the health of our nation. Regarding the steps that are being taken, I gave them a talk in my speech. In fact, the home electronic system is improving today. We continue to work on showing and insulating the contact patients effectively. We expect, thank you for adopting the Law on Increases in fines for failing to meet the social requirements of distance and wearing masks. In fact, it's going to be this synergy that will allow even more and better use of the tools available in the state to reduce and spread infection in our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-17-m0.u57	Thank you. Irina Heratschenko, faction of European Solidarity.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-17-m0.u58	Thank you. Please pass the word to Alexia Potter.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-17-m0.u59	Alexei Hotcharenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-17-m0.u60	Alexei Hotcharenko, European Solidarity. I have another question for you. Mr. Prime Minister, in fact your government needs to go into political isolation, because you're delivering a virus that's very dangerous, no less dangerous than a crown virus -- a virus of incompetence, a virus of dilation. And that's why today Ukraine is in the last place in Europe by number of tests, which is why today people can't test, wait for 4-5 days, pay half the minimum pension to protest. That's why you're allocating money for oxygen at the end of the year, when you had 64 billion from March of the month, that's why there's no money today. NZU says they lack money, and the Ministry of Health is unable to use money on time. So I have a question. Of course, the whole government has to resign, but we've heard that the resignation is being discussed, at last, with Mr. Stepan's volunteers and other insiders. Please tell me, will you initiate Stepanov's resignation? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-17-m0.u61	As far as the situation is concerned. The cost of oxygen was allocated to the first more than 570 million dollars a month ago, and more than 870 million dollars are now being allocated, and almost 1.5 billion dollars are being allocated to oxygen. And the problem for hospitals is that by the end of this year, at least 80 percent of the beds under COVID will have oxygen supply by the end of this year. If we have a goal by the end of the year to provide over 60,000 cod beds, almost 80 percent -- that's about 50,000 beds-towns have to be oxygenated. Today's work is active, two days of meetings with the heads of government, where we actually get all the information from every medical facility, every district, and every city, how the oxygen supply work is done. I've already talked about money for NZU today. 22 billion are unearned money. In addition, today’s adoption of the law will provide an additional 5.6 billion reserves that can be used for NHRIs if necessary. With regard to the work of the Ministry, the work of the government. The results of these 8 months: you see an increase in the number of tests to 50,000, the target is 75,000; the beds from 12,000 increased today to 45, and we're going to continue to increase them to 60,000. Work is done daily. It also sits down in case of necessity, and every week, twice a week, the Commission meets from techno-ecological safety and emergency situations with regard to the situation with the country's coronavirus. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-17-m0.u62	Thank you. Dennis Monastiersky, "Serial of the People" faction. Please, Mr. Dennis.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-17-m0.u63	Janchenko Galini, please pass on the word.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-17-m0.u64	Galina Yanchenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-17-m0.u65	Dear Denis Anatoliyovich, I've already asked you several times about payments for the biologists who work, and not only for the biologists, but also for all of the specialists with unmedical higher education who are currently doing cadaver tests in Ukrainian hospitals. Today, they're people who get an average salary of 3 or 5 thousand dollars, and they're working day-to-day. I received an answer from the Ministry of Health, which says that everything is really beautiful with us. The directive states that both medical and nonmedical workers can receive benefits. But if, excuse me, the "subvention" would be okay, we wouldn't have two thousand biologists in the Webberchat today who complain of no payments. Moreover, other guarantees, such as medical training and so forth, do not extend to them. So once again, I'm going to ask you to solve this question, to bring them into the codifier of professions, once and for all, to close this question. Otherwise tomorrow we don't have anyone to do the tests, you know, the cadaver tests. We have a problem testing patients anyway. If the biologists are released, everything will stand up, and the medical system will.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-17-m0.u66	Thank you, Mrs. Olena. I totally agree with you. We've really had these conversations. I suggest we work together, literally this week, to have a joint meeting with you with the Ministry of Health. I will now give the floor to the Deputy Minister of Health. But I agree that this should be done more quickly and urgently. I invite you to work together to resolve this issue once and for all in one way or another. Mick Irina Volodymyrna, please also give a supplement on this matter.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-17-m0.u67	Vladislav Poljak, MP's "Trust". Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-17-m0.u68	Please pass the word to Bilozer Larissa Mikolayovni.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-17-m0.u69	Please give me your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-17-m0.u70	Larissa Bilozer, trust MP. Dear Denise Anatoliyovich, this is the situation today, which is stated by the National Health Service, which is not enough for a cadaver hospital of 5 billion and 600 million. We all know that, in fact, the number of cadaver hospitals has almost doubled, from 240 to 437. But, you know, it seems to me that they've stopped adding nocturnal hospitals, and instead, I've got a lot of doubts from the center of the letter that you can identify sports halls and culture houses for the woddy patients, when I have at least 500 beds in the five hospitals, three hospitals in the district have all the facilities to make at least 500 beds, and they have infectious hospitals. So I ask you very much to speed up the signing of the NHRI treaties. And in terms of these costs, they're not enough for either second or primary. In primary medicine, health care centers stopped getting money. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-17-m0.u71	Thank you, Mrs. Larissa. I have answered this question three times today about NSO funds. 22 billion today are unexploded NSOs by the end of the year; 5.6 billion are the funds that (today will be voted by law) will be additionally allocated for medical needs if necessary this year in addition to the budget. Indeed, the number of hospitals from 240 has increased to nearly 440, which are defined by cadavers — virtually all hospitals — we have taken away not just a fraction of these hospitals today, but completely reclassified them. In particular, as prescribed in the Supreme Council ruling, here we have translated part of the specialized institutions, the famous, the Academy of Sciences of Ukraine, the Crucifixions, we've translated into the services of planned and emergency patients, not colluding, and accordingly we've been able to determine at the COVID hospital, fully translate into serving people with COVID. As far as the money is concerned. I'm sure by the end of the year we have enough money to fight COVID, especially through NSOs, through bags. Packages have been counted, and the funds that come from utilities, hospitals, there are still issues of working with the chief physicians as they are redistributed. But, of course, 300 percent of the payments are paid to doctors there. He's in control. Then the reallocation as it happens inside every medical facility is already the work of the chief physicians, the heads of local self - government. Of course, the Ministry is in control, but it cannot interfere with the work of health institutions that are municipal institutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-17-m0.u72	Thank you. Maxim Savrasov. It's a faction of European Solidarity.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-17-m0.u73	Please pass the word to Vladimir Ariev.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-17-m0.u74	Vladimir Ariev, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-17-m0.u75	Mr. Prime Minister, you've had such a good time talking about how much you've put aside to fight the coronavirus. But what I want to tell you is that there's a difference between how much you've allocated, or what you've written on paper, and how much you've spent, or how much cash. And we're opening up the Ukrainian Ministry of Finance's website: and in cash costs for road construction, it's 20 billion, and in order to buy the IDP, it's only 40 million. I understand that everything is done to get Ukrainians to the cemetery and not to drive or shake. I would like to reiterate that today there is a Deputy Minister of Health in this room who advised FOPs to go to the hospital yesterday. I'm not asking about conscience anymore. What I want to ask you is, are you dreaming about what you've done at night?
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-17-m0.u76	Regarding the fund to fight COVID. It's really completely open, it's on the Ministry of Finance website. Every day or every day, all the information is updated, the cost spent is shown, and the cost is redistributed. So-called road fund funds are called to deal with the economic consequences of the pandemic in Ukraine. And recent research shows tremendous efficiency and multipliers in job creation, as well as in the portion of the multiplier when the budget is filled, tax payments and social functions are performed. I would like to point out that since the quarantine began on March 12, today, 419,000 people have been officially employed through the employment center. At the same time, nearly half a million people have been quarantined as unemployed since the beginning. And today, if on March 12, 361,000 people were unemployed, now 399,7,000 are unemployed. And one of the things about sustaining the economy is actually economic stimulus programs for our economy. With regard to hardware purchases. The agreements are signed. Cash, as you know, is issued after carrying equipment to Ukraine, which is the principle of postpaid. Where an advance is needed, it takes place. Next. Once the relevant acts have been brought in and signed, they will be closed by funding from the respective fund from the corresponding articles. By the end of the year, there is still time, we will be analyzing efficiency at the end of the year, and we will draw conclusions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-17-m0.u77	Sergey Shahov, please, Trust Group.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-17-m0.u78	Sergey Shahov, Luhanščina, Deputy Group "Trust". Dear Mr. Prime Minister, you know exactly what happened in Luhansk is a technological and ecological disaster caused by the burning of 85,000 hectares of forest, and no one has answered that question, and the interim commission of inquiry has not been established in Parliament. We demand immediate separation from the position of head of DSNS Psik, who has not been responsible for his crimes, and today we need to make an audit of all that has been done. The other one. 500 houses have been destroyed, people today are in need of relatives or in some dormitory, and they have not been paid for what they have done today. Third. Burned people alive, criminal conduct is not investigated. And the fourth. Everyone today says that for COVID, forgetting other problems. Today, there are unbuilt hospitals in large cities. For example, the city of Rubizna, an unfurnished hospital of about 50,000 square feet [50,000 sq m]. And it takes little money to rebuild and equip this hospital, but nothing is done either. Note this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-17-m0.u79	Thank you. In fact, Luhansk this year had a significant ecological disaster associated with forest fires. In about 146 places there were flash fires that caused the loss, only during the last fire about 20,000 acres [20,000 ha] of forest burned. A few dozen criminal cases have been violated in each of the facts, and they are investigated. Of course, Parliament has the right to create an appropriate commission of inquiry to keep this matter under control. Regarding the damaged houses. The government quickly, literally on the days in question, convened a committee of TSB and NS, made the appropriate decisions, and allocated all the necessary funds from the state reserve fund. So all the costs that were presented by appropriate district administrations or military-civil administrations, both in the flood in the Ivano-Frankiv region at the beginning of the summer, and in the fires in the Zitomirsk, Kharkiv, Lugansk, Donetsk areas immediately, during the days counted, allocated the funds and counted them to places according to the calculations and applications of the district managers. I can ask Mr. Anton Heraszczenko, Deputy Minister of Internal Affairs, to complete information on the work of determining the affected people. If there are any other unpaid payments, please take personal control. As far as I'm aware, all payments have been made. There are a few cases where people don't have real estate documents, we keep them all under control, and they're going to have to take specific measures by the end of this year, and there's a special task force that's going to be able to solve this legal issue. Please, Mr. Anton.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-17-m0.u80	Please give the deputy minister 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-17-m0.u81	National Deputy Sergey Shahov, I can inform you that staff members from the emergency services have done their utmost to save lives during catastrophic fires in the Luhansk region and will continue to protect citizens throughout Ukraine. All your questions, we will contact you after the meeting of the Supreme Council and decide in the working order.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-17-m0.u82	Thank you. Oleg Sinyutka, "European Solidarity" faction. Last question, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-17-m0.u83	Mr. Prime Minister, you understand that business today is being hit by a pandemic, and not by a good life today, entrepreneurs, thousands of entrepreneurs, gathered under the walls of the Ukrainian Parliament to seek the right to work. You know, from the underprivileged populist actions of local authorities, particularly the Levite authorities, entrepreneurs have been fined huge fines in the past, making things even worse in small and small businesses. Why don't you ask Parliament today to continue the moratorium on fiscalization, to adopt Bill 3853-1, which would significantly improve the situation of small and small businesses, to abolish those regulations, those fines that were imposed on entrepreneurs of past weekends due to the inadequacy of the local authorities?
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-17-m0.u84	So, with regard to cooperation with small and medium-sized businesses, we are completely open to cooperation with small and medium-sized business associations, business associations on business support tools for quarantine and not only for quarantine purposes, but also generally for regulatory improvement. These measures are set out in all our programs, plans. And we're in practice, the Ministry of Economic Development, other ministries are holding meetings with relevant association structures, business in order to work together, effective tools. We also work extremely closely with the Supreme Council's professional committees, and here I can assure you that the government's position is completely consistent with the positions of the Supreme Council's professional committees on business support, business protection, reforms for small, medium-sized businesses, and to improve the regulatory environment for business in Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-17-m0.u85	Thank you very much. We heard an overview of the information of the Prime Minister of Ukraine. The discussion is concluded. We want the government to take into account all our proposals coming from Parliament, from the Supreme Council of Ukraine, from the Ukrainian national deputies. Wish you success in your work. Thank you so much for coming to the Supreme Council of Ukraine today. Dear colleagues, before we take a break, we have one question: the offer from David Arahamaia regarding the organization of our work. Mr. David Arahami, the offer you made regarding the work of the Supreme Council today. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-17-m0.u86	Comrades, good afternoon! I suggest, given that we have a situation that is not settled with the areas and that people are already chosen, but they can't start working, there's nothing to work with, today continue the agenda until the issue of 3651-d is exhausted. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-17-m0.u87	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly, honourable colleagues, are being asked by David Arahamaia to continue today's plenary session until the conclusion of the draft Law, registration number 3651-d. So all the questions before this are very important questions: our decisions on quarantine of the day off, FOPA and so on, budget changes and mandatory consideration of 3651-d, this is a change in areas, remember where a lot of our colleagues are now addressing this proposal. Any other suggestions? Please, European Solidarity, Arthur Gerasimov. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-17-m0.u88	Dear Madam Chairman, distinguished colleagues, distinguished Ukrainians! I understand the desire of "ministers of the people" and Mr. Greensky's team to adopt other laws today that apply to certain tools, but I have an offer like this, and I'm also asking you to put it to a vote. To transpose the bill, which now applies to the districts, and to vote on it right now. And then go in the normal order of the day, as we do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-17-m0.u89	We're still not going to be able to see him until the break. Please, Sergey Sobolev. But remember, we need to vote in three minutes if there are changes. Please, Sergey Sobolev.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-17-m0.u90	Sobolje, Fatherland. We also wanted to suggest that we now consider the issue of areas. Here's a question about small business. And that's exactly the answer to the question, so we don't have to take the job. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-17-m0.u91	Coltunovich Alexander, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-17-m0.u92	Thank you. We will also have a wish, discussed by our representative, the leader of the faction Yuri Anatoliovich Boyko, on two bills concerning children. This is 3695 on amendments to some Ukrainian legislation on the provision of equal opportunities for mother and father to care for the child, with an alternative bill appropriate; and the second bill, this will be 3573 and 3573-1, including the co-authorship of our colleague of the Kingdom, to amend some Ukrainian legislation on the promotion of persons with disabilities affected by explosive objects, the size of state social assistance. These two bills, they were discussed on the Conciliation Council and they went up, including, to this meeting. So please also consider this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-17-m0.u93	That is, to take into account that these same laws are in order today. Right? I'm putting forward a proposal first as it comes, first I'm proposing to David Arahamaia that we continue our meeting, the plenary meeting, before the completion of the consideration of Law 3651-d. Please prepare for the vote. Please vote. [[11:57:12]] For 262 Decision taken. On the rest of the questions, we can still vote further after the break. There's a 30-minute recess, till 12:30. Thank you all.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-17-m0.u94	Dear colleagues, a statement came from two factions with a real break of up to 13 hours five minutes. A break is being announced. Yes, please gather all the faction and group leaders together with Daniel Getmants on the third floor of the conference room. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-17-m0.u95	Dear colleagues, consultations are still under way. And then there's a break, and they've taken two more factions off, and that's exactly what's going on with the FOPs. "The Servant of the People" and "The Voice" are two factions taking a break. There's a break at 1:40 p.m. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-17-m0.u96	Dear colleagues, please take your seats. We continue our work today. All factions and groups, please invite the national deputies to the hall. Dear colleagues, we continue our work. Let's put it down, we're moving on to agenda issues, and the first question we have is the draft Decision on the Decision of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine of 11 November 2020 No. 1100 on the strengthening of anti-epidemic measures. Dear colleagues, we need a vote now. We need to put this order in the agenda first. Faction and group leaders ready to vote? Ready? So it's a day-to-day vote on the decision of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine of November 11, 20, No. 1100 on the strengthening of anti-epidemic measures. Vote please, national deputies. [[13:47:19]] For 290 Decision taken. Thank you. Now we have to figure out that this bill is urgent. So I'm putting a decision to the vote and shortening the deadline for the introduction of alternative bills until the 11 November 20th plenary session. Please vote. [[13:47:57]] For 308. Decision taken. Thank you, Your Honor. And now for the summary procedure, I ask you to vote on this bill. Review of the simplified procedure. Vote. [[13:48:25]] For 299 Decision taken. An interviewer from the decree is invited by the national deputy of Ukraine, Železniak Jaroslav Ivanovich. Please, Mr. Iron.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-17-m0.u97	Dear colleagues, good afternoon! This decree is made up of one page, one page. It is within our legal capacity as a parliament to respond and properly evaluate the so-called quarantine of the day off, which the government has introduced. Dear colleagues, I'm sure you won't find anyone in this room who doesn't understand that the situation is bad, who doesn't understand that our citizens are sick, who doesn't understand that we have to react somehow as a state in order to prevent the situation from becoming critical. I understand that, too. But, dear fellows, you've all seen how this weekend went. You saw that some restaurants were still running, some cities refused to implement this quarantine, some businesses were banally registering religious organizations in their cafes, and this was done, they could continue to work. Dear colleagues, introducing quarantine on the weekend is the same thing as treating bone fractures by a bumper or a traveler. It might help, but it'll just be an accident. So I ask you to vote on the decision: six items that have been introduced for quarantine on the weekend, we are obliged to review the Cabinet of Ministers in three days. Let them see what worked. Let them understand entrepreneurs who were throwing away products because they bought them, and we didn't warn them there was going to be a placenta. Dear colleagues, if we speak, it will be primarily a crime against our entrepreneurs and our citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-17-m0.u98	Thank you. A coreporter, head of the Committee on National Health, Medical Care, and Medical Insurance, Raducci Mikhailo Borisovich, is invited to attend. Please, Mr. Mikhailo.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-17-m0.u99	The honourable chairman, honourable colleagues, the committee discussed the draft Supreme Council of Ukraine decree on the decision of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine of November 11, No. 1100 on the strengthening of anti-epidemic measures. The draft regulation suggests recommending that the government review the list of restrictive measures established by Cabinet of Ministers Decree No. 641, in part to mitigate the restrictions imposed on the so - called quarantine of the day off. The committee supports the need to support small and medium-sized businesses working in the fields of culture, sports, trade and services in a complex economic situation that is deepening with the coronavirus pandemic. At the same time, it is clear that a rapid increase in the disease of the population of Ukraine to coronary infection requires adequate quarantine measures to preserve the lives and health of Ukrainians. In view of this, the Committee adopted a decision: to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, at a plenary meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, a vote on the adoption or rejection of the draft Decision on the Decision of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine of November 11, 20, No. 1100 on the strengthening of anti-epidemic measures (registration No. 4381). Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-17-m0.u100	Thank you, Mikhail Borisovich. Is there a need for discussion? Yes. Please sign up: two for, two for, please. Tsymbaluk Mikhailovich, "The Fatherland" faction. Sergey Vladislavovich, please, the Fatherland faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-17-m0.u101	Sobolje, Fatherland. Colleagues, that's actually the question that we started off with today. And when we haven't heard from the government the key answer to the question: who is quarantined in the country, no matter what quarantine is -- the exit day, or the whole lockdown, if this quarantine is introduced for healthy people, and now it looks like this, the one who is leading a healthy lifestyle is the one who wants to have his business, which is the quarantine for them. I think our faction thinks it's wrong. Quarantine should work for sick people and potentially sick people who may have such a disease that will bring him, God forbid, to a hospital bed, God forbid, to complications. That is why all countries that have understood this are on the path of impossibility and maximum quarantine for the sick. So that they wouldn't run tests through the city in public transport, then come back, infecting hundreds of people, and do it for free, in one place and preferably at home. And the second. For quarantine to work precisely for those categories that have the most dangerous form of complication. The list of these people is well - known. These are people with autoimmune diseases, such as diabetes, Alzheimer’s, and other diseases. That's who you need to isolate. These are people with heart disease. That's who we need to isolate and protect. People who have too much weight. People who are older and older. And we have a quarantine to close down the business and kill it. That is why our determination is foreshadowed, examine, and make a quarantine for the sick and potentially ill, not for the healthy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-17-m0.u102	Thank you. Roman Lozinski, the Voice faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-17-m0.u103	Please pass the word to Galina Vasilchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-17-m0.u104	Galina Vasilchenko. Please, Mrs. Galina.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-17-m0.u105	Galina Vasilchenko, Golos faction, 118 constituency, Lvivščina. Dear national MPs, dear Ukrainians, what is the quarantine of the weekend? That's another 30-40 percent loss of income for entrepreneurs who didn't develop during the last year, and didn't even go to the level that was before the start of the crisis. This is the situation today of more than 2,000 administrative protocols that have been submitted to entrepreneurs during the past weekends and that they are now required to sue in court. It's a completely thoughtless, unreasonable and completely illogical decision on the part of a government that in no way breaks the chains of disease. What do entrepreneurs need? They need guarantees and support, they need to save their teams, save jobs in order to hold on to anything. There is no way to make such, unfortunately, difficult decisions. Entrepreneurs need a clear road map with appropriate measures, with standards to understand how they should act, how to reconcile their operations with their teams, with their suppliers, with their renters, their main task is to survive and save jobs. Let's think about it, and we'll make informed decisions, we'll support this decision, and we'll abolish the quarantine of the weekend, so that business, like microbusiness, is still in a very difficult state, even though it can survive somehow. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-17-m0.u106	Thank you. Maxim Saurasov, European Solidarity, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-17-m0.u107	Please pass the word to Pottery Alexia.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-17-m0.u108	Alexei Hotcharenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-17-m0.u109	Thank you. Alexei Hotcharenko, European Solidarity. We're now discussing the government's initiative on quarantine on the weekend. You know, that kind of initiative could only be invented by the government of the day off. It's kind of like the self-activity that's going on the weekend, like the student circle of KWN, and it thinks, and what else do we have to figure out that we can still do, maybe it will help, we'll do some more experiment, and it makes a completely absurd decision about the hatchdown of the weekend. In fact, this hatchdown of the weekend is a nocdownon for the field of service, for a small business that thousands of people are now standing under the Supreme Council of Ukraine, and they're still getting, still getting, and still getting. Finally, this authority needs to remove the crown from its head and start fighting against the coronavirus, not entrepreneurs, not service, not those who actually work. We have Schmigal and he tells us, you see, and in Germany, in France, Zelensky says, it's where the U.S. closed. So why don't you say that in Germany, in France, in Italy, the authorities pay people money to sit at home, and then they can be at home. You don't give people anything, you don't send them away, you don't work. And how do you take it? On Wednesday evening, the government takes a decision, and Thursday evening, it is decreed that thousands of businesses throughout Ukraine should be closed in 27 hours. What if someone at the coffee shop bought food? What if someone sold the tickets? But it doesn't matter at all. It's not work, it's bullying. That is why such a government must be immediately sent away for isolation and reassignment. Our faction initiated, and we've already collected 84 signatures of Ukrainian national deputies for resigning this government. I suggest that we all join, sign this decree, resign this government, quarantine the day off, and start a real, adult fight against the pandemic.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-17-m0.u110	Thank you. Paul Bakunec, please, "Trust."
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-17-m0.u111	Paul Bakunec, Zovkovščina, Jaborovščina, Deputate Group "Trust". Madam Chairman, honourable national deputies, dear entrepreneurs, who are now watching this plenary session closely, we are witnessing with you the alarming destruction of small businesses in Ukraine, because these quarantine restrictions on the weekend do not result in a reduction in the spread of the virus, and small businesses are killing. It seems that the government has invented an enemy, a small, honest FOP, a Ukrainian entrepreneur, and wants to destroy it. These government entrepreneurs never asked for anything but one thing: don't interfere. They create jobs, they feed their families, they pay their taxes to budgets, they follow the rules of adaptive quarantine, but at one point they ignore their ideas. The only one who can help entrepreneurs today is you, colleagues, the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Parliament must defend business in Ukraine. We have to stop the quarantine of the weekend, we have to postpone the application of the RRO, we have to vote in favour of Bill 3853-1, and therefore stop the regime that is disturbing business destruction. And one more thing. We have to make this decision a point that will still cancel the fines that entrepreneurs received for the weekend, because they will go to the courts and still get convicted. And they did the right thing with these measures of cities, such as the city head of Lviv Andrew Sadow, who stood up for entrepreneurs, and other measures. And that's what the Supreme Council should do, stand up for entrepreneurs and vote off the quarantine of the weekend. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-17-m0.u112	Thank you. After a minute, who else hasn't spoken? Nestor Sufrich, please, "The Opposition Platform for Life."
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-17-m0.u113	Thank you. Madam Chairman, distinguished colleagues, distinguished entrepreneurs, Ukrainians who can see and hear us. This quarantine weekend, otherwise it doesn't want to be called, it doesn't solve the main question: breaking the disease chain and passing the COVID-19. What does he decide? He decides some desire for the government to correct its mistakes at the expense of our citizens’ income. We definitely disagree with that. Any restrictive quarantine measures must first stand on the principle of compensation by the State. So we demand that the quarantine weekends offered by our government be abolished, that our entrepreneurs be supported, and that we be held accountable with the funds provided by the Supreme Council to deal with the consequences of COVID. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-17-m0.u114	Thank you. Taras Batenko, please, the faction of the "For the Future" political party.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-17-m0.u115	Colleagues, when quarantined on the weekend, is Monday through Friday, and Saturday through Sunday, it is called pluralism, only pluralism in one head. But when pluralism in one head, in medicine, in medical practice, it's called schizophrenia. So, my friends, I think we need to ask the government not to suffer from any disease, but to show the nation that there is a healthy body in a healthy body and a healthy spirit, and today the whole Parliament is friendly to vote in favour of this, sorry, pluralism in one head, which is contained in quarantine one day and cancel it, to oblige the government to abolish it. Our "For the Future" MP group calls for common sense for all MP factions and parliament as a whole. That's why we vote yes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-17-m0.u116	Thank you. David Arahami, faction of the Servant of the People, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-17-m0.u117	Colleagues, we understand, of course, that the quarantine of the weekend and any quarantine in general is bad news for business and the economy. All of this is well understood. But we need to move from a political debate to a purely professional medical discussion. We're not the medics, we can't be the infected, we can't just be the people who like to do the election right now, in some cities there's an election, we understand why the mayors are acting that way. But we have to understand that partial quarantine is still better than full elbowdown. It may not save the situation, but there is a likelihood that it will save. Let's give the government 14 days or 20 days to see whether this results or not, and then we'll make the final decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-17-m0.u118	Thank you. Dear colleagues, have you all spoken? Please, Sergey Shahov.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-17-m0.u119	Sergey Shahov, Luhanščina, Deputy Group "Trust". Dear colleagues, enough to mistreat the small, the medium, the big business.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-17-m0.u120	Sergey Shahov, I'm sorry, the "Trust" group was speaking. Excuse me, please, the "Trust" group has been speaking. Your colleague, Bakunec, has already spoken. Excuse me, this is my fault. I'm having a hard time today, believe me. Thank you so much for understanding. Dear colleagues, are we all ready to vote because I understand that we must now put to the vote? Please take your seats. So I am voting on the proposal for adoption of the entire draft Decision on the Decision of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine of November 11, 2020, No. 1,100 on the increase in anti-epidemic measures (registration number 4381). Please vote. [[14:06:30.]] For-149 I can hear you all very well. By factions, please show me. "People's Servant" 34, "The Opposition Platform for Life" 20, "European Solidarity" 20, "The Fatherhood" 19, "For the Future" 14, "The Voice" 19, "The Trust" 17, "The Non-Factional", 6. Regrettably, the honourable national deputies. Our next project is to provide timely information to citizens in case of an increase in anti-epidemic measures with a view to preparing properly for such an increase (registration number 4320). Dear colleagues, there is also a need for a vote to be put into the agenda. I am voting for the inclusion in the agenda of Decree No. 4320 on timely informing citizens in case of an increase in anti-epidemic measures with a view to preparing properly for such an increase. Please vote. [[14:07:46]] For-300 Decision taken. I am betting on a bill that will be declared urgent and shorten the deadline for the introduction of alternative bills until the day of the plenary session on 17 November 2020. Shorten the deadline for introducing alternative bills. Please vote. [[2:08:21]] For 319 Decision taken. I look forward to considering the adoption and decision at this plenary session of the bill. Please vote. [[14:08:49]] For 321 Decision taken. I now look forward to considering the simplified procedure for considering this provision. Please vote. [[14:09:12]] For 282 Decision taken. The report invites the Ukrainian national deputy, Železniak Jaroslav Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-17-m0.u121	Dear colleagues, this planning decree. One of the main requirements of both business and citizens is to quarantine businesses. This is not normal when we introduce quarantine on Thursday, which begins on Friday evening. It's not human. What is this decision about? About three things. If severe quarantine measures are taken, the government warns the country in a week. If severe quarantines are implemented, the government lists issues that support citizens and businesses within a week. If a strict quarantine is introduced, a week from now, you and I, the National Deputies, give us a list of the government laws that need to be adopted. I remember when the first quarantine was introduced, and I remember how the Committee of the Trinitarian Galina, Danila Gettmantsev, Sergey Babaka, Dmitri Nataluha, and other committees worked day and night to make these arrangements. I remember how many of our colleagues -- Larissa Bilozer, Helen Skrum, Victoria Sumar and everyone else -- were working on this day and night, and we were implementing post quarantine assistance because that was the time. Now we realize that the situation is bad. Let us not repeat old mistakes, especially when, God forbid, we have time. Let's prepare in advance both laws and government decisions on support and action. God forbid they'll ever be of any use to us, but it's our duty to give the citizens an immediate answer to the simple question: what happens next, what happens to their business, what happens to their lives, what happens to their jobs. And that's what this is about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-17-m0.u122	Thank you. The report invites the head of the Committee on National Health, Medical Care, and Medical Insurance, Raducci Mikhailo Borisovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-17-m0.u123	The honourable chairman, honourable colleagues, the Committee on National Health, Health Care and Health Insurance discussed the draft Decision on timely information for citizens in case of an increase in anti - epidemic measures with a view to preparing for such an increase. — Registration No. 4320. This draft regulation allows the population and business to prepare for the likely increase in quarantine and the introduction of more stringent restrictive measures aimed at preventing the spread of COVID-19 and to protect them from the negative consequences associated with it. This project provides a number of recommendations to the government regarding the organization of the formation of citizens and operators in case of an increase in anti - epidemiological measures. For us, the COVID situation is a challenge that requires, on the one hand, severe restrictions on protection, and on the other hand, a reasonable balance between the interests of health and the achievements and interests of citizens. Under such conditions, timely and objective information from citizens on the strengthening of restrictive measures during quarantine and support measures offered by the State will help to reduce social tensions in society. In view of the above-mentioned committee, he approved the decision to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the results of the first reading of the draft Decision on timely information to citizens in case of an increase in anti-epidemic measures with a view to preparing properly for such an increase. Having entrusted the committee, together with the Chief, on the basis and in general, with the task of tasking the committee, together with the Chief Legal Authority of the Supreme Council, to undertake its technical and legal work in preparation for the signing of the Supreme Council. Colleagues, please support the committee's proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-17-m0.u124	Thank you. There's this one. You want to talk about it? Is there a discussion? Let's write it down: two in, two in, two in. Please, Oleg Blue, European Solidarity. Irina Heratschenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-17-m0.u125	The problem of the pandemic is certainly not just the Ukrainian problem, dear Ukrainians. And it's obvious that even though our faction is in opposition, we're even sorry for this government and this power that's faced with a serious problem. Another question is that in times of crisis the government and the authorities have to consolidate society around solving problems, rather than going into pink lethargy and treat society with an Oxyx from Fefania, when we, you know, already have a two-bedroom union telling a country that can be treated by applying to asphalt or watching TV shows, when heavy patients today cannot get to the hospital or are not in the chambers at this time, but in the corridors. And really, it's a very strange-looking government tactics that have been going on for eight months without creating the necessary prerequisites for treating patients when they're trying to quarantine a healthy part of the country. It's absolutely obvious that this quarantine of the weekend, it doesn't break the disease chain, because why 5 days and a week can go to entertainment centers, restaurants, bars, theaters, and on Saturdays, suddenly there goes, as the government tells us today, this chain of disease. It's just really a desire to create a violent activity, a bad mine at a good game, or a good mine at a bad game. And what is this decision about? That the government must comply not only with Parliament but also with the business that today in the area also requires the right to a profession. If you have failed this disadvantage of the quarantine of the weekend, please support, although the government's decision to report to both parliament and business on time to enable people on their shoulders today to prepare for the dropdown. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-17-m0.u126	Thank you. Paul the Bacon. Reverend, please. Sergey the High, the Trust Group, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-17-m0.u127	Sergey the Great, Luganskina, the Trust MP. Dear colleagues, the situation as a result of the Coronavirus pandemic and the increase in the number of diseases per day has forced many countries, and our government has also resorted to restrictions. Population and management need to be able to prepare for restrictive measures. This will reduce the social tension that can arise if quarantine is stepped up. To avoid the negative effects of restrictions, it is necessary to prepare not only for society but also for authority. Therefore, along with the increasing restrictions, Kabin must inform about the support that will be given to the most vulnerable groups. Another is the need for legislative initiatives to change the granting of business benefits and support to citizens until the introduction of the lockdown. That is what this determination is all about. Please, colleagues, support this decision. Thank you for your attention. Sergey the Great, Luganskina, the Trust MP.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-17-m0.u128	Thank you. Nestor Ivanovich Schufrich, "The Opposition Platform for Life".
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-17-m0.u129	Thank you. Madam Chairman, honourable colleagues, I am, frankly, impressed by the fact that the Supreme Council of Ukraine, and we will speak bluntly, has voted exclusively by the faction of "ministers of the people" in the previous vote against the people, against entrepreneurs, against those who today hold the budget and, in fact, on their shoulders and with their hands, hold the state while the COVID money is being stolen, buried in asphalt, and the budget next year for Ukraine for road construction is being proposed -- attention! – more than the health budget. People are good, what are you doing?Oh, my God! And in these conditions, we understand that maybe the only way out is to quarantine. We are today against any show of lokdown, which will not measure the consequences and help of people. Helping specific entrepreneurs in the field of services that are now holding fast to the last of their capabilities is what keeps jobs, gives people the opportunity to buy food, their families, and the families of those they are providing with jobs today. And in these circumstances, these people deserve timely information, I emphasize, about the true state of distribution of COVID and to prepare for the consequences. But any lokdown, if it becomes necessary, is possible, I emphasize, and requires our political power, in one case only, to compensate for the loss of employment and jobs. And that's our main requirement. And people have the right to know the truth. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-17-m0.u130	Thank you. Alexander Danuza, "Serial of the People" faction, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-17-m0.u131	Thank you. I'm off-limits. You know, I've come from Kropivinski. Fortunately, we have the smallest number of infections. But throughout the country and, for example, in our district center, we have that our city’s head is also sick. I mean, the disease doesn't spare anyone. I have at least 40 to 50 people in my environment who are sick. Regrettably, I know about the flight accidents of my acquaintances. We must be extremely responsible, and in this sense the state must bear the highest responsibility. Because the Constitution states that human life, human health, is the highest value for our nation and so forth. So for today, I am absolutely convinced that if we do. And we're convinced that we're going to protect human life. The quarantine of the weekend, any other quarantine, we must put human life first in this sense. Although I am absolutely convinced that there are mistakes, and there are mistakes, and when the government makes them, we must, as national deputies, as representatives, especially majorists, correct them. So let's work together and understand that the pandemic killing and the economic killing are the same thing. So let's do it.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-17-m0.u132	Thank you. Please, Vladimir Tsabal, the Voice faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-17-m0.u133	Honorable colleagues, every normal Ukrainian family, the normal Ukrainian plans his day, plan his month in advance. And when the government imposes any restrictions in two days, it is either he thinks that Ukrainians are abnormal, or maybe in government some are, excuse me, abnormal. So we urge everyone to vote in favour of this decree, which has been supported by all factions, which obliges the government to give early warning of any restrictive measures for the Ukrainians, which obliges them to submit a plan to help those who are suffering from these measures, and which obliges them to submit to the Supreme Council no less than a week a draft law on a variety of benefits and assistance to those who suffer from this bowdown. Please support this decision. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-17-m0.u134	Thank you. And Sergei Ruddick, political group for the Future Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-17-m0.u135	Dear colleagues, read the title of this decree: The timely informing of citizens. What, the "servants" don't even have a matrix to do without a draft Supreme Council ruling? We haven't talked about this before. People planned entrepreneurial activities in small and medium - size businesses, in restaurants, in markets, bought goods, paid them in advance, especially when it comes to a food group. And in three days, without warning, they tell them, "Everything, you are a criminal and a lawbreaker or you are evil or you are good." Of course, our parliamentary group will vote for the government to communicate with their country so that they know about their genius. But please, colleagues, stop holding Ukrainians for thieves. Don’t solve the problem of illness on the account of the common people who care for the welfare of themselves and their families today.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-17-m0.u136	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the question is closed. Sergey Sobolev, please, one minute from the Fatherland faction. Anyone else want to come out? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-17-m0.u137	Dear colleagues, I was thinking of speaking or not, because there's a strange thing. In the previous draft, the rulings all point to the impossibility of lokdown on the weekend, and in this draft, the rulings all say, yes, we need to close everything down, just go to the Supreme Council, who needs to gather and approve the law on this. So who do we do better? Whether it's five days or seven days from now. I don't care. And if the Supreme Council doesn't come together, the government can't do that? What if the epidemic situation is critical? In my opinion, this draft decree deserves to be addressed in just one case: if there is a list of people who are quarantined, those who are at risk of death, those who are at risk of complications. It's not here. Address to the Supreme Council, and what next? And we didn't get together. And you can't close the country if you really have to do it or not.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-17-m0.u138	Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Sergei. Dear colleagues, are you ready to vote? We're moving on to making a decision. Please take all your seats, dear fellow members of the national parliament. Thus, I am voting on the proposal for adoption of the entire draft Decision on the timely information of citizens in case of an increase in anti-epidemic measures with a view to preparing properly for such an increase (registration number 4320). Please vote. [[14:27:03]] For 303 Decision taken. Please show by factions. Thank you. Dear colleagues, we have another vote now. We have, in principle, this is an organizational vote. I'm voting on the draft Order for Amendments to the Order of the Day of the Fourth Session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the Ninth Call 3050a-9. Need a discussion? Who else wants to talk, please? In a minute, please. European Solidarity, please. Arthur Gerasimov.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-17-m0.u139	Dear colleagues, you know the incompetence, incompetence and criminal inaction of the entire Zelensky team no longer raises any doubt about every person in this country, with very rare exceptions. But look what happens even today. First, the government of Mr. Zelensky, the second government of Mr. Zelensky, makes these ridiculous decisions about the quarantine of the weekend, not solving the problem, but simply covering it with a fig leaf. After that, the majority of Mr. Zelenski's parliamentary votes against the Ukrainian medium and small business openly showed the previous vote. As for this vote specifically, they put a bunch of their laws there again, about roads, including, but do you know what's not there? There are no European Solidarity Bills to ensure that money from the Crown Fund is spent exclusively on medicine. There are no laws on the transfer of all known hospitals to treat normal people, and there are no other laws. That's why we're in.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-17-m0.u140	Thank you. Please, Ivchenko Vadim.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-17-m0.u141	Vadim Ivchenko "The Fatherland." Madam Chairman, I would like to stress one day at a time. Look, "Fatherland" filed, registered many bills, 81 of them not included in the decree. Only 5. are included and counted. Many of the bills are not considered directly by "Paternity" on the committees, it's just that there's no previous discussion. Very little, Madam Chairman, I would like to point out that those bills that we are voting on for the re-reading, as with Bill 4313, they are completely corrupt by the committee. The Rules are being violated, the articles are being violated, those not discussed during the first reading are being amended, and the Rules are being permanently violated. That's why Fatherland won't give a single vote for the right decision. And we ask you to ask the committees to consider all the bills of all the deputies. It's our right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-17-m0.u142	Thank you. Heard your position. Alexander Koltunović, please, "The Opposition Platform for Life."
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-17-m0.u143	Thank you, Reverend Olena Constantine. Ladies and gentlemen, we have examined this draft decision, especially with regard to the appendix, which lists the draft laws that are proposed for consideration. And I want to tell you that this list of bills does not meet any of the challenges and demands of the time that society is now. We see what are important problems, and this isn't just a pandemic, we've faced a substantial increase in tariffs, we've faced a record debt to pay off wages, a number of other points that relate to the decline of the national economy, and there's no bill that would be able to solve things in any way. Therefore, in our view, it is necessary to include laws of opposition. And what I'm saying is, from this list, there's only one alternative bill, "The Opposition Platform for Life" in this list. So we're not going to vote in favour of this draft decision and we're going to invite everyone to look at this project anyway. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-17-m0.u144	Did everyone make a statement on that question? Dear colleagues, everyone has heard your thoughts, all your comments, I think you should consider. But I am putting to the vote a draft decree amending the agenda of the fourth session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the ninth call. Please vote. Registration number 3050a-9. [[14:32:25]] For 236 Decision taken. Please show by factions. Thank you. Dear colleagues, we are now going to consider a very difficult issue because there is no consistency in the Hall, it is a question of the draft Act amending the Code of Taxation of Ukraine and other legislative acts on the transfer of the term of validity of the rules on the detining of accounts in the field of trade and services and the liberalisation of the application of accountancy registers by individuals who pay a single tax. This is a re-reading of the painful 4313-d bill. You know we've had consultations with faction leaders and groups. I'd like us to start now, in a minute, giving each of the leaders factions and groups to communicate and exchange their proposals. We will continue to decide what to do with this bill. To begin with, I would like to give the floor to Mr. Getmansze's committee head, the profile committee. We will continue to take the lead in factions and groups. Please, Mr. Danilo.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-17-m0.u145	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we have held further consultations on this issue. The question is ambiguous, controversial question, a question that, on the one hand, gives rise to the pain and fears of entrepreneurs, and on the other hand, regrettably, the adoption of a decision by the unbalanced will lead to violations of the rights of 40 million of our citizens, who also require a check. In view of this, we need to find compromise. So I propose to take this off the table today, to create a working group, and to develop a compromise bill that would put everybody in line. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-17-m0.u146	Thank you. Heard your offer. Let's move on to communication from the leadership of groups and factions. David Arahamiah. We'll take it in a minute. The "Serve of the People" faction, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-17-m0.u147	Colleagues, in the FOP situation. We have people on the street right now, we don't have any compromise positions in Parliament, we've been doing factions. So given that we can now fail both the bill and the other, and under the Rules we cannot go back in the current session to this issue, I have a proposal for all factions to vote in favour of removing this issue from the agenda. To return to the new working group, to work on the position of people, according to the position of other factions, and to bring a new, finalized bill to the hall. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-17-m0.u148	Thank you. We're still going to put this motion to a vote. Let's move on. Who's ready? "European Solidarity", Irina Heratchenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-17-m0.u149	Dear colleagues, you want to talk about the problem, create a working group. You've already created a working group after solving the constitutional crisis and e-declaration, now another working group. The committee had more than a week to actually hear people and help business at such an important time. These people don't take anything from the state, they're self-employed, they keep families, they pay taxes. But we should bow down to their feet, not abuse them! And in fact, the compromise is, proposed by Mr. Stick, which we are prepared to support in this case. This is a bill that brings us back to 4313 in the version, just one sentence there: to postpone the introduction of these new rules on RROs and so on for one year. In fact, in the meantime, we really have to solve the problems that Mr. Gethmans is talking about fairly, it's a smuggling problem, it's a problem of some so-called so-called businessmen who are covered in FOPs, but you can't destroy small and medium-sized businesses in such a difficult one right now.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-17-m0.u150	Thank you very much. Please, Nestor Ivanovich Schufrich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-17-m0.u151	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. Unfortunately, dear colleagues, we have witnessed the replacement of the task of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, we have clearly voted in Law 4313 with specific authors to develop for the re-reading of the first reading. Today we have seen a completely different law, another in shape and essentially. And absolutely right were our entrepreneurs who are now under the Supreme Council of Ukraine demanding that Bill 4313-d be removed as one that does not regulate them and violates their rights. So today we demand to return to Law 4313 and implement the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, and on December 1st to vote this bill as a whole as a law, and to calm the people on the streets and our entrepreneurs, who are the foundation and foundation of our economy today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-17-m0.u152	Thank you very much. Igor the Stallion, please, the political group Party for the Future.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-17-m0.u153	Good afternoon, dear fellows! When a nation is ill, when people die from disease and die from having nothing to feed their families for, all normal governments and all the normal members of the Supreme Council are cutting taxes on people, giving people life. Yesterday, there was a committee full of substitutions and full manipulation. So I demand, as the author of Law 4313, that a committee be held now, that a decision be taken and that this bill be put into the Hall. If you don't want to, we have registered bills that passed the committee, among them are those that, like 4313, I'm afraid to make a mistake, 3519, I think, "d," put in the hall and vote. And the Future Group, together with the EU and the Trust Group, have registered Mr. Getmantsev's release as chairman of the committee because he manipulates his mind.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-17-m0.u154	Thank you. Julia Volodymyrna Timoshenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-17-m0.u155	Dear colleagues, entrepreneurs gathered under the Supreme Council, are taking a firm stand against Bill 4313-d, which was made by a committee that completely contradicts their demands and interests, and which does not remove the problem at all. They insist that we consider Bill 3853-2, which leaves little business in peace and never touches them again. Discuss the power structures, with those who violate small business taxation laws. We insist that Bill 3853-2 be considered now, this is our "Paternity", the bill, he passed the committee, and he fully meets the requirements of those entrepreneurs who are gathered under the Supreme Council, he gives them full opportunity to work without cashiers and without additional fiscal burdens. We have every opportunity to consider this law right now.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-17-m0.u156	Paul Bakunec, please, "Trust."
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-17-m0.u157	Thank you. Honorable colleagues, respected entrepreneurs who listen to the meetings of this Supreme Council, let us stop this regime together for the destruction of small businesses in Ukraine. Because today entrepreneurs stand in the yard and freeze to death, demanding not only that they postpone the introduction of the RRO, they want to leave the simplified system unchanged. So the "Trust" MP group is looking into Bill 3853-1 today in the hall and clearly considering also the postponement of the use of the RRO. And that's why today, colleagues, together we can stop this turbulent destruction of the enterprise. So I encourage you to consider those bills that require people who are now freezing out on the street. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-17-m0.u158	Jaroslav Železniak, the Voice faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-17-m0.u159	Colleagues, we're looking at 4313-d. It seems that there is no support in either coalition or opposition, no support in the streets or in government buildings. Considering that this is the only text that's been brought up for consideration, I can say immediately the position of the Voice faction: we will now vote in favour of this law with red buttons, for which I call on others. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-17-m0.u160	David Arahamiah, "Serve of the people."
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-17-m0.u161	Colleagues, there's an offer. Given that we've come to terms with the issue and we can't cancel it anymore, we need to save the opportunity for that, we don't now support this bill. This bill could be removed from the question at all by then. Let's introduce a new bill, bring all the factions together in a working group, put them in, support them in the hall so that the new system will be operational from the new year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-17-m0.u162	Of course, you're confusing everyone. Dear factions and factions, if you'd like to be invited here in my office for two minutes. Taras Batenko, if you'll excuse me, please come to me. Dear colleagues, let's take all our seats and make a decision on Bill 4313-d. So you've heard the speeches of all the leaders of factions and groups, you've heard all the political positions that there are. It's not going to be easy here right now, because you have to understand what's going to happen next with these kinds of bills that have to be considered and prepared on a committee of profile. But I have to put the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Tax Code and other legislation on the transfer of the terms of validity of the rules on the processing of commercial and services accounts and the liberalisation of the application of accountancy registers by individuals who pay a single tax (number 4313-d) to a vote. I ask you to determine by vote on this law. This is a vote in favour of this law. Please identify and vote. I'm putting him in. Once again, registration number 4313-d: draft Act amending the Code of Taxation of Ukraine and other legislative acts on the transfer of the terms of validity of the rules on the processing of commercial and services accounts and the liberalisation of the application of accountancy registers by individuals who pay a single tax on the basis. Please be determined. Vote. [[14:54:46]] For the 17th. Against it is 228. Please show by factions: "People's Servant" – 13, "The Opposition Platform – Life" – 0, "European Solidarity" – 0, "The Fatherland" – 0, "For the Future" – 0, "The Voice" – 0, "The Trust" – 0, "The Trust" – 0, "The Fatherland" – 4. I don't understand what it was like to pass this law and decide to make such a disgraceful decision. Let us all be responsible for those who stand before the Supreme Council. Dear National Deputies, we are moving to Law 4120, this is the second reading, the draft Act amending Chapter XX "Transitional Provisions" of the Ukrainian Tax Code (as regards the features of the administration of taxes for the purpose of financing expenditure as defined in paragraphs 31-34 of Article 14 of the Ukrainian Law on the State Budget for Ukraine 2020). The rapporteur is Head of the Committee on Finance, Tax and Customs Policy, Danilo Alexandrovich. I remind you, this is our second reading. Do you have any suggestions on your rights, fellow believers? Does anyone have any comments or suggestions on remedies? None. Can we vote? David Arahamiah. David Arahamiah. Is there no one in charge until 4,120?
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-17-m0.u163	My colleagues, thank you for supporting this bill in the first reading. There were virtually no changes between the first and the second. We are also working to ensure that 10.4 billion dollars will go into the budget this year, of which 1.4 billion will be paid off to the miners, while the rest will go to the Coronary Foundation to fight the coronavirus in order to now respond to the challenges that these related two bills 4120 and 4119 have. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-17-m0.u164	Thank you. I therefore put to the vote the draft Act amending Chapter XX of the Tax Code of Ukraine (as regards the features of the administration of taxes for the purpose of financing expenditure as defined in paragraphs 31 to 34 of article 14 of the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine 2020). Please accept in second reading and in general with the necessary technical and legal rights. Dear colleagues, please vote. [[14:58:52]] For 272 Decision taken. Please show by factions. Thank you. Dear colleagues, the draft Law amending the Ukrainian Law on the State Budget for Ukraine 2020 (for the implementation of article 11 of the Ukrainian Law on Natural Gas Market) (registration number 4119) is also a second reading. The rapporteur is the deputy head of the Committee on Budget Affairs, Truhin Alexander Mikolayovich. Please take your seats. Alexander Truhin.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-17-m0.u165	Thank you. Honourable Helen Konstantinovna, Honourable People's Deputies, Bill 4119 of the Supreme Council was adopted on 4 November on the basis of the commission of the Budget Committee to work on the second reading on a reduced procedure. In accordance with article 116 of the Rules, the Committee received proposals from national deputies grouped in a comparative table of 203 proposals. And according to the results of these proposals, 21 proposals were taken into account by representatives of the Ministry of Finance and the Court of Auditors, and 182 proposals were rejected. In particular, the final draft of the bill takes into account the committee's proposals for the first reading, namely to clarify the expenditure figures in accordance with the 3040 bill adopted on 3 November, and provides for the approval of the granting of State guarantees to the committee to ensure parliamentary control. Other proposals, such as the exclusion of article 29 of the law on the harmonization of legal rules and the relevant decision of the Constitutional Court, include the addition of an article according to which, for a period of quarantine, budgetary allocations are based on the program for the recovery and rest of children.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-17-m0.u166	Ten seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-17-m0.u167	Thus, the Committee on Budget Affairs recommends to the Supreme Council Bill 4119 to adopt, on second reading and as a whole, as a law taking into account supported proposals, the final text proposed by the Committee in a comparative table to the bill and the introduction of the necessary technical and editorial rights.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-17-m0.u168	Thank you. Of course, thank you. Who's going to insist on their work, please tell me. Eugene Nina Petrovna. Who else? Everything? Yes, please, Nina Yuzanin. What adjustments will you insist on?
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-17-m0.u169	Let's start with 47 revisions. My fellow Members, if my amendment was taken fully into account in the previous bill and there is a possibility that the bill would work, then the committee did not respond. Let's go back to what I said. In order to ensure that the special fund comes with an additional $10.8 billion that we're going to target to coal miners and to the COVID fund, we need to do everything we can to ensure that businesses and Ukrnafta and NAK Naftogaz don't take into account the results of the financial activity they already have. So the amendment is exactly 47 for the proceeds of the Crucibles tax on profit. My amendment is to ensure that Skrnaft doesn't include in the amount of the prepaid and accrued damages that it has to provide.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-17-m0.u170	You're gonna put her to a vote, 47 papers, right? Please turn on Nina Petra’s microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-17-m0.u171	I'll bet on confirmation. I've talked to the Naftogazu NAC specialists, and I hope the committee and Minfin can hear me, and we can actually put it on the stand right now, and we'll support this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-17-m0.u172	You're talking about Amendment 47, Nina Petrovna, she's rejected.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-17-m0.u173	Something was rejected on the committee yesterday. Today, the hall has found that it needs to be supported.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-17-m0.u174	Please comment from the committee on your position.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-17-m0.u175	Edit rejected. The amendment balances the bill, and if we count it, we won't be able to do all these calculations and operations. And the actual flow of funds to the budget will not take place. So the bill will just be voted on and put in a drawer. That's why we can't vote for it. This is the position of both the Ministry of Finance and the Committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-17-m0.u176	It's number 47, it's in my table, it's rejected. Nina Petrovna, you're going to put her on the stand or are you going to put her on the line, I don't understand? If it's rejected, it's taken into account. Please take into account the number 47 of Nina Jujanina. I'd like to make up my mind. [[15:04:31]] For-82 The decision is not taken. What's your next assignment?
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-17-m0.u177	50 repairs. Your Honor's deputy or committee head, you're lying right now, because that's exactly what you're saying. Then you're lying that you don't have enough money in this relationship and you're going to use other incomes of the same NAC, or you're going to give Ukrnafti the ability not to pay those payments. And then you're all wrong when you say you're going to vote for this bill because the money will go to COVID and go to the miners. It's not here, there's no fuses that wouldn't allow Skrnafti, for example, to take into account the tax credit, and she's entitled to it. So I'm saying that out of all the prepayments, they pay the added value tax, as this is going to be done in this scheme that everyone has offered together. To make it happen, we need to support this amendment. Otherwise, you proposed a balance, not me.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-17-m0.u178	Committee position, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-17-m0.u179	The position of the committee is exactly the same as the previous one. Nina Petrovna, I want to answer you. I very much believe in the integrity of these two counterparties and the Ministry of Finance and the agreed position. Money will come, money will be paid to miners as well as to all the needs we now have regarding the Ministry of Health. So, Nina Petrovna, my proposal is not to make any more of these adjustments because they are not supported by the hall. The committee's position is to reject. Don't balance the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-17-m0.u180	Nina Petrovna, do you insist on voting? You insist. Please, there's a license number 50 for Nina Petrovna Jujanina. Please vote. [[15:06:49]] Z-70. The decision is not taken. The next one is yours. Please, Mrs. Nina.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-17-m0.u181	Dear colleagues, the next amendment concerns NAC Naftogaz, number 54. When Naftogaz receives compensation, please read what is now written on the left-hand side of our table: they have the right to account for the 20th and 21st years of activity. So they don't see the way to pay the prepayment because they don't have enough financial results, they want to account for the damage. NAK Naftogaz is now bankrupt, minus 11 billion. So you take money that you can't get from the income tax in the coming years and the 20th year and the 21st year. This is what the diagram looks like right now, and the experts I talked to agree with it. So I suggested that this tail should be removed in this standard so that we don't take NAC's income tax in advance for two years, but take it only from the specific number that NAC gets, multiply it by 18 and take the tax on the budget.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-17-m0.u182	Committee position, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-17-m0.u183	Overruled. We don't.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-17-m0.u184	Please don't hear me again.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-17-m0.u185	Overruled. Not supported by the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-17-m0.u186	Please comment on why.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-17-m0.u187	The same comment. Nina Petrovna, if we accept any of your rights, this bill will be non-working, the circulation of funds will be blocked, and we're not going to be able to implement the bill. The hedge fund will not reach $8.9 billion, the miners will not get their wages. Please, let's stop. If there is the will of the hall, let us vote in red and go for the adoption of the law as a basis. Thank you. Number 54.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-17-m0.u188	I'm betting license number 54 on Nina Petrovna of the South. Please vote. [[15:09:24]] For-75 The decision is not taken. Nina Petrovna, you still have a lot of rights, can you honestly say that?
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-17-m0.u189	A few amendments. The next 97 is an amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-17-m0.u190	97th, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-17-m0.u191	Dear colleagues, they just didn't work on this bill. We are absolutely aware that this device will pass, but in order for the money to be for the hedge fund and to pay off the miners, the unaccounted-for amendments now allow, what Mr. Alexander says, somehow to extract money from other sources to close all of this operation that is planned. So I think everyone is absolutely against it, but now you're going to shut up. Why do you allow this opportunity to transform a good transaction with good intentions into an operation that will not be performed in a transparent way, and different amounts will be pushed up and different schemes will be used. Once again, NAC will not pay income taxes for 2020 or 2021. You just voted red for the previous amendment. I'd like to make a 97 amendment, because this is exactly where the tax is paid for the profits of the Scrooge.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-17-m0.u192	I'm betting on a vote of 97 on Nina Petrovna's amendment to take her into account. Please vote. [[15:10:56]] For-84 The decision is not taken. Please take the next step, Nina Petrovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-17-m0.u193	139 revisions. It refers to this (honorable colleagues, please listen), this is the entire amount of debt on two payments to be paid by Skrnaft, this is about the rent and all the debts they now have before the fines, the fines, the pennies, the State Tax Service. Please tell me I made an amendment so that she would agree with the Ministry of Finance. The Ministry of Finance does not want to make a commitment, nor does it support, responsibility, more loyally, nor does it support this amendment. So we're to blame for everything that's going to be taken over by the State Tax Office. It seems to me that if we were to include the Ministry of Finance, which is more responsible and which we should trust as a ministry, because this is the body that coordinates the work of the tax service, we would be confident that this is not a selective debt, not a debt that likes to be repaid by Skrnafti.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-17-m0.u194	Thank you. I'm betting on the vote of Amendment 139 Nina Petrovna Jujanina. Please vote. [[15:12:31]] For-78 The decision is not taken. Your next update, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-17-m0.u195	The next 184 is the amendment. Dear colleagues, the procedure foresees the following. When the operation takes place in one or two approaches to the state Treasury, all state Treasury special accounts, Ukrnafti and NAK Naftogaz will be zero. And here's the responsibility of "Scrooge" for 10 days to call off all lawsuits in the courts. If she doesn't do that, within five days NAC Naftogaz will return all the sum that has been counted "Scrooge" to the budget. I'm asking, where will the money be taken to NAC in 15 days? This is a loss account, because no one wants to be responsible for this operation right now, it translates the entire responsibility of NAC Naftogaz. And I think without this security, we're just NAC Naftogaz, and now we're going even further into bankruptcy, and maybe even destruction of this structure. So I ask you to support this amendment, at least crucially, that responsibility be given to all the organizers of this scheme, not to NAC.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-17-m0.u196	Committee position, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-17-m0.u197	Don't back me up like that.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-17-m0.u198	The vote is number 189 of Nina Petrovna’s vote to be taken into account. Please vote. [[15:14:11]] For-88 The decision is not taken. Nina Petrovna, is there still an amendment? None. Who else has the papers, please? Please, coldov, "Serve of the people." Your license number?
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-17-m0.u199	Dear colleagues, my license number 25 refers to the transfer by the authors of an additional 12 billion dollars from the special fund to the general fund of the budget. We're at the end of the year and we have a huge gap in the budget, we don't have a way to fund expenses, and so I think it's necessary to send these 12 billion dollars if they really are, which I have a lot of doubts about, to the general fund for the financing of salaries, pensions and other public spending. Filling the COVID fund at the end of the year with no additional funds, you've all seen Minfin's information that about 30 percent of the fund's funds haven't been used in six months, and most of the other funds went to road repairs, not preparation for a new pandemic wave. In the general budget fund, these costs are very much needed, otherwise the issue of bracelets. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-17-m0.u200	Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-17-m0.u201	Committee position: we don't support it. I want to tell my colleague that yesterday the budget committee removed more than 2 billion dollars from the road and confirmed the government's decision, and sent for the fight against the coronavirus, to buy tests and oxygen for the sick. And money doesn't just go for repairs, as you say, mate. And this money is needed in the Coronary Fund, because today the Cabinet of Ministers has made a lot of decisions that require real money. So we can't support a colleague's application, unfortunately. There's an offer to dissipate from the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-17-m0.u202	I see. So it's the vote number 25 of the People's Department of the Cold on the count. Please vote. Amendment number 25. [[15:16:36]] For-48 The decision is not taken. Do you have any more papers? Please, Mr. Coldov.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-17-m0.u203	Thank you. Amendment number 130. My writing is the most important thing in this bill. I would like to make it clear that the parties to this bill are in line with their responsibilities. I suggest we make it clear that the first one is paying off his tax debts, and then the NAC is paying Skrnafti for gas, and the state is granting compensation to Naftogazu. Only this turn of events will fully safeguard and protect the interests of the State. The amendment also foresees that there are 15 days in Skrnafta to carry out its duties in order to carry out the whole mechanism by the end of the year. They won't. Good-bye. Please support this amendment, this is the most important rule of the bill. Let's not leave the definition of turn of mind to Kabmin. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-17-m0.u204	Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-17-m0.u205	Overruled.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-17-m0.u206	I'll bet on the vote number 130 of the Cold People's MP for the vote. Please vote. [[15:18:00]] For-48 The decision is not taken. Do you still have a warrant, Mr. Cold? Please, another one.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-17-m0.u207	Thank you. Amendments No. 160, 165, 169, 171. If possible, give 3 minutes to make these adjustments together.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-17-m0.u208	Two minutes, please report.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-17-m0.u209	Thank you. Dear colleagues, look, "The Ending Positions" of the bill provides that "Ukranafta" provides guarantees of waiver of administrative and judicial claims to pay off tax debts. Okay, even though this is unconstructive, we're probably on the same rakes again. But if we're already defining such guarantees from Skrnafta, why not establish a similar guarantee for VAT and income tax that will arise in the "Cornafta" as a result of the implementation of the bill? And that's 12 billion dollars. This makes sense and protects the interests of the State. So I'm proposing that we extend the guarantees of "Scrooge" to all tax liabilities under this bill. Likewise, I propose that the new tax obligations of the Skrnafti as a result of the implementation of this bill be considered agreed upon at the time of their termination. This will at least in some way secure the state from the following claims of the Skrnafts in the future. Please show your state's position and support my actions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-17-m0.u210	Thank you. Please name again the changes you want to take into account. 160th, and then?
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-17-m0.u211	160, 165, 169, 171.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-17-m0.u212	Yes. I'll bet on the vote number 160 of the Cold People's Deputies. Please vote. [[15:20:01]] For-30 The decision is not taken. I'm betting on the vote number 165 of the People's Department of the Netherlands. Please vote. [[15:20:22]] For-36 The decision is not taken. I'm betting on the vote of Amendment 169 of the People's Republic of Cold. Please vote. [[15:20:42]] For-35 The decision is not taken. I'm betting on the vote number 171 of the People's Department of the Cold to count. Please vote. [[15:21:03]] For-34 The decision is not taken. Thank you. Who else has a license for one of their own, please raise your hand. Who else has it in mind, please? You don't? Thank you. There are other confirmation papers, I understand. Nina Petrovna, please. Do you have a lot of them to confirm?
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-17-m0.u213	I'm going to try to make only one amendment to number seven, which is by Alexander Truhin. Please tell me, though, if the income section (article 1 of the Ukrainian State Budget Act) were to increase by only 42 billion 504 million 883,000 dollars in the first reading, that would be the exact change in the spending portion. Now you've made an adjustment by increasing the cost. On what account?
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-17-m0.u214	Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-17-m0.u215	It's a resource that's reflected in the bill. Nina Petrovno, you said number seven, this is Torochtia's readjustment.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-17-m0.u216	It's Torochtia's readjustment, it's rejected, Nina Petrovno.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-17-m0.u217	And it's rejected, yes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-17-m0.u218	You said seven. But if 8, then the position of the committee on line 8, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-17-m0.u219	Position on line 8 is to count. Counted. And the resources are provided through the decisions made in the bill. So it's filled with income. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-17-m0.u220	This is the vote for confirmation number 8, the amendment of the People's Deputy of Trukin. Please vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-17-m0.u221	Please be supportive. [[15:22:58]] For 203 The decision is not taken. Does anyone else have any amendments to confirm it? To confirm, Mr. Coldov wants to bet on confirmation. Will you bet on confirmation? Let me get one of yours, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-17-m0.u222	No. 52. I'm very fast.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-17-m0.u223	Whose turn is this?
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-17-m0.u224	It's my paper. It's cold.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-17-m0.u225	Are you on the stand or on the count of it, I don't understand? It's coming off, I get it, I get it, I get it, yeah. Yes. Can we vote, move to a vote? Dear colleagues, may we proceed to the vote? Leaders of the MP factions, ready to vote? Do you have confirmation or consideration? People's deputy to Dudenkov, please. Coltunovich, please. Please give me the correct number.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-17-m0.u226	Mrs. Helen, look, I'm paying attention to that 201 amendment, and I wanted to. If it is not related to the one we have just put to confirm, then we may not vote. But if this is the amendment that has to do with 201, because it is not fully understood here, then it will also have to be put on confirmation. Let the Budget Committee take a look at the 201 amendment so that we don't balance the draft law and then put it on confirmation as necessary. But please take the position of the committee first. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-17-m0.u227	Please take the seat of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-17-m0.u228	They are unrelated. Let's not bet on confirmation.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-17-m0.u229	Committee position. They are unrelated or unrelated, do I not understand?
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-17-m0.u230	Not connected.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-17-m0.u231	They're not related. Bet on the 201st confirmation? Don't put it. There's no requirement to put it. Thank you. Does anyone else have an appointment or not? Ready to vote? Okay. I am voting on the draft Law amending the Ukrainian Law on the State Budget for Ukraine 2020 (for the implementation of article 11 of the Ukrainian Law on Natural Gas Market) (registration No. 4119). It is up to the vote to adopt this bill in second reading and in general with the necessary technical and legal regulations. Please vote. [[15:26:06]] For 283 Decision taken. Thank you. Dear colleagues, we now have a number of human resources issues, such as the draft Ordinance on the Cessation of the Powers of the People's Deputies of Ukraine, Andryovic Zinovija Miroslavovich. Is there a need to discuss? There is no need to discuss. I'd like Zinovy Miroslavovich. Calm down, people's deputies. I'd like to speak with you for a moment. Let's give him a word. Please, Zinovo Miroslavovich. You have one minute. Please turn around.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-17-m0.u232	Good afternoon, distinguished national deputies, honourable presiding officer! I think today is the result of the election of the Supernatural OTG community that believed in me the next day. Fourth, I became the head of a united territorial community. [[Applause]] From 2006 to 2019, he worked as a city head. I want to thank everyone for having the opportunity to create the history of the community, the history of Ukraine. Because, believe me, the moment is a very responsible historical moment, a moment that tells us that history is not the only one here, but rather the future of the united territorial communities. It is the reform of decentralization, which is a successful reform that is now moving towards the community. I want to thank everyone for the constructive discussion, for the lively.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-17-m0.u233	Thank you. Thank you very much. I think the best way to say hello is for Genovia Miroslavovich to vote with a green button. I am voting on the draft Ordinance on the permanent suspension of the powers of the Ukrainian national deputy Andrijevic Zinovija Miroslavovic (draft number 4368). Please vote. [[15:29:01]] For 306 Decision taken. We wish you, Zenowy Miroslavovich, further success in your work. The next thing we know, we have a personal question. Ladies and gentlemen, on November 17, 2020, the Central Election Commission registered the Ukrainian National Deputy, elected to the interim election of the Ukrainian National Deputy on October 25, 2020, in the one-seat constituency no. 208, Gunka Anatolia Grigorovič. In accordance with article 79 of the Constitution, Ukraine’s national deputies take an oath before the Supreme Council of Ukraine before taking office. The National Deputy of Ukraine, Gunko Anatoli Grigorovich, is invited to make an oath to the rostrum. Please, Mr. Anatoly. [[Applause]] Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-17-m0.u234	It's a pleasure to meet you, distinguished national MPs. I swear allegiance to Ukraine. I commit myself to all my actions to defend sovereignty, Ukraine’s independence, and to take care of the welfare and welfare of the Ukrainian people. I vow to abide by the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine, to carry out my duties in the interests of all fellow countrymen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-17-m0.u235	Thank you. Welcome to the oath. Thank you. A statement came immediately. According to part one of article 6, part one of article 13 of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of the People's Deputy of Ukraine, part three of article 60 of the Ukrainian Law on the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine reports that the political party "The Servant of the People" in the Supreme Council of Ukraine is part of the Ninth Call of Hunk. How? Gunko Anatoly Grigorovich. Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, we still have a draft decree amending the Supreme Council of Ukraine decree on the election of heads, first deputies, deputy heads, secretaries, members of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's ninth call. Does this need to be discussed? You don't have to. I would like to vote on the draft Decree amending the Supreme Council of Ukraine Decision on the Election of Heads, First Deputys, Representatives of Heads, Secretaries, Members of the Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the Ninth Call (registration No. 4371). I'm betting on her acceptance as a whole. Please vote. [[15:32:18]] For 290 Decision taken. Thank you. And the last issue of today's agenda is the draft Act amending some of Ukraine's legislative acts on the organization and activities of local self-government bodies and district government administrations. It's a very important law, it's a second reading. The rapporteur is the head of the Committee on Public Authority, Local Self - Government, Regional Development, and the construction of Kloczko Andriyovich. Are you going to report? Okay. Dear colleagues, this is quite a chart. Please tell me, who has the comments, the amendment proposals? I see: Eutusek, Skrum, Cimbaluk, Ivchenko Who else has it? It's a slogan. Everything? Let's go in order. Please, Sergey Eutuszek, the "Fatherland" faction. Please give me an amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-17-m0.u236	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Sergey Eutuszek, Equinox, Fatherland. Amendment 158. Dear colleagues, I really want to confirm the words of Vice-Speaker, who is presiding at the meeting, that this is a fine law. After all, with the election campaign already under way, some local self - government authorities, the united territorial communities, and what have they faced? And they were faced with things that had not been transferred without financial commitment. And I would like to thank the head of the committee and the entire committee for giving everything to the united territorial communities. Because it can’t be the same as a half - pregnant woman or a little pregnancy, nor can a united territorial community without the authority and without the property. So I thank you and I want to say that there are also questions about PMS, about other organs that have to go through the transition period and get a license during this period. That is why we put and vote on this law as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-17-m0.u237	So you're not counting and confirming, am I correct, Mr. Sergey? Okay, there is. Next, who do we have? Alona Shkrum, please. Alona Shkrum, no. Who can't see? Vadim Ivchenko, please call the number of the amendment, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-17-m0.u238	Yvchenko, Fatherland. I have four papers: 4, 24, 41 and 64. And I'm asking for two minutes of performance then.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-17-m0.u239	You're going to put them on the line, confirming what these are?
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-17-m0.u240	These are amendments that are not considered by the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-17-m0.u241	I mean, counting. Are you going to put them to the vote?
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-17-m0.u242	I won't insist, I want to speak.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-17-m0.u243	Please, two minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-17-m0.u244	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Sadly, my right hand was one of the lands of the united territorial communities. And I talked about the following: all the countries, independent of the kind of target assignment that are, let's say, in rural, rural councils, in unification of communities within those limits, should enter the united territorial communities. This is important to be anchored in this law, for in the future we will pass these lands on by law. Unfortunately, this amendment is off-limits, and we're going to be back with you looking at how the Holdgeokadastre is going to transmit. And you know that it can pass exclusively agricultural land, and we'll have questions on industrial land, on energy land and so on, and so on and so forth. So I'd like us to take this into account, of course, but unfortunately, the committee didn't count. These are important land issues for each united territorial community. And, Madam Chairman, I wanted to address you. We were just out on the street, you don't understand what's going on. 3: 30, there's one and a half thousand people, people are loaded, they're betrayed. You haven't voted as a majority in favour of the relevant bills that correct the situation in the RRO. They are not simply demanding, they say: The locusts are burning — the mountains and the houses. They are willing to go to the Supreme Council and demand that every MP vote for the bill. We have every reason today, Mr. Chairman, to put 3853-1 and 3853-2 to the vote now so that each MP and each faction will show their position. But we can't go out on the street right now because they all think we're traitors! This is not fair! When opposition factions, all those in the backseat now, require you to put in the agenda and vote on the bills passed by the Committee under the Rules, you simply don't put and abuse people who are already standing in the ice in the middle of the border. Thousands of borders.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-17-m0.u245	Mr. Wadim, you may respond more calmly, please, especially with regard to me as presiding lady. I'm Mrs. Head for now. Come on, Mikhaylo Cimbaluk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-17-m0.u246	Mikhailo Cimbaluk, Fatherland. I have 13 amendments, please give me 2 minutes. And I'm not going to be asking questions about the voting of each individual amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-17-m0.u247	Please, two minutes. Mikhailo Cimbaluk.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-17-m0.u248	Mikhailo Cimbaluk, Fatherland. Honorable Chairman, Honorable Colleagues, Honorable Citizens of Ukraine! In fact, this bill is the same thing that the majority, as the people say, put the carriage in front of the horses. But it's better late than never. We've had a situation where we've had the election of the newly formed district councils, not given them authority, and today the MPs don't know, but what they're going to do is they're going to be in their circle of credentials. Next thing. Where there are responsible district councils that have not yet been authorized, they are still able to transfer property to the newly created united territorial communities. But this bill does not answer what a united territorial community is. And we need to immediately amend the Constitution to make it legal. Next thing. We think that over the course of everything, and really the committee has done the right job, we need to prepare some more bills that will put all the dots over "and." What about today's new district council, how to budget, how to support the social sphere that will now move into both the district council and the unified territorial communities? It seems that the central authority, by translating the powers of the unified territorial communities, wants to optimize the social sphere with the hands of these deputies, so to speak, and this is the preschool schools, and this is the FAP and other infrastructure that is still being preserved in the village today. The Fatherland faction is in favour.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-17-m0.u249	Thank you, thank you. Dear colleagues, I'd like you to come into the hall, take your seats, prepare for the vote. We have two amendments to Alona Shkrum, yes, but I'm going to ask you to take your seats now, because we're going to vote now. Please, Alona Shkrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-17-m0.u250	Thank you. Dear colleagues! Alona's splinter, Fatherland faction. An extremely important law, and I thank the committee very much for working it out. Most of my amendments are supported, and I thank you very much for this, both the PIC, and the City Association, and the Legal Department. I'm going to ask for confirmation and I'm going to ask you to support only two of my amendments -- 170th and 172nd, and I'm going to ask you to vote separately. In fact, these amendments change the bloc’s mandate of the Cabinet of Ministers. You see, today, article 85 of the Constitution of Ukraine states that only the Supreme Council will appoint members of the Cabinet of Ministers. But unfortunately, we have a situation and a failure, if the Prime Minister does not apply for a minister, the Supreme Council cannot appoint him and cannot be appointed a new minister at all. And the incumbent may remain in office for years as a member of the government, not having the authority to vote in government and, unfortunately, to lead the ministry without the Supreme Council approving this person. That is why this gap and this situation should be settled, and it should be stipulated that the Prime Minister should submit a 30-day nomination for the Prime Minister to the Supreme Council in the Hall. The hall will be determined whether or not to appoint the person. The remaining responsibilities will never be permanent and will never be fulfilling for years, for under the Constitution only you and I can identify and appoint members of the Cabinet of Ministers. So I am very much asking and supporting this law, which "Paternity" will have to support and support local self-government, and support the constitutional norms of amendment 170, 172, which just settle this issue. Thank you all very much. The law is absolutely right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-17-m0.u251	Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-17-m0.u252	Thank you. Positions at 170, 172 are off-limits. Well, let's let the hall determine.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-17-m0.u253	Are you ready to vote, Your Honor? So I'm taking into account the bill number 170 of National Deputy Alona Shkrum. Please vote. [[15:43:15.]] For 285 Edit included. I'm betting on the vote, taking into account the number 172 of National Deputy Alona Shkrum. Please vote. [[15:43:44]] For-286 Decision taken. Hello, Alona Ivanovna, you are welcome to receive such fine treatment. There's still an amendment, I understand, Roman Lozinski, please. The Voice faction. What's your readout number?
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-17-m0.u254	Dear colleagues, number 120. But I won't insist, it's accepted. Finally, I want to take the Voice faction to the hall for 30 seconds and to the local self-government and say that this bill is absolutely as important as a number of other bills. Neither the government nor the Supreme Council nor any other has the right to take away their rights and capabilities in local self - government. We've wasted a lot of time. Chaos is what is now in the heads of people who have taken responsibility. We're voting on an urgent basis.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-17-m0.u255	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, let's move on to the vote. I am voting on a draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on the organization of individual issues and the activities of local self-government bodies and district government administrations (registration number 3651-d) to be adopted in the second reading and in general with the necessary technical and legal rights. Please vote. Very carefully, please vote. [[15:45:21]] For 301 Decision taken. I welcome all the authors and all our national deputies. Dear colleagues, I have another vote. I ask you to consider this possibility of getting into the agenda and considering Bills 3853, 3853-1, 3853-2. Please make up your mind and vote. Dear colleagues, please make up your mind and vote. [[15:46:11]] For-138 The decision is not taken. Please show by factions: "Serve of the People" – 41, "Resistance Platform for Life" – 12, "European Solidarity" – 19, "Fathership" – 18, "Party for the Future" – 12, "Voice" – 13, "Trust" – 17, non-fractional – 6. Ladies and gentlemen, we have two more announcements. And let me finish today, let me go home. Appropriately, a statement was made regarding the creation of an interfractional parliamentary association. Yeah, hold on. What's it called here? It's called Clean Energy is a healthy environment. Headquarters: Honcharenko, Efimov, Klimenko, Kucherenko, Lubinets, Lukashev and Kucherenko And another announcement. About the creation in the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the Ninth Interfractional Union of Hydronomics. Header(s): Nataluha, Vasilenko and Nikolainka. Welcome to the creation of powerful interfractional alliances. Dear colleagues, thank you so much for your cooperation today, for your attention and for your support. I declare the plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine closed. Thank you.
