ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-04-m1.u1	Good evening, distinguished national deputies. Please take your seats and prepare for the vote. Ladies and gentlemen, please take your seats and prepare for registration. Ladies and gentlemen, are you ready to register? Please register. [[16:08:18]] Dear colleagues, 320 Ukrainian national deputies are registered in the hall. It's a motive. The procedure is Arahama.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-04-m1.u2	Dear colleagues, I have an offer for you. Given that, according to the Rules, we cannot decide on constitutional issues, I would like to propose that we change this order of the day and move the constitutional issue to the last. 1015, 1016, 1027 and 2590 were considered at the end of our agenda, and now they're looking at other bills that we have in order of the day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-04-m1.u3	I'm out of procedure. I see you're out of procedure. Dear colleagues, I mean, I understand that if I understood David Georgievovich correctly, what was the discussion on the terms of the debate, my discussion with National Deputy Oleg Anatoliyovich. The procedure is Arthur Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-04-m1.u4	Mr. Chairman, you know, yesterday, there were meetings of almost all factions, groups of parliament. Everyone was preparing for this order of the day. As far as I've heard from your faction, it's a matter of great importance. Today they are placed on the agenda for the vote. So I think we need to keep looking at these bills right now. And if you want to make that decision, you're going to have to put that question to a vote. Although we sincerely believe that we have already considered two issues and that we must continue to follow the same procedure, without violating the Rules, which was very often cited as an example of the presidency of the Supreme Council of today's convening. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-04-m1.u5	Sure. And the Supreme Council of Ukraine decides to change the order of affairs. You know that very well. According to the Rules. Sergei Volodymyrovich Vlasenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-04-m1.u6	Thank you, Mr. Head. You're right about the fact that the Supreme Council can really change the turn of affairs, and that's no question. But, dear colleagues, we are looking at changes to the Constitution. We do not consider the law. We're not looking at any decisions of the Supreme Council, important, but slightly lower in status. We're looking at the changes to the Constitution initiated by the President of Ukraine, that is, it's not a joke or a toy. The rules here are very clear and clear. What's more, we've already considered two bills of this kind on changes to the Constitution, according to the Rules. So this totally misunderstood position of the Presidential faction, which is now a little bit more in the sand, and it says, "Let's not look at the others." Therefore, there is a proposal not to support the esteemed head of the largest faction, especially that it should still be translated by the Chief of the Supreme Council, in this regard, but to continue the consideration of matters according to the order of the day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-04-m1.u7	Thank you. Sergey Volodymyrovich, I don't always understand: we're looking at the constitutional issue -- bad, not looking at -- bad again. There's something to be determined here. Mikhailo Mikolaiovich Papiev.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-04-m1.u8	Thank you. Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine, respected citizens of Ukraine, who watch events on television! You know, today's very serious agenda is the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And our faction is set up to work seriously on the changes to the Basic Law, to the Constitution of Ukraine, because "The Opposition Platform for Life" will always advocate the interests of citizens, their protection and their social rights. But at the same time, we are the most democratic political power in this House. So if you can vote, if you count other bills in an appropriate way, and you count that you are not yet prepared to consider such important laws and regulations as amending the Constitution of Ukraine, we will respond with understanding. Because we are also interested in the quality of the legislative process so that all the laws that have been passed will be taken into account. And the main thing is when the top part of the body is included. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-04-m1.u9	Thank you. Mikhailo Mikolaiovich, I agree and thank you very much for your position that we should make a thoughtful decision. And the upper part of the body -- I understand what you meant by that is the head. Thank you. Dear colleagues, Your Honor, you've done the procedure twice, I think it's too much, it's going to be a lot of procedures. Please prepare for the vote. [[B in m in s a l in]] National deputies, please prepare for the vote. Arthur Volodymyrovich, you've had a bad look at the agenda. We don't vote for the laws, but as a person who knows the Rules, you should have seen it. We are voting in favour of a decree to send a bill for further work. [[B in m in s a l in]] Right, the whole legislative process. I hope so. Thank you. Dear colleagues, ready to vote? I am voting on the proposal to change the order of the day, namely to move to the end of the February 4, 2020 agenda: 1015, 1016, 1027 and 2590. I've turned around. For constitutional bills, please raise. I understand, I'm telling you again, you can pick up the transcript that David Georgiyovich said. And 2590. Dear colleagues, ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[16:15:23]] For 246 Decision taken. Show me the factions, please. The People's Party – 221, "The Opposition Platform – Life" – 0, "European Solidarity" – 0, "Fatherhood" – 0, "For the Future" – 5, "Voice" – 0, "Trust" – 14, "non-factional" – 6. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the day-to-day issues. You are invited to consider draft law No. 2513 – draft law amending the Criminal Code of Ukraine on liability for crimes committed by the criminal community. Reported the chairman of the committee, Denis Anatoliyovich Monastirski.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-04-m1.u10	Good afternoon, dear fellows! The Committee on Law Enforcement considered bill 2513 at its meeting before the second reading. A total of 96 amendments and proposals were made, of which 43 were taken into account and 53 were rejected. The Committee recommends the adoption of Bill No. 2513 on second reading and generally as a law. However, the day before your vote in the hall was a discussion between factions, and there was a proposal, a proposal to make. an agreed proposal to refer this bill to read again. So the committee's decision to take a second reading, but there's a second reading proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-04-m1.u11	Dear colleagues, there was a committee decision, but we have now heard the position and heads of the committee, and I know that this position is divided by almost all the political parties, factions and groups that are represented in the walls of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I offer no discussion. And if you don't mind, I'll immediately put to the vote a motion for a second reading. There's no objection in the hall? Okay. Dear colleagues, I am voting on the proposal to return to the pre-trial committee and to re-read the draft Law amending the Criminal Code on Crime Responsibility by the Criminal Society (Registration No. 2513). Ready to vote? Please take your seats. Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[16:19:08]] For 268. Decision taken. Thank you. Dear colleagues, you have been invited to consider the draft Law on Amendments to Article 252 of the Ukrainian Code of Taxation on the Standardization of the Rate of Rent for the Use of Burst Drums (Registration No. 2241). The report is given to the deputy head of the Committee on Finance, Tax, and Customs Policy, Mr.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-04-m1.u12	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues! The Committee of the Supreme Council on Finance, Tax and Customs Policy at its meeting on 13 January 2020 considered the adoption by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on 19 December 2019 on the basis of the draft Ukrainian Law amending article 252 of the Ukrainian Code of Taxation on the Standardization of the Rate of Rent for the Use of Burst Drums (registration No. 2241) (imposed by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine). It proposes to amend paragraph 252.20 of article 252 of the Ukrainian Tax Code on the size of the wage rate for amber mining to stimulate legitimate amber mining. The bill received 10 proposals, including a total of 5, including essentially 1 and 4 proposals rejected. Yes, the committee at its meeting decided to take into account the proposals made by the people’s deputies to reduce the interest rate for the use of nadrama to 10 percent. for amber mining – up to 10 per cent and temporarily set the rate of rent for the use of amber naphtha to 31 December 2020, including 5 per cent, by 31 December 21st, including 8 per cent. So 10 percent will only work since January 1, 2022. It is worth noting that the increase in the wage rate from 5 to 25 percent, which took place since January 1, 2016, has led to a significant decrease in the income of this wage. Therefore, the proposed approach has an incentive to legalize amber production, which will result in increased revenue to the budget and reduce the tax burden of honest taxpayers. The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Finance, Tax and Customs Policy recommends the adoption of a bill amending article 252 of the Ukrainian Tax Code on the Standardization of Interest Rates for the Use of Burst Extraction Drums (Registration No. 2241), introduced by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine in second reading and in general as the Law of Ukraine. Please support and vote. Thank you, colleagues, for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-04-m1.u13	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to law enforcement. Amendment number one, Zablock. Don't insist. There aren't many rights here, so I'd like to invite the people's deputies to the hall. Edit 8, Batenko. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-04-m1.u14	Dear friends, as we know, we see by this bill under discussion, we propose to reduce the rate of rent for using the radar to extract amber to stimulate the output of this field from the shadows. On the other hand, such a legislative initiative will reduce revenues to the general local budget fund. And in fact, as part of the decentralization that we want to end this year, it will make the financial situation of local budgets worse, put decentralization itself at risk in Ukraine. By this amendment, my friends, we would like to entrust the government within a month of the adoption of this law with a proposal to Parliament for a compensatory mechanism to the local budgets of loss that they will bear from this law. Please vote in favour of this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-04-m1.u15	Do you insist on voting? Amendment No. 8 of the Batenka People's Deputies. Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-04-m1.u16	The position of the committee is to reject, because coming as such did not correspond to the planned arrivals that were planned. They were less than a few times, and we're seeing with you the dynamics of reducing revenue from the rent. There was no income, so there was nothing to compensate for. Therefore, the amendment was rejected.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-04-m1.u17	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm putting to the vote number 8 of the national deputy Batenka. She was not supported by the committee. Please identify and vote. [[16:24:29]] For 105 The decision is not taken. No. 9, Zablock. Don't insist. Stefanchuk, 10 lashes. Don't insist. Dear colleagues, we've gone through all the lines. Please prepare for the vote, invite the national deputies to the hall. Dear colleagues, please prepare for the vote. Ready to vote? I am voting on the proposal to adopt a second reading and, in general, with the necessary technical and legal regulations, the draft Law amending article 252 of the Ukrainian Code of Taxation on the Standardization of the Rate of Rent for the Use of Burst Ripples (registration No. 2241). Ready? Please support and vote. [[16:26:14]] For 290 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Show me the factions, please. "People's Servant" – 226, "The Opposition Platform for Life" – 27, "European Solidarity" – 0, "The Fatherhood" – 0, "For the Future" – 13, "The Voice" – 0, "The Trust" – 14, non-fractional – 10. Thank you. Dear colleagues, the next issue of the agenda is the bill on financial leasing (registration number 111). It is suggested that this issue be considered in a simplified manner. Please support and vote. [[16:27:05]] For 234 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, a word for the report is given to the Head of the Committee on Finance, Tax, and Customs Policy, Mr.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-04-m1.u18	Dear colleagues, the bill on financial leasing No.1111 has been proposed for your consideration. In fact, we have a situation in the country where this very, very useful tool for the economy of the state is underdeveloped. In the structure of GDP, it is only 0.69 percent, although in developed countries it is between 2 and 5 percent. Why did this happen? Perhaps because the Financial Lease Act has not been amended since 2005 and judicial practice, which is contradictory and not beneficial to the lysing industry, does not contribute to the development of this market. We're proposing a very necessary bill for the industry that defines the only way to regulate financial lysis and its forms. In doing so, we propose to detail the rights and obligations of the parties, to define the form of a financial lysing contract, to define the concept of sublinguishing, to settle the various nuances of a financial lysing contract, and to restore fairness in the use of financial lysing compared to other financial instruments, such as a bank bond. Today, taxes on these contracts are 100 times higher than those on bank contracts. This removes the basis for free use of an object that was unprecedented, shameful, and, unfortunately, today. The bill proposed by the Supreme Council was drafted with the European Federation of Associations of Linging Companies and approved by this association, and provides for a modern, real document that will allow for this very important field of financial relations. The Supreme Council Committee on Finance, Tax and Customs Policy considered the bill and recommended that the Supreme Council accept it as a basis. Please support the green button. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-04-m1.u19	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please sign up for factions: two in favour, two in opposition. Ironborn Jaroslav Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-04-m1.u20	Dear colleagues, according to recent lysing markets around the world, it accounts for more than 360 billion euros. Even such a popular service, including in Ukraine, such as Uber, provides opportunities for lysing. And these are not just new opportunities for our financial sector, these are primarily opportunities for our people to get resources, equipment, including cars. This bill is not perfect, but it certainly takes one of the first steps to resolve a market situation that has unfortunately not been settled many years before. That's why our faction will support this bill in the first reading and, along with fellow committee members and with Parliament, work on it to make it even better, even better to help our business. We will support this bill in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-04-m1.u21	Thank you. Danilo Alexandrovich Getmants.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-04-m1.u22	Please pass the word to Smagluk-Vasilevski.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-04-m1.u23	Please. Smogluk-Vasilevska, please. Please give me the word of Vassilevsky-Smagluk. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-04-m1.u24	Finally, the adoption of this bill will make it possible to eliminate the gaps in legislation that existed between lysinologists and those who took goods or services in lysing, and this has led to disputes between them. In Ukraine, there is a broad perspective of the use of lysing and agriculture, which will become more relevant at the opening of the land market, both in the field of IT and in transport. The adoption of the law will facilitate access to long-term resources and provide an alternative to traditional types of credit. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-04-m1.u25	Please, Taruta Sergey Alexiyovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-04-m1.u26	. Never mind.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-04-m1.u27	Andrew Ivanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-04-m1.u28	Dear colleagues! The Fatherland faction, Nikolainka. "Paternality" will not support the prescribed bill on financial leasing in the present state, because this bill, which I recall as a matter of haste, was introduced on 29 August, intertwined with causative connections. Because we have, yes, financial lysis is in a comatose state, but not because we have bad law, although really imperfect law, we need to improve it, but probably because we have the whole economy, especially under this direction by the financial sector of the government, is in a comatose state. So this law needs to be worked out thoroughly, and I talked about it on the committee. In addition, there is a certain terminological confusion. For example, the lysing is defined as. Leasing, I'm actually reminding you that it's a type of lease, not possession of it. And there's a sense of ownership. Then this bill narrows down the scope of lysing by just one form of transactions between the lysing producer and the lysingo receiver. In addition, the bill introduces a number of changes that regulate operational lysis, which is not the subject of this law. In addition, this bill provides reference to tax legislation, which also creates distortions, because lysing is a civil law, not a tax relationship. I can go on. I just want to say that there's a lot of, sorry for the word, but there's a lot of underwork and nonsense. It would be better to work on and make more and more prepared drafts. We cannot support such a bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-04-m1.u29	Nina Petrovn Yuzanin.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-04-m1.u30	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues! In fact, the Financial Leasing Act is in force today, which was adopted back in 1998. And all of these questions need to be improved in an accurate way and in general a new language that meets modern living conditions. But you know, both during the committee discussion and then when we talk to people who have been practically working on the text of this bill, we and the USAID experts have come to the conclusion that we're going to need a lot to change for the second reading. I'm just, my dear fellows, I urge you not to make mistakes in the laws before the first reading, which then you do not accept or accept the amendments you need to make. Perhaps this bill should have been revised. What I'm most surprised about is that in the conclusions that we've been added, here is a letter from the National Bank of Ukraine saying that they generally support amendments and changes to such an essential financial tool as financial lysis, but they haven't yet come up with a model for the future regulation of separate segments of non-bank financial services markets, and in particular the regulation of financial lysis services. So they will join in the second reading work. It seems to me that there was no need to rush into such important laws. We had to work on them anyway so that we could now make a balanced decision, except for all the remarks that my colleagues have just made. I didn't want to repeat them, so I said the general characteristics of this bill. Please be careful.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-04-m1.u31	Thank you. Nina Petrovna. All those who wish to speak? Is there no one there? Please prepare for the vote. Dear colleagues, I am voting on the proposal for adoption as the basis of the draft Financial Licensing Act (Registration No. 111). Please take your seats. Ready to vote? Ready? Please support and vote. [[16:37:54]] For 313 Decision taken. Show me the factions, please. The People's Servant Party – 217, Opposition Platform – Life 26, European Solidarity – 22, Parenthood – 0, Future 6, Voice – 17, Trust – 15, non-fractional – 10. Dear colleagues, the next issue of the agenda is the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Collection and Accounting of the Only Contribution to the General Compulsory State Social Insurance (removal of discrimination over the payer's circle) (registration No. 2166). It is suggested that this issue be considered in a simplified manner. Please support and vote. [[16:38:47]] For 246 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, the word for the report is given to the national deputy of Ukraine, Petrunjak Eugen Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-04-m1.u32	Honourable Head, honourable colleagues, draft registration number 2166 has been developed with a view to improving the standards of effective legislation of Ukraine in respect of the recruitment and payment of the EU to persons engaged in independent professional activities, as well as the elimination of discrimination against EU taxpayers. I'm going to point out that at this point in time, the Ukrainian Act on the Collection and Accounting of the Only Contribution to the General Compulsory State Social Insurance contains conflicting positions regarding the individual round of payers of the only social contribution. Yes, according to paragraphs 4-5 of the first article 4 of the Act, the sole contributors are natural entrepreneurs, including those who have chosen a simplified system of taxation, as well as persons who carry out independent professional activities, namely: scientific, literary, artistic, artistic, educational or teaching activities, as well as medical, legal practices, including lawyerial notarial activities, or persons who conduct religious, missionary activities, other similar activities and receive income from this activity. So the payers of the single contribution are defined by law as individuals who are entrepreneurs and persons who are engaged in independent professional activities. At the moment, however, tax authorities often demonstrate the negative systemic experience of unwarranted establishment of independent professional entities and are obliged to pay the EU twice. For the first time, as subjects of entrepreneurial activity, natural persons, and for the second time as self-employed persons. We believe that it is also the duty of EU pensioners to pay for independent professional activities. After all, pensioners are subjects of entrepreneurial activity who are exempt by legislation from paying such a contribution. The obligation to pay the EU without income does not meet the general objective of State regulation of this type of relationship and is inconsistent in the context of the Law on Collection and Accounting for a Single Contribution to a Generally Compulsory State Social Insurance, which defines the object of the EU's accrual of the income received. Taking into account what is being said.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-04-m1.u33	Thank you. Sadly, no. The report is given to the head of the Committee on Finance, Tax, and Customs Policy, Didenko Yulia Alexandrovni.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-04-m1.u34	Dear Head, fellows! The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Finance, Tax and Customs Policy at its meeting on December 2, 2019, reviewed Bill 2166. The main purpose of the bill, as the rapporteur pointed out, is to improve the standards of current legislation in Ukraine for the collection and payment of a single social contribution by persons engaged in independent professional activities. To this end, it is proposed to amend articles 4 and 7 of the Law on the Collection and Accounting of the Only Contribution to the General Compulsory State Social Insurance. A list of persons who are exempt from the payment of a single social contribution, if they receive an old - age pension or are disabled, is proposed to fill in persons who are engaged in independent professional activities. It is also suggested that individuals who are engaged in independent professional activities should be exempt from the payment of a single social contribution for themselves, provided that they are taken into account as natural persons who are entrepreneurs and carried out one activity at the same time as natural persons who are entrepreneurs and persons who are independent professionals. In view of the need for improvements in the rules of current legislation on the collection and payment of a single social contribution by persons engaged in independent professional activities, the Committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the Collection and Accounting of the Single Contribution to the General Compulsory State Social Insurance (removal of discrimination by circle of payers) (registration No. 2166), to be adopted as a basis. Please support the committee's decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-04-m1.u35	Please write it down: two in, two in, and two in, against the factions. Royal Natalia Yuriovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-04-m1.u36	Dear colleagues, present, the idea is right, and "The Opposition Platform for Life" supports this idea as a basis. However, we do pay attention to one important point: that the basis for the EU's membership for these persons is different, so they pay different contributions accordingly. And you have to give people an approach to choose which system to pay for. But I want to draw your attention to what needs to be decided today, to talk about the EU, first of all we need to cancel the experiment of your predecessors, who cancelled the contribution for hired workers in 2016, reduced the rate. And what did all of this lead to? Remember, Mrs. Jarezko was like that? So its reform today costs the Pension Fund 172 billion deficits. Listen, 172 billion today from the state budget is funded to cover the deficits and disruptions of Ukraine’s cash fund. And this is an urgent issue, because it's a crisis, and people don't index pensions, they don't pay pensions on time. And that's going to be a defolut state. That's why we're calling your attention, and we insist that we immediately listen to the Pension Fund, the Ministry of Finance and develop an anti-crisis plan for the retirement fund's withdrawal from the position that the previous government has led to today. And we also demand today that the issue of taxation of all wages be resolved by a single contribution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-04-m1.u37	Krulko Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-04-m1.u38	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. Please pass the word to your colleague Belkovi.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-04-m1.u39	Olga Valentinovna Belkova.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-04-m1.u40	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, a venerable Presidium! We are considering a very important bill today. In fact, the drafters decided to solve only one part of the problem concerning the so-called EU contribution. Today we're talking about that category of people who are actually self-employed, on the one hand, formed as FOPs, along with what are called professional actors, which are lawyers, notaries and so on. But there is a whole spectrum of problems related to the EES that concern workers who simultaneously pay the EES on the spot of their basic employment contract and are, at the same time, shaped as FOPs. I would urge our committee to address these issues in a very, very complex way next time, so that we can solve with a single bill all the categories of Ukrainian citizens that need to be addressed today. To date, even when leaving Ukraine, to make you understand, a lot of people found themselves in a holiday in a situation where their DFS service contributed as debtors, and they remained in fact in a situation where they couldn't change anything the night before the New Year in order to leave without actually having any debt, and that was the case with the EU. At the same time, I want to draw attention to the fact that there is a huge demographic crisis in Ukraine. And today, no matter how much we raise our contributions, we have a real problem with young people, and we need to approach and offer young people something comprehensively. They are leaving, and there will be no one to pay the EU at all. Thank you very much. We support this bill today.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-04-m1.u41	Thank you. Gerasimov Arthur Volodymyrovich. Nina Petrovn Jujanin?
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-04-m1.u42	Dear colleagues, I think you should all think about what, by making changes to the payment of the only social contribution, you, the ruling party, have. And the faction, you have to be very careful. Because we have recently adopted the Act on the Distinguishment of Payments to the EU by “Sleeping” FOPs. Very good! Only it's not signed because it's actually a question that needs a comprehensive solution. And now that I'm looking at the conclusion of the budget committee again, I want to point out that they wrote that the Ministry of Finance is counting the budget. The pension fund will not have much money. I realize that every person has to pay once because they don't get paid twice. Whether there is a double pension, but all the issues about the EU – be careful, we have a very big problem with the pension deficit. Now, by making these changes, you're pushing this bill out, and you're still going to be responsible for the president. Realizing that he has not yet signed the previous law, I see some threats. We will support this bill in the first reading, but we look forward to working closely with you, and that you will be in this area, before the committee meets and before considering it for the second reading, you will tell us the truth whether such bills will be able to sign -- "can" -- the word -- president or not. Will it just end with populism in the hall? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-04-m1.u43	Thank you, Nina Petrovna. Bacunec Pavel Andryovich. After that, Dmitry Valeriovich, Jaroslav Ivanovich. Dear colleagues, three speeches with motives, then we go to the vote. Please invite the national deputies to the hall. Paul Andryovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-04-m1.u44	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs! Paul Bakunec, Zovkovščina, Jaborovščina, MP group "Trust". Dear colleagues, in accordance with article 24 of the Constitution, all citizens have equal constitutional rights and are equal before the law. In spite of this, the Act on the collection and payment of the single contribution to the general government social insurance contains conflicting positions with regard to the single round of EUS payers. And so the Trust MP group is proposing to support this bill, which regulates the payment of the only social contribution to persons who are engaged in independent professional activities if they're accounted for as FOPs. The Trust MP group is urging you to support this bill, which will help those who engage in independent professional activities to be more secure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-04-m1.u45	Thank you. Lubinet Dmitry Valeriovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-04-m1.u46	Dear Chairman! Dmitry's lube, MP's for the future. We will vote and support this bill in the first reading. At the same time, I would like to draw the attention of all the honourable national deputies that the conclusion of the GNEU is to return to work. But we certainly believe that the second reading can bring about changes in the attention of the GNEU. We really support the removal of the obligation for FOPs, members of farms and persons engaged in independent professional activities to pay the EU if they do not receive income. At the same time, I am now addressing all Ukrainian citizens: if this bill is adopted, you will have the right not to pay the EU, but you will not have a job. And according to your retirement reform, you may not be able to make pension payments during this time. I want you to understand that clearly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-04-m1.u47	Jaroslav Ivanovich Železniak. And then we go to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-04-m1.u48	Dear colleagues, let's do it again. What's this bill about? This bill says that if you are a natural person who is an entrepreneur and you are doing professional work, unfortunately, you should pay the EU twice now, but this is not included in any further of your pension payments. This is unfair, and this is what the bill proposes. What's more, there are rules that regulate the issue of the "spooners" of the FOP. We had this rule before 2017, and now it's going to be very fair on our part to settle it as well. And the last thing my colleagues on the committee were talking about. In fact, this bill is not a very positive conclusion from the Ministry of Finance. We realize that in this case it's not so scary and we can accept this bill for the first reading, and we're going to vote for it. But it would be very desirable for both this bill and other bills to have the government give us a clear position, because every decision we make can affect the budget. And taking into account the results we've gotten.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-04-m1.u49	Thank you, Jaroslav Ivanovich. Dear colleagues, please prepare for the vote. I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Law amending the Ukrainian Law on Collection and Accounting for a Single Contribution to a Generally Compulsory State Social Insurance (as regards the elimination of discrimination in the circle of payers) (Registration No. 2166). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[16:55:09]] For 366 Decision taken. Show me the factions, please. "People's Servant" – 226, "The Opposition Platform for Life" – 31, "European Solidarity" – 23, "The Fatherhood" – 18, "For the Future" – 15, "The Voice" – 19, "The Trust" – 17, "the Non-Factional" – 17. Dear colleagues, the next issue of the agenda is the draft Act amending some of Ukraine's laws to extend the list of credit agreements to which the Ukrainian Consumer Credit Act (Registration No. 1109) applies. It is suggested that this issue be considered in a simplified manner. Please support and vote. [[16:56:02]] For 258. Decision taken. The report is given to the head of the Committee on Finance, Tax, and Customs Policy, Mr.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-04-m1.u50	Thank you. Dear colleagues, Bill 1109 has been proposed for your consideration regarding amendments to the Consumer Credit Act. It's very simple. A small bill that eliminates injustice. So far, the Consumer Credit Act is not distributed to so-called microcredits -- loans that are paid up to 1 minimum wage and up to 1 month. Thus, lenders are not protected because they are not subject to this law. On the other hand, we're proposing changes to the Consumer Credit Act and to the Bureau of Credit History, and we're proposing to set the maximum amount of borrowing from the borrower, which is the double amount of the loan taken regardless of the parties' agreement. This will ensure the rights of both the creditor and the borrower. In addition, we propose that the transfer of information to the Bureau of Credit History be made a prerequisite for the conclusion of the relevant contract. The law is very small. It was considered by the Committee and recommended that the Supreme Council be accepted as a basis. It is fully designed to protect the rights of consumers of credit services or financial services. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-04-m1.u51	Please register by faction: two in favour, two in opposition. Vasilchenko Galina Ivanovna
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-04-m1.u52	Please pass the word to Jaroslav Iron.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-04-m1.u53	Jaroslav Ivanovich Železniak.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-04-m1.u54	Dear colleagues, it's a very simple bill, and it's a very necessary bill. He's talking about how to protect people from the deceptive loans that we see very often, and probably they can compete with the illegal gaming business, for now, in Ukraine. They say you took a small loan, you can't get interest and fines, 600 percent, 400 percent, and other things that mislead our citizens. We are in favour of protecting all our consumers of financial services, including such small loans, from abuse and outright fraud. That's why we're going to support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-04-m1.u55	Mikisha Dmitry Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-04-m1.u56	Please pass the word to Olga Vassilevsky-Smagluk.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-04-m1.u57	Olga Smagluk.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-04-m1.u58	Dear colleagues, I ask you to support this very necessary bill. We know that the microcredit market is billions of dollars. At the same time, according to the statistics that the cyber police have given us, there are about 400 abuses every month, with microcredit being given to those who do it under forged documents, and as a result, we have the telephone terrorism of those people who don't participate in microcredit at all. We have to protect them, and this law, the bill and it's going to be to clean up and regulate the credit history bureau and make this market more transparent. And to protect those who do not participate in microcredit at all and benefit from various criminals. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-04-m1.u59	Gnatenko Valeriy Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-04-m1.u60	May I have the floor to the MP, Mr. Coltunovich Alexander?
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-04-m1.u61	Coltunovich Alexander Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-04-m1.u62	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished Ukrainian national deputies, "The Opposition Platform for Life" will support this initiative. It is, in our view, beneficial in terms of resolving many of the credit disputes that are and can arise in the future. But we want to look at some very important points. If we're already discussing and we're so actively taking up this issue, we need to focus on the credit issues that we've had since 2008. We know that people took loans for 5 dollars, and then they had loans for 8 dollars, especially currency loans. And everyone's feeling it. And another situation that happened was in 2013-2014, when the people who took the course 8 loans had to return 25. And all these things, they're relevant. And they were lying in the pockets of the borrowers and not in the banks. And there's another very important nuance: in terms of the bill and the value of the loans in general. Of course, 11 percent today is less than it was at the beginning of the year. But what I want to point out is that in our neighbors, for example in Belarus, there's an account rate of 9 percent in Russia -- 6.25 in Russia, the European Central Bank has set 0.25 in loans. We have to lower the bill in order to reduce the cost of credit. Well, and, of course, we're going to be proposing to the second reading that the standard that applies is "payable to the consumer in the event of failure to comply with his obligations of non-sustainability, fines cannot exceed the double amount received by the consumer under such a contract," we think that this figure should be reduced to 100 percent, not double. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-04-m1.u63	Sergey Vladislavovich was involved. Nikolainko Andri Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-04-m1.u64	My colleagues, Fatherland, will support this project. We think he's proposing civilized rules for creditors and lenders, especially with a small amount of credit. As noted earlier, many of the abuses that exist today will be rectified. On the other hand, it allows credit institutions, including credit institutions, to check the lending history to protect them from fraud. And in keeping with what my colleague has just said -- about lending in Ukraine in general -- we need to understand that we are making precise changes now, just like the newly voted bill on financial leasing. The bill is a point change. The main changes should be those of the Ministry of Finance, which should finally understand that they should encourage lending along with the National Bank of the Ukrainian Economy at other rates than what we have today. So I suggest that everyone prepare questions for the government by Friday on the matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-04-m1.u65	Thank you. I see, Nina Petrovna. Dear colleagues, Nina Petrovna Jujanin, then Lubinec Dmitry Valeriyovich, then we go to the vote. Please invite the national deputies to the hall. Please turn on Nina Petrovney's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-04-m1.u66	Dear colleagues, what we're talking about right now is regulating minimum consumer loans, that's up to 4,723 bracelets. Now these loans are out of control under the basic law. And so this lending will also be reported to the only registry of the Bureau of Credit History, and that's very good. And I hope that all the information about such people, to such persons, will be collected qualitatively, and that will not allow then, on the basis of documents, to demand from people the return of consumer loans that no one has ever taken. So the amount that can be drawn from such a borrower can't be greater than what 4723 times 2 is also very good. But I think we need to set standards for the second reading that clearly indicate that the information should be provided accurately and that it should be verified.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-04-m1.u67	Lubkovich. Excuse me, Lubinec Dmitry Valeriovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-04-m1.u68	Ladies and gentlemen, I want to support Nina Petrovna. She said quite accurately and correctly that, in fact, small loans they fell out of the Great Law on Consumer Credit. And most importantly, we are obliged by this law to provide all information to the Bureau of Credit History, while we are here protecting not only people who take credit, but we are also protecting financial institutions, for this is how we protect ourselves from taking such small loans on counterfeit papers or on second or third or fifth or the same person. At the same time, I would like to point out that the conclusion of the GNEU is to take into account the comments made. Note, we hope that the second reading will be corrected. And the MPs will vote for the future both in the first reading and in the second. Thank you. Please support everyone.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-04-m1.u69	Thank you. Dear colleagues, Bakunec Pavel Andryovich. And then we go to the vote. Please take your seats.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-04-m1.u70	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues, we see in the hall the same opinion of all political forces. The Trust MP also supports this bill, which will still protect those consumers of microcredit, because when we analyze the situation, we see that in recent years there have been violent changes in the microcredit market, and that's because people can get loans over the Internet within five minutes. And often such consumers, to the extent that they don't know or lack the ability to calculate their financial capabilities, don't return such loans and get into so-called debt pits. B The bill at least allows for the creation of one Bureau of Credit History for these consumers of microcredit. And the adoption of this bill will probably protect this population from being caught in the debt pits over and over again. That's why the Trust MP group.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-04-m1.u71	Thank you. Dear colleagues, all those who wish to speak have already taken the floor, let us proceed to the vote. Please prepare for the vote. I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Law amending certain Ukrainian laws on the extension of the list of credit agreements to which the Ukrainian Law on Consumer Credit applies (registration No. 1109). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[17:08:15]] For 369 Decision taken. Show me the factions, please. "The Servant of the People" – 230, "The Opposition Platform for Life" – 30, "European Solidarity" – 24, "The Fatherhood" – 16, "For the Future" – 17, "The Voice" – 18, "The Trust" – 17, "the Non-Flocking – 17. Thank you again. Decision taken.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-04-m1.u72	Dear colleagues, it is now proposed that you consider a draft decree repealing the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to adopt a second reading and, as a whole, as a bill of the draft law of Ukraine amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine with regard to the introduction of a single tax and assembly bill, the only contribution to the mandatory national social insurance bill number, the draft regulation, I apologize, 1049-P. These are so-called blocking orders. In accordance with part nine of article 48 of the Rules of Procedure of Ukraine, it is considered for a reduced procedure and without a vote on the inclusion in the agenda of the plenary. Ladies and gentlemen, if you'll excuse me, I'd like to invite you to the floor of the National Deputy of Ukraine. Did something happen? Welcome to the National Deputy of Ukraine, Honcharenko Alexiyovich. Alexiyovich! It's out of order. You're the one who blocked this law. 1048-P. 1049-P. Yeah, he's out now, see? Come on.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-04-m1.u73	Alexei Hotcharenko, European Solidarity, north of Restoration. Today we are considering a bill, a draft decision that I have made to stop the signature by Speaker Razumkov, and then the President of the Green Bill on the sole bill for paying taxes to entrepreneurs. Why? It's kind of a good idea. And it's a really good idea. And the bill is very good. It's a technical, normal bill. But in the evening, before the second reading of this bill, the National Deputies of "The Servants of the People" introduced an amendment that was redistributed to the cigarette market across Ukraine, a margin from the recipient. As in North Korea, it has been stipulated that how much is to be gained by a cigarette manufacturer, how much is to be obtained by wholesale sales, how much does a retail cigarette have to be sold. And it's all written down as a percentage. The price of the question is tens of millions of dollars. Just a little right into a law that has no bearing on the market for cigarettes in Ukraine. I mean right now, I'm a healthy way of life, let's all run, swim, don't smoke. But in Ukraine, unfortunately, people smoke. And Ukraine today is an exporter of cigarettes. What happened after that? After that, the largest cigarette manufacturers in Ukraine stopped production. Loss of the state budget is several billion dollars. I repeat, several billion dollars. And all of this was done for? Because as part of the "Serial of the People" faction, there are people who own a fragmented cigarette trade, including in Kiev -- it all came together. It's totally lobbyist, it's a corrupt bill and it's a corrupt thing. We stopped it. And I have one question. Where's the same big brother your faction leader was talking about? Is he in? This is a shame, I ask you to vote against this law. Greensky has already personally promised business that this is the case.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-04-m1.u74	No, we agreed, we don't give you 10 seconds. No, that's it. All right, Alexyyyovich. [[B in m in s a l in]] We know all about him anyway. Alexyyyovich, come on. Alexiyyovich, look, we're not going to spoil our arrangement under the Rules. Can I have the paper you took from me? Arthur Volodymyrovich, thank you. Thank you. Dear colleagues, I invite you, as co-rapporteur for this draft, to rule on the Rules Committee, on MP ethics and on the organization of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Sergio Vitaliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-04-m1.u75	Honorable Presidium, distinguished national MPs! The regulatory committee at its meeting discussed the draft regulation 1048-P. In line with article 48 of the Supreme Council’s Rules of Procedure, the Committee, by its decision, approved that Parliament should be recommended by voting on the adoption or rejection of the draft decree. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-04-m1.u76	Thank you. Honorable colleagues, for they are. Is there a need to discuss this? Yes. Please sign up: two in, two in. Dear colleagues, Alexeiovich Honcharenko, faction of the political party "European Solidarity". Please, Alexeiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-04-m1.u77	As you can see, dear friends, the true word is not to be stopped. And yet I can arrange it, thank you. Once again, Zelensky personally promised at a business meeting that this law and this regulation would not exist, it was Zelensky’s promise. You can now, by supporting my draft ruling, not even bring this disgrace to the President so that the President doesn't have to promise. Because that's exactly what the veto will be for, because it's a disgrace. And I would very much ask you to understand inside your faction how such things can happen. Again, are you all in? I don't want to believe that. The tens of millions of dollars that have been pushed up like this, with a little silence so no one can see. And you know the great names of these people, it's very easy to open these changes, to see who's the author, who as one of the heads of the financial committee was doing it, who has a fragmented cigarette trade in Kiev. All of this is easy to verify. So my friends, I urge you all to support my decision now, not to bring this disgrace to the President, and to ask who will return to the state budget a few billion dollars lost. Just after the factory in Priluki stopped, the state budget lost 50 million dollars a day. For a day! You're talking about how to cancel out. Billions were thrown out because someone wanted to cash their pockets. And I'm asking the question again: where's the big brother they say he's looking for the vote and for the actions of the "Serves of the People" deputies? I don't want to believe that Big Brother is already in the picture. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-04-m1.u78	Thank you. Welcome to the statement of the National Deputy Mamyan Suto Choloevich, the faction of the political party "The Opposition Platform for Life". Oh, he's transmitting. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-04-m1.u79	Dear colleagues, I am very glad that the question finally came to this decision, which has been hanging for three months now, if I am not mistaken or more. Well, in principle, Mr. Hotcharenko has already said it's absolutely reasoned: it's just some sort of cross-cutting example of lobbyism, so much so, you know, one of the earliest examples in the Supreme Council of the New Cadence. And I'm convinced that even most of the majority, if you'll excuse the pungent, don't even know what this is about. I very much hope that there are professionals here who will then explain separately on a faction when an absolutely quality, proper, necessary bill is ruined by the inclusion of a single bill there in the evening because of lobbying the specific interests of owners of a particular cigarette implementation network, and therefore, indeed, the enterprises stop. The European Business Association came to the Greens, the American Chamber of Commerce came to Greens, went to all the factions, because no one understood what it might be like, a quality bill, which I also voted for, because I couldn’t imagine at the last minute that there might be an application for cigarettes. Why are there social contributions and cigarettes? If we don't fix it today, we will. No investment that the President so often talks about will be because it's a purely communist airship to meddle in how much the manufacturer has to earn on a particular product and how much the developer has. This should be the subject of their internal arrangements. So I urge everyone to support the repeal of this law. The law will have to be re-voted because it is of quality. I'm sure Mr. Getmants will find a mechanism to actually make the issue of social contributions implemented, because he became a victim of this lobbying, this law. But in general, I hope that in the future this will be a lesson for all that we cannot so boldly involve narrow partisan personal interests in the law of State importance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-04-m1.u80	Thank you, Oleg Anatolyovich. I invite you to the floor of National Deputy Yatzenk Anton Volodymyrovich, MP for the Future.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-04-m1.u81	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues! Well, here, who doesn't know, such deputies are young, yes, it's called a "passenger" in a parliamentary language like that, when something that doesn't apply to the body of the bill is involved. And what I'm saying is that such a bill, it can't go through with one another. That's what his committee head sees. Very interesting, by the way, to ask Mr. Getmantsev how this steamer actually came into the body of social law in fact. And as we're seeing right now, when the real damage to both Ukraine's budget and Ukraine's image, and the investment climate, it's very interesting how these steamboats get into the body of the law. So I'd really like to hear the profile committee position that you have there at all, and who's there in the topic and in the destiny. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-04-m1.u82	More, please. Since the name Danila Alexanderovich Getmantsev was mentioned, the right to a replica. Please, Danilo Alexandrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-04-m1.u83	I want to thank the representatives of the old political team for teaching us the terminology that was in the past Parliament. I am convinced that there will be no such terminology in this Parliament, and we will really make honest decisions for the country. It's about a specific amendment. Sadly, there was a situation in the tobacco industry where there was a monopoly on the retail market. Whether this amendment is correct or not is a discussion and we are conducting it. Be assured that we will in no way violate the rights of the sector, and all rights will be restored, and all will work in accordance with the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine. But in itself, this amendment raised a topic that you tried not to raise for 10 years is the existence of this monopoly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-04-m1.u84	Thank you. And the last of the motives is the national deputy to Kachura.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-04-m1.u85	Alexander Kachura, "Serial of the People" faction. I was listening to a presentation by a representative of the beautiful north of Odessa. And I would like to say, Your Honor, if you have such vocal accusations, you have yourself in a faction, you better get rid of sugar factories, you have factories and steamers more than all the representatives of Parliament, and you have a conscience to tell. You have to figure out who's on the subject and the fate, and then you'll have the right to talk to us about something. Think and have a conscience. Millions of people are looking at you right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-04-m1.u86	Honorary colleagues, if there are no more in favour of motives, then I am voting on a draft decree repealing the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to adopt a second reading and, as a whole, as a bill of the draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine concerning the introduction of a single tax and assembly bill, the only contribution to the mandatory public social insurance (registration number 1049), from 29 August 2019, the registration number of the 1049-P project. Dear colleagues, are you ready to vote? Please identify and vote. [[17:22:22]] For a hundred and The decision is not taken. Thank you. Show by factions. Thank you. We're moving on. Next bill. Wait a minute! A review of the draft Act amending the Criminal Procedural Code of Ukraine to ensure the enforcement of the Constitutional Court's decision on the indictment of the court to extend the period of detention in custody is announced. Bill number 2315. Reports the head of the Committee on Law Enforcement. Excuse me. We're supposed to vote in favour of a shorter procedure, aren't we? Dear colleagues, there is a proposal to support the consideration of this issue by means of a simplified procedure. Ready to vote? Dear colleagues, summary procedure. Please support and vote. [[17:23:30]] For 238. Decision taken. I now invite the head of the Committee on the Law Enforcement of the Monastery, Denis Anatoliyovich. Please, Dennis Anatolyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-04-m1.u87	Good afternoon, dear colleagues. The bill that I'm presenting is a technical but very important bill, which actually has to overcome the gap that was formed in legislation after the Constitutional Court's decision of 13 June 2019. It is this decision that declared unconstitutional the position of part two of article 392 of the Criminal Procedure Code, which made it impossible for a separate appeal to be brought before a court of first instance to order the court to continue the period of detention in custody, which was decided during the conduct of the first instance. In fact, this means that this bill gives us the opportunity to sue for such a precautionary measure as keeping the watch, as well as the extension of the period of custody in the court of the first instance. In fact, an appeal for such approvals may be brought, including directly to the Court of Appeal. This bill is technical, it has a positive conclusion from the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration. A committee on law enforcement supported the bill. So I'm also asking you to support this bill in the first reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-04-m1.u88	Dear colleagues, please sign up: two in favour, two in favour. Alekseus Sergey Olegovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-04-m1.u89	Dear colleagues, this is unfortunately not a frequent case, but it is a very positive law when the Supreme Council executes the Constitutional Court's decision and brings the law into line with the Constitution. Yes, there is an amendment to article 392 of the CPC, which provides for an indictment, now provides for an indictment of custody periods when a case is brought before a court. It's a very positive law. The "European Solidarity" faction will support it, and this strengthens and empowers citizens to do so. established by the Constitution, precisely on the charge of the court's decision. That is, in defence, there will be an additional right to sue for an extension of the term of custody when the case is tried by the court. Thank you for your attention. Please vote and support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-04-m1.u90	Thank you. Vlasenko Sergei Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-04-m1.u91	Thank you, Mr. Head. I'm going to allow myself to disagree with the conclusion of the committee head that presented this bill. It's not a technical bill. It's actually a bill that's not just passed on. will not be accepted simply for the execution of a decision by the Constitutional Court. This is a law that can become a law, including part of Ukraine's compliance with international legal obligations. The low decisions of the Constitutional Court have repeatedly indicated that there is no mechanism in Ukraine to protect human rights as an accusation of a detention order. I would like to remind you of the uninterrupted decision of the European Court of Human Rights in the case of Julia Timoshenko, in which, apart from the political motives behind the persecution of Julia Volodymyrina, Ukraine is also obliged to resolve this issue. That's why the "Fatherland" faction will support this bill. We hope that before the second reading, there will not appear what the previous colleague called "passengers." We hope that there will be no underwater stones and currents, for in the way that this law is, it must be adopted. It should be possible for an appeal to be heard without a verdict, unlike a judgment to consider appeals for approvals, including a precautionary measure in the form of custody. So I agree with the chairman of the committee that this is a perfectly positive law, but once again, I stress that this law is not technical, it's a human rights law, it's a human rights law, it's a human rights law that's being accused of committing a crime and kept in custody. So I urge everyone to accept this bill in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-04-m1.u92	Thank you. Aresonkov Vladimir Yuriovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-04-m1.u93	Vladimir Aresonkov, Trust Group. I completely agree with my colleagues, and this is actually the detailed feature of the bill that Mr. Monastery's committee chairman gave. And I would also like to point out that the rights of the parties to the trial, the fair trial at all stages of the enforcement of rights, including the implementation of the fair decisions of the first instance court, the right to appeal, are extremely important elements of the winning process. It is therefore necessary to implement the decision of the Constitutional Court and to amend part two of article 392 of the Criminal Procedure Code. That's why the Trust MPs will vote in favour of the bill. And I urge my colleagues to support us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-04-m1.u94	Thank you. Suffritch Nestor Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-04-m1.u95	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. Please give my word by insistence to Surkis Grigori Mikhajlovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-04-m1.u96	Surkis Grigory Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-04-m1.u97	He's joking, Nestor Ivanovich. Please pass the word to Mommy.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-04-m1.u98	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. I'm sorry. Dear colleagues, the Lubinian is motivated. And then we go to the vote. Please invite the national deputies to the hall. Lubinet Dmitry Valeriovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-04-m1.u99	Dear colleagues, the "For the Future" MPs support all speakers and will also support this bill in the first reading. At the same time, I would like to draw attention to the conclusion of the GNEU by taking into account the comments made. That's right. I appeal to all the lawyers, especially those who worked as lawyers for the election of the National Deputies. What do you think, "to give the judge who was involved in criminal proceedings during pretrial investigations the right to participate in the review of the appeal procedure for the selection of a replacement, the continuation of a precautionary action"? After all, the judge, who had already taken part in the trial case, had already formed his point of view. Clearly, then, this bill is needed and must be adopted. However, not allowing a judge to take part in an appeal to a judge who had already taken part in the case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-04-m1.u100	Thank you. Dear colleagues, let's go to the vote. Please take your seats. Dear colleagues, there is strong enough support in the hall, as far as I can see, for this bill. The committee recommended it as a basis. The chairman of the committee made a suggestion. Maybe the whole thing? Based on what? And the lines are short, I get it, fine. Honorary colleagues, I am voting on the proposal to adopt a draft law amending the Criminal Procedure Code of Ukraine to ensure the enforcement of the Constitutional Court’s ruling on the complaint, the court ruled that the retention period should be extended (registration No. 2315). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[17:32:55]] For 361 Decision taken. Dear colleagues. [[B in m in s a l in]] No, not at all. Two factions say no. What about the whole thing? Three factions. [[B in m in s a l in]] Are you ready for the whole thing? No, it's not. Okay. Dear colleagues, in line with article 116 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules of Procedure, put to the vote the proposal to shorten half the time of preparation for the second reading and submission of proposals and rights to Bill No. 2315. Please support and vote. [[17:34:00]] For 339 Decision taken. Thank you. Dear colleagues, the next issue of the agenda is the draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on the creation of a national intellectual property authority (registration numbers 2255, 2255-1). It is suggested that this issue be considered in a simplified manner. Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[17:34:41]] For 247 Decision taken. The report is given to the Ukrainian national deputy Stefanchuk Ruslan Alexiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-04-m1.u101	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues! Ukraine's draft law amending certain legislation on the creation of a national intellectual property body (No. 2255) has been designed to complete institutional reform of state administration in the area of intellectual property and aimed at the establishment of a two-way system instead of a three-way system. The need to create a national intellectual property body is outlined in the National Intellectual Property Strategy of Ukraine for the period 2020-2025 and developed in the framework of the Memorandum on Cooperation between the World Intellectual Property Organization and the Ministry of Economic Development and Trade of Ukraine. The project envisions the creation of a national intellectual property body of Ukraine as a legal person of public law, which belongs to the Ministry of Economy, Trade and Agriculture. The adoption of the law will allow the introduction in Ukraine of an effective and qualitative and optimal model of the state system of intellectual property protection that can, working on transparent and public principles, offer effective intellectual property instruments as incentives for the development of related economic and social factors. The completion of institutional reform will also help to eliminate the conditions for corruption risks as a result of minimizing the subjective factor in decision-making: the adoption of decisions as a result of a broad social dialogue and taking into account public opinion, public and professional monitoring, and so on. Overall, the adoption of the bill will improve the quality and efficiency of the administration of the state intellectual property legal system. In general, I would like to say a few more words from myself that this bill has just been developed in full cooperation with the World Intellectual Property Organization, and we have an understanding with the authors of the alternative bill on further drafting it with the aim of passing a good single bill. That's why I'm asking you to back me up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-04-m1.u102	Tarasenko Taras Petrovich, Ukrainian national deputy
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-04-m1.u103	The draft law sets out the legal, organizational and financial principles for the functioning and development of the State system of intellectual property protection in Ukraine and its subjects and aims to ensure the formation and implementation of state intellectual property policies. The project is designed for the purpose of establishing a dual state system of intellectual property protection, whereby the Ministry of Economic, Trade and Agriculture provides for the formation and implementation of state policies in the area of intellectual property and creates a national intellectual property authority that exercises separate powers from the implementation of state policy in the area of intellectual property. The draft law is designed to take into account the principles of public policy in the area of intellectual property, in particular: to guarantee the State the creation of favourable conditions for intellectual creative activities; to use intellectual property rights in economic innovation, to protect and protect intellectual property rights; to ensure fair balance of private and public interests in intellectual property; to establish economic justifications for the provision of services to the national intellectual property authority; to avoid unwarranted complexity and retention of intellectual property rights procedures by other public authorities. The main advantages of the bill are that it creates a clear, transparent court system of organs, as provided by the concept. The draft law contains the composition, the structure of NOIV, the functions of the principal organs, the order of their formation, and the order of the establishment of the Supervisory Board as a tool for public and professional control of the activities of the national intellectual property body. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-04-m1.u104	The word for the report is given to the Deputy Head of the Economic Development Committee of Podlasy Roxolani Andriyovni.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-04-m1.u105	Dear colleagues, good afternoon. According to the global competitiveness index in 2019, Ukraine holds 118th place in the world at the level of intellectual property rights protection. The intellectual product rights in Ukraine are much worse than in neighbouring countries, for example in Russia or Moldova. Law-holders in all areas require the government and parliament to complete their intellectual property rights reform. This reform, without exaggeration, has been going on for five years. The reform, as previous reporters have said, is based on the creation of a two-track intellectual property protection system. On the first level, the body that shapes politics (this is the Ministry of Economics), on the second level, the body that implements politics. Now the intellectual property policy functions are scattered across different structures. It's both Mineconomy, and Ukrapatent, and the National Intellectual Property Office. Both bills, both original and alternative, propose to organize this area and to create the only national intellectual property body. The Economic Development Committee recommended the adoption of bill 2255 in the first reading, since it is more systematic and changes existing laws rather than creating another branch law. This is the question of codification of intellectual property legislation, which is not discussed in expert and scientific circles for the first year. At the same time, I would like to confirm that the Economic Development Committee has reached a fundamental agreement to take into account the number of proposals of Bill 2255-1 in the original text before the second reading. We're talking about it publicly and openly right now. For the time being, please support Bill 2255.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-04-m1.u106	Thank you. Needed to Be Discussed? Please sign up: two for, two for, one for, one for, two for, two for factions.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-04-m1.u107	Chigos Artem Zeitullayovich, please the faction of the political party "European Solidarity".
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-04-m1.u108	Kubeva, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-04-m1.u109	Oh, Stepan Ivanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-04-m1.u110	Stephen Ivanovich of Cuba.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-04-m1.u111	Dear colleagues, good afternoon! What I'm saying is that the faction of the European Solidarity political party will support the adoption of Bill 2255 as a basis. The other one. So what I'm saying is that this bill, where I'm co-authoring it, suggests that we create, as stated here, a two-way system of intellectual property management in the state. It's not something extraordinary, because this system, today you can't evaluate it as a know-how, it's designed to take into account the experience of Germany, Japan, Poland, Estonia, Denmark, Singapore, Finland, South Korea and France. This bill proposes the most transparent public model for the functioning of the national intellectual property authority. Our committee had, indeed, a discussion, and this bill was the result of, in summary, a series of years of fundamental joint work between experts and the Ministry of Economic Development, for which I want to thank, because this bill has been fundamental since 2018. We understand that the functions and benefits at the global level of the bill's principles play a very important role. Ukraine is now lagging behind the leading European countries, and this is 118th place that can't be a victory for us today, but vice versa. At the same time, the adoption of today’s bill will be a turning point in the reform of intellectual property protection through new, global patterns. This will allow us to fully integrate with European countries, European principles. And we can guarantee Ukraine's preferences for cooperation with the United States of America. And the GNEU's observation should be included in the first and second reading of Bill 2255-1. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-04-m1.u112	Batenko Taras Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-04-m1.u113	Please pass the word to Lubinc, the national deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-04-m1.u114	Lubinet Dmitry Valeriovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-04-m1.u115	Dear Chairman, distinguished national MPs! The parliamentary group "For the Future" supports the adoption of this bill, we will vote in the first reading. We are all in favour of producing a quality national Ukrainian product: national films, national songs. And we really need to protect the manufacturers of this product. So the creation of a national intellectual property body we support, it has to work. And I support the previous speaker who said that Ukraine is practically in the last places in the world to protect property rights, intellectual property. If we want our artists to stay and work in Ukraine, we have to protect them. So, of course, we vote yes. And I think that here is exactly the whole Parliament that voted before this practically in the full composition of the national MPs present, and this bill is supported. Thank you. We all vote yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-04-m1.u116	Nestor Ivanovich Šufrich. Papiev Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-04-m1.u117	Thank you. Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine, Your Honor! It would seem that the law is, you know, at first glance, simple. But if you look very carefully and scrupulously and read it, it raises very serious questions to be answered by the Ukrainian national deputies. So the very idea of creating a state-owned system of intellectual property protection is the right approach. But at the same time, our "Political Platform for Life" faction insists that we resolve two issues for ourselves. First question. In order for laws to work, they must be balanced. I mean, I know that some people who represent the interests of various grant organizations today are the main advocates of intellectual property that belongs to other states in Ukraine. And they have no interest in protecting our Ukrainian intellectual property not only within Ukraine but also outside Ukraine. And another question that we need to answer is the representatives of the public who act on either the supervisory boards or the commissions. We now need to make any changes to the Ukrainian Civil Associations Act, because today we have representatives of the public and civil society institutions everywhere, these experts are called. We need to clearly and clearly separate experts from public organizations, introduce the representativeness of these public organizations so that they do not represent any grants or financial funds, but represent the unification of Ukrainian citizens. That's why our faction of the "Political Platform for Life" insists that we should vote on the "tier one" law, even though they're both normal, in principle, and put it there.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-04-m1.u118	Sergey Vladislavovich was involved. Taruta Sergey Alexiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-04-m1.u119	Ladies and gentlemen, this is a very important bill that aims both to shape politics and to implement this policy in terms of intellectual property. So please support this very important bill. The Fatherland faction will support it. About 2255-1, there are great innovations. And we agreed to the second. Between the first and the second readings, we're going to work out, and everything that's improving the draft law, we're going to take the basis and we're going to vote in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-04-m1.u120	Thank you. Iron. Then we go to the vote. Jaroslav Ivanovich Železniak.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-04-m1.u121	Dear colleagues, it certainly hurts us to settle intellectual property, and it's very bad when we're in this area on an equal footing with Uganda and Paraguay, with all due respect for these countries. We need to move faster on this issue. But we think Bill 2255-1 is more complex. And if we read very carefully the conclusions of the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration, there are significant observations to both of these bills. We are grateful to the committee that they now agree that certain norms should be passed on from our bill to Bill 2255, but nevertheless we will support the alternative bill itself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-04-m1.u122	Thank you. Dear colleagues, let's go to the vote. Please take your seats. Dear colleagues, I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of proposals by the committee to take into account the legislative clarifications in the preparation for second reading, in accordance with article 116 of the Rules, of the draft Act amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine concerning the creation of a national intellectual property authority (registration No. 2255). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[17:50:35]] For 307 Decision taken. Show me the factions, please. Dear colleagues, you have been invited to consider a draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on strengthening the protection and protection of trademarks and industrial designs and the fight against patent trolling (registration No. 2258). It is suggested that this issue be considered in a simplified manner. Please support and vote. [[17:51:23]] For 265 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, I continue this meeting for 15 minutes, pending consideration of this matter. The report is given by Podlasi Roxolani Andriyovni, deputy head of the Economic Development Committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-04-m1.u123	Dear colleagues, Bill 2258 has two main components: the protection of intellectual property rights to trademarks and the fight against patent trolling. I am personally ashamed that in Ukraine patent trolls can still register patents on everything known. The world is famous for its products. These can be matches, toothpicks, lighters, wheel movements, and many other absurd examples. And it's done to blackmail a good business. Accusation of fairies is long, expensive, and difficult, and the responsibility for trolling is almost symbolic. If someone uses your trademark or is very similar to it, there is no way for the right-holder today to charge it except in court. And unfortunately, I have to admit that with the legal system in place, such an accusation is also long, expensive and difficult. These problems are resolved by Bill 2258. We propose to establish a list of grounds for refusal to register a trade mark or an industrial model. There will be no more rail - traffic licenses in Ukraine. If it turns out that a trade mark or an industrial model violates someone's rights, it can quickly be sued in the Appeals Chamber, a collective body at the Ministry of Economic Development. This mechanism is known around the world as a post-grant opposition. He'll unload both the court system and speed up the complaints about trademark registration, become a powerful weapon against trolling. We're also fully opening the database of applications for trademarks to provide a mechanism of pre-registration protection, a so-called pre-grant position, which is very important for a virtuous business. Finally, we impose strict sanctions on intellectual property rights violators, a sum of up to 2 million dollars. Together, these tools make the manipulation of trademarks and industrial patterns very complex, economically unfavourable, and risky. I will add that the adoption of Bill 2258 will ensure that Ukrainian legislation is reconciled with European legislation and that Ukraine fulfils its obligations under the Association Agreement. I propose today that we finally take the first step towards getting rid of such a disgraceful phenomenon as patent trolling and provide a worthy protection of intellectual property in Ukraine. As a result of the discussion, the Economic Development Committee adopted a decision to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a bill of 2258. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-04-m1.u124	Dear colleagues, do we need to discuss this matter? Yes, can we vote? Sign up: two in, two in. Three factions insist. Ustenova Alexander Yuriyevna.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-04-m1.u125	Ironman, give me your word, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-04-m1.u126	Ironborn Jaroslav Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-04-m1.u127	Of course, trolling is made by an MP from north of Odessa, but if I go to that question, I fully agree with the reporters, it's very important for the Ukrainian business. You know, we have an example when you registered with Go Ogle, and then Google was on trial for its domain longer. We have examples of a Starbucks domain being specially registered, and then there's a lot of trials going on to make it possible to use this brand fairly. And not related to politics, but we also have questions about a patent trolling about the brand of the Kiev Cake. So we think that this question is ripe. I would like to be grateful here for the past and past composition of the Ministry of Economic Development, which this bill has also worked on. And we believe that on the first reading, we are simply obliged to accept it. So no patent trolling in the Ukrainian business! And a little bit we can allow trolling in the Ukrainian Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-04-m1.u128	Thank you. Jon’s Maria Mikolayevna Kubi Stepan Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-04-m1.u129	Dear Mr. Head, Your Honor, colleagues, these bills are three: 2255, 2258 and 2559 -- a very important change that we, thank you, support today at the meeting of the Supreme Council. The other one. This bill is a necessary step toward fulfilling our nation’s Euro-Integration Commitments. He's been preparing a really professional environment for the Ministry of Economic Development for several years, and today, because we're looking at, the reform of the intellectual property rights system provides not only a more sophisticated registration procedure, protection of industrial design rights or trademarks, but also a mechanism that can be used to fight as an intellectual right registration transparently. And there will be no more questions, such as non-refundable income, what's called patent trolling. At the same time, I would like to point out that GNEU has highlighted the non-conformity of the bill in individual EU directives since 2015. We will do our utmost, as we discussed it at the committee meeting and found a common denominator for solving the issue in order to complete our country’s reform tasks. The faction of the political party "European Solidarity" will support the bill and will support it on the basis of the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-04-m1.u130	Coltunovich Alexander Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-04-m1.u131	Coltunovich, "The Opposition Platform for Life." Our faction will support the first reading of this bill, namely, 2258, on the fight against patent trolling. And, of course, an important norm is that an important directive of the European Union, namely 9871, on the protection of industrial specimens and Council Regulation No 6/2002, is being implemented here. However, this is the second draft law that deals with the protection of intellectual property in one way or another. But I would like to draw the ruling majority's attention to a deeper problem, because it's a complex feeling that we're producing a unique intellectual product and there's only one question left to protect it. I would like to draw attention to what was mentioned here today in previous statements. So we have 56 seats from 60 countries around the world, rating Bloomberg innovative economies. Think of it: 5th place from the end. Another very important rating. 85th place in the global competitiveness rating, and we keep falling. This includes evidence that we have inefficient innovation policies and that there is no real innovation. Another sentence for Ukraine's economy, its technological backlog, is less than 1 percent of innovation in industrial production and so on, and so on and so forth. So Ukraine's technological underdevelopment, the absence of real innovation products, unique innovation projects, first and foremost, is about stimulating the development of scientific and research and development, technology of the 5th and 6th technological systems. And then, of course, the issue of protecting innovative projects will be relevant. And the intellectual property issue will then protect the national economic system and subjects that create appropriate unique intellectual developments. Thank you. I repeat, we will be supporting in the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-04-m1.u132	Lubinet Dmitry Valeriovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-04-m1.u133	The honourable chairman, the honourable colleagues, the parliamentary group "For the Future" will support this bill, will vote. At the same time, we draw your attention to the conclusion of the GNEU that there is a remark. For the second reading, we call on the profile committee to correct them. At the same time, the very idea of cleaning up such a phenomenon as industrial trolling is certainly very positive. And we're taking a lot of bills, and that's probably these two bills that we've passed before, and this bill is really going to protect the producers who work in Ukraine or who want to go into the territory of Ukraine. Having a protected trade mark and a protection mechanism against the state, they should really come and work in Ukraine. So I thank my colleagues for voting in favour of the previous bill. And we urge everyone to support and vote in favour of the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-04-m1.u134	Ionushas Sergey Kostinovich is motivated by "Sergeant of the People". Then we go to the vote. Please prepare for the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-04-m1.u135	Honorable Presidium, fellow national MPs! At the end of last year, the European Commission published its report on the protection and enforcement of intellectual property rights. Currently, as a result of monitoring by EU experts, Ukraine has been on the list of countries that do not respect intellectual property rights and are hurting business. The number of violations was limited to China, which holds its first position. To my conviction as a patent believer, in the protection of trade marks rights and industrial models in Ukraine, as well as the fight against a so-called patent trolling, requires an immediate legislative settlement. I would like to inform my colleagues that there is a permissive practice in Ukraine regarding registration in a highly resourceful way of making known trade marks or such as industrial models. Thus, such a situation requires an immediate and consistent change in the current legislation of Ukraine. Of course, the bill has some flaws, but according to the GNEU, it needs to be supported. Thank you for your attention. But I would like to support the bill by protecting the intellectual property sector from unlawful trespassing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-04-m1.u136	Thank you. Dear colleagues, ready to vote? I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on the strengthening of trade marks and industrial designs and the fight against patent trolling (registration No. 2258). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[18:03:52]] For 350. Decision taken. Dear colleagues, Fedienko Alexander Pavlovich, from the procedure. We're on for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-04-m1.u137	Thank you, Dmitri Alexanderovich, for your word. Look, we already have parliamentary hearings planned here.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-04-m1.u138	Fellows, a moment of your attention! Please listen.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-04-m1.u139	Parliamentary hearings and dates are already defined. We need to put them to the vote so that we can start preparing, because the dates are already defined. Here are three, one, if you'll excuse me, or three parliamentary hearings. I suggest they vote now, there's time, and let's go ahead and prepare the parliamentary hearings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-04-m1.u140	Dear colleagues, these are draft regulations for registration numbers: 2748, 2760, 2622 and 2777 are parliamentary hearings. Look, please, you have a schedule. If the hall agrees to vote them out without discussion, we can do it now. Ready? I am voting on the proposal for adoption of the entire draft Resolution on Parliamentary Hearings on "Protection of Investment in Housing and Ways of Solving the Problems of Affected Investors" (8 April 2020) (Registration No. 2748). Please support and vote. [[18:05:41]] For 340. Decision taken. Dear colleagues, I am voting on the proposal to adopt the entire draft Resolution on Parliamentary Hearings on the topic: "The Strategy for Depopulation and Reintegration in Ukraine of the temporarily occupied territory of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea and the City of Sevastopol" (18 March 2020) (registration No. 2760). Please support and vote. [[18:06:23]] For 343 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, I'm voting on the proposal for adoption of the entire draft Resolution on Parliamentary Hearings on the theme "The Chernobyl Disaster. State of social protection of the affected and current challenges of overcoming the consequences" (18 May 2020) (registration number 2622). Please support and vote. [[18:07:01]] For 341 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, I am voting on the proposal to adopt an entire draft Parliamentary Hearing Order on "Cybersecurity, critical infrastructure, electronic communications in Ukraine: status, problems, solutions" (15 April 2020) (registration number 2777). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[18:07:39]] For 342 Another, distinguished colleague. Decision taken. All right, no. There are recommendations. There's no parliamentary hearing. I won't. All of it. All of it. Announcement.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-04-m1.u141	Dear colleagues, an interfractional women’s union has been formed. Peace. Security." The headquarters of this union are the national deputies of Ukraine: Royal Natalia Yuriyovna, Billozar Larissa Mikolayovna, Konstankevich Irina Miroslavovna, Disturbing Forest Valentinovna, Vereshuk Irina Andriyevna, Dmitri Oksana Alexandrovna, and Belkov Olga Valentinovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-04-m1.u142	Dear colleagues, I declare the evening meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine closed. Thank you all. See you tomorrow.
