ParlaMint-UA_2020-04-13-m0.u1	Good afternoon, dear fellows! Please prepare for registration. I'm reminded that registration takes place by clicking on the green pros button. Are you ready to register? Ready? The cards are in, yes, ready. Ready? Please register. [[14:11:27]] There are 357 national deputies registered in the hall. I now declare open the plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Honorable National Deputies, in response to the demands of the President of Ukraine and in accordance with part eight of article 19 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, we are today holding an extraordinary plenary meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The list of questions you are invited to consider is open to all. Dear colleagues, there have been two statements from MP factions and groups, a break with a replacement for the performance. Julia Volodymyrna Timoshenko. Wait, Julia Volodymyr, one minute, please. Wait a minute, please. Dear colleagues. Julius Volodymyrically, just a minute. Honourable People's Deputies, on April 7, 2020, the Central Election Commission registered the Ukrainian People's Deputy, who was elected to the interim election of Ukrainian National Deputies on March 15, 2020, in the one-man election district number 179, Light Julia Alexandrovna. In accordance with article 79 of the Constitution of Ukraine, a Ukrainian national deputy takes an oath before the Supreme Council of Ukraine before taking office. In order to make an oath to the rostrum, the National Deputy of Ukraine, Svetly Julia Alexandrovna, is invited.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-04-13-m0.u2	Dear Head, dear colleagues, dear Ukrainians! I swear allegiance to Ukraine. I commit myself to upholding Ukraine’s sovereignty and independence by all my actions, caring for the welfare and welfare of Ukraine’s people. I vow to abide by the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine, to carry out my duties in the interests of all fellow countrymen.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-04-13-m0.u3	Hello, Julia Alexandrovna. Let's get to work. Julia Volodymyrna Timoshenko – 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-04-13-m0.u4	Dear colleagues, today we are going to consider the changes to the State Budget, which determine the strategy of our nation's movement in the most difficult year we are currently experiencing. But there's an extraordinary situation that we can't help but talk to you about: almost 120 billion dollars are being deducted from the income side of the budget. It's essentially going to be twice the amount that, first of all, exceeds the creation of a fund to fight infection. Secondly, this is half of the country's pension fund. These 120 billion dollars don't just come off, we all remember very well that the minister who spent three weeks in his office, Mr. Umanski's minister of finance, has been able to completely cover these three weeks' worth of tax-added equipment because of the so - called contraband and, more faithfully, the failure to pay this tax on a corrupt basis. In addition, he has discovered customs frauds that are carried out to avoid paying income tax to Ukraine’s budget. He didn't just expose all these corrupt devices, he informed the President, the Prime Minister, he brought it up to the government, and he made a public statement. He submitted the relevant material to the Attorney General’s Office, to the NABU, and to the SBU. In other words, the minister of Umanski took off because he exposed this corruption and opposed it. And now we have in the budget that we're going to vote today, confirmation of that. Umanski said that an average of 30 billion dollars per quarter is not paid to the budget. That's exactly 120 billion dollars a year. They're taking over the country. Not a tax-free principal, not a tax-free principal, and you and I saw that, not corruption had been stopped, but, in fact, 120 billion bracelets had been removed from the budget's income. It's a PP. And so before voting on this budget, we call for the heads of factions with the Cabinet of Ministers, with the President of the country, to invite Umanski, to listen to the report and not to vote in favour of this law, until we know that 120 billion dollars are removed from the income budget, not because they cover corruption, but because there are other circumstances. Do not accept corruption in this budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-04-13-m0.u5	Thank you. Fedina Sofia Romanovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-04-13-m0.u6	Have you been to Maidan? You dared to fight for rights in your time, for your Ukrainian statehood? You dared the authorities at your own moment to say no? Congratulations, you're the enemy today. You need to be planted. You need to be guilty. This is what is being offered today to all those who dare and dare to fight for statehood. The Tetjana Blackwall case, which has just begun, criminal conduct against it, it's kind of revenge for all the players, it's a rematch of anti-Majdan forces who not only want to show that they don't fight, who not only want to say that you were stupid, but we win, they want to make a reflex of fear in each of us. You tell the truth, there will be punishment. You're going out on Maidan, there's going to be punishment. You dare think, there will be punishment. You go out and defend your rights, there will be punishment. And today, the Tetjans of Chernobyl are starting repression against all rangers. If she is dealt with, if those of you who are even sitting in this room are allowed to deal with her, each of you will be next. It's not that we're talking about Majdan himself. The fact is that today, as a rematch of anti-Madan forces, they're trying to squander the historic choice of Ukraine, they're trying to undermine the right of each of us to fight for our rights and freedom. That's why the faction of European Solidarity, each of the MPs who's been to Maidan today, is calling on the deputies, regardless of factions, regardless of their interests, if you've been to Maidan, you have to sign the statement, "No, rematch! No, the descarralization of Maidan! No, the persecution of the fielders!".. Because if this thing goes down here today, everyone will be next. As a result, all of us will be left without the Ukrainian independent state. And I would like the authority that is so keenly helping the rigs to return to power that the one who sows the wind will certainly reap the storm. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2020-04-13-m0.u7	Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the day-to-day issues. You are invited to consider draft Law 3279-1, 3279-d. At a meeting with the leaders of factions and MPs, the following rules of procedure were proposed not to go into discussion: 3 minutes – a speech by the Prime Minister of Ukraine, 3 minutes – a report by the committee, up to 3 minutes, up to 3 minutes – statements by each of the MPs and groups. Then we go to the vote. Please tell me.? Wait. Reporters also for 3 minutes, as predicted. Then we go to the vote. No, wait, the reporters and I agreed that it was only the factions that made the performances. Three minutes is a reporter. Then we go to the vote. Is there a denial of such a procedure? Can we work in this mode? The report is given to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Dennis Anatoliovich Schmigal, within 3 minutes of the deadline.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-04-13-m0.u8	Ladies and gentlemen of the national parliament, Mr. Head, the honourable Ukrainians! In recent weeks, we have worked together to get the optimal version of an updated budget that will meet both external and internal challenges. Thanks to parliamentarians for their constructive work, the government today is counting heavily on the support of the people's deputies. Difficult times call for responsible action. The adoption of the Emergency Budget is a responsible action. The highest level of responsibility is supporting Ukraine's crisis exit scenario. In the latest version of the budget changes, we have been able to recover funding from many programmes, including additional funding for cultural areas, education. Here I would like to point out that every bracelet that's allocated to our military remains in the budget. Let's not forget that the money in the budget is not the government, not the people's deputies, it's the costs of Ukrainian taxpayers. Today, our citizens around the country are demonstrating what priorities need to be implemented. First of all, it's about getting over the coronavirus. That is, the support of doctors, the purchase of medical equipment, the cost of the Ministry of Health is proposed to increase by 16.4 billion dollars. In general, along with other medical funding costs, there will be an increase of exactly one and a half times. In parallel, we need to take care of pensioners and the most vulnerable groups of the population. To this end, we propose an increase of 29.7 billion dollars. This is necessary in order to carry out a pension index in May, as well as to pay pensioners who receive less than 5,000 dollars, an aid of 1,000 dollars. The proposed draft changes to the budget will enable us to support people who have lost their income through the Crown Crisis, both unemployment payments and small business support programs. The Ministry of Social Policy is planning to increase its spending by 19.5 billion dollars. In doing so, the government understands very well that only an efficient economy can increase support for social and medical programs. Thus, in the latter version of the budget, the government has not forgotten the articles on expenses that feed and stimulate the economy. A large building in the first place, an unprecedented sum of 72 billion dollars has been invested in the road fund. Road construction is a fast-paced economy and additional jobs. We also managed to save regional development and agrarian support. The State Budget project envisions the establishment of a Coronation Fund and its consequences, with a budget of 64.7 billion dollars. I give an exhaustive answer to the main questions that include the fund. These are additional payments to medical workers who rescue Ukrainians; the purchase of medical equipment; the payment to Ukrainians who have lost their jobs through the coronavirus; and the provision of financial assistance to family members of health - care workers. And another very important point. In the foundation.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-04-13-m0.u9	Thank you. I'm sorry. Thank you, Mr. Prime Minister. Honcharenko Aleksyyyyovich is invited to attend. Dear colleagues, in parallel with this, I remind you that we have agreed on all other issues to vote without discussion, but there will only be a separate situation after the rulings. Everyone remembers that, this arrangement? Thank you. Alexiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-04-13-m0.u10	Alexei Hotcharenko, European Solidarity. Dear friends, me and my colleagues in the "European Solidarity" faction, Sumar and Friz were presented with the only alternative to the Cabinet's draft change to the State Budget of Ukraine. In order not to be said tomorrow, they had to vote, for there are no other alternatives. There's an alternative! What is the difference between our laws? In ideology. The bill from the government is a bill of one quarter, a government bill, and it's a 95th bill of protection. Why can I say that? They don't take money away from the authorities, they only take the muscle away, you know, to show it as if it's taken away, and it's not actually taken away, and the judges add the money -- a billion dollars plus. Instead of stretching the straps, the authorities extend the belt to the culture, education, and local self - government, destroying them. Our bill foresees a completely different approach. Let's pull the straps together: the Supreme Council - minus, the President's Office - minus, the Force - minus, and the culture needs to be kept as much as possible, the education as possible, the local projects and the local budgets as possible. This is our bill. What difference does it make? Green on Friday, in his video talk, said, we're going to limit the wages of all civil servants in public enterprises, in supervisory boards -- 10 minimum wages, 47,000 dollars. As always, I lied. Because yes, let's limit it, but only for one, for a maximum of two months, for quarantine. Our bill is going to be limited by the end of the year, because otherwise they're going to get hundreds of thousands of dollars now, then one or two months 47, and then hundreds of thousands of dollars again. This is social justice, please tell me? A separate story is how our government spends money. Well, the whole country's over, Mr. Schmigal, maybe you can tell us a story about Albania right now. So we've got it. In November, there was an earthquake in Albania, and in April, five months later, during the pandemic, when the whole state, volunteers collect in cash on doctors' masks, on equipment, you decide to give 10 million dollars to the Republic of Albania for humanitarian aid? Are you making fun of us? I can tell you in general, dear friends. Green in the same video said, "I'm tired." You know, in answering to Mr. Zelenski from me and millions of Ukrainians, I want to quote the classics of modern times in the original language, "If you're tired of your life, maybe you'll go back to your "Evening Quarter"? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-04-13-m0.u11	The report is given to the national deputy, Trukin Aleksandr Mikolaiovich. Alexander Mikolaiovich, I give you four minutes both from the committee and as the author. Four minutes, please turn on.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-04-13-m0.u12	Honourable Dmitry Aleksandrovich, honourable national deputies, has prepared for the re-reading of Bill 3279 in order to implement the decision of the Supreme Council of the Committee on Budget Affairs within the limits of time. The Committee, together with the Ministry of Finance, has worked out and made proposals to the National Deputies, Ministries, and Chief Officials. The Committee's letter contains the main differences between the amended bill and the basic bill, which was submitted by the government. New articles 28 and 32 are excluded. The COVID-19 fund has also been reduced to 64.7 billion dollars. The Ministry of Health has also provided direct subsidies of 15.8 billion dollars to supplement the salaries of health workers. The Ministry of Social Policy is worth 10.6 billion dollars to make additional payments to pensioners and some other categories of the population. The DFRD fund has been restored, which will allow us to complete the President's task of major construction. You and I will be able to obtain and surrender more than 100 gardens, 100 schools and 100 stadiums for the people of Ukraine this year. A full - time road construction program has been restored, so Ukraine will be able to travel on new high - quality roads. Increased public expenditure in the judiciary is 1 billion dollars to cover minimum costs for judges ’ work. Also increased income from the dividends of the National Bank of Ukraine by 2 billion dollars. We therefore consider this draft budget to be balanced, which is fully in line with the objectives and tasks of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The government can execute him. We urge you to support this draft budget, and the Committee on Budget Issues recommends to the Supreme Council Bill 3279 as a result of a review of the first reading to be adopted on a basis and as a whole as a law in a new edition number 3279-d prepared by the Committee on Budget Affairs, together with the Ministry of Finance, with proposals in an additional committee opinion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-04-13-m0.u13	Thank you, Alexander Mikolayovich. Dear colleagues, please sign up from factions and MPs. Peter Alekseiovich Poroshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-04-13-m0.u14	Dear colleagues! The budget Sequester is a felicitous result of managing new but incompetent faces. After receiving our team's economics with almost a 5-percent increase, they dropped their inheritance by the wind over the next few months. And the Chinese didn't know there was a coronavirus, and in Ukraine, industry had already collapsed, GDP had risen, and the budget had not received tens of billions of dollars. And the giant hole is being patched not by the force, even by the money they're adding, but by the destruction of the New Ukrainian School, the system of trade, the choking of culture, the removal of financial support in the community, depriving them of the resources to fight the pandemic, the abolition of decentralization as one of the most successful reforms of our team. Yes, we really managed to convince the government to partially rebuild the Regional Development Fund, subsidies on socioeconomics, places of expenditure on culture. The cost of supporting the pensioners and the unemployed will go, not to Kabmin’s manual administration, but directly to the funds involved. But there was no strategy in the document for protecting people, economies and countries, both from the virus and from the economic crisis. Most people run out of money, don't have to save money, and they don't have a job. We propose to introduce a four-month budget programme to provide low-income families with food support, called food stamps. Credits and taxes should be deferred for those who have kept their jobs and continue to pay their wages. Volunteers and patrons began to provide medical supplies with protective suits, masks. But we're also asking the state to finally secure medical personnel, as we did in terms of military personnel in the 14th year. Well, at least you'll be able to provide the drugs you took abroad at the beginning of the Coronavirus. This week, the authorities are scheduled to choose between Ukraine and Cologne, to hold another session that would prejudge the budget, to save the country from the default. You can't do it alone - don't mess with the intellectual help from the opposition! Do something to make your anniversary not look like an anniversary on May 21. Thank you. And the glory of Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2020-04-13-m0.u15	I invite National Deputy Vladimir Artemovna, political party "Serve of the People". Out of the way, huh? Please turn it on from place to place then.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-04-13-m0.u16	Good afternoon, dear colleagues. I have literally a few but very short questions to the Prime Minister of Ukraine. Please tell me about the appropriateness of the changes in the section relating to the possibility of restoring Ukraine's Ministry of Infrastructure's general budget expenditure to the reconstruction and construction of Ishmael Airport. Is this appropriate today in the face of a pandemic when we actually have a crisis both in the medical field and we have an economic crisis? And I'm also interested in the relevance, and in general, let's say, the sense of the changes in the position of public procurement in the use of state budget funds to support state-owned television companies operating in the ARC and the city of Sevastopol. It's about a limited-liability company called the Atlanta-SV, and it's about what we're proposing in the 20th year not to use the public procurement position. How will the purchase of this company be done, and is there really merit in this? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-04-13-m0.u17	Thank you. The only thing we have right now is a period of performance. And the question, I think, is that he's giving you the answers separately. I invite National Deputy Sowsun Innu Romanovna, faction of the political party Voice. Sabal, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-04-13-m0.u18	Dear colleagues, first of all, I'd like to ask for a moment of silence. Today's anniversary, six years ago, the first military to die as a result of Russian aggression against Ukraine. Captain Bilichenko, Alpha Air Force.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-04-13-m0.u19	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we all understand what people expect from us today. People expect real support rather than fictional figures. People are waiting for help to cope with the epidemic and the economic crisis. People are waiting for an explanation of how to live in a new situation. Does this budget provide such support? The honest answer is no, this budget does not support this. You know, last year we had development budgets, salvation budgets, food budgets. This budget is a budget of deception. Deceptive citizens, because the budget isn't fair. We say we cut costs, but we didn't cut them for everyone. We've gone down for some, we've gone up for others. Business failures, because the budget does not match world practices, how to help business in times of economic crisis. Deception itself, because the budget is unrealistic, the income is too high, the expenses are not in the pocket, and borrowing cannot be done without the adoption of the Banks Act. Now, in detail, on each point. Why is the budget unfair? Because one has been cut and the other has been raised. They increased the funding of the IMF by 195 million, reduced the financing of the least able schools by 1 billion. Grants were left to agroholdings, and funding decreased by a third for education, science, and other things. We also increased funding by up to 80 percent in this budget, for example, for coal development and restructuring. This money often went, not to miners, but to no one. But at the same time, we took 21 billion dollars out of the cities and OTG, according to the Association of Ukrainian Cities. This budget also significantly reduces the cost of teaching doctors. Of the 364 billion, only 101 billion have been left to train and train doctors. The other one. Why is this budget not in line with world practice? Because all the countries in the world support business by increasing infrastructure financing, by targeted loans, by stimulating consumption. There is no such thing as stimulating consumption, but only for the chosen ones. And the third. This budget is unrealistic. In this budget, we put down 11 percent of our income. We've had 15 percent of our income in two months before quarantine. We're not going to have 781 billion tax revenue, it's going to be much less, I think, because business stops working through hard quarantine. At the same time, expenses are overstated. And most of all. That 298 billion deficit is funded by the IMF. And we didn't pass the Banks Act. How can we adopt the Budget Act, where there is financing of IMF, and the Banks Act, which will give this funding, is not adopted. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-04-13-m0.u20	Ivchenko Vadim Evgenovich. Julia Volodymyrna Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-04-13-m0.u21	Please clear the passage. Dear colleagues, I ask you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-04-13-m0.u22	Dear colleagues, I just see that few people in this room are interested in what's happening to the country's key life strategy for a crisis year is the budget. I understand that all by group, by interest, are talking about their political affairs. Next to the Prime Minister, I think the MPs are settling their questions. And what I want to tell you is that there's not a blank paper in front of you that's got the numbers on the budget, and you're now faced with the essence of the country's life, because the country's life, as set out in the figures, deserves a lot of attention. And what you now see in your hands is the country’s diametric opposite strategy of life for a crisis year, which is linked to an epidemic and is related to the consequences of an economic and financial crisis. What's going on here? First. State resources do not accumulate, they do not gather in one fist, and they do not go to the rescue of the country and the people. This is the opposite in diameter: 120 billion dollars are taken from the budget on a corrupt basis, and this is, you know, taking wages, pensions, life, maybe people who are out of work today. Both in the hall and in the Presidium and in the cabinet's bed, it's not worth it that the minister of Umansky said that corruption has reached 120 billion dollars a year, and today, in the budget, this corruption is legalized. The other one. You didn't even see that they're putting in a budget deficit that's never been in your life. This means that the country is being thrown into a debt pit, and if this budget is implemented, we're going to have a government debt that is going to be equal to a gross domestic product. This has never been the case in the country. What do you think?Oh, my God! Do you think you should vote for that? This will mean that all generations of future Ukrainians will be counted for the debts you are making today. Just in case, money is taken from the disabled, from all the regional budgets, from low-income families, from the students, from the medics. What, do you think this budget is to be supported? Taking away 120 billion, we're being thrown into debt by tens of years ahead. All those who have conscience, honor and dignity, I urge not to vote in favour of this budget. This is the budget for the destruction of Ukraine, not the fight against the coronavirus and the economic crisis. We need another budget. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2020-04-13-m0.u23	Coltunovich Alexander Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-04-13-m0.u24	Dear Mr. Head, honourable national MPs, honourable voters, "The Opposition Platform for Life" will certainly not support such a draft Act amending the State Budget. I'll explain why. Because the changes that are being made today are not the result of COVID, but the recession in the economy of Ukraine and the budget sector is the result of that economic policy that was proposed in September 2019. For example. But our budget did not begin to be fulfilled only from March of the month. In September the budget deficit was 10.6 percent, in October it was 10.9, in November it was 7.1, January it was 24.5 percent budget failure, February it was 6.3 percent budget failure. Were we on quarantine at the time? No, it's not. This is the result of the economic policy that was. Now for the budget. Of course, the standard that is now proposed for subsidies, and I'm talking about the reduction in housing and utility subsidies for the population by 8 billion dollars, that's 39 billion dollars left on the grant. I want to remind you that the figure was 71. 55 was in the previous budget. Did you cut people's tariffs twice? Or perhaps we have increased the real income of the population twice that you are doubling their subsidies? The second very important point that we can't get past is debt borrowing. It turns out that 642 billion dollars is an extra loan. Think about it, 65 percent of the income part of the budget. Also, yes, we have substantial expenses. That's more than 35 percent of us, that's in the spending part of the budget. But I'm going to say again, if we're talking about 65 percent of the loans that our citizens understand, that's if you live on a thousand dollars a month, and instead of paying a thousand dollars a month, you take 650 loans. In the next month, you're going to pay 1650 and you're only going to make 350. That's what your fiscal policy and debt policy are all about. Of course, we must not overlook the order of the day that is being proposed today. There are very lobbyist norms and draft laws that today are in no way correlated with the economic order that there is. And, of course, another very important moment is the Coroner Foundation, which is just 64 billion dollars. But I want to remind you that at the beginning of the project, when I was preparing the previous finance minister, this figure was over 120 billion dollars. So it's been reduced more than twice. Well, that's the end of it. Of course, local budgets and regional fiscal policies deserve better. Because what you leave them does not in any way meet the needs they have left behind. Once again, our faction calls for the non-support of this draft budget, and we will vote against it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-04-13-m0.u25	Thank you. Taras Ivanovich Batenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-04-13-m0.u26	Good afternoon, dear colleagues, dear friends, Ukrainian citizens. Our "For the Future" MP group is asking a different question. Will Ukraine’s power and Ukrainian government today face the challenges faced today by Ukrainian society, as part of the world? We want to say that, despite all the efforts made by the members of the "For the Future" MPs in the Supreme Council of Ukraine to improve this bill on budget changes, it should be acknowledged that the changes we are considering today, aimed at non-systemic spending, the failure to promote economic growth and infrastructure development, do not provide incentives and assistance to Ukraine's economy in times of global economic crisis. And I can't help but agree with my quoted colleagues, but we didn't get the answers from the government, they're constantly quoting Mr. Umanski's former finance minister, and a couple of weeks ago he was the finance minister, about the so-called VAT deficits and the under-receiving of the government budget for tens of billions of dollars. I also want to talk about anti-crisis headquarters. We are the supreme legislature of the state, but no one is inviting us to any anti-crisis headquarters. We are heard and remembered only when voices are to be heard. In our view, all attempts by the government to demonstrate concern for the social protection of citizens have been overturned by the demonstrative exclusion from the State Budget Act 2020 of the rules on the approximation of the subsistence minimum to its actual size. The government retains the right to its own judgment, to determine by hand how much to spend. There is a reduction in expenditure on culture, education, art, and so forth. Changes to the budget are aimed, not at reducing the country’s debt, but at increasing it, and the sources of such borrowing are unrealistic or cable conditions in times of global crisis. In this connection, it should be determined that the Ukrainian authorities did not even try to negotiate with the country’s international creditors on the restructuring of the country’s debts. In fact, today the IMF is offering us to put the whole state in a pawnshop. If we sell the land, we sell the state. The stated significant increase in the Pension Fund and other articles we see in this bill do not allow us today to support it by voting. My friends, it's been a month since quarantine, and Kabmin has actually done nothing. It's all made up of local budgets and charities -- we see it in Ukrainian energy. In fact, we see energy costs falling in Europe, and they become negative, and they remain high for Ukraine. For us, therefore, the question is: Is there a political will in this government to deal with this political crisis? And we urge the Ukrainian Parliament today not to vote in favour of these changes to the budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-04-13-m0.u27	Thank you. Dear colleagues, Kulinich Oleg Ivanovich is now speaking. Then we go to voting for the law. Please invite a colleague into the hall. Oleg Ivanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-04-13-m0.u28	Thank you. Dear Mr. Head, distinguished colleagues, distinguished voters! When we talk about spending cuts in the state budget, it is clear that there are no ideal decisions, and there will be no decisions that everyone can make. I'd like a few words on the substance of the bill. First of all, thanks to the insistence of our "Trust" MP group at the last budget committee meeting today, it has been possible to set aside one and a half billion funds for the development of united territorial communities. Territorial communities are now closest to people, and they primarily respond quickly to all the crises, they respond to all the questions on the Coronavirus. And that's why the Trust Group is in favour of decentralization reform this year, and these territorial community costs should be paid this year. The other one. We had a huge number of appeals from the Ukrainian City Association for pennies and fines for utilities that ensure the viability of cities during the pandemic. And this issue has also been settled again today, thanks to our group's position on the budget committee. There is a ban on the counting of foams and fines for centralized water supply and water supply enterprises, as well as heat supplies. They're all communal, and that's all local self-government. Together with colleagues, the fuel excise, which remains in the local budgets, has been maintained. And it's a huge success, and it's very important for the local budgets. There is virtually no cost of reconstruction and repair of roads, since roads are in terrible shape, especially roads. Without decentralization reform, without road repair, neither the education system nor the health system will work, nor the decentralization reform if we do not repair roads. And that was also the principle of the position of the deputies of our "Trust" group. The important question is also that 4 billion dollars remain in support of agriculture in the final version of the bill. The agricultural sector is the basic sector of our state's economy, and it's the largest monetary output, and so it's very important that these costs come fully to our agrarians. To sum up, it's very important that these changes can increase the pension fund's size by 30 billion dollars, which will make it possible to make extra payments for our pensioners, and this is very important in the context of the coronavirus and in the context of the global economic crisis. So the MPs will vote in favour of this bill because these changes will help stabilize the situation and ensure key social costs in the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-04-13-m0.u29	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please prepare for the vote and invite the national deputies to the hall. Ready to vote? Ready to vote? I'm betting on a motion for adoption on the basis of the draft Law on Amendments to the Law. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, a little quieter in the hall, please. [[B in m in s a l in]] Ilja Volodymyrovich! Kiwa! I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine 2020 (registration number 3279-d). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[2:55:44]] For 252 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, I am voting on the proposal for adoption in general, taking into account the Committee's proposals and the necessary technical and legal rights, the draft Law amending the Ukrainian Law on the State Budget for Ukraine for 2020 (registration No. 3279-d). Please support and vote. [[14:56:18]] For 249 The decision is adopted, the law is passed in general. Show me the factions, please. "People's Servant" – 226, "The Opposition Platform for Life" – 0, "European Solidarity" – 0, "The Fatherland" – 0, "For the Future" – 5, "The Voice" – 0, "The Trust" – 15, "the Non-Factional" – 3. Thank you again, the decision is made. Next question. Dear colleagues, you are invited to consider the draft Law on National Geographical Data Infrastructure (Registration No. 2370). Ready to vote? I'll bet you a vote on that. [[B in m in s a l in]] I am voting on the proposal to adopt, in the second reading and in general with the necessary technical and legal rights, the draft Law on National Geographical Data Infrastructure (2,370). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[14:57:30.]] For 302 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Thank you. Show me the factions, please. The next question is the draft Act on Amendments to the Ukrainian Act on Protection of Population from Infectious Diseases (COVID-19) (Registration No. 3320). I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on Protection of Population from Infectious Diseases to prevent the spread of coronary disease (registration number 3320). Please support and vote. [[14:58:32]] For 316 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, I am voting on the proposal for adoption in general, taking into account the Committee's proposals and the necessary technical and legal rights, the draft Law (Registration No. 3320) amending the Ukrainian Law on Protection of Population from Infectious Diseases (COVID-19). Please support and vote. [[14:59:16]] For 332 Decision taken. Show me the factions, please. "People's Servant" – 235, "The Opposition Platform for Life" – 0, "European Solidarity" – 24, "The Fatherhood" – 15, "For the Future" – 15, "The Voice" – 13, "The Trust" – 15, "the Non-Flocked" – 15. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-04-13-m0.u30	Honourable National Deputies, taking into account the need for urgent legislative measures to combat the coronavirus, I propose that the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine sign Bill 3320 as soon as it is adopted by the Supreme Council and send it to the President of Ukraine immediately. I'll put this motion to the vote. Please also support and vote. 3320, just received. [[15:00:07]] For 334 Decision taken.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-04-13-m0.u31	Thank you. Next question, dear colleagues. You are invited to consider Bill 2339, the draft Law amending some Ukrainian legislation to preserve the environment (to increase responsibility for actions aimed at air pollution and destruction or damage to plant objects). I'm betting on a motion to adopt a bill (registration number 2339) as a basis. Ready to vote? This is a bill to amend some Ukrainian legislation to preserve the environment. Please support and vote. [[15:01:22]] For 362 Decision taken. Show me the factions, please. "People's Servant" – 238, "The Opposition Platform for Life" – 28, "European Solidarity" – 26, "The Fatherhood" – 15, "For the Future" – 15, "The Voice" – 13, "The Trust" – 15, "The Non-Flocked" – 12. Denise Anatolyovich! A word of motivation is a minute to the Monastery.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-04-13-m0.u32	Colleagues voted in favour of over 300 deputies for this bill. Our committee only recommended it on the basis of the need for technical and legal remedies. But if the hall supports it, we'll agree to this story, but with technical law.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-04-13-m0.u33	Why not? Well, why not? The whole "for" room, why not? Technico legal yet. I'm betting on a motion for adoption of the bill (registration number 2339) as a whole with the necessary technical and legal regulations. Draft law amending some Ukrainian legislation to preserve the environment (2339). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[15:02:53]] For 328 Thank you. The decision is adopted, the law is passed in general. Show me the factions, please. "Serve of the People" – 235, "Response Platform for Life" – 0, "European Solidarity" – 26, "Fatherhood" – 14, "For the Future" – 14, "Voice – 14, "Trust" – 15, "non-fractional" – 10. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-04-13-m0.u34	Honourable National Deputies, taking into account the need for urgent legislative measures to preserve the environment, I propose that the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine be given immediate authority to sign Bill 2339, which has just been adopted by the Supreme Council, and to transmit it immediately to the President of Ukraine. I'm putting this motion to a vote, please support and vote. [[15:03:52]] For 333
ParlaMint-UA_2020-04-13-m0.u35	Decision taken. Show me the factions, please. Next question. Dear colleagues, you have been invited to consider the draft Act amending the Law on the Antimonopoly Committee of Ukraine and some other legislative acts of Ukraine to improve the system of Antimonopoly Committee bodies (registration number 3132). Dear colleagues, I am voting on the proposal to adopt the draft Law amending the Law on the Antimonopoly Committee of Ukraine and some other legislative acts of Ukraine to improve the system of Antimonopoly Committee bodies (registration No. 3132). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[15:04:56]] For 244 Decision taken. Thank you, Your Honor. Let's see the factions. Next question. You are invited to consider the draft Act amending Chapter XI of the Criminal Procedure Code of Ukraine on the features of judicial control over the rights, freedoms and interests of persons in criminal conduct and individual matters during the quarantine period established by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine in order to prevent the spread of coronary disease (COVID 19). It's a second reading. Registration number 3276. I am voting on the proposal to adopt, in the second reading and in general with the necessary technical and legal regulations, the draft Law amending Chapter XI of the Transitional Positions of the Criminal Procedure Code of Ukraine on the features of judicial control of the rights, freedoms and interests of persons in the criminal conduct and consideration of individual matters during the quarantine period established by the Cabinet of Ministers for the prevention of the spread of coronary disease (COVID 19) (Registration No. 3276). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[15:06:22]] For 310 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Show me the factions, please. "People's Servant" – 237, "The Opposition Platform for Life" – 30, "European Solidarity" – 0, "The Fatherland" – 1, "For the Future" – 1, "The Voice" – 14, "The Trust" – 15, "the Non-Factional" – 12. Thanks again. The law was passed in general. Next question. Dear colleagues, you have been invited to consider the Ukrainian Act on Amendments to certain legislative acts of Ukraine concerning the introduction of a single tax and assembly bill, the sole contribution to the mandatory public social insurance, with proposals by the President of Ukraine (since 19.02.2020) (registration number 1049). Ready to vote? It's a veto. This is the President's veto, with the President's proposals. I'm willing to take the vote in general, taking into account the proposals. I am voting on the proposal for adoption in general, taking into account the proposals of the President of Ukraine, the Act on Amendments to certain Ukrainian legislative acts concerning the introduction of a single tax and assembly bill, the only contribution to the general public social insurance obligation, with proposals by the President of Ukraine (since 19.02.2020) (registration number 1049). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[15:08:02]] For 279 Decision taken. Show me the factions, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-04-13-m0.u36	Honourable national MPs, taking into account the need for urgent legislative provision of those initiatives that have just been adopted in the legislation that has been voted, propose that the Head of the Supreme Council should immediately sign Bill 1049, which has just been adopted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine, taking into account the proposals of the President of Ukraine, and send it to the President of Ukraine immediately. Dear colleagues, I'm putting this motion to a vote. And I also ask you to support and vote. [[15:08:48]] For 277 Decision taken.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-04-13-m0.u37	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the next question is draft regulations, 13 of them. Ten of them are registered by the Fatherland faction, and the People's Deputies are representatives of the Fatherland faction. There was an offer for us to go the next way. Now for these 10 orders, give Timoshenko 10 minutes, 3 minutes Ivchenko 3 minutes. Who else? Puzichuk. Wait. We've got Polack's performance. This is a separate decision. Wait. As for the decisions that were made by Fatherland. And after that, we're just going to vote 10 decrees. Is there no objection? [[B in m in s a l in]] Why not? [[B in m in s a l in]] Yes, I remember. We have three other rulings, other deputies, there's a separate procedure. We'll just go through the procedure if they don't insist, after this vote. Thank you. Is there no objection? I can't hear you. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, everyone agrees that the speeches, after that – the vote, without discussing the rulings? [[B in m in s a l in]] Or let's follow procedure, Your Honor. Or we can follow procedure. Or we go by procedure, all 14 orders. Let's follow procedure. I mean, the Opposition Platform for Life and European Solidarity insist on a full procedure. [[B in m in s a l in]] How's it going? [[B in m in s a l in]] Does everyone agree? 10 minutes - Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-04-13-m0.u38	Dear colleagues, this is about revoking voting under the agricultural land sales law. Our team has put forward draft regulations that require a vote to be lifted on the sale of agricultural land, which took place at the last non-recurrent session. And that's why we want to do it. You know that a recent statement by the United Nations has been made that an estimated 820 million people are already starving worldwide. The crisis caused by the Coronavirus pandemic threatens to exacerbate the world’s hunger. I have this statement from the United Nations. And you can also see that when the epidemic is now overtaken by the whole world, there are only two deficits in the world: first, that's all there is to the cure and diagnosis of the coronavirus, and second, that's food. In the world today, food prices have just gone down, and Ukraine, as a key country that has black lands, can now feel that maybe we're the only ones that can provide not only food, but, in principle, protect our food security completely, totally, completely, completely. There are very few of these countries. When the world transforms into a global space now, every country understands that it is lonely in times of distress, we need not waste our resources, but we need to consolidate all the resources in the hands of Ukraine and not have anything taken away. But at the same time, it was decided by President Zelenski, his government and his majority in parliament, that just when the world realizes that each country for itself, and especially in food matters, has decided to sell agricultural land for a one-time loan to the International Monetary Fund, which is only a few billion dollars, to sell agricultural land, to sell strategic property. This is not how other countries live. And that's why we have to change this strategy, look at it, and leave the land at the disposal of Ukraine, the Ukrainians, as stipulated in the Constitution, and especially our farmers of small and medium-sized farmers. Dear friends, I have another United Nations document in my hands. It decides that the next 10 years in the world are 10 years of agricultural development. And we have everything with you to develop farming for the next 10 years. But if the law on the sale of agricultural land becomes a reality, we will no longer be able to do so. What is unacceptable in this law? First. It is unacceptable that from the first day of the operation of this law the land may belong to foreign banks. So from the first day of this law, foreign banks will be able to own Ukrainian agricultural land without a limit. Somebody says, but it's not a big deal, it's just going to be a loan facility where the land is set up, and then, if the land is laid down and the villagers lose it, it's going to be owned by international foreign banks. Dear friends, it's not easy. Today the National Bank of Ukraine is in the hands of foreign financial global circles. Its policy can have a direct impact on the further bankruptcy of the national banking system, and that will mean that all the land that will be taken into bail to secure foreign exchange loans will essentially go to foreign banks, because you and I, the Ukrainians, don't control what the National Bank does to our Ukrainian, and we won't control its monetary policy, its credit policy, and our land will just go from hammer in years, it will become a speculative commodity. And we need to sell, not land, not even crops from our land, and we need to sell prepared food. And then our country will be able to borrow the International Monetary Fund, not the other way around, take money and borrow it that makes us beggars and bankrupts. I can say that in this Law on Land, which has been adopted, this is a total destruction of our farming. Because Poland, for example, developed farming for 15 years. The whole world has been developing its own agriculture for decades. We are set aside by this law for the development of farming in just a little over a year. And then the land is given to foreign and native large monopolistic corporations. That can't be allowed. Dear friends, I know that, in principle, what I'm saying from this rostrum is now no matter how much of the hall. Someone stands back, someone takes care of their affairs, the government leaves the government in general. Because the decision to sell agricultural land has already been made at the expense of financial speculative circles. And now all we have to do is go through certain, well, formalities like that, take our rulings off this vote. And President Zelensky will immediately sign a law on the sale of agricultural land to financial global speculators. He has no appetite for Ukrainian national interests. He gives everything to the right and to the left. He's not forming, Mr. Greensky, politics for the country, politics for his hands, like puppet hands, form global rather cynical, hard forces. And we have no right as a parliament to play down this great injustice against Ukraine. And if the law on the sale of agricultural land is not repealed now, it will mean that future generations and our generations will essentially be deprived of both land and territory and food security, and agriculture as millions of jobs, and huge gross domestic incomes -- we will be deprived of our lives. Do not be associated with this great crime. Because this power, which today will change very quickly, I have no doubt about it. Everyone who participated in the sale of agricultural land, I'm sure they'll be criminally responsible for it because it's essentially a deliberate destruction of Ukraine. We will return our land to you as a nation, because as soon as Zelensky signs this law on the sale of agricultural land, we, our team, immediately submit to the Constitutional Court an appeal for its total unconstitutionality, and it is really unconstitutional. And we're going to have to do it sooner or later when Zelensky gets back to 95th quarter, we're going to hold a popular referendum, and we're going to ask people if they're ready to sell out the last thing that's left of our people is land. And I'm sure the Constitutional Court will say that this law has no right to life and we have time for it. And the U.S. referendum will also say that you can't definitely sell land. And the agrarians have already written to the President, the district and city district councils have already accepted the President's request not to pass this law. And I'm addressing Mr. Greensky now. You have a chance in the history of Ukraine to enter not as a seller, not as a traitor to national Ukrainian interests, but as a president who stands up for Ukraine. Put a veto on this law on the sale of agricultural land, and you may perform your only positive mission in this office. I believe Ukraine will stay with the earth, and you and I will stay with you with life, with independence and sovereignty. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2020-04-13-m0.u39	Thank you. Ivchenko Vadim Evgenovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-04-13-m0.u40	Vadim Yvchenko, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear colleagues, if you do not want to listen to the opposition, then listen to the agrarians who have already commented on the law. Agrarian Union of Ukraine, Hennadi Novikov "The adoption of a document under cover of night and quarantine gives rise to unpleasant thoughts. Regrettably, the next time we saw manipulations and outright deception by the authorities. None, I would stress, of any document that the IMF requires the opening of the land market we have not seen, and the so-called memorandum remains a ghost that has been feared by people." The Association of Farmers and Private Landowners, John Tomic, founder and honorary head. "It has finally become clear that the absence of a balanced government agrarian policy only leads to the impoverishment of the population, social, economic, spiritual, political, and humiliation of the Ukrainian nation. Ukraine must be saved from such laws and from such lawmakers. And this is where we need a consolidated effort of the political forces." Colleagues, the All-Ukrainian Agrarian Council is talking about the following. "At the same time, it is quite obvious that the lobbyists of the agrarian oligarchs will not leave any attempt to amend legislation or create laziness in order to use cheap foreign funding." Today, Ukraine’s agriculture faces new challenges. It is a direct struggle to hold an all-U.S. referendum, as well as to counter the introduction of a liberal market for land. The All - Ukrainian referendum must finally establish that Ukraine and the agricultural land are property of Ukrainians. Colleagues, a farmer from the Kharkiv region, vice president of the Union of Agricultural Cooperatives, say this law is not in time. Now there is war, poverty, economic recession. Is it not the only thing that can fill the budget and gross revenue is agriculture? Add state VAT non-return policy here, and farmers will not be able to buy land today. And now is the least good time for the land market. Farmer Bondarchuk says that the new authority calls itself "ministers of the people," but by its actions it shows the opposite: it sells out the Ukrainian land that this nation feeds. It is a crime against its own country and against its citizens! It's not just our generation, it's also our children's generation. Guys, listen to what people are saying. You're so often on Facebook, so don't look at your posts, look at the posts of farmers and agrarian associations. I've read you the basics. And I'm asking you to support the determination. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-04-13-m0.u41	Puzichuk Andri Viktorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-04-13-m0.u42	Good afternoon, dear colleagues, distinguished presiding, respected citizens of Ukraine! On March 31st, not March 30th, but March 31st, during the pandemic under cover of night, the "ministers of the people" passed this bill against the owner of the Ukrainian people. Dear colleagues, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that, in accordance with part one of article 47 of the Rules of Procedure of Ukraine, part two of article 84 of the Constitution of the Supreme Council decides exclusively at its plenary meetings. The President's request was to hold a meeting on 30 March. The vote was held on March 31, and there were no meetings on that day. This is one of the cases in modern Ukraine where decisions were not made in plenary. Next. Part five of article 25 of the Ukrainian Rules was violated during the discussion. The questions that remained unresolved are discussed first in the next plenary session. Thus, the bill was to be considered at the next plenary session, not the extraordinary plenary session. This is a gross violation of the Rules. Next, part one of article 47 of the Rules says that decisions are taken by most national deputies from the Council’s constitutional composition. A similar situation is enshrined in article 91 of the Constitution of Ukraine. The Constitutional Court of Ukraine points out that the Supreme Council is competent to make decisions, laws for the sake of the rightful part only. Note the vote: more than a hundred votes were cast in fewer than 226. Your Honor, read what you've voted for. The people of Ukraine have chosen you. The people of Ukraine have hired government as their representative, but we don't see the development of the country, we don't see the growth point. All they can do is turn around with their hand out to the IMF and sell Ukrainian land. Cancel this shameful bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-04-13-m0.u43	30 seconds, Calchenko. Sergey Vitaliyovich, you can go from place to place with these ten decrees. Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-04-13-m0.u44	Honorable Predestination! Dear National Deputies! The Regulatory Committee at its meeting reviewed the draft regulations and their authors' statements to the Head of the Supreme Council concerning the repeal of the Act (registration number 2178) on all draft regulations, the Committee concluded that all the conclusions had been drawn. The relevant decisions of the Committee are proposed to the Supreme Council by voting on the adoption or rejection of these draft regulations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-04-13-m0.u45	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I'm putting ten rulings to the vote. [[B in m in s a l in]] I remember. Also yours, I remember. Oksana Vasilovna, I remember. And Železniak Jaroslav Ivanovich, I remember. Now ten decrees. Then let us go on to three more decrees of yours. I'm betting on a draft ruling. I'll just call the numbers if you don't mind. Registration number 2178-10-P2. Please identify and vote. [[15:30:42.]] Z-70. The decision is not taken. Next draft Order (registration number 2178-10-P3). I'll bet you a vote. Please identify and vote. [[15:31:17]] For-63 The decision is not taken. I'll bet you a vote for the whole draft regulation (registration number 2178-10-P4). Please identify and vote. [[15:31:46]] For-63 The decision is not taken. Next draft of the ruling. I'm betting on a motion for adoption as a whole of the draft Regulations 2178-10-P5. Please identify and vote. [[15:32:12]] For-63 The decision is not taken. I'm willing to vote on the whole of the draft regulation (registration number 2178-10-P7). Please identify and vote. P6, I'm confused with P6. Please identify and vote. [[15:32:49]] For-66 The decision is not taken. What? I'll bet you a vote for the whole draft regulation (registration number 2178-10-P7). Please identify and vote. [[15:33:22]] For-64 The decision is not taken. I bet a vote on the whole of the draft Decree (2178-10-P8). Please identify and vote. [[15:33:48]] For-67 The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, I am voting on the proposal for adoption of the entire draft Decree (registration number 2178-10-P9). Please identify and vote. Please identify and vote. [[15:34:17]] For-67 The decision is not taken. No, no, no, no, no, no, no. The decision is not taken. I'm betting on a draft adoption order for the whole, registration number 2178-10-P10. Please identify and vote. [[15:34:54]] For-67 The decision is not taken. What's not working? Dear colleagues, the Council system will check. I'm betting on a motion for adoption in the entire draft regulation, registration number 2178-10-P11. Please identify and vote. [[15:35:54]] Z-62 The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, a statement came from two factions with a replacement for the performance. Babak Sergey Vitaliovich. After that, three more decisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-04-13-m0.u46	Dear colleagues, we, members of the Committee on Education, Science and Innovation, want to address the whole of society. Just a week ago, Ukraine's largest remote education project "The All-Ukrainian School Online" began. He was prepared by volunteers along with the President's Office, the Ministry of Education and Science and our committee. The project was launched in less than two weeks without a single copy of the state budget. More than 40 teachers volunteered for school and began recording videos for millions of children who were denied access to knowledge through quarantine. The project was prepared very quickly, literally from the wheels. The first lessons that came out on the screens on Monday night were mounted, and the teachers had never worked under the cameras for a million audience before, so there were some teacher errors during the recording of videos. But instead of saying something about the support of these teachers, society, social networks, politicians, and even their colleagues began to mock and harass. Such a social bulling of teachers. Teachers are people with a capital letter who decided on volunteer principles to help the education system of Ukraine, which, like many educational systems of the world, was simply not ready for the challenges we all are now facing. We all have rights. The right to freedom of expression, the right to freedom of speech, the right to life and many other rights, but unfortunately we have no right to error. This right to error differs from all others in progressive education systems. Our kids are afraid to make a mistake because they're going to get a two because they're going to get teased by the teacher, because they're going to be laughed at by other students, and they're finally going to be boiled at home. That is why children in our country grow up to be insecure and fear making mistakes their whole lives. And that's why we have so few entrepreneurs, innovators, because we're afraid to take risks and make mistakes, because our society doesn't tolerate mistakes, and we always think about how to do something, what people will say. And it is this intolerance to error that is one of the fundamental diseases of our society. At the same time, however, we should be proud of the other qualities of the Ukrainians, the ability to unite in the face of threats. And now doctors and teachers are helping the state face a pandemic. The doctors are fighting ahead for our lives with you, and the teachers are fighting for the worthy life and future of our children, and then for the future of our heroes. And today they're all heroes. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2020-04-13-m0.u47	Thank you, Your Honor. Let's move on to the next question. Dear colleagues, the next question is the draft registration number 2178-10-P. The author is the national deputy of Ukraine, Polakov Anton Eduardoovich. We follow the procedure, with the performances as everyone wanted. Okay.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-04-13-m0.u48	Honorable fellow MPs, in support of the goal of opening up the earth’s market, should first enlist the support of their people, calculate all the risks, and choose a suitable time to do so. Instead, our authority, under the demands of foreign creditors, is engaged in looting and destroying our country’s economic potential. The barbaric market of the land is the same thing as selling furniture from the apartment while the whole building burns in the fire. That's why I'm asking Prime Minister Schmigal to develop real steps to get out of the economic crisis, not the abstract things that are written on several sheets of paper, and the half-million jobs that he's offered to create, the fabulous half-million jobs, in May. Ladies and gentlemen, I am also addressing the chief ideologist of this bill, Mr. Solski. Dear Mr. Solski, I am addressed to the agriculture of Montenegro and all of Ukraine. They don't understand how the earth market will work with the positions laid down in this bill, they don't understand at all how they're going to work. I understand that my time is limited by regulations, but I hope that you and I will be able to go to a public debate on your bill. Honourable MPs, such as opening up the land market, as well as implementing the second stage of medical reform, as well as introducing anti-Fopian bills, simply bullying all Ukrainians. Please support my determination. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-04-13-m0.u49	Committee position, Sergey Vitaliyovich. Calchenko Sergey Vitaliovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-04-13-m0.u50	The Committee endorsed the conclusion and decided to recommend to Parliament that it be decided by a vote on the adoption or rejection of the draft decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-04-13-m0.u51	Thank you. I'd like to ask the MPs and groups to sign up: two in, two in, two in, against. If anyone wants to speak. Zinkevich Jan Vadimovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-04-13-m0.u52	Please pass the word to Irina Heratchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-04-13-m0.u53	Irina Volodymyrna's character.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-04-13-m0.u54	Dear Ukrainians, we've just heard a statement about mistakes. It would be good for the ruling party to start correcting its own mistakes and not just apologize to the teachers but pay them $4,000, not take away from the budget. So I also want to say that now our political power is proud that we've corrected the monolithic errors of the Land Circle Act because they wanted to enforce the Law on Deban, on sale of land, where they can monopolise in one hand by 200,000 hectares, where they simply cancel the possibility of a minimum price on land, where they can steal the entire state land, which is 11 million hectares of land. And we're actually proud of what our political team, the 27 deputies, has done everything to get Ukraine out of the disgraceful club of seven, the seven countries where Venezuela, Turkmenistan, Congo, Cuba and Ukraine were not around. In fact, 1.5 million Ukrainians died without being able to exercise their right to a pie. 680,000 Ukrainians went the same way, unable to pass on their rations because they had no heirs. And in fact, because of our position today, Ukraine has introduced a circulation of land, but it has protected 11 million hectares of state land, a land of communal agriculture, and only by protecting the right of the owner of the pies, the farmer’s right to dispose of his own. This is extremely important. What is important now? For the earth’s transparent cadastre to finally appear, and for us to keep this standard. And it is equally important to do environmental work to ensure that Ukrainian land belongs to Ukrainians, but also to protect it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-04-13-m0.u55	Suffritch Nestor Ivanovich. Out of the way. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-04-13-m0.u56	[[Unheard]]
ParlaMint-UA_2020-04-13-m0.u57	No, there are no more speakers? Then let's go to the vote. No, dear fellows, let's make sure we don't wait for everyone. Natalia Yuriovna, you too. Royal Natalia Yuriovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-04-13-m0.u58	Dear fellow believers, we now have a chance to correct the great mistake that has been made by all the authorities and, together with other factions in this Parliament, have made a decision to sell the land of Ukraine. We're talking to you. It's Passion Week, and you can still repent to the Ukrainian citizens and leave the Ukrainian land to the Ukrainians. You still have the opportunity to do what we're proposing, to do the dispersal of Ukrainian land and now, during a major crisis, to all citizens and, above all, to socially disadvantaged families, to give them the constitutional right to get their land pie. And this will be the best solution during today’s crisis. You'll give people land, people will be able to manage their land, hold a quarantine referendum, and solve the land issue. And so, if you don't now support the Order on Cancelling the Sale of Ukrainian Land, the Opposition Platform -- For life," Vasil Ivanovich Nimchenko prepared an appeal to the Constitutional Court of Ukraine today. And we'll cancel your decision. But time will be lost, and people at that time will not have their own Ukrainian land. To save the country from hunger and poverty today, we need to work together and make decisions that will save people, decisions that will protect the country today. And so by no means do we have the authority of the IMF to sell Ukrainian land. Please support this decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-04-13-m0.u59	Can we get to the vote? I'm betting on a motion for adoption in the entire project. Order number 2178-10-P, please identify and vote. [[15:48:02]] For-60 The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, the next question is Project Registration Order 2178-10-P1, Savechuk Oksana Vasilovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-04-13-m0.u60	Oxana Savchuk, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union, the city of Ivano-Frankivsk. I've registered a decree, it's really about dignity and the oath of a national MP. When we have always sworn here to abide by the Rules and Constitution of Ukraine, but when we vote in favour of a bill on the circulation of agricultural land, we have violated both the Constitution and the Rules of Ukraine, and I would like us to support them today when we vote on those regulations. Why is this important? First of all, it's important because we're being manipulated. All the Ukrainian people are being manipulated, for example, from this rostrum, who are told that they stopped the defolt in Ukraine, and that is not true. They say without this law, the IMF won't give us credit, but the finance minister himself says that if the IMF doesn't give us credit, the default in Ukraine won't happen: it'll be difficult, but the default won't happen. The Minister of Agriculture says. Is the IMF required to vote in favour of the land market? He said, "No, it's not." Then perhaps it is time to vote in favour of this decree and give a dignified answer to those puppeteers who mislead us, who mislead the entire Ukrainian people. Because it's not the Land Market Act, it's the Law, actually, on the sale of Ukrainian land. I am still asking everyone today to support this determination and to give a worthy reward to those puppeteers who are trying to deceive both the national MPs and the entire Ukrainian society. Remember, we are now fighting for Ukrainian land, and we have a future for our children on Ukrainian soil. Selling it and telling it that we saved Ukrainian lands of municipal and state property, and two years later selling them is not true. So I'm asking you to support each and every one of you and not allow the sale.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-04-13-m0.u61	Thank you. Is there a need for discussion? Can we vote? Nestor Ivanovich, you have already spoken. Is that enough? You've already started talking to each other, on the phone. Can we vote? Is there no objection? Is there a denial? You don't? [[B in m in s a l in]] I'll bet you a vote. Who denies it? There's no objection. I'm betting on a motion for acceptance in the entire project. Please identify and vote. [[15:51:40]] For-72 It's a non-adopted decision. Dear colleagues, the next question is the draft registration number 2178-10-P12. Jaroslav Ivanovich Železniak.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-04-13-m0.u62	Dear colleagues! It's a short story that's been in the past series. For 18 years, there was a moratorium on the sale of land, 8 times in this room continued, and finally, this call lifted the moratorium, introduced an open, transparent and fair market for land. And I thank you for that. Is Our Work Done? No, we still have many laws to pass. But the first step is to move away from the Soviet heritage, and we've done it with you. So my decision was limited to one thing. I believe that because of the coronavirus not all national MPs had the opportunity to vote in favour of this law. And that's why this last decision, which will determine how many people support the Earth Market Act, we will show the Ukrainian people that we have not just 259 votes, we have a constitutional majority. That's why this decree is designed to support the open market of the land, which was urged by the Voice faction. And if we still have people in this room who think that we should go back in time, I remind you that voting for this regulation with a green button means you support the market of the earth, voting with a red button means you support the market of the earth, voting with a yellow button means you support the market of the earth. So, honourable colleagues who don't want to support the land market, take out your card and leave the last result that I hope will be zero on this board and show how many people in this room actually supported the open market of the land. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-04-13-m0.u63	Committee position 30 seconds. After that, they will be recorded for the performances.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-04-13-m0.u64	By its decision, the Regulatory Committee approved the conclusion and recommends that Parliament decide how to vote on the adoption or rejection of the draft. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-04-13-m0.u65	Thank you, Sergey Vitaliovich. Sign up for factions, two fors, two fors. The city’s Yuri Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-04-13-m0.u66	Can I pass the word to Schuffritch Nestor Ivanovich?
ParlaMint-UA_2020-04-13-m0.u67	Why are you without a mask, Nestor Ivanovich?
ParlaMint-UA_2020-04-13-m0.u68	Congratulations, honourable chairman, distinguished colleagues! Someone imagined himself a man with a gun. I want to thank all those Ukrainian national deputies, my factional comrades, who were able to stop for at least these five months the law that was passed under the threat of coronavirus, actually under the ultimatum of defolta, the night that people feared for their health, and forced them to sit here and vote for what to sell the land. Imagine now, in what situation our Ukrainian citizens are now in: on the one hand, they fear for the health of their loved ones, on the other hand, they are being provoked to sell their own land today, sell their own pie. For what? To buy drugs and pay for the last treatment, the mask that is now being resold in Ukraine. And today people are afraid that if we don't sell the land, there's going to be a default. Defult was given power, not Ukraine. And today, those who, instead of raising the standard of living of our citizens, under the lowest pensions, the lowest wages and the lowest cost of the land, will provoke, not the market of the land, but the sale of land to those who have ordered it today, without the consent of the Ukrainian people, without a referendum that today is strongly opposed. Two thirds of our citizens opposed the sale of land today and the holding of a referendum. And today it's a robbery! Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-04-13-m0.u69	Bondar Victor Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-04-13-m0.u70	Dear Dmitri Alexanderovich, dear colleagues! At the beginning of our country’s creation, Ukraine was one of the world’s most powerful industrial states, the aviation sector, and we had nuclear weapons and so forth. But the foreign advisors were very much advised, and all the leaders of our country were very quick to sell all of these things, privatized, distributed, and then there's zero. Today, all those who went to counsel, all those who asked, go abroad with their hands stretched out and ask for funds, let us start making some money. Today, the minister of finance tells you that there are no funds and there will be no default. But foreign advisors and the International Monetary Fund, everyone else is going to tell you that today, at the time when one of the world's biggest economic crises begins, sell out everything you have left last -- the land, something else. And we keep doing it with your hands. And once again in the low market, when it's not worth anything at all, foreign counselors want to buy everything that's possible and you do it. So there is still a chance that we can now vote on the regulation and review this whole program of cooperation with so-called international creditors. But you don't want to listen to anyone, they give you directions from abroad, from embassies, and you do them quickly, without thinking about what's going to happen in five years, 10, 20 and so on. Russia once sold Alaska for $5 million. Think about where Alaska is today and what it's worth, and where's the $5 million they got. Nowhere. And the territory is gone. You're doing the same thing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-04-13-m0.u71	Cabal Volodymyr Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-04-13-m0.u72	Tzabal Volodymir, the Voice faction. Ukraine, North Korea, Venezuela, Congo are countries that do not have a free market for land. And then there's Kyrgyzstan. Those who opposed Ukraine’s free market for land want Ukraine to live about like these countries. They cover themselves with the protection of ordinary peasants, farmers. Yes, they must be protected. But they don't need to be covered up, they need to be helped, we need to develop our agricultural market, and we need to think about the villagers, and we need to think about the owners of the land -- 7 million Ukrainians who have the right to manage this land freely. That is why I welcome Parliament to adopt such an important law. I know there will be a great deal of attempts to reverse the adoption of this law, but I believe that will not happen. And the last. If, indeed, we all care so much here -- representatives and opposition factions, and the factions of the majority -- if we care so much about the lives of ordinary Ukrainians and ordinary citizens, let's do the one thing everyone is waiting for now so that we can finance both pensions and medicine and education, namely, let's adopt the Banks Act, after which every Ukrainian citizen can sleep peacefully and be sure that the state is funding those sectors of the economy, those fields of medicine, education that they can't live without. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-04-13-m0.u73	Timishenko Julia Volodymyrna.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-04-13-m0.u74	Dear colleagues, you've just seen a classic substitution of concepts, classics, Congo and all the other nonsense that the lobbyists of the international big financial circles here are reporting from the rostrum. I want to tell you that all without the exception of the country of the world, with a little bit of intelligence, they gave the land to their farmers. Israel is no longer such a non-intelligent country: 97 percent of the country’s state fund is located. I just want you to check it out. Canada is 90 percent in state and municipal property. And when you look at any country, it's only for the benefit of your own farmers, and they call it the market. We're offering a diametrically different, totally unacceptable scenario for the sale of agricultural land, where agriculture is not being created, and where, in fact, corporations and foreign banks want to have it as their private property. They're diametrically different, completely incomparable models. And today, if you want the Ukrainian nation to be treated like the Papuans as just ignorant people and, sorry, in the paws of "loks," then vote on such laws. Because only the intellectual nations survive when they know how to deal with their resources, with their capabilities, with their land, with their strategic property. And after the coronavirus epidemic, you'll see another world, where even those who have ever let go, like China, are going to buy shares and go back to the state. Because now it's clear that only those nations that have resources, they survive, and those who have nothing, they just disappear as nations and nations. And that's why, no, the law on the sale of agricultural land. Vote for this law to be repealed. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2020-04-13-m0.u75	Heroic glory! Dear colleagues, I'm voting on the proposal for adoption of the entire draft Decision No. 2178-10-P12. Please identify and vote. [[16:03:21]] For -8
ParlaMint-UA_2020-04-13-m0.u76	That's a record: 8. The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues. But it took away the tongue. Dear colleagues, I declare closed the plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Thank you all. Good-bye.
