ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-30-m0.u1	Good afternoon, dear fellows! Good afternoon, media officials! Please prepare for registration. Let's get started. Are you ready to register? Sergei Volodymyrovich Vlasenko, I remind you, registration takes place by clicking on the green button, the first button on the left, as agreed. Ready? Green, yeah. Please register. [[10:10:08]] There are 215 Ukrainian national deputies registered in the hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear colleagues, pursuant to article 25 of the Rules on Wednesday, we have up to 30 minutes of speeches by Ukrainian national deputies with proposals, statements, and messages. Please sign up for the performances by the national deputies. Rachmanin Sergey Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-30-m0.u2	Please pass the word to Olga Stefanishini.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-30-m0.u3	Stephanie Olga Anatolyevna.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-30-m0.u4	Dear colleagues, imagine the mother of a seriously ill child who takes part in a protest because the state has not purchased a cure for her child. These drugs cost 30,000 dollars a month and this mother does not have that kind of money; they are with the Ministry of Health. This year, the ministry received nearly 10 billion dollars for the purchase of drugs for the sick. But you know what? The department's purchases haven't been made yet. No pill was put in the region at the expense of the budget in the 20th year. It's almost October in the yard. In 24 government programs, more than half of them, the purchases did not even begin. As early as May, the patient’s organizations were alarmed because they knew that such a tragedy would begin in the fall. And it started. Hospital riots have already begun in the regions. So last week, in Equinox, parents of severely ill children, and these are children who are struggling with blood cancer, with viral hepatitis, who are no longer receiving a cure for such a disease as juvenile rheumatoid arthritis. They're finished, not new ones. Mr. Stepanov is exposing these children to death by his criminal activity. He loves to talk about his predecessors. So I'll tell you this: previously purchased through international organizations started in February, and the first drugs were delivered in July of this year. Today these buyers did not even begin. This means that at least six months these children will be without medication. The Voice faction refers to those who are directly responsible for these tragedies: this is President Vladimir Zelensky, this is Prime Minister Dennis Schmigal. Your ministers are not coping with their direct duties. And we demand direct intervention by the highest leadership of the state and the resolution of the situation with regard to the purchase of medicines, medical products and vaccines. And I want to wish Mr. Stepan good luck in the Odessa elections and leave the Ministry of Health to work effectively without him. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-30-m0.u5	Thank you. The word is given to the national deputy Klimpush-Cinzadze Ivanni Orestovni, the faction of "European Solidarity". Please, Heratschenko Irina Volodymyrna.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-30-m0.u6	"European solidarity" refers to the wise Ukrainian people, who voted a year and a half ago in favour of the end of the age of poverty, the end of the age of bestiality, the end of Rotterdam, but it turns out that he chose the end of the age of dignity. Because Rotterdam works and it turns out he's good. Because wages and jobs are disappearing, and prices are rising, and the latest statements by Zelensky's representative in the Phokina Tripartite Contact Group are limited to treason. Indeed, there is no war for "political pensioners" – Kravchuk and Fokin and for Zelensky himself in the Concha-Slem War, because their peace is well protected by the Ukrainian army. Today, Zelenski and his relatives in the Tripartite Contact Group betray each Ukrainian soldier and Ukrainian diplomat with their statements. When the wise Ukrainian people ask -- and why we don't live like Poland -- we have to ask Fokin and Kravczuk, who in the early 1990s gave up nuclear weapons, gave up the Black Sea Navy, gave up Black Sea Sailing, and left all the Ukrainians with a "cowchuk". Why did Zelensky get them out of "political retirement"? Because on all airs, they've been "wetting" Dusty and democratic opposition all this time. And their statements require, not the liberation of the Tripartite Contact Group, but a violation of a criminal case under articles 110, 111 — a treason of the state. Because it is the betrayal of every Ukrainian soldier, the memory of the dead, of the betrayal of Ukrainian diplomats, who today really has no way of protecting Ukraine when the Ukrainian representatives themselves speak of civil conflict. There are statements by the Minister of Internal Affairs, there are statements by the President's Office where Zelenski works as President in Germany, but we demand statements from Zelenski himself. And we demand Taran's statements and the Kuleb statements, which are from the President, his government quota. And in fact, we demand from Habakkuk today the guarantees of fair elections, because Ukraine is returning to the days of Yanukovich. What is being done today in election committees when authorities try to segregate whole lists of whether they are loyal to power or not. When the territorial election commission, fully controlled by an oligarchic group in Kremenchuz today, prohibits European Solidarity today from registering our list, that's what we're going back to the time of Janukovich. When today the mayor of Umani does not register simply because he dared to take action against the inadequacy of power in her fight against COVID. That's why we're calling on the power structures today to bring an immediate criminal case against traitors, and to all those responsible for fair elections, to make sure that the last fair elections don't end with President Prashenko's era, but they do last in Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-30-m0.u7	Dear colleagues! Julia Volodymyrna Timoshenko. She will be acting in place of the national deputies of Cosemiakin and Kirilenka, so please for six minutes. Please, Julia Volodymyr.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-30-m0.u8	Good afternoon, dear fellows! Today, on the first day after the illness, I will begin by thanking all of you for your support, compassion, and emotional support in times of distress. I want to thank you for that. At which point both the authorities and the opposition came together. I want to wish everyone who is currently suffering from COVID, health, recovery, easy to carry, less sick, more self - protection. And you know, I want to start right now with what was actually when there was a little bit of time and you could look outside at everything that was going on. You know, I just came up like you all did, and I'm pretty sure we really have nothing to share. I do not believe that any of us want to harm our people, our children, our families. I do not believe that anyone will act against the interests of the country, the people. It seems to me that we have simply certain differences in concepts that we need to more reconcile, to give more advice, to find more time for our discussions. Because maybe any deputy could be wrong, any team, and we just need to have a discussion. And you know that everything we're taking here in the President's Office, in the Cabinet of Ministers, has an irreparable impact on the country. Each letter we vote for can bring either good to the country or cause problems. And so I'd like to ask that we care less about each other and hear more about each other. And today we will also have laws. They will also be accepted in general, including the Law, for example, on river transport. And I want us to just open our eyes now and see if we want to see our navigation of the river, if we want to get this money into the budget very large, billions, we Ukrainian, our fleet, or we don't want that. Do we want, for example, ships with non-Ukrainian flags to dump waste in our rivers? We don't want to. I don't know any people here who want to. I'm giving this example because if we read this law carefully, we'll see that maybe we're not protecting our national interests as much as we should and let's make things right. I want us to be one team because time in Ukraine and in all of us is not much. I also want to inform you that we had a meeting yesterday of the Constitutional Court on the ground. And maybe we were here on different sides of the barricade with part of the Supreme Council, but please read again the Law that was adopted here in the Supreme Council. Whether it gives the right and opportunity to follow the instructions of the United Nations to make agriculture a decade from 2019 to 2029. There can be no way that someone in this room doesn't want our Ukrainian farming to be worse than Polish than Italian, worse than in the United States. And if we have a chance at least through the Constitutional Court to fix it, let's do it. Because the earth is. Someone has oil, gas, I don't know if there's anyone else there, you and I have land that can bring 180 billion euros a year to our country, and today 18 are bringing. Well, let's make sure that we, this Parliament, this President, give this government the result of the country they're going to experience. Don't let them look at us and think about why they put us here. I want us to face these challenges that are facing the world today -- coronaviruses, economic decline, today exacerbating all the processes in the world. Let's become one team and protect Ukraine, not in words, but in every letter of laws that we discuss with you, and then our stay here will be worth something. That's what I wanted to talk to you about today. Let's become one national team that doesn't live on "who's behind," "who's against" and "who's in the camp." And we're going to be an intellectual team that will verify every vote that will verify every decision and verify what we really need to do. We need a strong strategy, a single team and a smart professional tactic, then we're going to be a country that's just not going to be on the European continent. You and I have everything to do with it. Only in good time and more responsibility for everything we do. Thank you very much. And once again, health to all who hear us and to you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-30-m0.u9	Zarski Maksim Valentinovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-30-m0.u10	Pass the word to Dmitri Artem.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-30-m0.u11	Who else? Hey, hey, hey, hey, Artem, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-30-m0.u12	Dmitri Artem, Odessa. Dear colleagues, dear Mr. Head, dear Ukrainians! On one occasion, I appeal to you for support in clearing up Odessa’s local authorities from bandits and robbers. The famous "Trust in Works" party led by Hennady Truhanov is insolently stealing the budget and property of the city over the past five years. There are many examples of such lawlessness: In Odessa, land, buildings, and facilities are taken for use for the needs of citizens; recreation areas are built; fences are installed to block access to beaches. Unfortunately, the local authorities are only working for themselves, their primary priority is their own wealth. The needs of the city’s inhabitants to develop infrastructure and support the housing fund are in all cases ignored. Hundreds of millions of dollars simply disappear through dozens of false contractors who supposedly build roads and repair communications. And after all his fraud schemes, Truhanov has enough conscience to take credit and translate all duties into obstetrics. Only now will everyone be guilty of more than 4,000 dollars. Thanks to Truhanov Odessa, it is located in the first city of the cities that take credit and the number of these loans. The local elections, which will take place on October 25th, will be the last chance to clean up power and not allow another usurpation of power to the Truhanovs and his team. Now from this rostrum, I appeal to each Odessyt to take responsibility for choosing a new mayor of the city and for the composition of the city council. It's scary to even imagine what would happen to Odessa if these bandits were in power for another five years. Happily, there are many young, honest, and deserving candidates for the Odessa City Council. I suggest you don't trust Truhanov's business this time. And trust those who truly love and want to prosper their city. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-30-m0.u13	Thank you. Please, Alexander Sergiyovich Koltunović, "The Opposition Platform for Life."
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-30-m0.u14	Thank you, Your Honor, Ruslan Alexiovich. Dear Ukrainian national deputies, I would like to address you with an important, fundamental theme that affects the country today. Unfortunately, we are losing our future today, and the country today actually needs modernisation just to have a future. I'll explain what I'm talking about. We have 122 per capita GDP today. We are an economically, technologically backward country and a socially backward country. Look at the parameters we have today. We have a payroll debt. On September 1st, we have 3 billion 421 million dollars -- that's never happened in the history of Ukraine. Similarly, the employment rate is 49 percent over the same period. Imagine, less than half of Ukrainian citizens under the age of 15 and more busy in the national economy, all of them, they're not busy, which means they're unemployed. Another very important moment. Why do we have such a high level of unemployment and actually low employment? But because agriculture had gone through, the industry had asked for more than 20 percent of the machinery to be built. The government's proposed policy makes us not an economic monster, but a backward country that collects debts. Remember, when you came to power, the holding was 78 billion dollars, now it's 85. These are serious figures, and they're only in one year. I'd like to draw further attention to a number of important points that are reflected in the demographic situation. Today, in these eight months, we have 100 dead 50 born, here are the results of social policy in Ukraine, which is the result of that economic policy and so on and so forth. Because today there are no economic instruments or suitable grounds for addressing the social problems of overcoming poverty in the country. And that's why, in our view, the questions that relate to tariff policy -- and we know that there's information that maybe from 90 copies to the bracelet, 68 tariffs on electricity for the population or water tariff in Kiev by 22 percent -- such shameful phenomena, they have to be stopped. We have, on the other hand, to adopt the legislation that we've been introducing, and the legislation that will help stimulate the internal consumer market, stimulate exports, because this is industrial production, these are jobs, they're reducing wages and increasing the real income of the population. All the problems that we've talked about, maybe they can be solved, and the main thing is to adopt the right economic laws aimed at overcoming poverty. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-30-m0.u15	The word is given to the national deputy of Skorak Mikola Leonidovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-30-m0.u16	Honorable Presidium, distinguished colleagues, respected citizens of Ukraine! People's MP Skorik, faction "The Opposition Platform for Life." I would like to raise two questions that concern, on the one hand, my native Odessa, on the other hand, I think, the whole of Ukraine. First question. You know, today almost October, the country enters the heating season, and Odessy proposes to spend this heating season in a reorganizing mode of one of the key heat suppliers of Odessa, the Odessa TEC, which supplies heat to the apartments 300,000 Odessa and 1 thousand 200 organizations and businesses. Instead of passing on Odessa TEC, as suggested for a very long time, to the Odessa community, Kabmin suggests that Odessa TEC be transferred to Naftogazu. Not just Odessa TEC, but a number of other TECs, and it's said that this is going to contribute to some investment from Naftogazu in these enterprises. What could be the investment if in the 1st half of the year Naftogaz showed a loss of 11 billion dollars? Is this from the damage he's going to invest? We also believe that the opposition platform is for life, our political power that Odessa TEC, like other TECs, should be run by local communities. This is one of the key issues of the impact on tariffs, the normal impact on tariffs, because tariffs are one of the key issues of the survival of our citizens. Another issue that has nothing to do with the economy is the question that we have been ashamed to raise in this room lately, which is the question of language. Much has been said in the media that with the entry into force of the new provisions of the Law on Language at various organizations, public organizations, and public food organizations, there are different people who are trying to fine our citizens for the use of Russian. It's totally insane. This is a question that I consider to be a key issue, the protection of the constitutional rights of our citizens to the free use of Russian and other languages of national minorities. We all communicate in Russian, and that's not a big secret. But somehow we are ashamed to say it and we are ashamed to defend the constitutional rights of our citizens. The Opposition Platform for Life will do everything to protect the rights of our citizens and part of the tariffs in order to make these tariffs truly economically effective, and part of protecting the constitutional right of our citizens to the free use of Russian and other languages of national minorities. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-30-m0.u17	Thank you. Please give the floor to the national deputy Krulk Ivanovich. Czymbaluk Mikhailovich, right? Krulko, after all. Where's Krulko the People's Deputy? There's no National Deputy Krulk? Okay. National MP Lozinski Roman Mikhailovich, faction of the political party "Golos". The national MP of Lozinski. Jurchisin, right? Please, National Deputy Jurchisin, Voice faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-30-m0.u18	Dear voters, I have to greet you with a very sad anniversary. In fact, a year ago, a campaign was adopted under the vow of change in judicial reform. A proponent was accepted, who left her in office and left the High Council of Justice ungraded, who sent out a High Qualification Commission of Judges, which was probably worth it to be dispersed, but did not create a new one that was accused in the Constitutional Court and recognized as unconstitutional. As the Voice faction, we systematically criticized this approach. Indeed, judicial reform is needed, not as now stated by individual representatives of the majority, but a strategy for the development of the courts is needed. So that the President doesn't close his eyes or comment on the situation when the 27 judges of the Kyiv District Administrative Court, who, I recall, admitted illegal transfer to the State of Private Bank, who found illegal cases involving compensation for their property losses on Maydan and the relatives of the deceased. So the court, which is now in the film of the National Anti-Corruption Bureau, and the Supreme Anti-Corruption Court is now looking at the fact that it is legal to continue an investigation that has almost been blocked by the Attorney General's Office and the PDA. That's exactly what this simulation led to. First, more than 30 vacancies in the judiciary are more than 30 percent less likely for people to gain justice and justice. It's the judges of district courts, in which one or two judges, and accordingly the order for people to get justice, lasts for years. Now, what actually the Presidential Vertical has done, Bill 3711 is under consideration by the Venice Commission. And we very much hope that the Venice will give its assessment. But what can we do now? I appeal to the Chief of the Supreme Council, to the Apparatus to give an early conclusion to the Chief Executive on Order 4144 on the reorganization of the most corrupt Kyiv District Administrative Court. Let's at least keep the most corrupt judges out of it.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-30-m0.u19	Thank you. The word is given to National Deputy Sowsun Inni Romanovni, faction of the political party "The Voice". Lozinski Roman Mikhailovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-30-m0.u20	Roman Lozinski, the Voice faction. Dear Ukrainians and fellow MPs! Everyone in our country should know what happened yesterday in the Supreme Council when Fokina, the first deputy head in the Tripartite Contact Group, was called upon to answer for his words in the walls of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I'll remind everyone that Fokin is the one who said, "Russia needs to be understood." And it was Fokin who spoke of the special status of all the Donbass, the amnesty of the fighters, and the fact that Russia is not an enemy, not an aggressor, but a counterparty, a country with which the trumpet can be reconciled. I thank Solomia Bobrowski of the Voice faction, who initiated a parliamentary request to the President and collected signatures from all factions and groups for the resignation of Fokin. Yesterday our committee members listened to Fokin, who said he saw no concrete evidence of Russian involvement in the Donbas war. Only in these words is it not enough to call Fokin off, to open up appropriate investigations against Fokin. Because these are the ones that the Kremlin sounds like, these are the ones that the Russian side sounded, the fighters and the terrorists in the 16th to 17th years on that side of the table in the international arena. I thank all the factions and groups who signed and supported the ruling committee in the Supreme Council yesterday. We're going to register it and we're going to ask the President to withdraw this candidacy, this Fokin, which represents a completely pro-Russian view and an anti-Ukrainian position. I also want all Ukrainians to know who came to support Fokin. How do you think our contact group is being supported by volunteer or veteran organizations? No, it's not. Do you think those who have suffered wars, temporary residents, soldiers who have been wounded, or families of soldiers who have been killed have come? No, it's not. Last night, Mrs. Coastan, who refused to speak in English, who is affiliated with the Party of Regions, was detained and removed by Ukrainian intelligence officers. This cannot be tolerated. That's why we from the Voice faction thank all the MP factions and groups: "European Solidarity", "Fatherland," "For the Future," "Trust," separate from "Serve of the People." The only one who doesn't support it is the Fifth Column of the Kremlin in Parliament. And we'll fight on. Today, Fokin, next, other collaborators.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-30-m0.u21	Black Dmitry Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-30-m0.u22	Please pass the word to Maxim Bujanski.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-30-m0.u23	Maxim Arkadyovich Bujansky.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-30-m0.u24	Dear colleagues, a venerable Presidium! As some of you may recall, two months ago, there was a lively, burning debate, I would say, thanks to colleagues, around my 2362 bill, about eliminating discriminatory norms and delaying the transition of Russian-speaking educational institutions into national language. One argument that was used by opponents of the bill was that the printing of textbooks in the Ukrainian language had already begun. It's September 1st, it's September 21st, and what do we see? We see that thousands of children have Russian - speaking textbooks on their hands, and no one has given them textbooks printed in the national language. What's next? The teacher takes this Russian - language textbook and automatically translates it online by teaching a lesson in Ukrainian. Children hear their teacher’s Ukrainian language, look at the textbook held in their hands, Russian, and translate into national language. Nothing but shame has been achieved. Nothing except that children are unable to learn properly has been achieved. So what did you do, colleagues? You made fun of your children and their parents. Did you protect anyone? Have you helped with your language? No, it's not. It's a shame.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-30-m0.u25	Please give the floor to the national deputy, Dmitruk Artem Hennadiovich, the faction of the political party "Slut of the People". I did, didn't I? Then please, Vasilchenko Galina Ivanovna, faction of the political party Voice. All right, guys, time's up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-30-m0.u26	Dear colleagues, the time spent in the presentations is now up to date. I was approached by factions. Please give the procedure to Eugenia Mikhailna Kravchuk. I'm out of procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-30-m0.u27	Dear colleagues, I ask you now to ask the above question and consider the bill on the package of the baby, 3006a. Yesterday before the committee’s second reading, we recommended that we accept it unanimously in our second reading. Thank you. Let's consolidate the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-30-m0.u28	Dear colleagues, I take it there will be no objection? It won't. So let's go to question 3006a. Please invite the national deputies to the hall. There's very little right here. Eugenia Mikhailovna, please, on the rostrum. Dear colleagues, you have been invited to consider the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on State Aid to Families with Children to provide a single-time natural care package for a child (registration No. 3006a). The presentation is not foreseen in the second reading. Please tell me, who's going to insist on editing? None. Can we vote? Please take your seats, prepare for the vote, and invite the national deputies to the hall. Dear colleagues, ready to vote? I am voting on the proposal to adopt a second reading and, in general, with the necessary technical and legal regulations, the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on State Assistance to Families with Children on the provision of a single-time natural care package for a child (registration No. 3006a). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[10:45:37]] For 264 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Welcome, everyone. The procedure is by David Georgiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-30-m0.u29	I'm sorry, colleagues. I also propose to raise and start a very important bill on inland waterways. Please support and vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-30-m0.u30	Dear colleagues, there is an offer to move on now. Dear colleagues, listen. Don't make any noise. Listen. There is a suggestion to change the order of the subject. To now move on to the Water Transport Bill. Sergei Vladislavovich, I can see and hear. You know, I'm fine with my hearing and my eyesight. Your faction and "The Opposition Platform for Life" insist that it doesn't. Right? Then I am proposing to David Georgievovich Arahamaia that I now vote: to change the turn of the debate on the question of whether a bill (registration number 1182-1-d) should now be considered. Ready to vote? Ready? Please support and vote. [[10:47:30.]] For 222 The decision is not taken. Now we're talking about registration number 4117. You are invited to consider a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Electoral Code and some Ukrainian legislative acts on the characteristics of the organization of preparations and elections during the quarantine period established to prevent the spread in Ukraine of particularly dangerous and dangerous infectious diseases and to improve certain provisions of electoral legislation. Please don't break up with your respectable colleagues. This is a question of getting into the agenda and shortening the lines. Wait, I'm putting this proposal to the vote. It's not a question at this plenary meeting, it's an order of the day, and it's a shortcut. I'm betting on the vote on the proposal for the inclusion of registration number 4117 in the agenda of the bill. Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[10:49:04]] For 234 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, it is proposed to recognize the bill as urgent and to shorten the deadline for the introduction of alternative bills until the day of the September 30, 2020 plenary session, according to article 101 of the Supreme Council Rules. Please support and vote for this decision. [[10:49:41]] For 217 The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, there's been a statement from two MP factions about the break, I understand, asking to meet in the head office and hold a meeting. Please, the heads of the MP factions and groups, I invite you to my meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-30-m0.u31	Ladies and gentlemen, please invite the national deputies to the hall. We're going to have to vote on the question of changing the order of the day – changing to the order of today's session. First of all, I would like to address the Committee on Rules, MPs and the organization of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Sergey Vitaliyovich Calchenko, to you as head of the committee. Today, during a 12 - hour break, the committee will meet according to a list of questions that has been identified. I'm calling on the Digital Transformation Committee, the Apparatus, to prepare materials for Bill 3014 for consideration at this plenary session. I think we'll be back to him by the end of the day. Dear colleagues, there is now a meeting with representatives of all MP factions and groups. Unfortunately, we have to say that we had a large number of people in the session room yesterday. First of all, I'd like to talk to everyone again, put on masks. You act, then you film, and you feel like you don't have a Coronavirus. And a lot of people got sick. Put your mask on. Don't worry about me, I'm definitely sitting in it, I'm a little further away from you. A large number of people got sick in the hall, and a large number of people got sick in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. In the last few days, up to 10 people have become ill. The parliamentary factions and groups made a proposal on Thursday and Friday to set committee days for the Supreme Council to continue its work but to reduce the number of people in one room. And I would like to remind you that committee meetings, according to adopted legislation, can take place online. I hope that today we will be able to consider such a decision in this plenary session. In parallel with this, MPs and groups have made a proposal to consider bills today. Can I have your attention, please? At this plenary meeting, this is the order of our work today. 3648 is a draft of the Law on Safety and Quality of Donor Blood and Blood Components. The next question, 4119, is the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine 2020. 4120 is a draft law amending Chapter XX "Transitional Positions" of the Ukrainian Tax Code and Law 3014. Plus the decision I just mentioned. Is there no objection? We need to vote on the agenda now or we need to vote on it. We have to vote. Okay. Ready to vote? I am voting on the above-mentioned proposal for the agenda of the plenary session on 30 September 2020. Is there no objection? Please support and vote. [[11:26:34]] For 278 Decision taken. Thank you. Dear colleagues, let's move on to the agenda. Draft Law on Safety and Quality of Donor Blood and Blood Components (Registration No. 3648) (this is second reading). Is anyone insisting on the papers? Papiev. Who else will insist? No one else but Papiev. Mikhailo Mikolaiovich, are you not insisting? You insist. Maybe a performance, huh? One direction? How many rights do you have? Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-30-m0.u32	Thank you. Dear Mr. Head, you know this is re-reading the bill. It's totally "worov" law. That's why I'm asking for a transcript. First of all, all the changes that are considered are in order of order of order to be put on confirmation. And by all my unaccounted-for changes, giving me one minute, I'm going to be justified in insisting on their vote and proving that it's a totally "worov" law. This is a law that will actually make it impossible to provide blood and its components to municipal and state health institutions, and the initiators of this law plan to export Ukrainian blood abroad. In fact, the one who votes in favour of this law is voting against the 3rd article of the Constitution of Ukraine, where the life and health of the citizens are determined by the highest value of Ukraine. I ask all amendments that are considered to be put to the vote in turn for confirmation.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-30-m0.u33	Please tell me, what's your first amendment? Because I'm getting somewhere. I see. It's considered editorially. Nine percent, right? What does 4th mean? We'll get yours first. Please, Papiev.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-30-m0.u34	Mr. Chairman, let us not argue with you, please open up to you the Rules of Procedure of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, where it is clearly and clearly stated that the bill in the second reading is dealt with in an article-by-article manner. So once again, I insist that I put all the changes that are taken into account or counted in an editorial way on confirmation.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-30-m0.u35	We heard it under the transcript. I repeat, readjustment number, please tell Mikailo Mikolaiovich. 4 axles.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-30-m0.u36	4 put the amendment on confirmation and then put all of the following on the receipt.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-30-m0.u37	Your papers first.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-30-m0.u38	Don't tell me "your" or not, you'll follow the Rules. The law is dealt with in an articleistic way. So the first article is if.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-30-m0.u39	Come on, we don't have a lecture on the Rules right now, Mikailo Mikolayovich. Please tell me what you're doing, then let's put the others in.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-30-m0.u40	4 amendment please place on confirmation. And then there's all the next ones.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-30-m0.u41	Your turn, what's the readout number? It's not your job, it's not your job. I won't give you my word, we won't have any controversy here. Tell me the number of your edit. Mesenchev Maria Sergiyevna, please tell me about your amendment number 1.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-30-m0.u42	Mr. Head, it is up to each subject to appeal. I don't insist on my right. I'm sure all the colleagues who were on the profile committee were there to protect the rights. I have 52 of them, I don't insist on them. I made my point on the profile committee. Part of my changes were taken into account and editorially, too. Thank you, Mr. Head. I propose to return to work for those colleagues who insist on their assignments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-30-m0.u43	Thank you. Next amendment number 2, People's Deputy Zuba. It's rejected. Will you insist on this amendment? None. Next amendment. The 3rd is listed in editorial terms. The next amendment, which is rejected, is Amendment 10, Crassus. None. Don't insist. 10th. Dear fellows, we go as we always do: first, we are rejected, and then we are going to count. 12th, Krasov. Don't insist. Your 9th is an editorial. Please, 9th, Papiev.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-30-m0.u44	Dear Mr. Head, you know that you are in fact now violating Ukrainian legislation and violating the oath of the Ukrainian national deputy, where every Ukrainian national deputy, by making an oath, has made a commitment to abide by the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine. The regulation is approved by the law of Ukraine. So once again, I urge you not to violate the Rules and consider it in an articleistic manner. And in order of order of order of schedule, all amendments that are taken into account or taken into account in an editorial manner will be put on confirmation. If you don't do this, I'm already preparing an order for a violation on your part, abusing the position of service, of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I'm going to have to rule out the voting of this law because you're in violation of the Rules. I insist once again, the 4th amendment is confirmed and do so no longer, do not set up any procedure that is not prescribed in the Rules. Please put the 4th on confirmation.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-30-m0.u45	Ladies and gentlemen, I call upon you to act in accordance with the MP's ethics, if the hall is determined otherwise. All right, we'll go straight. I'm telling you again. Then let's go as you say. You're asking for confirmation of the 4th amendment. Ladies and gentlemen, let's take a look. Please take the seat of the committee. It's the law of the national MP Krasov, it's counted, it's going to have to be confirmed.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-30-m0.u46	Yes, the amendment is taken into account and supported by the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-30-m0.u47	It is considered and recommended by the committee. Dear colleagues, the 4th amendment of the Krasov People’s Deputies is considered by the committee. Please prepare for the vote. Please support and vote. [[11:35:13]] For 248 Decision taken. What's the next correction? Are you going to bet all the amendments on the confirmations that are included? And you think it's somehow compatible with the MP's ethics or with your own selfishness? There's an amendment to the number 5 of Dmitri's national deputy. The committee counted it. Please support and vote. [[11:35:58]] For 253 Decision taken. Amendment number six, we're going at the same pace, friends. Edit included. Please support and vote. [[11:36:20]] For 256 Decision taken. 7 of the People’s Deputies of Dmitri. Edited. You put it in, too, don't you? I don't think so. 8 The Rights of Mezentsev’s People’s Deputy The 6th we've just voted on. You're a little careless, sir. 7th Dmitri. Edited. I'm betting on confirmation, please support and vote. [[11:37:13]] For 261 Decision taken. Next amendment is 8 of Mezentsev’s national deputy. It's counted. Please support and vote. [[11:37:35]] For 262 Decision taken. Next 9th People's Deputies Papiev. Edited. Please support and vote. [[11:37:55]] For 275 Decision taken. Next 11th People's Deputies Papiev. Please support and vote. [[11:38:14]] For 275 Decision taken. The next 14th National MP of Dmitri. Please support and vote. [[11:38:32]] For 276 Decision taken. Next up is the 15th People's Deputy Zuba. Please support and vote. [[11:38:49]] For 272 Decision taken. The next one is the 16th National MP of Dmitri. Edited. Please support and vote. [[11:39:08]] For 275 Decision taken. The next is the amendment of the 17th People's Deputy Zuba. Edited. Please support and vote. [[11:39:27]] For 274 Decision taken. Mikhail Miklaiovich, if this pace has taken on the hall and you see that the hall trusts the committee, maybe we'll go the other way. Please take the word, Reverend Mikailo Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-30-m0.u48	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, in principle, you did what I planned, because you put in for confirmation those amendments that are taken into account editorially. And when the Supreme Council voted, I can't imagine how a committee would "clean" this law, because all of you who are considered editorially, you've confirmed in full the scope of the table.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-30-m0.u49	In no way did the position of the committee stand.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-30-m0.u50	It's for you to know what you've put up and the Supreme Council has voted, we'll discuss it with you separately. See, the Science and Experimental Authority wrote: "The violation of the six articles of the Constitution of Ukraine in this law. " I'm just wondering how annoying it is when the Voice faction votes, and I know they always wear embroidery whenever they want to steal something. But, dear colleagues, I think there are enough people in this Supreme Council of Ukraine who act in the interests of citizens and the interests of the Ukrainian state, and these people's deputies in Ukraine do not vote on this law. Ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-30-m0.u51	Thank you, Mikhailo Mikolaiovich. I think that's where the Chief Legal Office will take care of what's been voted under the transcript, and as a result, we're going to form the law. But I understand that you don't insist on editing anymore? Mikhail Mikolaiovich, thank you. And we're going to the vote. Mikhailo Mikolaiovich, please. You did, you just said you did what you wanted. Now we're going to do the Voice with a line and we're going to the vote. Thank you. Clemensa Julia Leonidivna.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-30-m0.u52	I want to remind the Party of the OPCW, the former Party of the Regions, that they stole everything that could be stolen in this country. So there's nothing left to steal. Besides, I want to remind you that the faction on the right is the largest industrial group in our parliament, with turnover and capitalization of more than 10 billion dollars, their businesses. So say it to yourself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-30-m0.u53	You know, you can't do the replica. Mikhail Mikolaiovich, you know the Rules as well as anyone else. Let's go to the vote. Mikhailo Mikolaiovich, which one of yours isn't counted? How many bars? Tell me 10 rights. Ten? I'll bet you 10 bets. Mikhailo Mikolaiovich. Not counted? We can just put it to a vote. Two minutes of the show? One minute? Give me a minute, please, Michael Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-30-m0.u54	Dear Mr. Head! I am once again under the transcript so that after that I have every reason to rule on the difference of voting.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-30-m0.u55	No, it's not a transcript, Mikhailo Mikolaiovich, it's not a performance. I repeat. Please, on the right. The number? The number of the amendment, what?
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-30-m0.u56	In accordance with the Rules, I was given one minute to justify my unaccounted for rights. I ask them all to put to the vote and give me one minute at a time to convince the hall that it is a "worov" law. "Vorovsky" absolutely.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-30-m0.u57	Do you know your number? What's that?
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-30-m0.u58	81st. 84th is the first amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-30-m0.u59	You don't know. Yes, are you looking for, or do you know, your papers, your esteemed colleagues? You don't know your licenses, do you? You don't know the draft, let's vote. Can we vote? Mikhailo Mikolaiovich. 84th, we've found it. Please, come on. You said we put her to a vote. Eighty-four papiev. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[11:44:26]] For-42
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-30-m0.u60	For 42. The decision is not taken. The next is the 85th People's Deputy Papiev. Please give me one minute to explain.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-30-m0.u61	Mr. Chairman, I ask you to make 92 amendments to the National MP of the country of Papiev, who has been rejected, to be taken into account in full. And I ask all my unaccounted corrections to give me a minute in accordance with the Rules, so that I can explain why I made this amendment and why I have a point to this law. And please don't violate the Rules. Thank you. Please consider 92 amendments in full.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-30-m0.u62	98th? 92. The people's deputy Papiev's right, she's rejected by the committee. I'll put the committee on the vote. Please identify and vote. [[11:45:33]] For-61 The decision is not taken. Papiev.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-30-m0.u63	Thank you. There's 112 amendments to my next one. Dear colleagues, we have the Ukrainian Act on Central Executive Authorities, which is the Constitution of Ukraine. So this law, which is currently under consideration, wants to create some kind of body that is not provided for by the Constitution or the laws of Ukraine. We have a central executive body -- this is the Ministry of Health, which has to deal with all these issues, not with some kind of corruption that's provided for in this law. Let's give back what belongs to the Ministry. This is the Law of Ukraine, this is the Constitution of Ukraine. I ask you to support my amendment and to take it fully into account, 112 amendments.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-30-m0.u64	It can't be taken completely or not completely, it's rejected, it's not partial, it's not editorial, it's not. I'll bet you 112 votes. The committee's dismissed. Please identify and vote. [[11:46:46]] For-60 The decision is not taken. 114 revisions, Papiev.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-30-m0.u65	Thank you. Dear colleagues, once again, I see that I have a comparative table in the hall. Look, on the four pages there's a reference to the Science and Experimental Authority, where it's clearly written that this law violates articles of the Constitution of Ukraine. Please explain to me why there is a scientific-expert government in the Supreme Council of Ukraine that explains to you that this law violates the Constitution of Ukraine? You, however, have some interest in voting contrary to your oath and contrary to the Constitution of Ukraine. I ask that my amendment be taken fully into account and put to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-30-m0.u66	That's not what you said. 114. The committee's dismissed. Please identify and vote. [[11:48:11]] For-55 The decision is not taken. 127th.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-30-m0.u67	Thank you. Dear colleagues, once again, see the Rules, it is approved by the Law of Ukraine. I call on the chairman to abide by the Rules. I'm not asking for anything personal, I'm just asking you to take a comparison table. I urge you once again, all the amendments that are taken into account, to put in order of order of order of order of order individually for confirmation; and those that are not included, my amendments, to put to the vote so that they are accounted for. All of it. I don't ask any more of you. I would very much like you to follow the Rules. I ask you to put your amendment to the vote and take it into account.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-30-m0.u68	About the Regulation. Mikhaylo Mikolaiovich, you must present the document. The essence of the edit you forgot to say. I hope you can do that next time. 127 law. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[11:49:27]] For-52 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. Next item. What's your next assignment?
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-30-m0.u69	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I have a further 131 amendments. I would ask the chairman to give the amendment number, according to which the national deputy is given the word. This is 131 amendments that are considered by the committee. I'm asking her to be confirmed.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-30-m0.u70	First, we follow your instructions, which are out of the question.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-30-m0.u71	Don't tell me how to put it to a vote. I'm asking you to make my amendment for confirmation.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-30-m0.u72	131 amendments were taken into account by the committee, Mr. Papiev. For confirmation. Committee position. How important is it?
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-30-m0.u73	Mr. Papiev's editing was taken into account, so we support her. Colleagues, if you please. It's just, Mr. Papiev, if you're very much asked, I understand that you'd like to speak very much today, just so that all the deputies can part and this law has been wrecked by this hall. But I want to talk to my colleagues. Colleagues, this is, I think, one of our last chances of reforming the blood system. This bill has been written by me personally with representatives of the European Union and is in line with EU directives. I understand that Mr. Papiev doesn't want to go to the European Union, but that's where our country wants to go. And the system that we want to build is consistent with European rules and norms. So I really want to ask you: well, stop this farce, let's vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-30-m0.u74	Dear colleagues, 131 amendments to the People’s Deputies of Papiev. She was counted. The People's Deputy Papiev asks her to be reinstated in the Hall, so please identify and vote. [[11:51:51]] For 133 The decision is not taken. Your next 132 is an amendment, isn't it? Please, the People's Deputy Papiev.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-30-m0.u75	Yeah. Dear colleagues, thank you. You are exactly 131 amendments, which are considered entirely by the committee, you have not confirmed right now. I welcome you all, because the committee reporter, I've come to realize that it's not in the right direction that they're voting at all. So you've actually now rejected the revision that is counted. I thank you for that. And once again, as soon as they start talking about the Europeanity of some law, know that this law is absolutely not European. In fact, this is the law you want to privatize the blood of Ukrainians. You have absolutely failed in this law to provide for public institutions, public and municipal health institutions, with blood and blood components. You want to collect blood and free to give you free space, free equipment, and then, as masks, export blood outside Ukraine and earn your corrupt dollars and euros.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-30-m0.u76	Thank you. There is 132 amendments to the People’s Deputy Papiev. The committee counted it. Please support and vote. [[11:53:27]] For 259. Decision taken.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-30-m0.u77	141 Edit Papieva. Edited. Don't you insist? I'll put her to the vote. Please support the committee and vote. [[11:53:55]] For 270. Decision taken. Edit is confirmed. 143 of Papieva's revision. Edited. The committee suggests leaving it in the same line of work. I'm betting on the vote of 143 Papieva. Please support and vote. [[11:54:25]] For 278 Decision taken. Edited. Papiev Mikhailo Mikolaiovich. What's the readout number?
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-30-m0.u78	Thank you, Mr. Head. You just confirmed my amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-30-m0.u79	It's editorial.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-30-m0.u80	And it's no longer an editorial, it's fully accounted for. We will read the transcript of the Supreme Council of Ukraine together.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-30-m0.u81	In the committee's editorial, it was said. The Committee's editing is recommended to be edited.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-30-m0.u82	There's no such thing. There is no such vote. You're my amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-30-m0.u83	That's why it was done, Mikhailo Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-30-m0.u84	You gave me your word, don't interrupt. You put my amendment on the stand. Once the Supreme Council has voted, it is now fully accounted for. You and I will read the transcript together and decipher this law. So I see that if there was corruption, it would win everything. I don't insist on my amendments. In principle, you have already stressed that it gives me reason to rule on the difference of voting. Vote, have your own corrupt money, those who vote. And I see that "baba wins" in this Supreme Council of Ukraine. Dear colleagues, I appeal to your conscience. And remember, Ukrainian citizens, they're more valuable.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-30-m0.u85	Mikhail Mikolaiovich, I hope you're not talking to me about corruption? If there is a fact, as a conscious national MP, you need to turn to law enforcement agencies for anticorruption, and there is experience. Then please wait. Thank you. If it was up to me. Can we put the bill to the vote? Thank you. Please invite the national deputies to the hall. I am voting on the proposal to adopt, in the second reading and in general with the necessary technical and legal regulations, the draft Law on Safety and Quality of Donor Blood and Blood Components (registration number 3648). Please support and vote. [[11:57:54]] For 251 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Dear colleagues, there was a proposal of MP factions and groups that were meeting when we held a meeting today to work out the order of the day of those bills that we talked about. We have three left: 4119, 4120 and 3014, plus a decree to change the calendar plan of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I am now putting this motion to the vote. I'm betting on the vote that we're working today to complete the agenda. Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[11:59:07]] For 284 Decision taken. 12:00. There's a break until 12:30. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-30-m0.u86	Dear colleagues, please prepare for work. Invite the national deputies to the hall. Ladies and gentlemen, please take your seats, get ready for work. Please invite the people's deputies. We are now moving on to Bill 4119, but we're going to have to put it in the order of the day session. Dear colleagues, while the distinguished national MPs are returning, I would like to point out that. Dear colleagues, I'm informing you that we are now going to consider an important bill (registration number 4119, 4119-1, 4119-2). This is a draft law amending the Ukrainian Law on the State Budget for Ukraine 2020 (for the implementation of article 11 of the Ukrainian Natural Gas Market Act). Please take your seats, get ready for work. We will have to make a decision to put the matter in order of the day. Then make a decision to shorten the deadlines for the submission of alternative bills. Then apply the ad hoc procedure and, as always, consider it as a reduced procedure. So please prepare for work. Ready to vote? I am voting on the proposal for the inclusion in the agenda of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the State Budget for Ukraine 2020 (for the implementation of article 11 of the Ukrainian Law on Natural Gas Market). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[12:41:26]] For 214 The decision is not taken. Let's see the factions. The next issue of the agenda is the draft Act amending Chapter XX of the Tax Code of Ukraine (Registration No. 4120). Ready to vote? I'm betting on the voting proposal for inclusion in the agenda of the above-mentioned issue. Please support and vote. [[12:42:16]] For 218. The decision is not taken. No, we haven't had a full day's work yet. Dear colleagues, we are about to move on to the bill. Bill 3014. Dear colleagues, I now propose to put to the vote a draft decree amending the calendar plan for the fourth session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the ninth call. Are you ready now, 3014? Is it in the hall yet? You can invite factions and groups here for a moment, without interruption. Please approach the faction leaders. Now there's an offer today to consider two more questions. There was a statement about a break with a replacement for the performance. Geo Bagravitch Leros.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-30-m0.u87	Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like you to listen to this audio. [[Audio recording broadcast]] I'll continue later. I want to tell you, for days, an honest officer of the Ukrainian Security Service has given me almost six hours of recording of Mr. Komarnicki's conversation, "watching" Kiev, where there is also Mr. Mikoli Tishchenk's conversations. In this conversation, they talk openly about how Zelensky is "breathing them," how the godfather of Jermaka is helping him, and, importantly, they're discussing how to attack me and another national MP. I ask the National Police of Ukraine to take my statement as an official statement on Mr. Komarnicki's crime, Mr. Mikoli Tischenk and his godfather, Andrija Jermak. For days, from tomorrow, I'm going to start publishing all these records. I want the Ukrainians to know who is pouring out the national interests of Ukraine, who are contracting this country's divide. I also want to speak to Mr. Greensky. Yes, you are now intact, but one day it will end, and you will be fully responsible for everything you do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-30-m0.u88	Dear colleagues, MPs and groups have come to consider two additional issues today: 4109 and 4099. I'm calling on the Economic Development Committee to consider and prepare for consideration Bill 4099. For all the necessary materials to be prepared and distributed to the Ukrainian National Deputies. I'm going with the other part of the question to the Apparatus. It is now proposed to consider the draft Regulation 4109. No objection to change? Let's vote better. Please take your seats, prepare for the vote. Dear colleagues, I am now voting on the proposal to include in the agenda of today's plenary session of the draft Decision on the application of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the non-recognition of the legitimacy of the so-called local elections in the temporarily occupied areas of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea and the city of Sevastopol (registration No. 4109). Ready to vote? Please prepare for the vote. Ready? Please support and vote. [[12:58:09]] For 270. Decision taken. It is suggested that this issue be considered in a simplified manner. Please support and vote. [[12:58:32]] For 238. Decision taken. Dear colleagues, the chairman of the Committee on Foreign Policy and International Cooperation is invited to attend. Give me four minutes, from the authors and from the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-30-m0.u89	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues! At its meeting on September 16, 2020, the Committee considered the question of the next illegal holding on September 13, 2020 by the Russian occupying administration of the so-called local elections in the temporarily occupied territories of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea and the city of Sevastopol. In this connection, the committee proposes to consider and approve a draft decree on a statement by the Supreme Council of Ukraine not to recognize the legitimacy of the so - called local elections in the temporarily occupied territories of Ukraine, in the Autonomous Republic of Crimea and the city of Sevastopol. The decision aims to endorse the statement of the Supreme Council of Ukraine condemning further violations of international law by the Russian Federation. This is the fact that there has been an illegal vote in the temporarily occupied areas of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea and the city of Sevastopol, including the "elections of Governor Sevastopol" and the "deputy duchess" to the so-called "State Council of the Republic of Crimea" and the "Simferopol Local Council", and the continuing human rights violations in the temporarily occupied territories of Ukraine are condemned in the Autonomous Republic of Crimea and the city of Sevastopol. The application contains a request to foreign parliaments and international organizations to assess the principle by such violation of international law. So, honourable colleagues, please support the decision of the Committee on Foreign Policy and Inter-Parliamentary Cooperation and endorse the Supreme Council of Ukraine Decision. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-30-m0.u90	Please sign up from the MP factions and groups. Polakov Anton Eduardoovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-30-m0.u91	Please pass the word to Igor Guzu.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-30-m0.u92	Who? Rudik Sergey Jaroslavovich. Goose Igor Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-30-m0.u93	Dear friends, in fact beyond all these electoral stories, outside our internal conflicts, the Ukrainian Parliament must unite around such matters. And, indeed, for years we have condemned in principle the position of the aggressor country, the invader of Crimea. Accordingly, any election is illegal. Any attempt by the Russian Federation to impose its daily order should always be given -- very important -- a consolidated position by the Ukrainian Parliament. Therefore, our MPs, who are made up of majors, who unite both east and west and north and south, will vote in favour of this decree. We call on all the factions of Parliament to unite at such moments and to show that we have a pulse situation with Crimea, we are not forgetting it, we are holding on to a pulse situation where they are actually violating the rights of people, particularly Crimean Tatars, Ukrainians, Ukrainians, who are opposed to the Russian occupation in Crimea. So, my friends, the request to all is absolutely consistent to support this determination as an example of how we can put aside any political contradictions and unite when the Ukrainian State, the Ukrainian people, must be consolidated. The parliamentary group "For the Future" is voting in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-30-m0.u94	Stephanie Olga Anatolyevna. Samantha Anatolyevna Bobrowska
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-30-m0.u95	Samantha Bobrowski, the Voice faction. Dear colleagues, you know, we are so busy with the local elections that will take place in Ukraine on October 25th, that unfortunately we are completely overlooked and forgetting what is happening in the temporarily occupied and temporarily annexed territories. And you know, when one of my colleagues wrote yesterday about the fact that the Voice faction doesn't know whose Crimea, asking Mr. Fokin's question, we know very well the political map of the state of Ukraine, but somehow from Mr. Fokin, by the way, we didn't get the answer that Crimea was temporarily annexed. However, more importantly, I would like to see national security issues brought together and shared as a common denominator of the entire Parliament, and such issues should be raised immediately on September 13, September 14, or 15, when in the first session of the week, the order of the day is the first in our order and proposals before what we are considering in our letters, in our bills. Why? Because this is wrong when, for example, Poland or the European Union first responds to what is happening in Crimea. And who doesn't know, I'll explain what was in Crimea. On September 13, elections took place for certain local councils, such as the governor of Sevastopol or the city head of Simferopol, whether they were elected to the council of Crimea and so on and so forth. What's more, 6-7 o'clock in the evening was extraordinary and critically low, about 30 percent. And these things can't go past the Ukrainian Parliament and we don't have to deal with them in order of 100 to 500 questions of order. So I have a huge request. Dear colleagues, let's not take a break and postpone our inter-parliamentary democracy. Because the MFZ and the President are wonderful, but Parliament has to give a clear reflection and a truly consolidated position on what's going on in our territories and in our territories. Because the annexation of Crimea will cease, and this should be an incentive for Ukraine to look for international venues on which Crimea should be the first to stand in the same order of the day. Thank you. The Voice faction will definitely support the pro.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-30-m0.u96	Sergey Vladislavovich was involved.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-30-m0.u97	Sobolje, Fatherland. Colleagues, the situation is that no so - called elections in annexed Crimea are recognized by the world community. This is not the first year. And these so-called elections, and the first election of the so-called governor, are clearly recognized by the international community as being illegal and being held under occupation. The Ukrainian Parliament should give its assessment. I don't believe there are political forces in this room that don't recognize Crimea as Ukrainian. And that's how the "Fatherland" faction looks at this vote. Our faction of doubt supports a draft decree directly condemning the so - called elections in annexed Crimea and Sevastopol. But it is also the actual support of an international community that has clearly declared these elections to be illegal, such as those held under conditions of non-freedom and occupation. In addition, very fine figures where the criminals voted against both the so - called governor and the so - called local authorities. Such a low appearance has yet to occur throughout the history of the occupation of Crimea and Sevastopol. And I think it's an unnecessary sign and a signal to the putin regime that there can be no election under the occupation. Only the return of the sovereign Crimea to Ukraine within the recognized international borders, both by the United Nations and by other international organizations, will allow free democratic elections to be held there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-30-m0.u98	Gerasimov Arthur Volodymyrovich. And after that, it's the Cachura, the Bacon, and we're voting. Please invite the national deputies to the hall. Gerasimov.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-30-m0.u99	Please pass the word to Mary Ionova. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-30-m0.u100	Maria Mikolayovna Ionova
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-30-m0.u101	Dear colleagues, we welcome that the Hall is now considering such a determination for our initiative, and we will very much support it, the faction of European Solidarity. But I would like to say that really Russian aggression in Crimea must be in order today and every day. But the Ukrainian authorities must do their utmost to strengthen that position and talk about Crimea and not forget Crimea. But instead, unfortunately, we hear Greene's representative say that it's like a civil war on Donbassa. So we would like Zelensky and his representatives to clearly define terminology in diplomacy as very important signals. And when the President is silent and does not respond to such representatives, it is a very negative signal for diplomats. I would like to say that Crimea and armed aggression in Crimea and all these so - called illegal elections, on all international sites, we are equally obliged to keep the subject of Crimea. And I'd like to remind you that there's a violent passport coming. We have over 100 Crimean Tatar political prisoners, the Kremlin political prisoners, and over 150 children of these Kremlin political prisoners have lived without a father for several years. And secondly, to conclude, I would like to say that all of you need to know more about these prisoners, about the children, help and support them. That's why we're going to vote. And I will also ask the Supreme Council not to forget about the Law on the Status of Prisoners, which was adopted in the first reading, and the faction of European Solidarity asks for a day-to-day, review, refine and support in the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-30-m0.u102	Now for the executioner, the coon. Then we go to the vote. Katchura Alexander Anatoliyovich, with motive.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-30-m0.u103	Alexander Kachura, "Serial of the People" faction. You know, instead of thousands of words. Crime is Ukraine. We vote and support this decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-30-m0.u104	Bacunec Pavel Andryovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-30-m0.u105	Thank you. Paul Bakunec, MP group "Trust", Lviv. The Autonomous Republic of Crimea and the city of Sevastopol were, are, and will remain, an integral part of the sovereign Ukrainian state. And the holding of illegal elections would not be recognized by the international community, and those who organized and held illegal elections there would have to be held accountable and punished. And we, the honourable colleagues, together with you, in the Hall today must unite and approve the statement of the Supreme Council of Ukraine regarding the non-recognizance of the legitimacy of the so-called local elections in Ukrainian territory, in Crimea, in Ukrainian forever. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-30-m0.u106	Please prepare for the vote. I am voting for a motion for adoption in the whole of the draft Decision on the application of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for non-recognizance of the legitimacy of the so-called local elections in the temporarily occupied territories of Ukraine, in the Autonomous Republic of Crimea and in the city of Sevastopol. Ready to vote? Ready? Please support and vote, 4109. [[13:11:49]] For 276 Decision taken. It's been decided. Show the factions, please. The next issue of the agenda is the bill. I'm sorry. There was a statement about a break with a replacement for the performance. The word is given to Kachuri Aleksandro Anatolyevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-30-m0.u107	Alexander Kachura, "Serial of the People" faction. On behalf of our deputy faction of the People's Servant Party, I would like to address our former colleague, Geo Bagratovich Leros. Please stop manipulating, please stop balancing our country. If you have any evidence of a corruption or any other offence committed by senior officials of the state, we have a lot of law enforcement agencies for this: NAB, SAP, DBR, GPU, SBU. Turn around, turn around, we will definitely support you, but don't work for political opponents, and don't do that to destabilize the country's situation in a treaty with other political forces. I know President Zelensky really made a mistake, you talked about Zelensky's mistakes, and Andri Borisovich Jermak, he made a mistake. And this error is called: putting you on the party list of the "Serve of the People" party in the last election. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-30-m0.u108	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the next issue of the agenda is the draft Act amending paragraph 4 of Section X of the Act on Public Procurement on the characteristics of procurement during the electoral process. We now need to make a decision to put this issue into the agenda of the sitting. Please prepare for the vote, 4099. A committee meeting has just taken place. Please prepare for the vote on inclusion. Ready to vote? I am voting on the proposal to include Bill 4099 in the agenda of this plenary session. Please support and vote. [[13:14:47]] For 237 Decision taken. It is suggested that this issue be considered in a simplified manner. Please support and vote. [[13:15:10]] For 222 Decision taken. The National Deputy of Ukraine, Arahami, David Georgievovich, is invited to present this important conceptual bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-30-m0.u109	Dmitri Alexanderovich, thank you, thank you all. This bill, the amendments to the Public Procurement Act, is a so-called "holy" law that no one has the right to touch, as Parliament says. But in this case, we all have to touch it because we have a big election problem, because the Central Election Commission, in particular the territorial election committees, has to do more than one and a half thousand procurement procedures in a very short time. And now it is our job with you to correct this problem: to vote the changes in such a way that there are authorized individuals who can take the legal responsibility of conducting these procedures, conduct these procedures, and save our electoral process from the local elections. Please support and vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-30-m0.u110	The chairman of the Committee on Economic Development, Mr. Dmitry Andriyovich, is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-30-m0.u111	Comrades, good afternoon. Very fast. See, this bill envisages adding a rule to the Ukrainian Public Procurement Act in section X, paragraph 4, of the Final and Transitional Regulations. And it goes like this: "To establish that by 1 January 2022, an authorized person (person) may be appointed on the basis of a decision of such a district (territorial) electoral commission in accordance with part of article 33 of the Ukrainian Electoral Code." The committee proposed and unanimously decided to change the date in paragraph 4 from January 1, 2022, to December 1, 2020. The proposed standard will sound like this. Section X, paragraph 4, of the Act on Public Procurement, will read as follows: "To establish that by December 1, 2020, a third paragraph, the purchase of a district (territorial) electoral commission may be appointed by an authorized or authorized person on the basis of a decision of such a district (territorial) electoral commission in accordance with part of article 33 of the Ukrainian Electoral Code." So the committee unanimously decided to change the date from 1 January 2022 to 1 December 2020, and it recommended that the bill be adopted on a basis and in general with appropriate technical legal work. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-30-m0.u112	Please sign up: two in, two in. Zbrodsky Mikhailo Vitaliovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-30-m0.u113	Please, Mr. Head, Mr. Syntyche.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-30-m0.u114	Again, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-30-m0.u115	Mr. Sinyutka.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-30-m0.u116	Blue Oleg Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-30-m0.u117	Dear colleagues, is the Local Elections Act really complicated? Yes, of course. And it's really going to be hard enough for people in this large number of ballot papers to figure out. But what do we want to do now? Do we want to simplify the law? No, it's not. Today, we want to introduce viewers who can manage the election fund. We already have precedents today when the COVID fund was created and when the money that was envisaged for support and treatment from the Coronavirus was spent on corruption schemes, untender schemes for buying and repairing roads. Now we want to reintroduce a person to whom we can delegate the remittances. Then why did we create ProZorro? Why, then, did we do everything we could to get rid of corruption during purchases? Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that we need to think now, not about how to disburse the funds in the elections, but about how to conduct these elections honestly and without applying the administrative resources. Because the fact that the authorities are actually engaged in falsification by their representatives in election committees today is unacceptable. And a good example of this is Kremenchuk, where, contrary to the law, no lists of "European Solidarity" have been registered to date. Dear officials, I would like to remind you in April 2004, when in Zakarpat, Mukachevo, the authorities said that power is stronger than ever. And in exactly six months, all of these falsifications of power have turned into an "orange revolution." I urge you not to falsify elections, do not cause administrative resources, stop stealing and lying, and people will decide for themselves what to do.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-30-m0.u118	The word is given to national deputy Jurčin Jaroslav Romanović, faction of the political party "Golos".
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-30-m0.u119	Please pass the word to Ironman Jaroslav.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-30-m0.u120	Ironman Jaroslav Ivanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-30-m0.u121	Dear colleagues, I'm not, in fact, quite as bright as this bill is going to be. But let's face it, it's a technical law that, thanks to the committee, changed by December 1st, 20th. It is literally a few months to prevent us from stopping the election and to prevent people from taking on criminal responsibility. One line we consulted with the ministries, with the CDC, they're asking us to adopt this law. And if we want to have a proper election, and those people who are working in the districts right now, and thanking them for working both without masks and without antiseptics, but they still want to make the elections happen, let's help them adopt this law. And the second part of my speech is just a reference to those who are so brightly protecting the ProZorro system. You know, it's great, but it seems to me that when it was voted here to "kill" the ProZorro system, including offering a corruption scheme through localization, you pressed the green button. So do not cover yourself with this, but be consistent in your decision. So our faction will support this law. And we ask all colleagues who want to do political pyars on this, to do it on another. For example, to follow how their board members sometimes vote with both regionals and other forces represented in the local elections. That's why our faction supports this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-30-m0.u122	Anna Constantine's speedboat.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-30-m0.u123	Give Rudy your word, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-30-m0.u124	Rudik Sergey Jaroslavovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-30-m0.u125	Dear colleagues from the majority, well, you're interesting people. The city of Smila, the head of the territorial election commission, decides to refuse a candidate from the young party, "Commander Sergio Rudik. Time of change!" in the city heads and on the entire list of city council candidates. A normal, good initiative. And 37 other commissions, including the district, accept and see no problems. The head of the territorial electoral commission number 98 during the presidential election brings out 800,000 dollars, which is the Kyiv region, from the account of the TVC. And now she's leading the TVK area from the servants. There's a bunch of criminal cases. It's okay here, too. But when it comes to budget spending, you have to introduce an authorized person, we call it very simple, respectable, and all Ukrainians are "watcher." Don't take your responsibilities off TVC's heads. If they can falsify an election, why can’t they sign it under the purchase of goods? Do you want to centralize the process? Haven't you had enough of the corruption scandals you've done in our country in over a year and a half? Don't change the system, that's all. You did it 15 minutes ago. No one in this room has seen this amendment, no man. Do you want the silencer to make a decision and then centralize all the budget purchases? It won't work! All who vote for it will be personally responsible for creating another corrupt scheme! The MP's Party for the Future urges a colleague not to support this stupid and corrupt bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-30-m0.u126	Sergei Vladislavovich Sobolev.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-30-m0.u127	Sobolje, Fatherland. Dear colleagues, what will happen to the head of the territorial commission if he violates the law? There is a direct criminal responsibility for this. What happens if he breaks the law? Show me at least one norm of the Criminal Code, where he is responsible for being materially responsible for millions or perhaps billions of dollars within the country. No responsibility. Is that why you're introducing a special officer? What law regulates this? This is specifically done to cover equipment that will be carried out on behalf of an authorized person. Do you understand what you're doing? Do not vote for this law. We contacted the heads of the territorial commissions from our parties, they said there were no problems. Don't think of these problems. We talked to our colleagues in Parliament. No one who had the heads of the territorial commissions said that he would not do so according to the law. But it will also be legal to take responsibility if he violates the law. The other one. There is a question that needs to be considered immediately. You see what happens to the non-registration of lists and candidates in Ukraine. You see what happens to these lists from "The Fatherland" (Chernowian Region), from the "Serve of the People" party, from all the parties that are here in the hall. Instead of solving this issue, we are involved in financial equipment. Don't vote for it! Because then the responsibility will be for each of us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-30-m0.u128	Dear colleagues, it's Nataluh's motive. All those who wish to speak? Please invite the national deputies to the hall. Dmitri Andriovich Nataluha. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-30-m0.u129	Thank you, colleagues. It was just that during the discussion they were fine - tuned. So I want to make it clear again and clarify the committee's decision. The Committee, I repeat, unanimously voted to recommend that the bill be supported on a basis and in general with appropriate technical and legal developments. And under the terms of Part One of Chapter II: "This law takes effect from the day of its publication and is in effect until December 1, 2020," as a whole, as a law of technical law. So this amendment and this rule will be in effect by December 1, 2020. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-30-m0.u130	Thank you. Dear colleagues, prepare for the vote and take your seats. We vote both on the basis and on the whole. Please invite the national deputies to the hall. Ready to vote? I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Law amending section X, paragraph 4, of the Act on Public Procurement, on the characteristics of procurement during the electoral process (registration number 4099). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[13:29:38]] For 231 Decision taken. Let's see the factions. If you do not support it, may you still be allowed to vote in general? Colleagues, three factions against? Three factions against. I'm voting on the proposal to cut in half the time limits for the preparation of proposals and rights, and to prepare for the second reading. Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[13:30:32]] For 212 The decision is not taken. Thank you. The next issue is Bill 3014. Please tell me, dear colleagues, who is going to insist on what they're doing? Ariev approached, asked for three minutes. There is an offer now to give three minutes to speak and then to go to the vote. Is there no one else who insists on the papers? Exactly. It's a deal. Ariev, 3 minutes. We also vote after this ruling.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-30-m0.u131	Thank you very much. But it would be desirable for the committee to be in the rostrum at this time. Who from the committee now represents the official position of the committee needs to be in the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-30-m0.u132	Fedienko Alexander Pavlovich, please come to the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-30-m0.u133	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, the bill was difficult enough. And since many feel that the Internet is being developed today because there is no Internet ministry and regulatory function in Ukraine, it is clear that people have approached this very carefully so that the industry does not suffer. However, European norms and European directives oblige us to adopt this law, and it is actually built on a very difficult, so to speak, balance of compromises. But there are points that need to be pointed out, for the adoption of this bill is directly linked to the adoption of the following bill (4066), which defines the rights and responsibilities of the regulator. Because this point was removed from Law 3014. So the faction "European Solidarity" is ready to support this bill, if the bill 4066, which is currently under consideration by the profiling committee, will be. First. The principles included are the formation of a board of regulators for professional associations and the introduction into the regulator of professional associations. The other one. Note in 4066 that the regulator’s decision on an article in Bill 3014, which deals solely with the shering of equipment, should be adopted by consensus to prevent abuse and unfair competition, as noted by professional associations. And the third. Take into account the positions of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Euro-Inclusion as part of the adoption of Bill 4066 in accordance with European law. So, under these three positions, if the committee's representative agrees, our "European Solidarity" faction is ready to support this complex but necessary bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-30-m0.u134	Thank you. Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-30-m0.u135	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-30-m0.u136	One minute, Alexander Pavlovich. Ladies and gentlemen, please invite the national deputies to the hall. After hearing the committee's position, we move on to a vote in favour of the law in general, and then we move on to a vote in favour of a regulation amending the calendar plan. Please return to the hall. Yes, Alexander Pavlovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-30-m0.u137	Thank you, Mr. Volodymyr, for your position. As you and I had previously agreed, and what you said, as a representative of the stenogram committee, I say that yes, in further work on the 4,066 bill, your proposals will be taken into account.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-30-m0.u138	Thank you. I take it we're going to the vote. Please take your seats. I am voting on the proposal for adoption in the second reading and in general with the necessary technical and legal regulations, the draft Law on Electronic Communications (Registration No. 3014). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[13:35:52]] For 260 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Thank you. Let's see the factions. Servant of the People – 201, Opposition Platform – For Life – 0, European Solidarity – 18, Parenthood – 1, Party for the Future – 12, Voice – 14, Trust – 10, non-fractional – 4. Dear colleagues, the next question is the final question of today's plenary session. This is a draft decree amending the calendar plan for the fourth session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the ninth call (registration number 4171). No discussion? Ready to vote? I am voting on the proposal for the adoption of a draft decree amending the calendar plan for the fourth session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the ninth call. Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[13:36:58]] For 281 Decision taken. Thank you. Dear colleagues, the morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed.
