ParlaMint-UA_2020-04-16-m0.u1	Dear colleagues, good afternoon! Please prepare for registration. Dear colleagues, are you ready to register? Please prepare for registration. Are you ready to register? Please register. [[13:10:49]] There are 332 Ukrainian national deputies registered in the hall. I now declare open the plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Dear colleagues, today is the birthday of our colleagues Dara Artemis of Vladina and Marina Victorian Nikita. Congratulations! I want health, success, and always the spring in my soul! [[Applause]] Thank you. Dear colleagues, a few announcements. First. On 16 April 2020, President Volodymyr Aleksandrovich Zelenski of Ukraine addressed the Supreme Council of Ukraine with a letter reiterating the requirement to hold an extraordinary meeting with a specified agenda, from which draft Law No. 2398-d on the Defence of Procurement (second reading) was deleted. And a statement came in. Oh, one more announcement. According to the decision of the inter-fractional parliamentary association "For Hmeljničina" of 15 April 2020, I report that the head of this association instead of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Denis Anatoliyovich, was elected the National Deputy, Mandzia Sergio Volodymyrovich. Hello! Dear colleagues, a statement came from two factions about a 30 - minute break to gather the heads of factions and hold a meeting with Parliament’s leadership. Heads of factions to your office, please. "Paternal" and "For the Future."
ParlaMint-UA_2020-04-16-m0.u2	Dear colleagues, a statement came from two factions asking to announce a recess for another 30 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-04-16-m0.u3	Dear colleagues, back to our work. There's a statement from two factions about a break with a replacement for a performance. Who will perform? Arthur Volodymyrovich, please. Please invite the national deputies to the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-04-16-m0.u4	Mr. Chairman, distinguished colleagues, respected Ukrainians! What is Parliament’s first priority today? And the first priority of Parliament today is to support the Ukrainian people and support the Ukrainian people. It doesn't take much. You just don't have to take the country to the default. But unfortunately, today, when choosing between Igor Valeriovich Kolomoyski and protecting the Ukrainians, Zelensky's team, unfortunately, looks like it's choosing the first one, not the second. Why defolt needs oligarchs, it's clear: to buy factories and factories at low cost. But ordinary people will get unemployment, salary cuts, and pension cuts. But for two weeks now, there's been an incomprehensible delay at both the committee level and at the level of this plenary room. We're going to the third time in an emergency session, if I'm not mistaken. Do you see in order today a banking law without which there is no cooperation with international financial organizations? And today everyone realizes that without this cooperation, unfortunately, we are taking big steps to the default, we are going to a very serious impoverishment of the Ukrainians. That is why this law must be adopted. But what instead? Instead, today, in this Chamber, they want to adopt regulatory changes that do not solve the problem, but which, sorry, completely destroy the parliamentary opposition. And this is the bill that the authorities are passing today, along with the persecution of opposition, along with the persecution of the heroes of Maidan, along with the persecution of women. I mean both Marousia the Beast, and Sophia the Fed, and Aunt Blackwall. But understanding that this law should be adopted today, we clearly told the authorities two weeks ago that if it was limited in time, I mean by June 1st, we were ready to put our backs on the government in that case and support this bill. What answer did we receive? We get the answer that no, that's not accepted. And to do that, very little has to be done: with all the procedural possibilities of the Rules, we must now put to the vote the same law, but with a clear deadline. Why the authorities do not want to do so is the second question. Promises that one day, somewhere, something out there is not going to be made because decisions have to be made today in this room. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-04-16-m0.u5	Ladies and gentlemen, if you'd like to take a moment to consider the matter, please invite the national deputies to the hall. You are invited to consider the draft Law on the Ratification of the E5R Grant Agreement between Ukraine and the European Investment Bank (Registration No. 0034). It is suggested that this issue be considered without discussion. Yeah? Please prepare for the vote. Take your seats. Please prepare for the vote. Ready to vote? I am voting on the proposal for the adoption of the whole draft Law on the Ratification of the E5R Grant Agreement (the Ukraine Higher Education Project) between Ukraine and the European Investment Bank (registration No. 0034). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[14:43:55]] For 339 Decision taken. Show the factions, please. "Serve of the People" – 226, "Response Platform for Life" – 23, "European Solidarity" – 25, "Fatherhood" – 13, "For the Future" – 7, "Voice" – 15, "Trust" – 14, "non-factional" – 16. Thank you again, the decision is made. Dear colleagues, the next question is the draft Act amending the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Rules against the abuse of the rights of national MPs in the course of the legislative procedure (registration number 1043). Dear colleagues, I would now like to announce what representatives have addressed me with. One minute! Please be quiet. I was contacted by representatives of various MP factions and groups, including the leaders of these factions. Unfortunately, Parliament -- I'm going to talk now -- unfortunately, Parliament has faced an exceptional situation: we've never had 16,000 rights before. I'm not commenting on this right now, but this is a situation that can block the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine until autumn on any issue. And the question is, this can apply not only to this law, but to anyone else. Indeed, Parliament was not ready for this, and today Parliament is coming out of the mechanisms it has. The mechanism was a bill that was still registered last summer – 1035 by Frolov Pavel Valeriovich, Today, however, we realize that not all that is reflected in this bill meets the needs of today. And we have regulatory limitations, we can't work on it today or change it. So what the leaders of factions and groups who may today support this bill have turned to me with the following information: that as soon as this bill is adopted, if it becomes effective, another bill will be registered, which will make changes to it, because we cannot actually do it today, will make changes in its temporary work, and then improve the conditions that would allow Parliament, on the one hand, to preserve democracy, to protect the interests of all the people's deputies who work in the Supreme Council of Ukraine for the benefit of the State of Ukraine, but also to protect parliamentaryism in order to actually exist, and not to be an abuse mechanism for those or other events. Dear colleagues, an agreement has been reached between the MP factions, the leaders of the MP factions and the groups that we will not go to the amendment, and each faction will be given two minutes to speak on the position of this bill. Please sign up from the MP factions and groups. Dear colleagues, please put on the masks of those who forgot to do so. Thank you. Klimenko Julia Leontiyevna. Leonid, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-04-16-m0.u6	Give the word to Rahmanin. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-04-16-m0.u7	Rachmanin Sergey Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-04-16-m0.u8	Thank you. Dear colleagues, this bill certainly raises more questions than answers, but it is quite clear that we need a mechanism that will allow us to respond quickly to the challenges that arise during the coronavirus. And because it's possible to take a temporary measure, but the position of our faction has not changed: we demand that this bill be granted temporary status, not after the vote, but before the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-04-16-m0.u9	Zbrodsky Mikhailo Vitaliovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-04-16-m0.u10	Please, Irina Heratchenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-04-16-m0.u11	Irina Volodymyrna's character.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-04-16-m0.u12	Dear Ukrainians, dear colleagues, we now see the authorities fighting democracy under the guise of fighting the coronavirus. Now the same is happening in the session room, when under the aegis of the adoption of one such necessary law to Ukraine, the authorities are trying to conquer the opposition here at all. Why can't this law be voted down by amendment now? Because there's no trust in the room. We all remember very well how the president photographed it in this rostrum. "Trust" is a group, but there is no trust between groups and factions. We remember the President taking off the mask and turning to the hall, "Please support the bank bill." And on the second day, he basically, and your team, your friends, sent a signal that it was a lie, and our political partners in the West, and the country itself. There is now really a choice between Ukraine and the oligarchs, between Ukraine and the former owners of the Privat Group, between Ukraine and the Defult. We urge you to choose Ukraine and vote on the Banks Act. And it's a shame that we're going to meet three times in this room, but there's no such thing as important to the country of law. Turberian broke down? In banking law, 16,000 95 words were added to each word after the amendment — 16,000 397 amendments. And in fact, the Head of the Supreme Council can now take political responsibility and declare under the transcript that Law 1043 is in effect there by May 1, until June 1, to limit the act of this law to a stenogram. And then the democratic opposition of the state will go to support this law in order to protect the country from the default. Otherwise, my friends, it's all political games that don't even return a single mask.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-04-16-m0.u13	Since the head of the Supreme Council, respected colleagues, has been mentioned, I think that replacing the law with political purpose, as some national deputies have been accustomed to doing, in a mild sense, inappropriately and illegally. [[Applause]] So thank you for the offer, but the law must be one for all. Krulko Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-04-16-m0.u14	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear colleagues, we are not currently considering the Rules of Procedure Act – this is not about the Rules, and this is not even about the Banks Act. We are now considering whether parliamentaryism remains in this country or whether we are finally destroying it. That's what we're looking at right now. Because when an MP is finally turned into a button after the changes to the law, when the law of the legislative initiative no longer means anything in this country, when there is no opportunity for an MP to comment on the amendments, and he has to choose one, please tell me, or maybe let's close the parliament to the barn and break up all of us? Maybe we don't need any procedures here at all. So you don't have to change the concept. You want the Private Bank Act? Today we have registered a special law called Fatherland, which stipulates that if this bank returns to its former owners, the owners are obliged to compensate all damages to the state, to all shareholders and to all investors in this bank. Let us adopt such a law, but we will not destroy the legal system, nor a judicial system that does not have jurisdiction over bank matters, nor the Supreme Council Rules. How many countries can be raped? Let's stop playing with these things because we're going to lose the country. Then we will vote here so that there will be no more Parliament. This is all the decisions you're planning to make today. Why don't you think about that? And the last thing I want to say. Since now, we know, the EU has declared that they will not vote, the Voice will not vote for this right now, and I hope that the groups will not vote and other factions will not vote, we, the Fatherland, will not vote for this, we will now control the buttonage. Remember, it is a criminal offense. If there's any buttonage, we're going to go to the law enforcement agencies and our balcony representatives are taking down what's going on in the session room. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-04-16-m0.u15	Lubinet Dmitry Valeriovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-04-16-m0.u16	Honorable Presidium, distinguished national MPs, distinguished colleagues, you know, Russian politician Grizzlow said, "Parliament is not a place for discussion." Yes, it turns out that he declared the Ukrainian Parliament after the adoption of Law 1043 today in such an editorial. We don't have room for discussion. This law is in direct contravention of the Constitution. By this law, you divide the national MPs. One example. If the national MP is non-fractional, he has the right to insist on one of his amendments. If the national MP is part of the group, let's say the average number of factions we have today is 30 national MPs, and the faction should insist only on the 5th, how do we choose that? Throw a coin or pull numbers out of a hat: on which will we take the coin? So the people's deputies today, claiming that this needs to be done for the country, I want to remind you that the road to hell is well-intentioned. So let's not forget that we're all equal here, we're national deputies, and each of us represents our citizens. And each one of us has the right to insist on his amendments, to consider them, and to consider the laws that our society requires of us. And here's the solution: Parliamentarianism, 226. And the last thing I'd like to say. With all due respect to the presidency, to monocolation, you're in power today, you have this case -- 16,000 amendments to one bill. You're saying that's what today needs to be changed to 1043. This is the norm of the Rule of Law, article 50, part three: an ad hoc procedure that allows for the benefit and withdrawal of 16,000 rights. Why don't you want to do that? Why did you choose such a social resonance to stretch.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-04-16-m0.u17	Thank you, Dmitri Valeriovich. Dmitri Valeriyovich, you mentioned the presidency, if you don't mind, I'll answer, too. You see, a position must be a constant position, not a change from law to law. I would like to remind you in this room that when the issue of the earth is being considered, those who today say that, and let's apply that rule, let's spit on the Rules, let's vote something else, say no, we should go by law, by the Rules. Today everyone starts to say, well, let's do 50-y, 119-y, 45-y. Then why were you against it? When was there a genuine position, then or now? Thank you. I see you're against it now, that's why it's so much right to fall. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-04-16-m0.u18	Can I have another minute?
ParlaMint-UA_2020-04-16-m0.u19	Yeah.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-04-16-m0.u20	And, Mr. Dmitri, not all Presidium is power. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-04-16-m0.u21	Dear colleagues, Shevchenko Evgeny Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-04-16-m0.u22	Good afternoon, distinguished national MPs, good afternoon, Ukraine! I want to remind you that parliamentaryism and democracy are always the dictatorship of most people. And when a minority wants to impose their demands and break most of them through their knees, it's not democracy, it's clocracy. That's why it's a deformity, and that's what we have to deal with. So once again, I'm a national MP from Zaporozhye, and it's very important to me, and to my voters, what will happen to the bridges. And the defolt will lead to the fact that the bridges will not be built. So this vote directly refers to these promises that we went to the elections with. So I vote in favour of this bill, so that the narrow bridges are built, there is no default in Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-04-16-m0.u23	Thank you. Germano Vasil Ivanovich. Out of place, right? Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-04-16-m0.u24	Dear colleagues, I'd like to start with the title of this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-04-16-m0.u25	I'm sorry, Vasil Ivanovich, you don't hear. If you don't mind, it's in the microphone. Because you can't hear what you're saying.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-04-16-m0.u26	Is that what you're feeling? Dear colleagues, I'd like to start with the title of the bill. You see, it's so necessary to drop the national MPs, calling the law "to resist the abuse of rights"! We are already doing a certain fact of abuse of the law, of the MP's powers. This is not acceptable. I'm very sorry that such a bill, with such a name, is being tabled at a plenary meeting, which is the first. Secondly, what I'd like to say is that it affects choice, support or not support. That's the name that makes this bill essentially anti-constitutional and makes it contravene the general understanding of the rule of law and the understanding of the subject of the legislative initiative, which is the national MP, is the first. Secondly, I'd like to pay attention to the honourable colleagues here that it sounded like we were going to decide another law on the term of this law. If we're talking about force majeure, let's talk about it. And we can say in this bill that it's precisely in the time of force majeure, which is the epidemic in our country. And it's this bill that's going to work for this time. What prevents us from making such changes to this bill and voting today? We like to work in the turbines, which has already led to turbulence.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-04-16-m0.u27	Vasil Ivanovich, then I will specify the position which. [[B in m in s a l in]] I can't hear you, Vasil Ivanovich. Vasil Ivanovich, I'd like to clarify then the position that the heads of factions and groups were addressing, which is for a period of quarantine plus 30 days. Bacunec Pavel Andryovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-04-16-m0.u28	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs! Paul Bakunec, Lvivščina, MP group "Trust". The proposed version of the bill is indeed imperfect, but it also has a number of advantages. For example, thousands of rights cannot be applied to it. And how would we be able to register a new bill, our colleagues here in this room would once again file thousands of rights and block even a bill that would make it impossible for us to do our job. Marjorie MPs against legislative spam. We are for the constructive work of Parliament in behalf of our country. There's parliamentaryism in this room, there's parliamentaryism in this room, because there's confidence in this room. The Trust MPs will support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-04-16-m0.u29	Dear colleagues, please prepare for the vote, take your seats. Please prepare for the vote. Let's go to the vote. Dear colleagues, please prepare for the vote and take your seats. I am voting on the proposal to adopt, in the second reading and in general with the necessary technical and legal rights, the draft Law amending the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules on the Elimination of the Abuse of the Rights of People's Deputies in the Legislative Procedure (registration No. 1043). Can we vote? Everybody ready? Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[15:02:14]] For 242 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Thank you. Let's see the factions. "Serve of the People" - 204, "Responsible Platform for Life" - 15, "European Solidarity" - 0, "Fatherhood" - 0, "For the Future" - 0, "Voice" - 0, "Trust" - 13, "non-factional" - 10. Thank you again, dear fellows. Next question of the agenda. You are invited to consider the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Local Self-Government in Ukraine (registration number 2653). It was agreed with the leaders of the MP factions and groups that we will follow the same procedure -- two minutes to perform from each faction and group. Please sign up for the performance. Arjev Vladimir Igorovich
ParlaMint-UA_2020-04-16-m0.u30	. The word of the Prince's Santa Claus.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-04-16-m0.u31	Princess Mikola Leonidovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-04-16-m0.u32	Thanks, guys. Your Honor, you said here we shouldn't break the law. So, the key problem with this Law 2653 is that the Cabinet of Ministers is given temporary until the Law on the Territorial Administration is passed, the authority to approve the territories of the territorial communities. First, this is contrary to article 92 of the Constitution of Ukraine, which establishes the territorial system exclusively by law. Instead, the bill proposes to establish the boundaries of the territorial communities by the Cabinet regulations, which do not correspond to 92 articles of the Constitution. Secondly, the definition of territorial boundaries does not apply to the powers of the Cabinet of Ministers, as this does not apply to the activities of the executive authorities. The decision of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine of 13.07.2001 states: The Constitution of Ukraine recognises the right of the territorial community and local self-government authorities to decide on matters of local importance within the framework of the Constitution, the laws of Ukraine, which are in full conformity with article 4, paragraph 2, of the European Charter of Local Self-Government. Dear friends, the question of establishing the territories of the territorial communities cannot be the authority of central executive power, namely the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, but should be determined solely by us, the Supreme Council of Ukraine, together with the local authorities. And this issue needs to be resolved in the Special Law on the Territorial Administration, which you and I need to adopt. In the past five years, we have essentially given hope to local self - government. We have embarked on a major reform that we should now complete. Instead, the bill proposes to destroy this reform of decentralization. Once again, everything is centralized in the hands of the insidious and insurmountable authorities. "European Solidarity" will not support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-04-16-m0.u33	Thank you. Cabal Volodymyr Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-04-16-m0.u34	Please pass the word to Lozinski Roman.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-04-16-m0.u35	Lozinski Roman Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-04-16-m0.u36	Roman Lozinski, the Voice faction. About four months ago, a representative of the President came to the State Building Committee. He represented changes to the Constitution in part of decentralization. What did he say to the people’s deputies? He said that the changes to the Constitution in part of decentralization were not subject to broad discussion. And there was no discussion. What happened next? The president called off these changes for the first time. A month later, the President withdrew the changes to the Constitution for the second time. Unfortunately, to complete the five - year phase of dual reform for our country in the form that all Ukrainians and all communities would like to wish would no longer succeed, unfortunately, and that was the first mistake of a team of greatness. Another mistake was that dialogues and open debates were not immediately initiated. It started only when the rallies began, and there was a sharp dissatisfaction with reform. But this conversation has begun. Most of the time, there were so many comments. Now we see that this reform needs to be completed. And in the fall, we can't get out of the election by voting for local councils, about 5,000 or 6,000 rural, rural communities. We must vote in united territorial communities. So despite the mistakes of the majority team, in this case the Voice faction supports not this law, not this decision, but the completion of decentralization. And at the final stage of the last law, where this will be fixed, there should be a debate in Parliament.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-04-16-m0.u37	Thank you. I think it's because of the laws in Parliament that there's going to be a discussion, not a monologue of 16,000 rights. Excuse me, colleagues. Olga Mikhailovna's smog.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-04-16-m0.u38	I give the word to Vitalia Bezgin.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-04-16-m0.u39	Again, I'm sorry?
ParlaMint-UA_2020-04-16-m0.u40	Welcome to Toothless's word.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-04-16-m0.u41	Vitaly Bezgin.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-04-16-m0.u42	The honourable Presidium, the honourable colleagues, and the Office of the President, and the government, and the Parliament, always for the last six years, are saying that decentralization reform is a priority. In fact, this bill is designed to bring this reform to an end. We all realize that we have very little time left before the local elections. And if we really want to conduct these elections on a new administrative and territorial basis, not leave the country to live on two dimensions: the measure of a successful, capable, decentralized country and the dimensions of the uncombined rural and rural councils, we must now take this step, including allowing the government to determine the territories and centres of the territorial communities, which will then be converted into the area law that our Supreme Council will be voting with you. So the "Serial of the People" faction is very grateful that a large number of colleagues from other factions and groups signed the bill and are willing to support it in the hall. Decentralisation is a priority and must be approved and completed by October 25, 2020. So I ask everyone to support and vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-04-16-m0.u43	Thank you. Scroak by Mikola Leonidovich. Then we go to the vote. Why didn't they sign up?
ParlaMint-UA_2020-04-16-m0.u44	People's MP Skorik, faction "The Opposition Platform for Life." Dear colleagues, distinguished presidency, respected citizens of Ukraine! On behalf of our faction, I wanted to propose to the people's deputies in no way to support this bill 2653, because there are two problems. First problem. This bill clearly contradicts the Constitution when Parliamentary-Presidential powers are limited in the Republic. Today, these are our powers that are passed on to something, and I mean establishing boundaries of cities, and there are a number of other powers that are clearly the powers of the Supreme Council, which have somehow decided to pass on to the Cabinet of Ministers. In addition, the bill clearly contradicts the United District Communities Act, a new bill from modern history that has already been adopted in the preceding vocation to which this vocation is directed. And any voluntary association with the adoption of this bill is no longer at issue; it will be a forced union. And I would like to go from this parliamentary rostrum to the leadership of Parliament, to the leadership of the state, on the grounds that this is such a lulling constitutional reform, which is not a constitutional reform in form. It seems to me that the President should resume the work of the Constitutional Commission on this subject and actually develop these steps with regard to complex changes to the Constitution. And the last. When we talk about the next session and this bill, it has nothing to do with the extracurricularity, it has nothing to do with the fight against the pandemic, it has nothing to do with the issues of our citizens and citizens against it. Both the Association of Cities and the Association of Local Self - Rule and many others spoke against it. I propose not to support the bill, and ours.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-04-16-m0.u45	Thank you. A lube, with a minute's motive. And then we go to the vote. Please invite the national deputies to the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-04-16-m0.u46	Honorable Presidium, distinguished fellow national MPs! The MP for the Future, in support of the completion of decentralization reform, will vote and support this law, because we all understand that decentralization is needed. Whether it's successful or not -- different OTGs give their projections, but most people in our country say it's successful, it needs to be completed. So we want to encourage all the people's deputies to unite today, at least on the basis of this law, and show that at least one reform is ready and we can all end up together -- the reform of decentralization. Thank you, we're all in favour.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-04-16-m0.u47	Dear colleagues, let's go to the vote. Please invite the national deputies to the hall. I am voting on the proposal to adopt a second reading and, in general, with the necessary technical and legal regulations, the draft Law amending the Ukrainian Law on Local Self-Government in Ukraine (registration number 2653). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[15:13:44]] For 264 The decision is adopted, the law is passed in general. Dear colleagues. Let's see the factions. Dear colleagues, we agreed that the next question would be made without discussion. This is a draft law amending some Ukrainian legislation (to strengthen the protection of telecommunications networks) (registration number 2654). Vote? I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Act amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine (for strengthening the protection of telecommunications networks) (registration No. 2654). Ready to vote? I'm betting on the vote, please support and vote. [[15:14:44]] For 315 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, I am voting on the proposal to cut back half the deadlines for submission of rights and proposals to Bill 2654 for preparation for second reading. [[B in m in s a l in]] I asked the committee. Don't vote, you don't vote. Please support and vote. [[15:15:18]] For 267 Decision taken. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-04-16-m0.u48	Dear colleagues, the list of issues on the agenda of the day’s extraordinary meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine has been exhausted. The next meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed. Thank you.
