ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-14-m1.u1	Dear colleagues, please prepare for registration. In accordance with article 83 of the Constitution of Ukraine, part of article 19 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Regulations today, we hold an extraordinary plenary meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, at the request of 158 national deputies. Please prepare for registration. Invite the national deputies to the hall. Are you ready to register? Please register. I'm reminded that registration takes place by clicking on the green button, the first button on the left. [[15:12:03]] There are 296 Ukrainian national deputies registered in the hall. So let's move on to the day-to-day issues. They're all proposed and given to you, the questions raised at the next meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. First. From the procedure? Gerus, procedure, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-14-m1.u2	Dear Chairman, distinguished national MPs! We have a really important question about green tariffs. And there's an appropriate bill. I urge everyone to vote today in favour of shortening the time limits. And there really has to be important adjustments. If they don't count, then we'll send this bill to read again. But today, I think we need to shorten the deadline for passing the rights to this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-14-m1.u3	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the first issue of the agenda is the shortening of the deadlines for the submission of proposals and rights and preparation for the second reading. It is about a draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine to improve the conditions of electricity generation from alternative sources of energy (register No. 3658). Ready to vote? I am voting on the proposal to shorten to the day of the extraordinary plenary meeting of 14/07/2020 the deadlines for the submission of proposals and rights and preparation for the second reading, that is to say today. No, it's not seven days. I repeat, I said, to this day. That is, adjustments can be made by the end of today’s day. The minimum time-limit is 7 days. But it could be 10, 12, 13 and 14 days. So I'm voting for a reduction proposal to this day. This does not prohibit me from the Rules, such a proposal to the committee. Please support and vote. [[15:14:44]] For 228 Decision taken. The next issue of the agenda is the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Medical Devices (for electronic retail trade in medical devices) (registration number 3615, 3615-1). We have to take it. Dear colleagues! Dear colleagues, a little quieter, please. We need to make a decision on the inclusion in the agenda of the day session. I'll put this motion to the vote. Please support and vote. [[15:15:38]] For 278 Decision taken. I'm voting on a motion to consider this issue with a reduced procedure. Please support and vote. [[15:16:05]] For 236
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-14-m1.u4	Decision taken. May I have the address of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Mezentsev María Sergiyevna, please?
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-14-m1.u5	Thank you very much, Mr. Head. Honorable National Deputies, reverend people of Ukraine! This bill is fully in line with the request of our constituents, and we are finally adopting a law that will not protect pharmaceutical monopolies, but that will give every Ukrainian a healthy, healthful person a choice of the establishment, the pharmacy, the pharmacy where he or she wants to obtain the medicine. We're talking about electronic commerce today, and we're talking to you about the possibility of getting medical supplies online. And if we talk about villages where people don't use a direct Internet network, we can do that on the phone. Dear friends, two bills are now being proposed for your consideration -- the basic and the alternative. I am deeply grateful to the National Health Committee for taking this initiative into account, and this bill was considered very quickly, and it was put into the agenda. Our European Union Directive 2011/62 is included in our Bill and Bill 1 but we can work with the authors to protect consumers' rights in order to protect health and trade networks, as well as those who provide these medicines. It's a well-known network, and I'm not doing any of these commercials here. I would like to thank the co-authors: Minka Sergio, Silent Alexia, Cabal Volodymira, Kisilev Dmitry, Yatzik Yulia for the joint work that the citizens had been waiting for for for almost nine months. Dear colleagues, I'm asking you to support this bill and the one with the defission. I warmly welcome you for finally having this initiative in the voting room, and let's move in the way of electronic commerce, and give it to our consumers.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-14-m1.u6	Thank you. The word is given to the Ukrainian national deputy of Kuzminy Sergey Volodymyrovich, author of the alternative bill. Please contact the head of the Committee on National Health, Medical Care, and Medical Insurance. Raducci Mikhailo Borisovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-14-m1.u7	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues! Both bills are designed to regulate the issue of electronic sales of medical supplies to citizens and offer to allow operators who have the right license to do so, to do so by means of medical devices, and to deliver them directly to consumers using their own courier service, or to participate in the contractual principles of the courier service or postal service. However, alternative bill 3615-1, unlike Bill 3615, takes practically full account of the provisions of Directive 2001/83/EC on the set of cooperative laws concerning medical devices for a person, especially the presence of a distance agent in the relevant license plate. In addition, Bill 3615 defined safeguards regarding the need to maintain the conditions of medical supplies while they are being delivered and the responsibility of a pharmacy is established for some kind of medical remedy. As a result of the review, the Committee adopted a decision under article 110 of the Rules of the Supreme Council, to support an alternative bill and to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft Ukrainian Law amending article 19 of the Law on Medical Devices (for electronic retail trade in medical devices) (registration number 3615-1) on the basis of the first reading. And everything proposed by the authors of 3615 will be included in the second reading if this 3615 did not count. Please support Law 3615-1.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-14-m1.u8	Thank you, Mikhailo Borisovich. Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss this bill? Yes. Then please sign up: two in, two in, two in. Please, National Deputy Frez Irina Vasilovna, faction of the European Solidarity Political Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-14-m1.u9	Please pass on the word of Victoria Sumar.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-14-m1.u10	Please, Victoria Sumar.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-14-m1.u11	Victoria Sumar, European Solidarity. Colleagues, you know, you're reading these bills, it's all well written, we'll, of course, support the bill recommended by the committee. But please tell me, is this really a bill for an off-the-book session? Is he really solving any of the urgent problems? You've never actually used pharmacies or delivered pharmacies to you, by electronic means you didn't order and you didn't deliver? Well, seriously, when we're talking about what we're looking at in the extracurricular sessions that are vital to the country's legislation, let's face it: this is a bill that simply introduces existing practices into the legal field and no global problems it solves. Although there are definitely more serious problems in the country today than gambling business and, you know, documenting the existing state of affairs after the delivery of drugs from pharmacies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-14-m1.u12	The word is given to the National Deputy Tkachenko Maksim Mikolaiovich, faction of the Political Party "Slut of the People".
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-14-m1.u13	Please give the floor to Mezenzeva Maria to my colleague by party.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-14-m1.u14	Please, Mezentzevo Maria.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-14-m1.u15	Thank you very much, Your Honor. I want to comment quickly. Indeed, Mrs. Sumar, this bill was registered on June 9, this year. He quickly passed the profile committee and was taken to a forgotten plenary meeting. Maybe it's not the most urgent, but I want to point out that all the deliveries that are being made by different operators at the moment do not lie in the Ukrainian legislative field. So my colleagues and I gathered together and wrote this bill. At present he regulates both the regulator and the activities of pharmaceutical networks, and delivery such as those entrepreneurs who have one pharmacy and those entrepreneurs who have a large network. That's probably why we're taking this question to the profile committee -- why we're taking it to the hall so quickly. But the law is necessary. It is necessary for those people. I want to remind you that we have a COVID-19 pandemic in the country, and not all people of old can leave their homes and go to the pharmacy. And that's what we've seen in the districts. The majors sitting in this room today observed this with their own eyes. Let's talk about people who don't have the physical capacity to get into pharmacies. These are simple questions that need to be understood. Let's not waste time and support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-14-m1.u16	Thank you. National MP Irina Miroslavovna, MP Party for the Future
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-14-m1.u17	The MP's Party for the Future supports this bill, given that our group is made up of major MPs. And all the parliamentary initiatives that are geared towards solving people's problems, we support them. But I want to stress one important circumstance. Unfortunately, dear colleagues, this bill will be of greater benefit to the city’s inhabitants. Instead, rural people who do not have Internet coverage will be deprived of this useful service. I would like to point out that there are many, almost 40 percent of our citizens living in rural areas. These may also be difficult areas, such as Volinsky’s Polisi, the Lubeshiv region, Kashirsky, Manevicke district. This is going to be the mountains of the region of Frankiv or Zakarpatsk, and we can talk about the region of Chernobyl. So I think that for the second reading, we need to go over the bill and take into account the interests of the rural population. We, the Marjorie MPs, firmly believe that the interests of all Ukrainian citizens must be taken into account. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-14-m1.u18	Thank you. I give the floor to National Deputy Sobolje's Sergey Vladislavovich, faction of the political party of the All-Ukrainian Union of Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-14-m1.u19	Sobolje, Fatherland. Although our faction has decided to vote in favour, the issues raised in this bill do not at all address other issues. First and key question. Well, you know, you can now absolutely freely order drugs over the Internet and deliver them to an appropriate pharmacy, which is about a percent by 20, and for individual drugs and 30 percent by 30 percent by cheaper than if you buy them directly in the pharmacy. The second question. What exactly are we ordering? Are we ordering a medical component or are we ordering a specific name? What is very important and well settled around the world is that no doctor has the right to prescribe medicines by name or by country of manufacturer, but only as a medical ingredient. Question three. And I think it's the most important thing. What do we do in fact, based on the fact that in this situation we're all alone directly when the district hospitals, the field and obstetric centres are closed? If that's an alternative, I don't think that's an alternative. Close the district hospital instead of allowing the Internet to buy drugs, this is no alternative. So I think that's a decision that needs to be adopted in a complex way. Our faction will support this decision, but only as half as much as it does not solve the key issue: how will the inhabitants of the village, of the city, of any settlement in connection with the so-called reform that will lead to the reduction of the medical network. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-14-m1.u20	Thank you, Sergey Vladislavovich. Your Honor, is there anyone else who would like to say? Now, before I give the national deputy Shahov, I see I want to ask our colleagues. Because I'm approached by deputies from other factions who mention names in their speeches. Dear colleagues, I, with your permission to hold a single position, because article 4, I remind you all, part of article 51 of the Rules gives me reason to reply only when offensive words have been made about a person or a faction. But at the same time, I understand that the notion of offensive words is an evaluation category, so I am still asking you to refrain from calling those or other identifying signs of our fellow national MPs. And after that, I see the National Deputy Bakunets. I first saw the great Shahov. Give it to him, will you? Please, National Deputy Bakunets. Please. And then I'm going to ask everyone in the hall, and we're going to vote. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-14-m1.u21	Dear Lord Chairman, dear colleagues! Of course, this bill is vital for every Ukrainian today. With the development of the Internet, a large segment of the drug trade has also gone online. Sadly, though, this was not ensured at the legislative level. That is why the bill is intended for this purpose. First of all, you and I need to ensure, at the legislative level, the storage and transport conditions of medical supplies, as well as the procedure for the circulation of medicines on the Internet, in order to protect us with you, our Ukrainians, from inconvenient drugs. So the Trust Group will vote in favour of a bill that was supported by a profile committee, because it's made much better. We're in. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-14-m1.u22	Thank you. The noble fellows, they all made a statement on this issue, didn't they? So I'm going to ask the people's deputies to take their jobs, and we're going to vote. On the basis of the committee's conclusion, my honourable colleagues, I am voting on the draft Law amending the Law on Medical Devices of Ukraine (on electronic retail trade in medical devices). No, I'm sorry. Draft Law on Amendments to Article 19 of the Ukrainian Law on Medical Devices (for electronic retail trade in medical devices) (No.3615-1). Ready to vote? Dear colleagues, please support and vote. [[15:30:35]] For 308. Decision taken. It's a decision taken as a basis, isn't it? We can't cut the lines. We're going according to procedure. Shorten the lines, huh? Dear colleagues, the committee requests that the deadlines for submitting proposals and amendments to the second reading be reduced. I'll bet. Dear colleagues, I say again. I'm putting it to a vote. You may or may not vote, this is the right of national deputies. Let's not talk about why, let's just make our decision. So I'm putting forward a proposal to shorten the deadline for the submission of proposals and amendments to the second reading of the 3615-1 bill, which we've just adopted as a basis. Please support and vote. [[15:31:38]] For 231 Decision taken. Thank you, Your Honor. Dear colleagues, we have the next 3781 bill. This is a draft of the Act amending the Law on State Support and the Functioning of the Children's Centres of Artek and Youth Guard on additional State support for the Children's Centres of Artek and Youth Guard for the period of action aimed at preventing the emergence and spread of coronary disease (COVID-19). Project 3781. Is there a need to discuss it? [[B in m in s a l in]] Please, the Prince by procedure. No, you don't? We're voting, aren't we? Let's put in order of the day and decide to shorten the deadlines for introducing alternative projects. Yeah, yeah. I understand. I just said what kind of bill, then what we're voting for. The subject and what we do with it. So, dear colleagues, I'm asking about the inclusion in the agenda and the decision to shorten the deadlines for the introduction of alternative drafts on Bill 3781 on amending the Ukrainian Law on State Support and the Functioning of the Children's Centres "Artec" and "Youth Guards" on additional State support for the Children's Centres "Artek" and "Youth Guards" for the period of action aimed at preventing the emergence and spread of coronary disease (COVID-19). Dear colleagues! Please support and vote. [[15:33:44]] For 347 Decision taken. Dear colleagues! Since we cut it down, put it into the agenda, and cut it short, can we view it as a whole today? Please, Nestor Ivanovich of the procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-14-m1.u23	Dear colleagues! The question is too important and we must now go to our children and give them the opportunity to vote on this law. Please support it as a basis in the first reading and generally as a law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-14-m1.u24	Dear colleagues! Please. Can't see who's there? Taruta, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-14-m1.u25	Dear colleagues! It's been three months now as a collective of Artek Enterprises without a salary. Let us help them and vote on the basis as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-14-m1.u26	Ruslan Petrovich Knazević, please. Oh, no? Kubov Stepan Ivanovich, right? Kubi Stepan Ivanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-14-m1.u27	Dear colleagues, good afternoon. First of all, it's a very important bill. What I'm saying is that our faction of European Solidarity will support it. If you even take an Artek rating, there are over 538 people working there, their payroll fund is counted when there are participants in the camp. Today, they have debt for the second half of March, April, May, and June. What's more, we took out 32 million investment projects. I'm going to ask you to support me, because this is a very important, social issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-14-m1.u28	Thank you. With your permission, I'll give my word to the head of the committee. Thank you. Please. Guys, let me give you a minute who hasn't spoken yet, from the procedure, and let's make a decision. And then you're done. Is that an option accepted? Shahov, please, Sergey Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-14-m1.u29	Sergey Shahov, Luhanščina, Deputy Group "Trust". Dear colleagues, I've never been to Artec, but I'd like all the children of Ukraine to visit the Youth Guard, this is our country's visit, and Artek is also our country's visit. And we have no right to let these children's camps go bankrupt. And to get the wages of thousands of employees, teachers who teach our children during the holidays. In order for the quarantine not to occur and the Kabmin to take over his head, they did test for antibodies, Ukrainian tests for free to all children and send the children to Artec so that they can exist normally. Thank you. Sergey Shahov, trust MP.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-14-m1.u30	Thank you, Sergey Shahov. Please, "For the Future" Taras Ivanovich or who? I'm sorry, I just didn't get my glasses, I can't see from here. Igor Molotock, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-14-m1.u31	Please pass the word Igor Molotka to the National MP.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-14-m1.u32	Please, Mr. Igor Molotock National Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-14-m1.u33	Dear colleagues, Igor Molotock, Sumstina, Group "For the Future." Unlike the previous speaker, I was at the Young Guard in my youth, and I have some really nice memories. Of course, our group supports this socially important bill, which is that it also helps workers, more than a thousand of whom, to get a decent salary. But we have a warning that this bill does not have the ability to finance and the sources from which this will be financed. And, of course, I'd like this to be taken into account, and you've had the opportunity to make a change to the state budget for 2020. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-14-m1.u34	Thank you. Dear colleagues, who else wants to speak? Bobrovska Solomia, Voice Party, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-14-m1.u35	In fact, I would like to thank all the initiators of this bill, because we have at last seen that there are problems in health camps. It's not just about the state subordination of the camps, it's about the Young Guard, of course, it's not just about the Furnishment, it's about the whole of Ukraine. And it's a good thing that we're finally looking at the question of debt closing and buying up 90 percent of the trip at a time when it's actually simplifying the entire healing season with all the camps. In addition, I have been asked to pay attention to all local self-government authorities, where there are community camps that are unfunded and unsupported, please do as the Supreme Council does today. And clearly, the Voice faction will support the Young Guard, including. And welcome to the Feast.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-14-m1.u36	Thank you. Babak Sergey Volodymyrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-14-m1.u37	Dear colleagues, this is a very important bill. In fact, there are no employees without a salary, and Artek and Young Guard can actually go bankrupt. Unfortunately, Coroner's disease and its limitations have created such conditions, and we need to support both Young Guards and Artek and those coworkers who work there, and, of course, the children who will rest there. All the committees that have considered it have clearly supported it unanimously, so please accept it as a basis and as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-14-m1.u38	Thank you. Mikita Ruslanovich from the committee. Please, head of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-14-m1.u39	Dear colleagues, I am convinced that all the children of Ukraine were now very happy with such statements by those responsible that they all paid attention to the situation in the children's camps and not only. And seriously, there was, there was a question from colleagues from the Future Group, the Future Party. Look, colleagues, in Minfin there's actually money for it, they just couldn't spend it because by law Minfin can only buy travel, that's what the colossal is. So this question will be resolved, and we ask as a committee and all the committees that have responded favorably, that we today should adopt this law as a basis and as a whole. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-14-m1.u40	Thank you. Dear colleagues, may we proceed to the vote? I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Act amending the Law on State Support and the Functioning of the Children's Centres "Artek" and "Youth Guard" on additional State support for the Children's Centres "Artek" and "Youth Guard" for the period of action aimed at preventing the emergence and spread of coronary disease (COVID-19) (registration No. 3781). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[15:42:04]] For 352 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, I am voting on the proposal for adoption in general, taking into account the Committee's proposals and the necessary technical and legal rights of the draft Law amending the Law on State Support and the Features of the Functioning of the Children's Centres "Artek" and "Youth Guards" on the Additional State Support for the Children's Centres "Artek" and "Youth Guard" for the period of action aimed at preventing the emergence and spread of coronary disease (COVID-19) (Registration No. 3781). Please support and vote. [[15:42:55]] For 354 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Thank you. Let's see the factions. "The Servant of the People" – 229, "The Opposition Platform for Life" – 24, "European Solidarity" – 23, "The Fatherhood" – 18, "The Future Party" – 16, "The Voice" – 14, "The Trust" – 18, "the Non-Factional" – 12. Thanks again. The next issue of the agenda is the draft Act amending article 8 of the Ukrainian Act on the provision of organisational and legal conditions for the social protection of orphans and children deprived of parental care to increase the amount of scholarship and annual assistance. The chairman of the Committee’s Subcommittee on Humanities and Information Policy, Ryabukh Tetjan Vasilovna, is invited to the rostrum. Vote. Aunt Vasilovna, your speech was convinced by the Chamber. I am voting on the proposal to adopt a second reading and, in general, with the necessary technical and legal regulations, the draft Law amending article 8 of the Ukrainian Act on the provision of social protection for orphans and children deprived of parental care for the promotion of scholarships and annual assistance (registration No. 2013). Please support and vote. [[15:44:37]] For 351 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Thank you. The next issue of the agenda is the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Tax Code on the Functioning of the Electronic Cabinet and the Simplification of Business Persons (Registration No. 2524). On the rails. No, not at all. It's for confirmation. [[B in m in s a l in]] No, no, it's for confirmation. For confirmation, Nina Petrovna Jujanina, for confirmation, Zalockatski. How many bars? Two revisions are Zablock. How much do you have, Nina Petrovna? Alone? One to count. And how much for confirmation? 10 for confirmation. And then we go to the vote. Yeah? Okay. Nina Petrovna, which one?
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-14-m1.u41	44th.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-14-m1.u42	44 requisitions.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-14-m1.u43	Dear colleagues, the current version of the Tax Code contains a rule that prohibits unilaterally the controlling authority from breaking the agreement on the recognition of electronic documents. You know, it's this tool that's been abusing taxes for a very long time, and after the introduction, the previous call, we've achieved a 90 percent reduction in tax payers' tax cuts. So now, since the new system provides for the status of an electronic document subject immediately after the electronic submission of any first electronic document, I ask that you keep the standard for the possibility of excluding the payer from work through the electronic office of reporting and all other tax service providers. So I tried to explain to the committee. Please, fellows, there's no harm in this norm, it won't be too much, but it will save the payer the opportunity.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-14-m1.u44	Committee position. Jaroslav Ivanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-14-m1.u45	Dear Nina Petrovna! First of all, thank you for your active position in the drafting of this bill. As you know, the purpose of this bill was to remove all restrictions on access to an electronic office so that our citizens, using their signature, even their sometimes bank card, could easily interact with tax. And now that amendment you're proposing is a technical norm. We've already cleared these accession papers. And that's why the committee rejected her and the task force. And now I'm asking the room not to accept this amendment as it actually doesn't have a point anymore.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-14-m1.u46	Thank you. Dear colleagues, amendment 44 of the People’s Deputies of Jujanina is put to the vote. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[15:47:43]] For-96 The decision is not taken. Next. You've told you ten amendments will, haven't you? Please, Nina Petrovn Yuzanin.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-14-m1.u47	Mr. Jaroslav, you haven't figured out exactly what the status of the subject is, and now you've denied the protection of taxpayers. The next amendment for confirmation is number 15. I understand that the U.S. Attorney's calls on their website yesterday, that the amendments to Law 466 and Law 128 and 129 made by this law ignore the business opinion and desire of the President, your President, regarding his work, you don't take those words into account. And so amendment 15, which really expands the control body's ability to self-explanate transactions with non-residents for business purposes, you're expanding these possibilities, not shortening them. The taxpayer will have to argue that he had no other alternative options for the transaction during the transaction, and the level of income from the transaction is economically sound. If that's what it is.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-14-m1.u48	Thank you, Nina Petrovna. This amendment was taken into account by the 1210 working group.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-14-m1.u49	Amendment number 15. Do I understand that, Nina Petrovna? Dear colleagues, number 15 is supported by the committee, and Nina Petrovna puts it on the stand. Ready to vote? I'll bet you number 15. Please support and vote. Wait, don't turn it on. Take your seats, national deputies, please. Ready to vote? I'll bet 15 confirmations. Please support and vote. [[15:50:03]] For 158. The decision is not taken. Next amendment, Nina Petrovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-14-m1.u50	Marianne’s word, and then I will follow the rest of the amendments because a colleague asked for it. To Zablitzki Mariana.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-14-m1.u51	Marian Zablotsky, please, you were supposed to bet, right? What are you doing?
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-14-m1.u52	I'm asking you to submit for confirmation 69 of the amendment. It has to do with what we have just failed. It simply gives excessive authority to the controlling authorities. If it's easy, they'll be able to challenge virtually any transaction as part of the transfer pricing. This is true in international practice, but it applies only to services. So if there's any contracts there with lawyers, anything that can really be challenged, but transfer pricing still has certain rules for determining the price of grain, metallurgy, that's just bound to the markets. In other words, nowhere in the world is such a request to be rejected, just as the previous one was rejected. Thank you, Nina Petrovney, for asking me to confirm the 15th amendment. I'm asking you to put 69 on the receipt as well and not back it up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-14-m1.u53	Committee position. Jaroslav Ivanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-14-m1.u54	Thank you, Mr. Marian. In fact, it's a readjustment again of the same working group. If we've rejected the past. I'm going to call the committee. On the committee, as you know, we had a discussion, we accepted, and now let the hall decide.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-14-m1.u55	Dear colleagues, this is the situation. The 69 amendments of the Ukrainian national deputy to Getmantsev are confirmed. The committee counted it. Therefore, I ask you to prepare for the vote. Please support and vote. [[15:52:09]] For 124 The decision is not taken. 69 amendments are considered to be unaccounted for. Please, Nina Petrovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-14-m1.u56	Dear colleagues, and now, without exaggeration, you have 2 million people looking at you, they're entrepreneurs in a simplified tax system and employed people working with them. This is Amendment 85. The amendment proposes to cancel the book on income accounting for payers of the first, second and third groups of the single tax, which, on a daily basis, reflects the incomes of entrepreneurs. The cancellation of this book, the books on income accounting, according to all experts, including Minfin, the State Tax Service, will be the result of a complete loss of control over the amount of income paid by payers I, the third group of single taxpayers. This will result in the non-alternative implementation of controls for such payers in the form of accountancy registers. Look, everybody's been out here for six months to prove that the account logs aren't in time. And you've deferred this standard yourself. But now, because of another norm, you force people to do so immediately.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-14-m1.u57	Nina Petrovna, I'm taking this opportunity to say that we respect you on the committee as a professional, including in the Tax Code. I would very much like the discussions in this room to be professional. Let's put it bluntly, honestly, without manipulating what this standard is about. I want to explain it to all my colleagues because it's important. This rule says that now every FOP is going to get a book like this. See? That's how we get dijitalization. He buys it for 50 bucks, then takes it to the tax office, then sews it. What does this paper say? I ask you to support her. That if you are FOP and want to continue typing it, enter it. If you want to use electronics, type in. If you want a statement from the bank, use the bank. Do as you please. And that's what a lot of FOPs require of us. And that's exactly what makes it easier for a small business that we've offered. And this has nothing to do with the RRO. And let's be honest.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-14-m1.u58	I'll bet you vote number 85. It's counted by the committee. I'm betting on her confirmation. Please support and vote. [[15:55:00]] For 206 The decision is not taken. Edit rejected. Next item. Turn on the microphone, Jujanini.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-14-m1.u59	Amendment 94. Law 466 re-imposed the taxation of the income of controlled foreign companies owned by residents of Ukraine. What cynicism did the authors of Law 1210 propose that the amendment should not tax the VAT, the income of the individual who would receive it in 2020-2021 when such foreign legal persons were eliminated. The adoption of such a standard is lobbying the interests of large payers who are now receiving, legalizing their income in Ukraine through the sale of controlled foreign companies without paying any taxes. We're taxing pensioners. And here, let's let for two years sell shares in foreign controlled companies get huge money without taxes in Ukraine. It is a disgrace to those drafters of Law 1210 who have brought such standards into play.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-14-m1.u60	Dear Nina Petrovno, this is the same amendment that business asked for. And I remember your active position at 1210. And I remember the promise that we support the changes that business asks us to correct. This change is about us taking the time frame for Kiki. It was not our fault that the signing of the bill was delayed. But this is our opportunity now to move literally to a year of time so that business can adapt normally. You know, I really wouldn't want us to divide Ukrainian business into small, big, right, wrong business right now. They're all taxpayers. And as a representative of a non-acquisitional force, I think it would be right to give people the opportunity to adapt to the rules. This, as a minimum, improves the business climate in this country. So I'm asking everyone to support this amendment. And I'll vote for it myself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-14-m1.u61	I'm betting on a vote of 94 for confirmation. Please support and vote. [[15:57:33]] For 240 Decision taken. Next amendment, Nina Petrovno.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-14-m1.u62	96th. Mr. Jaroslav, if you don't understand the point, please don't comment. Now it's absolutely obvious who's interested in the exemption from VAT sales of controlled foreign companies. And you're talking about transferring reports to foreign controlled companies. 96 revisions. Act 466 of January 1, 2021, introduced taxation with appropriate branding of excise fluids used in electronic cigarettes. These markings are postponed until 2022 — in fact, their taxation — because in 2020 they will import volumes of such fluids that will ensure their sale without excise duty stamps during the year 2021. Therefore, part of the amendment must be rejected, in an orderly manner. Thank you. It's just a budget coming in that we all have to take care of here.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-14-m1.u63	Thank you. I'm betting on the approval number 96, it's counted by the committee. Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[15:58:58]] For-191 The decision is not taken. Edit rejected. Next amendment, Nina Petrovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-14-m1.u64	Dear colleagues! I ask you very much not to deceive yourself or the taxpayers. Because 97 amendments are directly related to tax exemptions and the military assembly, namely, the income derived from controlled foreign companies, which for two years will be able to pass without tax on their owners. Please, if you don't want to tax a person's income tax at all, the military assembly is 1.5 percent. Are you sorry for the money to keep your army? Please reject this correction because there is absolutely no cost in the budget, so the minimum amount. And here, I think there's going to be a lot of money, because before reporting on controlled foreign companies, everyone is going to try to get rid of them, because no one in Ukraine is going to want to light up their controlled foreign companies. So if you've freed 18 percent as opposed to the pensioners who pay off the deposit.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-14-m1.u65	Dear Nina Petrovna, you know, I would very much like us to continue the discussion in a normal tone and with respect to each other. And I really wanted you to hear, along with other colleagues, about those calls that, for example, we were told by representatives of the IT sphere or the Freelancers, or people who wanted to start a new company that we call starters. It's all a business that asked for a very simple thing -- to postpone these new rules, which unfortunately we gave them at the last minute, for a year. What you're saying right now is that it's not the business that's heard, what you're saying right now is that you're not supporting the Aitish, that's what you're saying, that you're making rules for them right now. And that's why I'm asking you not to manipulate, first of all. And second of all, let's support this amendment, it's normal to postpone it for a year.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-14-m1.u66	Thank you. Number number again, 97? 97? I'm betting vote number 97, it's supported by the committee. Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[16:01:44]] For 213 The decision is not taken.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-14-m1.u67	Dear colleagues, Mr. Jaroslav, you just lied so openly.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-14-m1.u68	Number number, Nina Petrovna, what?
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-14-m1.u69	99 revisions. I don't understand why you're deceiving yourself, your faction, leading people into fornication. Because when it comes to the fact that even the President's Office, which is respected by the majority here, said in no way to adopt this sly corruption bill, to which, contrary to 116 articles, those amendments that are not in agreement with business were made to the second reading, the President's Office wrote. Why, then, are you now deceiving colleagues who, without knowing the substance of the matter, vote and support these amendments? Fellows, please read what the President's Office says. Please also place the 99th amendment on confirmation and do not support it.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-14-m1.u70	Ready to vote? Please prepare for the vote. I'm betting on the vote number 99. It's counted by the committee. Nina Petrovna is asking for confirmation. Ready to vote? 99, Nina Petrovna, right? 99, Jaroslav Ivanovich. I'll bet you 99 on confirmation. Please support and vote. [[16:03:30]] For the 220. No decision taken, no correction counted. Overruled, I'm sorry. Last one, Nina Petrovna, correct?
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-14-m1.u71	No, two more. 103th now. Dear colleagues, cynicism continues. Laws 128 and 129, which you've already heard a lot about, are now trying to correct so that no one can see, and this is about correcting the implementation of software RROs. Although the deadline has been postponed since 19.04. 2020, but to date, it is clear that there has been a complete failure in the implementation of software RROs and the lack of changes in the system for the administration of accounting transactions. Yes, free software for entrepreneurs is not developed, and communication protocols are not approved, which makes it impossible to develop mass software for other entities. The corrupt standards of the cache system have not been cancelled. I make a request from all entrepreneurs: 103 amendments are not supported. Let us at least be able to fight those who are harmful to all.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-14-m1.u72	Jaroslav Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-14-m1.u73	Dear Nina Petrovna, I think the worse the better. What's the point? This rule is that people who want to use the software RRO, and this isn't about fiscalization or FOPs at all now, that it's free for them, first of all. And I think putting additional responsibilities on business is definitely not your goal. Second, to make it real, so they don't have to use their cell phone, some flash drive, some extra device or something. So, colleagues, this is a technical regulation that makes it easier for people to use cash machines if they want to. If not, this does not apply at all to fiscalization. So I'm asking you very much to support just making business easier and so that we can put in place normal civilian mechanisms. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-14-m1.u74	Ready to vote? 103. The committee accepted it, supported it, and Nina Petrovna asked for confirmation. Ready to vote? I'll bet you a vote on the approval number 103. Please support and vote. [[16:06:21]] For 222 The decision is not taken. Next item.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-14-m1.u75	Mr. Jaroslav, with this amendment, entrepreneurs came to you a thousand times and came to the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-14-m1.u76	The number of the amendment, Nina Petrovna, what's the number of the amendment?
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-14-m1.u77	104th. And one head applauds your statement from the rostrum, because other deputies understand that the efforts of entrepreneurs to return to the status quo in order to start a dialogue and enter normally into the system of mandatory implementation of the RRO, you promised them, and now you're doing everything the other way around from this rostrum. 104 revisions. The code for correcting errors does not cancel the introduction of the Institute of Guilt, and the fight against offshore income taxation of controlled foreign companies is really delayed until the 22nd year. At the same time, adopted rules on limiting spending formation and on the servicing of loans received from related persons are proposed to reduce but not extend such standards to loans received from foreign banks. In the revisions, of course, he's interested in a business that's been able to get to you. But the President's Office, whether there's a structure that works now and does business changes against all of these.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-14-m1.u78	Ready to vote? The position of the committee, and we move on to the vote. Then we go to the law as a whole, right? Please invite the national deputies to the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-14-m1.u79	Dear Nina Petrovna, I love that you're so protective of the President's Office, but I think you're confusing the Office with simple decisions. These are different structures. Secondly, I'm very surprised that you want to make this right now. This right here is going to give us three years, not seven, on taxes. That's what the business demanded. This revision clarifies the question of a business goal. That's what the business asked for. And so this is going to delay Kiki. And this is also what the business asked for, both small and medium and large. And it's very strange that you're now instead of taking sides in business, you're on the side of the President's Office, and in fact you're in the office of simple decisions. So I ask my colleagues not to hear this position, but to hear the committee's position, namely to support this amendment, because it simplifies business conditions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-14-m1.u80	I'll bet you a vote. Please prepare for the vote. Now we're voting for Amendment 104, after that – Ichchenka's two revisions. Two lashes, yes, I see. And then we're going to vote for the law. Ready to vote? I'll bet 104 for confirmation. Please support and vote. [[16:09:32]] For 211 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. Ivchenko, what two revisions do you insist on?
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-14-m1.u81	Dear Chairman, thank you. I've got six rights, two minutes, please. And put the 6 rights on confirmation, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-14-m1.u82	Two minutes, yeah.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-14-m1.u83	Colleagues, when you and I were elected deputies, we always talked to: (a) The Federation of Employers, with the Federation of Ukrainian Trade Unions. I have letters from the Federation of Employers and letters from the Federation of Trades. What are they talking about? First. This law contains regulations that are in violation of the Rules of Article 116, which are actually introduced, which have nothing to do with what was voted on in the first reading. In particular, the first is the inequality in the taxation of taxpayers, such as the non-application of transport pricing controls for group IV taxpayers and the absence of controls on them. The other one. The negative effects on business are the application of so - called constructive dividends. In fact, it's almost a corruptive norm. The potential consequences of corruption are the introduction of the concept of guilt. What does that mean? This means that a tax authority is defined, which will do so in a collective way, not in a personal way, by colleagues. Therefore, the Federation does not support Bill 2524. And in fact, I have to say that this bill will lead to an increase in capital exports from Ukraine, a colleague. And what does the Federation of Trades say? They say that, for the time being, there will be trade unions in this law, who will be obliged to report regularly to the tax and financial authorities. This is, imagine, tens of thousands of primary professional organizations that don't have professional accounting, and they're going to do it. And most importantly, colleagues. IQOS is exempt from tax in the 21st year. I understand who is smoking IQOS at the President's Office today and why this lobbyist rule is in this law today. That's why I'm calling on the Federation of Trades and Employers' Federation.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-14-m1.u84	Which direction do you insist on? Can we not vote? We don't vote, do we?
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-14-m1.u85	Confirmed numbers. I'm asking you to set up the revisions now, please, which I said for confirmation.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-14-m1.u86	What?
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-14-m1.u87	I'm going to call the revisions, maybe we put them in, I didn't follow. Amendment 1, 8, 47, 82, 94,
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-14-m1.u88	No, wait. Vadim Evgenovich, 6 lines: 1, 8, 47?
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-14-m1.u89	1, 8, 47, 82, 94 and 96. Colleagues, it's important to press a yellow or red button.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-14-m1.u90	94, 96 — already in the vote. You're not even watching, Vadim Evgenovich. Your colleague, Nina Petrovna, put them to the vote. You can't put them on again. No, 96th and 94th voted. What else? What other adjustments? Amendment number one. Ready to vote?
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-14-m1.u91	May I? Mr. Vadim, Vadim Ivchenko! I respect you as an expert, but I think you've called the wrong ones. For example, 1 revision. I don't know what might have displeased the Employers' Federation, but this is an amendment that, by the way, was offered by Nina Petrovna Jujanina on the information and telecommunications systems of the State Tax Service. So there's basically the same thing that's been bothering you. These must have been the ones that were already broken. So maybe you wouldn't insist on editing, so it would be more constructive. And the bill no longer contains the standards that you partially discussed in your report.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-14-m1.u92	No, Your Honor, it's not a replica, it's an answer to Mr. Yvchenk's question about the constructive speech on the lines that have just been sounded. Amendment number one. That's right, isn't it? Yeah. Let's put her to the vote for confirmation. Ready to vote? Ready to vote? Amendment number one. I'm betting on her confirmation. Please support and vote. [[16:15:11]] For 266 Decision taken. Edit is confirmed. 8 axles. I'll put her to the vote. Please support and vote. 8 Orders? He's the one who's putting it on confirmation. Getmance's. I'll bet you 8 votes. Please support and vote. For, for, for, for, for, for, [[16:15:53]] For 254 Decision taken. Edit is confirmed. Forty-seven lashes. I'll put her to the vote. Please support and vote. For confirmation, 47 copies. Please support and vote. [[16:16:29]] For 271 Decision taken. Edit is confirmed. Let's move on to voting for the law as a whole. I'll bet you a vote. Ready to vote? Proposal for adoption in second reading and in general with the necessary technical and legal regulations of a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Code of Taxation on the Functioning of the Electronic Cabinet and the Simplification of the Work of Business Persons (Registration No. 2524). Ready to vote? Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[16:17:36]] For 240 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Let's see the factions. The next issue of the agenda is the draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine on the promotion of physical culture and sports (registration number 3550). It is suggested that this issue be considered in a simplified manner. Please support and vote. Is there a need for discussion? Can we vote? Stop the vote, please. Based on the base. And the whole thing? I'll bet on it. Wait, there's no committee decision, now on the ground. I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine on the promotion of physical culture and sports (registration number 3550). Please support and vote. [[16:18:53]] For 330. Decision taken. Wait. The position of the committee, may we in general? I can't hear you. One faction against? [[B in m in s a l in]] Who will read from the committee? And then, in general, we can vote? Dear colleagues. Wait! But I see, Nestor Ivanovich, we're not in school. I'm going to have Olga Saladusi speak up, read out the committee's decision, right? And then we can vote in general. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-14-m1.u93	Dear colleagues, I would like to present the bill as co-author and to express the position of the Committee on Youth and Sports. The purpose of the bill is to create an opportunity for effective functioning of a range of socially important institutions of physical culture and sport that ensure the development of physical culture and sport, the development of a healthy way of life for Ukrainian citizens. To this end, it is proposed that such facilities be granted the right to rent state utility property without an auction under the conditions of maintaining and using rental facilities for the development of physical culture and sports. In addition, the law proposes that the terminology of the Ukrainian Law on Physical Culture and Sports be brought into line with the Ukrainian Education Act. The Committee at its meeting on June 3, 2020, considered a bill by Ukraine to amend some of the laws of Ukraine regarding the promotion of physical culture and sports (registration number 3550). During the discussion of the draft law, members of the committee pointed out that after the validity of the new edition of the Ukrainian Law on State and Municipal Property, the Olympic and Paralympic Training Base, children's, youth sports schools, specialized sports profile education institutions, higher sports schools, Olympic training centres, those who do not have the right to rent state and municipal property without an auction, and this significantly complicates their work, creates additional costs and bureaucratic leverage. The committee decided to recommend a bill to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. At the same time, if the draft decision is adopted, the Supreme Council of Ukraine can accept it as a whole, at best only in September, which threatens the normal functioning of sports establishments. Therefore, we propose to adopt the bill as a basis and as a whole with such changes. Delete paragraph 7 of paragraph 1 of section I of the bill amending article 21 of the Ukrainian Law on Physical Culture and Sport, since the Ukrainian Law on Change of the Ukrainian Law on Physical Culture and Sport (for the activities of the Ukrainian Sports and the Ukrainian Federation of Student Sports) signed by the President of Ukraine on 10 July this year, defines a new edition of this article. In part 4 of article 11 and part 8 of article 26 of the Ukrainian Law on Physical Culture and Sports, replace the words "instructions" with the words "instructions". Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-14-m1.u94	I have a question: is this the committee's decision? The Honourable Head of the Committee. [[B in m in s a l in]] No, wait! This is the committee's decision, did she read it? Turn on the microphone of Cosemyakina. Is that a committee decision?
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-14-m1.u95	Good afternoon, Reverend Dmitri Alexanderovich. Mrs. Ola read the decision now. It was clearly written there, you're a little bit.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-14-m1.u96	It's a committee decision. All of it!
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-14-m1.u97	We said it was in case.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-14-m1.u98	So that no one would say it came out of a voice. The committee's decision was.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-14-m1.u99	No, there's no such thing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-14-m1.u100	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I will now ask you a question, a proposal to vote in favour of this bill in second reading and in general, taking into account proposals. "The Voice" against it? No! No! That's the word, no! What's the word? [[B in m in s a l in]] Against it. Why not? [[B in m in s a l in]] That's what she said. She made all the adjustments. She read the decision. I won't give you a vote. [[B in m in s a l in]] Jaroslav Ivanovich. [[B in m in s a l in]] What? Do you mind? You don't let him vote, do you? [[B in m in s a l in]] No! No! Yes, no! No, I don't. Do you mind? "The Voice" doesn't allow it to be put to the vote as a whole? I mean, Voice doesn't support sports. Is it or is it not? It doesn't. Well, look. [[B in m in s a l in]] All right, then we'll take the question off. First reading. [[B in m in s a l in]] He's not going to give it to me? It's something. All right, dear fellows, thank you. Next question. All of it! The issue of the agenda of the day’s extraordinary meeting of the Supreme Council is exhausted. No, it's not. The Voice is against it. [[B in m in s a l in]] I'm calling it off. [[B in m in s a l in]] Not to me, to my colleagues. Shorten lines? I would like to vote on the proposal to cut by half the time of submission of the rights and proposals and prepare for the second reading of the draft law (registration number 3550). Is that right? Please support and vote. [[16:25:22]] For 307 Decision taken. The next meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed. Please don't break up. Another introductory meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine awaits us.
