ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-01-m0.u1	Good afternoon, dear fellows! Good afternoon, distinguished members of the media! Good afternoon, guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine! I ask all national deputies to take their seats and prepare for registration. Please prepare for registration. As always (those who forgot during the summer break), registration takes place by pressing the green "za" button, is the first to the left. Sergey Volodymyrovich, yes, the support of the opposition is all right. Dear colleagues, please prepare for registration. Are you ready to register? Ready? Please register. [[12:03:18]] Two hundred and ninety - nine national deputies of Ukraine were registered. Dear colleagues, at a meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, participate: members of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine; heads of central executive bodies; leaders of the judiciary; representatives of the judiciary; representatives of the media; heads of diplomatic representations of foreign states and other invited persons. Honorable National Deputies and Guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, in accordance with article 83 of the Constitution of Ukraine, I declare the fourth session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine a public call. [[The National Hymn of Ukraine]] Please sit down. Dear colleagues, the morning plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear colleagues, today we started our work at 12 o'clock, because today, like every year, it's a great day for every family, for every father, for every grandmother, for every mother, it's a Knowledge Day. Our children went to school today. And I would like to remind you all that everything we do in this room we do for the children of Ukraine. So I ask you to use this rule during your work. Well, everybody's having a holiday! [[Applause]] Today we also have two nouns: Vitali Petrovich Bort and Paul Valeriovich Froll. [[Congrats]] [[Congrats]] Health, success as usual, and new victories over the Rules.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-01-m0.u2	Honourable National Deputies of Ukraine, distinguished guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, are invited to the floor by the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Dmitry Alexanderovich Razumkov.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-01-m0.u3	Dear colleagues, first of all, I wanted to congratulate you on a few dates. The first is our year of work together. It's been an unforgivable year for all of us, I'm sure there'll be a lot of challenges in the future, but we've been through it together. We've done a lot of right things. Yes, we made mistakes. But we will face important questions in the future. Probably three of the main ones that we can now figure out is the second wave of the Coronavirus. You all see the number of sick people that we see every day in Ukraine, and unfortunately not only in Ukraine, but in Europe, in the United States, in other continents. And in this regard, without the Supreme Council, it will also be difficult to get out of a crisis situation. Another issue that is also related to the first is the global economic crisis. You and I are going to have a big challenge at this session -- this is the State budget for Ukraine for 2021. I very much hope that both we and the government will do everything in our own time to get the budget approved, and that the state will enter the new year with a worthy fund. This will require not only a profile committee but also all the committees that practice has shown, and during the fight against the coronavirus at the beginning of the epidemic have joined and worked effectively. The third issue, which will also be a serious challenge to the Supreme Council of the Ninth Call in this session, is the local elections. I'm not talking about the legislation that we've approved right now, and the changes that we're going to have to make, I'm talking about politics. The Supreme Council has always been, is, and will be a political body. There will always be a political aspect in making decisions. But I would like to make sure that even during the election campaign, everyone understands that the elections are going through and that the respect of the people will remain or will not remain with us. That's why politics is right. Politics is important. Ratings are important. You and I proved last year that the Ukrainian Parliament can and can work. This was particularly evident when Parliament was working on changes to the budget and on those bills that we were working on in the fixed-term regime all day long in order to adopt at the beginning of the fight against the coronavirus. I'm very proud of our work together. And what we've been able to accept by constitutional majority in the year of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is proof that we can and can work, the main thing is desire. There will be many more tasks that will stand before us and according to this work plan, which was approved by the Supreme Council of Ukraine in the previous session. I realize that the coronavirus, the other challenges facing the state, will prevent us from doing so fully, and this will be primarily related to time. Today’s time may be the most precious and precious aspect of our lives. But I'm sure we'll do the best we can to look at all of this and to approve as much as possible. And I would like both you and myself to wish that in the fourth session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the Ninth Call, we could really unite around valuable things and prove that we will continue to work for the benefit of our nation, which together with the entire Supreme Council, we will be able to prove to ourselves, and to the Ukrainian people that there are strong, powerful, reliable institutions in the country, which are, according to the Constitution, the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And I'm confident that by our daily work, by our fruitful work in committees and in the hall, we can prove not only to Ukraine that the Ukrainian institution of parliamentaryism is effective, capable of responding quickly to challenges and working exclusively in the interests of the Ukrainian state. And we'll only be able to do that by working together. I thank you all and wish you a successful fourth session. [[Applause]] [[B in m in s a l in]] They're not here. It's just a coronavirus.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-01-m0.u4	Dear colleagues, I would like to thank the government and all those who participated in the opening of the fourth session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And we're going back to our daily work. Thank you, distinguished colleagues, thank you, distinguished officials. Dear colleagues, yesterday the MP factions and groups on the Conciliation Council agreed with the suggestions made earlier on our working regime this week. Please don't break up. We're gonna have to make a decision right now. Today we work from the 12th to the 15th without a break. It will now take 30 minutes to speak from the MP factions and groups, as provided by the Rules. On Wednesday, we are working on a regular schedule for the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Thursday we work from 10 to 12, from 12 to 12:30, and then we work until 3:00. Friday morning is the hour of questions to the government, and we're still working until the first hour, and then 30 minutes for inquiries, and 30 minutes for "Variance." If there is no objection, I propose to put this motion to the vote. We need to get 226 votes. Ready to vote? Ready? Please put the above-mentioned proposal to the vote. Please support and vote. [[12:15:21]] For 323 "For" is 322, the decision is made. 323, I'm sorry, the decision is made. Dear colleagues, the first issue of the agenda is Decision 3050a. [[B in m in s a l in]] The speeches, excuse me, are from factions and MPs. According to article 25 of the Regulations of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Tuesday, we have 30 minutes to speak from the MP factions and groups. I'd like you to sign up to the MP factions and groups. Shevchenko Evgeny Volodymyrovich. Dubinsky Alexander Anatolyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-01-m0.u5	Dear colleagues, good afternoon! It is a pleasure to welcome everyone to the start of the new political season. And I want to dedicate my speech today to a very important event that is happening now and that we are paying very little attention to. I'm talking about the decision of the Constitutional Court, which recognized the order to appoint the head of the NABU, Artem Sitnik, as the Director of the National Anti-Corruption Bureau, as unconstitutional. This decree is in fact a final consideration of the constitutionality of the appointment of the Director of the Sitnik NAB and is not subject to accusation. But instead of quitting as Director of the NAB, since Sitnik no longer has such powers and cannot even enter his own office or use a specialty, or car, or claim a salary, we have witnessed an actual constitutional coup when, contrary to the 109th article of the Constitution, Mr. Sitnik acquired the authority of the head of the law enforcement body. In fact, in violation of the Constitution, the Constitutional Court’s decision continues to be the Director of the NABU. A citizen named Sitnik thus violates several articles of the Ukrainian Criminal Code at once. It is also the acquisition of authority, and it is the excess of official duties, which is a direct violation of the Constitution of Ukraine. In fact, after making a statement on the NABA website that he continued to serve as director, Mr. Sitnik creates a constitutional coup. Today he acquires the authority of the Director of NABU, tomorrow he may have the authority of either parliament, or Kabmin, or the President. And the reaction to this attachment has to be very hard. I refer, in this connection, to the heads of the State Bureau of Investigation, to the heads of the Attorney General's Office for the discovery of criminal conduct in connection with the acquisition of authority by Artem Sitnik, and the discovery of criminal conduct for the capture of state power in fact. I also address the President to whom I recorded an open statement yesterday regarding the immediate reaction to such actions by Mr. Sitnik, because it is impossible not to implement the decision of the Constitutional Court in the rule of law. That's the first one. And the second. Since the Constitutional Court has taken a decision to declare unconstitutional the Order concerning the appointment of a Sitnik as Director of NABU, any judgements, any procedural documents signed by him, after the decision of the Constitutional Court will be brought before the European Court of Human Rights. This is a very important question that we need to pay attention to and respond to. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-01-m0.u6	Polakov Anton Eduardoovich. Batenko Taras Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-01-m0.u7	Good afternoon, dear colleagues, dear friends! I think not one of you today saw in the eyes of the children who were sent to school, the indescribable joy with which they went to school today. But since September 1st, obviously, we all live in new realities that we get used to, and our schoolchildren, and we don't forget that we create reality ourselves. Everything we do, we do for our children and for our future. So the parliamentary group "For the Future" urges Parliament to consider immediately the draft Law 3036a on protection in the context of the Crown Crisis, insurance for all education, technical personnel from kindergarten through education and vocational education to universities, and thus to save our educational humanitarian environment, to save our future. Colleagues, in a year's work of parliamentary monogamy, we see rather than real work a simulation of violent activity. The president and the predominant faction have promised to bring order in many areas, and in fact nothing has changed globally. Customs corruption had not been eliminated, although it would have allowed the state budget to be filled at the same time, smuggling was not actually stopped. With a great deal of confidence, the power in power did not dare to break the corrupt system. The Ukrainians never saw the promised new quality of government, rather the contrary, we saw a collapse, a paralysis of such government in places. Impunity provokes officials to continue breaking the law and committing economic crimes. As we know, Ex-Minister of Finance, Igor Umanski, claimed to have a VAT strike, but the current authorities did not actually stop anything about it. Everything that was under the previous authority continues to this day. The state loses billions of dollars of income, making it a constant demand for money from international creditors, entering an even deeper debt hole, and taking on additional demands from external authorities. There is no strategy for the development of nuclear energy, in industry, especially nuclear energy, because it's the cheapest energy in the world. Instead, in the interests of individual oligarchs, we know that the state supports so-called alternative energy, which in Ukraine is four times more expensive than in Europe. And since September 1, we know that the price of gas for the population has increased by 45 percent. And this is actually a test for the strength of society -- whether they survive or not. Especially on the backdrop of the wage increase of up to 277 dollars. What about pensions, what about medicines? How can Ukrainians survive in the promised period of poverty? We realize that the authorities have no answer to these questions. So society is obviously going to answer these questions in the October 25th, 20th local elections, and it's worth appreciating all the efforts of the authorities it's made in this direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-01-m0.u8	Clemensa Julia Leonidivna. Pippa Natalia Romanovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-01-m0.u9	Dear Ukrainians, dear colleagues! I want to support our speaker and propose a decree and a bill that will unite the entire room. I think each one of you remembers his first time in first grade. We've got September 1st, which hasn't been a bit of a nuisance in the last 70 years. As parliamentarians, we have to do everything we can to make sure that our children and our teachers, four million schoolchildren and 400 teachers, are able not to go to the hospital, but to study peacefully. How much has the state so far allocated from the Coronation Fund to 4 million schoolchildren? The answer will surprise you: this is zero bracelets. All the measures taken to protect against the coronary pandemic were at the expense of local budgets. Local budgets are very different, there are 20 children in one school, there are over 2,000 children in one school. And a lot of people say that teachers have to make sure that they don't have to protect themselves from coronary security. The Voice faction has already written a statement, prepared a decree and a bill to amend the budget, so that the Crown Fund will find the money most necessary for our children, also mentioned today by our speaker Razumkov. So I want to say that there are four things that schools need today. These are, of course, antiseptics and masks. The other one. Our teachers have to learn to live in a classroom for a part of the students first, and then they have to do it online. It's an extra load, and we have to pay their wages. Third. We need to find funds to help teachers. And I know that colleagues from other factions have already passed similar bills. We need to find a solution and support our teachers, because after the doctors, they're one of the biggest risks of coronary infection in the group. And the fourth. When will there be a need for remote education? When at least one child or teacher is sick in the classroom, they have to go back to remote education. And for each class, at least one laptop is needed, because the teacher's salary is very rare for people to buy laptops and provide the most necessary. What happened to the Coroner Foundation? We hear the money's all spent, the money's all distributed. There's money in there. They took 5 billion out of education, and we have to get them back. And I want to turn to the minister of education, who asked for 2 billion, but not for him anymore, and to the minister of health, who has a long-standing decision that waits for release and often assumes the authority of the minister of education. We have to do everything we can and find funding in the Coroner Foundation, not 35 billion per road, but from 2 billion to 5 billion per education. Please support the hall. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-01-m0.u10	Sergey Vladislavovich was involved.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-01-m0.u11	Dear colleagues, distinguished listeners, September 1st came whether someone wanted it or not. And the fact that September 1st today began with the money taken from education, yet all the obligations that the State has before the education community must still be fulfilled in front of the children, it is obvious. And so, unfortunately, we should start our work today in order to repay the debt of education, and that would be very symbolic. Why not just because it's September 1st, but because these debts are obvious, taking into account the special learning process this year. I think the second question that answers the question, and where to take money for education, is to stop a bill where 5 billion dollars of government guarantees are actually given to one company. I think it's an unprecedented process, and it was played in the early 1990s, in the early 2000s, when government guarantees were distributed into billions, tens of billions of dollars. Colleagues, look at the statistics on how much of this money has been returned and where these woeful leaders of these state-run enterprises that have washed these funds have not returned to the state a penny and are now hiding abroad. Are we continuing this practice? The Fatherland faction will not vote for such bills. I think there's no less the position of the faction that relates to decisions that are approved and intended for approval at this week and in the coming weeks. Yesterday at the Conciliation Council, I raised the issue of virtually artificial bankruptcy of the best working company in Ukraine, Energoatoma. It is obvious that the company is deliberately bankrupt. It's obvious that the funds that are being drained because of government policies are actually leading this company to the fact that at the end of this year we're going to have to finance this company from the state budget. But let's move on. The government has decided to transfer heat to NAC Naftogaz. So we're going to anandling first by dividing Naftogaz into three companies, and now we're giving heat energy back to NAC Naftogaz? I think it's because of these short decisions that we have, and we have this state of the economy. And the coronavirus is just one of the factors. The key is the position of the government and its policies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-01-m0.u12	Boyko Yuri Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-01-m0.u13	Mr. Speaker, honourable national MPs, in recent weeks we have seen a sharp rise in the threat of the loss of part of statehood and democracy in Ukraine. First of all, the efforts of the President's Office to ban elections in totally peaceful areas controlled by Ukraine, cities and villages of Donetsk and Lugansk regions. 500 000 of our citizens, who last year elected the President-in-Office, the parliamentarians who are in this room today are trying to deprive us of this constitutional right. We will fight for these people so that they can choose the local authority they need. The other one. This is a further attack on the rights of Russian - speaking citizens in our country. The implementation of the Education Act, which has already been adopted by this Supreme Council, contrary to promises of equal rights of citizens, deprives many people of the ability to learn their own language. And our faction has already filed a lawsuit to uphold the constitutional right of our citizens to learn the language they want. The third is the raid of national radicals and terrorist acts that took place last week and before. All these "appearances", "national corps," "centurities" should be seen as terrorist organizations and should be banned in the country because their activities are shameful to the country, frightening people and creating chaos and unkindness in the country. Our faction insists on changing socio-economic policies in the state. We must support people, not meet the demands of external creditors and administrators. And a government that cannot guarantee human rights must be set aside. And the last one must be the main one. Our faction fully supports the armistice at Donbassa and sees it as the first step in bringing the territory and people back into the country, restoring the territorial integrity of our nation. Our faction is ready to adopt laws in parliament that will give this opportunity. And we urge the entire Parliament to live up to its promises to the electorate and to open the way to peace in our country, and accordingly to victory, and to the way forward. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-01-m0.u14	Kulinich Oleg Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-01-m0.u15	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished colleagues, distinguished voters! Today, the fourth session of the Ninth Call begins, and people expect positive changes in the country, and people expect productive work from the Supreme Council. But the Coronavirus pandemic remains the number one problem, and it is the most affected by quarantine, by education, medicine, and small, medium-sized businesses. In small and medium - size businesses, about 700,000 companies were shut down at the start of quarantine. The unemployment rate was 432 thousand. This is 70 percent more than last year. So we expect government action and legislative initiatives that will allow business to work in such difficult conditions. Education. Today, a new educational year has begun, which will go on in completely new and difficult conditions for both students and parents and teachers. However, only August 22 was published in educational institutions. How, then, can school leaders carry out this determination? Who checked educational institutions for anything? How will a child’s ride be carried out, where sanitation, nutrition, will be available? All of these things had to be adjusted and not a week before the start of the new school year. How are we going to do this, or are we going to translate this into local budgets again, as we did before? This is completely wrong, so we expect a government-specific action. Protection of health. The Kowda Fund has allocated only 6 billion dollars to medical supplements. But that's only 9 percent of the overall Kodowski fund. And given that Ukraine now holds third place at the rate of increase in this disease, and most of them are doctors, so that's clearly not enough. There is a need for the execution of the Kabmin 623 Ordinance, which applies to payments to medical personnel. And another very important and painful issue is the social protection of the population. As of January 1, 2021, there will be a transfer of social assistance powers from the social protection offices that we have in the district government, to bodies that are not yet defined. We have a lot of references to the members of our group. I'm personally approached by social workers, people, and they just don't understand how and how people are going to get social assistance. So I personally address the Prime Minister to take this matter under personal control. In the shortest time, it is necessary to complete the process of creating and developing a methodology for the functioning of new social protection bodies. These authorities will ensure that 38 state programs are implemented. There are 67 types of social assistance, and only 5 of them can be obtained through electronic services. Therefore, these questions need to be resolved, and the trust group demands that they be given priority attention. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-01-m0.u16	Klimpush-Cincadze Ivanna Orestovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-01-m0.u17	Dear colleagues, dear Ukrainians! Our country today is in at least three crises. First of all, it's the moral and ethical crisis of today's power. This is when the COVID Foundation is being established victoriously, and then most of the funds of this fund are being diverted to what's called the Big Building, because local elections are approaching. This is when more than 5 billion dollars are taken into education, and then the local authorities are told to provide for themselves both with antiseptics and with school masks. As a result, on September 1st, in the midst of the pandemic, many schools are opening up without means of protection, putting children and teachers at risk. It's when the MlH can't spend the allocated costs, it's when the MlH buys the HlV that will only be delivered in a year. This is when the Supreme Council of Ukraine rejects the "European Solidarity" proposal for medical insurance, and today we have 11,000 medical workers who are being treated at their own expense. So "European Solidarity" registers a bill on the return of funds to education and the protection of educational institutions. The second is the economic crisis. It's not just a crisis, it's because of the underprivileged and unprofessional actions of the governments of the Green Country that go into the economic divide. You can still write everything down populistly on COVID. But I'll remind you that the failure of the budget and the lack of revenue from customs began long before the pandemic. Instead of the promised increase in jobs, we today receive thousands of new unemployed. At the beginning of the pandemic, severe quarantine restrictions killed small and medium - size businesses. And now that things are getting worse compared to spring, reasonable quarantine restrictions are no longer in place. This once again testifies to the incompetence and incompetence of the government. Maybe they'll explain to us when they were wrong, now or then in the spring of "the hour of questions to the government." And the third is the external political crisis. The country of two venues, which, including the current president, and the sizeable majority, have been able to take power in Ukraine, is today unable to express a clear position on the illegality of the election of Lukashenko and to support the Belarusian society. Even though this may have been the case, this authority was not in Maidan, but it was in companies in Russia. The appointment of older members of the Soviet nomenclature to the TCG is surprising. But they're not surprised by their claims that, in fact, the O.P. is alienating itself from these statements, as if it's not an official position. We're demanding the release of Fokin from TCG. What does the President's position on the Wagnerians mean? He has time to go, to deliver mail, to go to football, but there is no time to engage in direct constitutional duties.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-01-m0.u18	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, a statement has been made for a recess with a replacement for the performance.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-01-m0.u19	Dear people of Ukraine! Dear National Deputies! We have a great holiday today, a knowledge day. From this most important rostrum of our country, we want to welcome our educators, our heroes, who put their soul and heart into our children every day, taking care of them, bringing up their young but already real Ukrainians. We want to welcome our scientists, who, every day, despite all the problems and constant underfunding, continue to create real Ukrainian science. Education and science, we all know, is the driving force of any society. Unfortunately, in our country, the development of education and science has never been a priority, and these areas have always been underfunded. That's not supposed to happen. Now we're all going through difficult times. But together, we will be able to cope with all the challenges. Today, educated people need the help of the state more than ever. Now all the attention of the Committee on Education, Science and Innovation is focused on the formation of the State Budget. I am now addressing the Prime Minister of Ukraine and the whole of the Cabinet. Mr. Prime Minister, when preparing the State Budget, which you have to submit to the Supreme Council by September 15th, for the implementation of the Ukrainian Education Act, take into account the mandatory increase in salaries for teachers and educators. That's the first one. And second, the main thing is what we need to say right now and what we need to do. Today, education institutions work in the context of the Coronavirus pandemic. The funding of the organization of safe learning conditions is placed on the founders, that is, the local budgets. To this day, we must support local budgets because we see that not all of them are coping with the problem. To support local budgets, therefore, it is absolutely necessary to allocate funds from the COVID fund. We have been addressing the Prime Minister with parliamentary questions, and I am now addressing him from this rostrum, if he has not yet seen the question, let him hear me now. So let's do everything with you to support education and science in Ukraine, to support our future with you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-01-m0.u20	Dear colleagues, invite the national deputies to the hall, prepare for the consideration of the issue of the day’s order. You are invited to consider the draft Order on the Order of the Day of the Fourth Session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the Ninth Call (register No. 3050a). Can we vote without discussion? A minute is Yvchenko, and after that. The minute is Yvchenko, the minute is Coltunovich, and we will vote. Yeah, no objection? None. Isn't that right? Yvchenka, turn on the microphone for a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-01-m0.u21	Thank you, Mr. Head. But at the same time, once again, I want to remind you that "fatherland" is not going to support this decision. Colleagues, we submitted 169 drafts during our release, of which only 64 were included in this decree. What does that mean? This means that you do not allow the opposition to submit drafts in further consideration at the meeting of the Supreme Council. It is not enough that our bills that we have tabled over the course of this year have not been discussed in committees for years, just in the first reading or in the previous consideration. That's why I'm asking you, Mr. Head, to give you a direct order so that all the bills that have long been on the committees can be considered and be included in the ruling. Dmitry Alexanderovich, I'm addressing you, please give me this assignment. This will be fair, and you will provide opposing deputies with their professional work, they will submit.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-01-m0.u22	Coltunovich Alexander.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-01-m0.u23	Coltunovich, "The Opposition Platform for Life." Our faction will not vote in favour of this draft decree. In our view, those draft laws that are proposed will neither help to resolve the conflict in specific areas of Donetsk, Luhansk region, nor help to overcome poverty. And let's be honest, with such draft laws, the economy of Ukraine will not fly. So from this point of view, we insist that our draft laws be incorporated, which are aimed at: (a) overcoming poverty, and (b) overcoming the tariff genocide, and (c) this is certainly a question of peace within the country. That economic pool that today, the crisis that is, is the result of the work of the year that we've already worked here. So let's not repeat the mistakes of the previous year and form the order of the day of the next session exclusively from those draft laws that will stimulate the modernization and economic growth of the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-01-m0.u24	Thank you. The potter's a minute. Then we go to the vote. Please invite the national deputies to the hall. Ladies and gentlemen, please invite the national deputies to the hall. Hončarenko Alexyyyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-01-m0.u25	Alexei Hotcharenko, European Solidarity. Where's the day-to-day V.C.C. for Wagnerians? An extremely important issue that concerns the country today is that there has been treachery at the highest level in the leadership of the state. Where is the interim commission of inquiry whose project has been submitted? Where is the Billorus draft, which was submitted by the Interfractional Union for Democratic Belarus, and which provides for the non-recognition of the August 9 elections in Belarus? The whole world has responded. There is the decision of the Polish Seym, the Lithuanian Seym, the European Parliament, the decision of the European Union. Sanctions are under way against Lukashenko, who runs with a machine gun and shoots his own people, runs through the Presidential Palace. And only Ukraine is silent, which is Belarus’s largest neighbor. And for us, the question of national security, what's going on there, when Lukashenko gives up the country of Putin. Where's the decision on Belarus? We demand that it be placed in the order of the day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-01-m0.u26	Let's go to the vote. Please take your seats. Prepare for the vote, distinguished national MPs. According to the part of the first article 21 and the part of the first article 22 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules, a draft order of the day - to - day fourth session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is submitted for approval by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Dear colleagues, I put to the vote, to take a decision on the entire draft Decree (Registration No. 3050a) on the order of the day of the fourth session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the ninth call. Ready to vote? Not all of them yet, I see. Is everyone ready? Please support and vote. [[12:48:11]] For 243 Decision taken. Thank you, Your Honor. Let's see the factions. Dear colleagues, there have been two statements from MPs and groups about a break with a replacement for the performance. Six minutes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-01-m0.u27	Ladies and gentlemen, many of you believe that my speech will be dedicated to my burning car on Friday, but I will save your time, and I will not raise this subject. I just want to say that I accept the challenge and I won't forgive anyone. I'm pretty sure the country's going to break down. We have yet to have any national strategy, or plan for the future. It's embarrassing, but the only strategic document that can explain where Ukraine's going is that we have to think of President Zelensky's program on the CBC site. Let's sum up what a country of dreams called "Let's make them together" differs from the sad reality of "Ukraine is you." Instead of the promised removal of the integrity from the President, the MPs and the judges, only the opposition deputies were left untouchable. The promises of no shortcuts and phone rights have revealed that they do not apply to the management of the Ukrainian President’s Office, which uses cover numbers for its private cars. It is by telephone that Jermak gives instructions on whom to open cases, whom to close, whom to appoint, and whom to release. The judicial branch of power thus became a servant of the President even in the raiding of the NABU. Green said, "For the sake of national interests, there can be no negotiations." Today it sounds like abuse when the President's Office is headed by Mr. Jermak, an agent of the Russian Federation's GRU, who is testing the planned betrayal through Kravczuk and Fokin. The fight against camaraderie was almost over on the first day of the appointment of Bakanova's Quartermaster as Head of the SBA, which led Greens' protection under the control of the shadow economy, to the illegal circulation of alcohol, drugs, smuggling, trade in ORDLO, rackets and the raiding of business. I quote, "The law enforcement authorities should stop doing economic pressure on business. The U.S.A. will not engage in economic crimes." Turns out it will if it's convenient. In addition, the president appointed his neighbor’s sister, who had recorded his estate in Italy, to run the Antimonopal Committee, which was called upon to create the promised freedom of competition. Instead of energy dependency, the government shut down the AES energy grids so that the main oligarch of the country does not lose the status of the richest person in Europe. At the same time, the 39 billion dollars in damage from Rotterdam+ becomes a negative in the Ukrainians' pockets. Let's move on to zero tolerance for corruption. In this country alone, Zelensky, it turns out, is tolerant of the fact that the Chief of the President's Office is the main corrupter in the state. But it was the President’s wish that Jermak’s OPG be robbed of the country without penalty. What about the promised open public office competitions? Instead, the embossed, depraved, "mare" corrupts are assigned to customs, taxes and all the other corrupt "hours" by the coronavirus. How else could it be if the Yanukovich clans came to the Council instead of the promised new faces that you are now leading, Mr. President? You are personally responsible for the persecution of public activists, journalists, and opposition political organizations. I'm not going to count a whole bunch of declared reforms, because you're obviously as far away from the interests of Ukraine as you are from fighting corruption. But let's be honest: who is the German without Zelenski? It's actually the President's conscious choice to have him do all his dirty corruption work. Is it true that Jermak disagrees with the President of the Watchers? Does Zelensky not know what ministers serve other ministers? Mr. President, if you don't mind, you didn't start fighting the old system, you just got mixed up with it. You have infected the entire country with your germs and bacteria by turning it into an oligarca envelope. You leased the country to these oligarchs, which you signed your own sentence with. And you've become an empty place in history. It is clear that there will be no landings, and the Ukrainians will soon be determined that they do not want to meet you next spring. And finally. Mr. President, I only have one question for you: Aren't you ashamed?
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-01-m0.u28	Dear colleagues, you are invited to consider the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the State Budget for Ukraine 2020 on the provision of health and rest for children who need special attention and support (registrations 3819, 3819-1). It is suggested that this issue be considered in a simplified manner. Please support and vote. Wait. Take your seats. Wait, don't turn it on. Ready to vote? Ready to vote? Short-term procedure. Please support and vote. [[12:55:09]] For 249 Decision taken. The report is given to the national deputy of Ukraine, Dmitri Oksani Alexandrovni.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-01-m0.u29	Dear people's deputies, dear Ukrainians, today September 1st – Knowledge Day, our children went to school after a long quarantine, to a new school and new conditions. The world has faced such challenges, and we must respond to them. According to the National Academy of Medical Sciences of Ukraine, 80 percent of school graduates have chronic diseases. This sad picture is exacerbated by the coronavirus pandemic. Because to resist the disease requires a place of health and immunity. It is vital that Ukrainian schoolchildren have access to health and recreation. 21 days in a camp at sea or in mountains is the minimum that every child should receive to strengthen the body. Every year, only 15 percent of Ukrainian children have the opportunity to go to health, both at the expense of government and local budgets, charity, and their own resources. The budget provides only one percent of the children with health care. Now that a large number of families in connection with COVID-19 are in financial distress and have no opportunity to pay for the recovery of children, children are deprived of the ability to rest and recover. These children need special attention and support; we live for our children. That's why by Bill 3819 we propose that we be able to go to the health and rest of the children's camps in the Carpathians, on the coasts of the Black Sea and the Azova Sea to orphans, to children who are involved in hostilities, to children with disabilities, to low-income and multi-child families, to all those who should be cared for by the State. We suggest that additional funds be made available for recovery. These are in the budget, we're not taking them away from anyone, because this program is going to be funded by increasing VAT revenue. Colleagues, September 1st. On the first day of the fourth session, on Knowledge Day, we can give a gift to many Ukrainian schoolchildren. Please support Bill 3819, it's really necessary. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-01-m0.u30	The National Deputy of Ukraine, Royal Natalia Yuriovna, is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-01-m0.u31	Dear colleagues, today September 1, and children were mentioned in this room. Like in that fairy tale, "The summer of the red saw, it didn't work out as winter rolled into the eyes." So is our Supreme Council. The healing season is over, and we're starting to look at how to give the right to tear down the child recovery program. Dear colleagues, well, we all understand very well that the budget has already been spent, including from the Coronary Fund. Schools have not been prepared for the school year, and four million children have not been fully protected since today in our country. No one has protected or protected doctors, since no one has allocated funds. Salaries in the country today amount to 3 billion 400 million. It's a record label for all years of independence. You've decided to lift the tariffs since September 1st. Industry is now at a disadvantage, and unemployment is raging. And we're starting a session of the new Supreme Council by looking at the program as a way of curing children. Dear colleagues, well, is it enough to experiment? Perhaps the time has come to resolve the issues that are now on time in the country? That is why we demand a report from the government. The government's report on the preparation of children by September 1st, the economic and social situation in the country, and where the money we gave them for the Crown Fund, and they didn't put all that money in our country. Everything else is just talk today. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-01-m0.u32	Dear colleagues, the Head of the Committee on Budget Issues of the Distinguished Lesia Valentinovna is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-01-m0.u33	Good afternoon, dear colleagues. Let us all welcome the festival because it applies to all of us, for we must learn every day and wish for all our strength. The July 17th Committee on Budget Affairs, therefore, considered Bill 3819. Amendments to the Law on the State Budget for 2020 provide that the general fund for the establishment of a budget allocation of 180 million dollars for the new budget programme for the recovery and rest of children, which require special attention and support in the children's institutions of Zacarpatski, Ivano-Frankovsky, Lviv region and the Black and Azov Seas. The source of such additional expenses is an increase in the amount of income from the added value of the goods produced, taking into account the current status of implementation of the annual plan for this tax. The legislative proposal is balanced by the revenue and expenditure of the state budget. There are conclusions from the Chief Research Administration and the Ministry of Finance. As a result of the consideration, the committee adopted such a decision. To recommend to the Supreme Council Bill 3819 to adopt as a basis and generally as a law, taking into account the committee's proposals, as noted in the committee's letter to the bill. Appropriately, at the time of adoption of the draft budget bill by the Committee on Budget Issues, together with the Chief Legal Authority of the Supreme Council, all technical and legal clarifications relating to the approved committee's decision on the bill should be made at the time of signature of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Please be supportive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-01-m0.u34	Thank you. Dear colleagues, there is a need to discuss, is that what I understand? Please sign up: two in, two in. Please, National Deputy Ariev Vladimir Igorovich, faction of the political party "European Solidarity". Stepan Ivanovich of Cuba, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-01-m0.u35	Your Honor, my fellow Members, I would like to say that the faction of European Solidarity will support Bill 3819. The other one. The state budget for 2020 to ensure the recovery of children who need special attention is important. And the start that we have to take into account in the formation of the budget in 2021, which has to be introduced by 15 September 2020, because the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine is carrying out a financial policy of social protection and ensuring the level of conditions of all forms of ownership, and it is logical to extend in the 21st and further years the level of rights of the block. At the same time, what I'm trying to say is that in the mountainous regions of the region, the places that are assigned to the mountain categories in Zakarpatska, Ivano-Frankivsky, Lviv and the Black Sea coasts and the Azov Seas say that the increase over the last four months, the Ministry of Finance warns that there may be unused funds. Then it turns out once again that it's appropriate to take this into account for next year's budget. At the same time, what I want to say is that the introduction of the new budget programme "Child Health and Recreation" in the areas I was talking about is that, according to the requirements of part two of article 8 of the Budget Code, the central authority ensures the formation and implementation of public financial and budgetary policies. I also propose that the budget for the 21st year should be considered and that a three-year perspective should be taken into account for the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-01-m0.u36	Thank you. Please give the floor to the National Deputy Pavelek Jury Alexiyovich, the faction of "The Opposition Platform for Life."
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-01-m0.u37	Honorable Presidium, distinguished national MPs! The faction supports the bill in the first reading. At the same time, we want to stress a number of important warnings. First. I'll remind you that when an appropriate budget program was introduced in the State budget for the recovery and rest of children in the Young Guard and Artek health camps, it was then directed to the preservation and protection of these two state camps from total destruction. She carried out her mission at that time. Instead, the budget programme proposes to expand the list, except for two, the only two state camps, to other children's health facilities, I understand, both private and communal and other property, and this is done under cover of the recovery of children with special needs, which is not very good in terms of authors. At the same time, this situation has matured, and even more healthful situations in recent years have shown that unfortunately, the Cabinet of Ministers has failed to cope with the program of child recovery in Ukraine by failing it. This is what happened this year, and although this is partly or more related to the COVID-19 pandemic, along with the inability of the governments of the last two to adopt operational decisions, rapid decisions to support children's health camps today have put them on the verge of survival. That's why I'm stressing that this program should be funded. On August 14th, I'm pointing out that we passed the law to redistribute these funds to Artec and the Young Guard. It's been over a month, and Kabin hasn't approved until now the order that will finance and support Artek and Young Guards, actually destroying them today. I'm calling on the government to immediately unlock the funding system for the Artec and Young Guard labour teams. Your inaction is destroying today.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-01-m0.u38	People's MP, Anton Eduardoovich, For the Future, please, Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-01-m0.u39	Dear colleagues! Anton Polyakov, 206th District, Political Party for the Future. The Political Party for the Future, the MP, will undoubtedly support the bill on the implementation of child welfare, which needs special attention and support. And we realize that the fact that only 22,000 children have been provided with public health funds in the past year is just a drop in the sea. We also realize that the state is unable to provide 4 million schoolchildren with this same cure right now, but at least to pay attention to children who need this attention, we will certainly be supported. I would also like to draw your attention to the fact that today we have tabled a bill from a parliamentary group that defines measures to ensure proper prevention, diagnostics and treatment of children with diabetes. Because now we're talking about a recovery that very many families can't afford, because we understand that 60 percent of Ukrainians, according to the UN estimates, live outside the poverty line, and this is about treatment. And the MPs are asking all the MPs in the hall to sign the SEDO and support this bill, because it's about improving the care of patients with medical supplies, children, and medical supplies for children with diabetes. Many majors know when parents with sick children came to them for diabetes, how they were treated in hospitals, and how they were treated. We have, like abroad, no, their fingers pierced straight-up. And we ask you to support not only the healing but also the treatment of children who have.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-01-m0.u40	Ivchenko Vadim Evgenovich. Then we go to the vote for the bill. Please invite the national deputies to the hall. More wanters. "Trust" more. There are no more. Yvchenko, Bakunek, and we vote. Please invite the national deputies to the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-01-m0.u41	Vadim Ivchenko, Fatherland. People, their lives, their health is the highest value in Ukraine. That's what the Constitution says. And I thank my colleagues, including the "Fatherland" faction of Ivan Krulk and Michael Zimbaluku, for registering the bill. But, colleagues, you and I have allocated 66 billion to the COVID Fund. And that's what we had to do. But for the time being, 16 billion of us are the only ones we've used for the Ministry of Health, for the protection of doctors, for the medical profession, for the clothing industry, and so on, 1.2 billion of us have gone to the Ministry of Social Policy, and 7 billion have been sent to the Unemployment Fund. And the other money we sent to COVID? And that's what my colleagues are talking about. And today, colleagues, we have our children in school on September 1st, and who is to ensure the safe stay of our children in schools? It's a function of the state. Instead, the State transferred this function to the local authorities. And that's what we need to talk about on September 1. And it's important enough that we understand that COVID is nowhere to be found, every day reports that tens, hundreds, thousands of people, even in our room today, are still sick. My colleagues, I want you to know that social insurance funds also need funds. You passed the law where you froze the payout today. What, though, do people who have temporarily lost their breadwinner need? What money is not needed for medical or medical supplies? You've frozen social security funds today, and you don't want to admit it. But at the moment, you're channeling money into roads and big buildings. I'll finish and I'll tell you. Health and man is the highest value. Human-centred approaches and policies must be introduced. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-01-m0.u42	Bacunec Pavel Andryovich is motivated. And let's go to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-01-m0.u43	Paul Bakunec, Jovkovsky, Yavorovsky district, MP group "Trust". Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues, you and I have a lot to say that young people are our future. And today, September 1, on Knowledge Day, we can prove, not in words, but in your actual actions, that we care for young people. A hundred years ago, a great Ukrainian named Andrei Sheptic took care of the recovery and development of young people, and urged others to do so. So I invite all of us to join in, and today my real step is to help thousands of Ukrainian children to recover. Since there were quarantine restrictions in summer, children will be healed in autumn. The Trust MP Group supports this bill and will vote in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-01-m0.u44	Let's go to the vote. Take your seats, prepare for the vote, please. Ready to vote? Dear colleagues, this bill is proposed for adoption as a whole. Is there no objection? None. I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the State Budget for Ukraine 2020 on the provision of health and rest for children who need special attention and support (registration No. 3819). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[13:14:41]] For 339 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, I'm voting on a proposal for acceptance as a whole. That's what they're asking, dear fellows. Natalia Yuriovna, I understand that yours has not been accepted, but maybe we should let the children go? Natalia Yuriovna, let's not. [[Applause]] Natalia Yuriovna, you see, the hall is addressing you. Natalia Yuriovna, she's not going to give anything short because next week is not a plenary. You're the one who's pulling the plug for a month. Come on. You see how well they voted. Thank you, Natalia Yuriovna. I am voting on the proposal for adoption as a whole, taking into account the Committee's proposals and the necessary technical and legal remedies, the draft Law amending the Ukrainian Law on the State budget for 2020 on the health and rest of children in need of special attention and support (registration No. 3819). Please support and vote. [[13:16:12]] For 325 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. I would also like to thank the authors for this bill, and Natalia Juryovni Kraljevska for her position. Thank you, Natalia Yuriovna. Next draft of the law. Dear colleagues, you are invited to consider a draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on the protection of the rights of orphans, children deprived of parental care who are disabled (registration number 3594, 3594-1). It is suggested that this issue be considered in a simplified manner. Please support and vote. [[13:17:05]] For 247 Decision taken. Deputy Minister of Social Policy of Lebedtsev Boris Borisovich is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-01-m0.u45	Good afternoon, Your Honor! Ladies and gentlemen, your attention is given to the draft Act (number 3594) amending certain legislation on the protection of the rights of orphans, children deprived of parental care who are disabled. The bill is designed to improve the social protection of orphans, children deprived of parental care who are disabled. The bill proposes to amend articles 256 prime. 3 "Admission Children", 256 prime. 7 "Children of the Family House" of the Family Code of Ukraine and article 31 of the Ukrainian Law on the provision of organizational and legal conditions for the social protection of orphans and children deprived of parental care" regarding the possibility of persons with disabilities to live and be raised in foster families, family-type children up to 23 years of age, whether they are trained in vocational or vocational education or higher education institutions. Helpful. To date, 23 people who turned 18 in 2020 are 29 people in 2021. The implementation of the bill will have a positive impact on orphans, children deprived of parental care, who cannot work or learn in health, but can live and be raised in foster families, foster homes of the family type until they are 23 years old. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-01-m0.u46	Thank you. The National Deputy of Ukraine, Royal Natalia Yuriovna, is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-01-m0.u47	Dear colleagues, we've studied the Bill of Government 3391 and I want to point out that it's relevant. But unfortunately, it's very fragmented and doesn't adequately address the problem of social support and the provision of guarantees to children who need our protection today, because everyone here, I think, will agree that the social protection system for this category of children and families with children is a complex issue. And to address this issue in a comprehensive manner is to implement the 91st United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Child and the obligations our country has assumed. Unfortunately, I want to remind everyone that since 2014, the social protection of children and the support of motherhood have simply been cynically excluded from the government's priorities. And fewer and fewer Ukrainian families today have the right and the opportunity to be socially secure and to receive guarantees and support from the State. Thus, a huge deterrent and socially unjust factor today is that in 2014 social guarantees and benefits for families with children, including many children, were placed on the basis of the total income of the average family. Similarly today, families were divided — where there are many children; where they are accepted; where there are children’s homes of the family type. In doing so, these families today have been deprived of the right to receive support from the State. So in our alternative bill, we've discussed this more comprehensively. And we offer to support it because a child under 23 has the right to live with his family, and to cut off today's dependence on the social support of many children and foster families, children with disabilities from total family income. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-01-m0.u48	Head of the Committee on Humanities and Information Policy of Ryabukh Tetjan Vasilovna, please come to the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-01-m0.u49	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs! First of all, I want to welcome the students and my colleagues, the teachers of Ukraine. Dear Educators! I sincerely welcome you to the start of your new school year! In quarantine this year is a new exam for you, I'm sure you'll pass it successfully and differently. I wish you success and an interesting new school year! And take care of yourself and the most expensive thing we have is our children. Now for the bill. The Committee on Humanities and Information Policy considered Bills 3594 and 3594-1 at its meeting on July 2, this year. The Committee certainly supports the basic idea of legislation on the rights of orphans and children deprived of parental care who are disabled, to continue living in foster homes, in foster homes, in family-type children up to 23 years of age. According to the committee, however, the issue of the future fate of such individuals — 23 years of age — remains unresolved. Therefore, the Committee recommends to the Supreme Council that the bill 3594 be adopted on the basis of legislation and that it be finalized in part to ensure that such persons are provided with social, medical, rehabilitation and other services that will enable them to continue to enjoy an adequate standard of living. The main scientific and expert office has made a number of comments about the bill that can be taken into account in the second reading. I want to point out that the bill deals with 23 orphans and children deprived of parental care who have a disability. The following year there will be 29. A solution to this question requires a small amount of government budget expenditure. So please support the committee's decision and adopt Bill 3594 as a basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-01-m0.u50	Thank you, Aunt Vasily. Dear colleagues, please sign up for the factions, two for, two for, two against, for the performance. Kucherenko Aleksei Yuriovich Cimbaluk Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-01-m0.u51	Mikhailo Cimbaluk, Fatherland. Your Honor, Mr. Head, Your Honor, the National Deputies! An extremely important legislative initiative by the Ministry of Social Policy. When it comes to children who are deprived of parental care, orphans with disabilities who are in family homes or are adopted are faced with the problem that after 18 years, if they are unable to learn under health conditions, they really have no place to go. And thanks to the authors, I would like to ask all of us to take into account the second reading of both the scientific expertise and the experts who know about the child's rights in this session room. I would like to point out that the bill should specify that they are not obliged to be in such houses, but that they may be in such houses, because children with disabilities, after completion of their studies, have to remain under the care of the State, without the help of the State, they will not be able to do so. And not only should we refer to local authorities and local authorities, but we should not forget that this is a fundamental task of the State itself. The Fatherland faction supports both bills and will vote in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-01-m0.u52	Sussun Inna Romanovna Samantha Anatolyevna Bobrowska? Please turn on Bobrovsky's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-01-m0.u53	Good afternoon! Thank you. First of all, welcome to the first day of September and to the Knowledge Day. And I'm very sorry that there are calls in this room for volunteer battalions, especially the volunteer battalion "Azow," because I think my colleagues have forgotten how they're sitting in this room and where children today, especially in the Donetsk and Lugansk areas, and in Mariupola, in particular, are going to school. But back to the content of the bill, the Voice faction will support the bill. It's not enough to support the government bill itself. We believe that he is long - mature, long - needed, and every time we emphasize that the state itself should show its care and attention to children who are deprived of their parents. who have no parents or are orphans and who are disabled. So definitely in favour, let's vote first and second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-01-m0.u54	Pauline. Ah, Shufrich. Suffritch Nestor Ivanovich. That's how he is now. Pavlenko Yuri Alexiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-01-m0.u55	Dear Mr. Head, honourable national deputies, in fact, on the one hand, are technical laws and, on the other hand, the fate of 23 children. We will support this law both on the basis and in general. But what does the law say about government? And the government actually admits that it doesn't have any programs, any forms of support for young people with disabilities, and not just children's homes of family type or foster families and any young person. But in this case this responsibility for continuing to support these children under 23 years of age, they rely on foster parents and foster parents. Both honor and glory to these people who have actually given these children a new life, a new quality of life. At the same time, I point out that there are serious disasters in the country today. On the one hand, a program of so - called deinstitutionalization begins and is being actively implemented when the internal institutions, on the other hand, the government, local administrations have failed to develop family forms of parenting, no new foster families, no foster homes of family type are being created, and national adoptions are declining. And here's the third term. They want to ratify the Hague Convention of Interstate Adoption. If we do not manage ourselves, let us send children abroad for adoption. So I'm noting that today is a serious conversation about protecting the support of orphans, children deprived of parental care, and the realization of their right to raise a family. There is also an administrative reform that destroys the care and care system. So, honourable colleagues, we are voting for this, but I demand serious work to protect the child's right to be brought up in an orphan family and deprived of parental care. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-01-m0.u56	Thank you, Yuri Alexiovich. Zbrodsky Mikhailo Vitaliovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-01-m0.u57	Dmitry Alexanderovich, please, the word of Mikoli Knieżicki.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-01-m0.u58	Princey.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-01-m0.u59	Dear colleagues, I've taken care of the Children's and Children's Street Center for quite some time, and we've often encountered the fact that a child who lives in the family lives in our home after reaching the age of 18, if she hasn't entered a higher education facility or even entered, but is lonely in this town, she should actually be on the street. It's really a very relevant and necessary bill, and today it's only about 23 people, but it's really about principles. This bill will not require large financial obligations, since the cost of the child is 4 thousand,436 dollars a month and is now paid up to 18 years of age, and the bill proposes to pay up to 23 years of age. Because of this faction of European Solidarity, the first reading will support this bill. We also support a number of claims contained in the alternative bill, because the attitude toward children of complex families shows our attitude toward our society toward children without parents. We urge you to vote yes in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-01-m0.u60	Thank you, Mikola Leonidovich. For reasons like Polekov, I see, Shahov. Wait a minute, don't turn it off. Are they still willing to make a statement? None. Now we have two speeches with a motive, and then we go to the vote. Please invite the national deputies to the hall. Polakov Anton Eduardoovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-01-m0.u61	Dear colleagues, the parliamentary group of the "For the Future" political party will undoubtedly support all social initiatives, including the protection of orphans. But what I'm saying is that this bill, which was perfectly designed by Kabmin, all the groundwork, the influence, the conclusions, everything is. You can even applaud Smigal, as it was yesterday at the PARK KVC with the "ministers of the people." And we want to do the same perfectly, our Schmigal has developed the government program, and it's also ideally allocated for medicine, and it's also ideally raised the pension of a thousand 712 bracelets, the minimum subsistence minimum of two thousand 100 dollars. Similarly, our government should pay attention to all areas of Ukraine, the economy, all businesses and budgeters. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-01-m0.u62	Thank you. Shahov Sergei Volodymyrovich. Then we go to the vote. Invite the national deputies to the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-01-m0.u63	Sergey Shahov, Luhanščina, Deputy Group "Trust". Dear colleagues, surely, the "Trust" Group will support this bill. We have to support orphans, and not only, there are no foreign children. Our reception center, 26 of which are in the Luhansk region, is supported by parents every day. And recently, thousands of parents and women who have been left alone have turned to us, saying that they have taken the money away from them, and the state wants them to be returned. A single mother who doesn't pay today's alimony that's in trouble. This is not the case with one hand and another hand with another hand. You have to have those "keepmordials" sitting in the cabinets, getting 2 million dollars a month's salary, that's at the Crucifixion or at the Naftogaz of Ukraine, a half a billion dollars a day getting a bonus, getting back into the state, and giving the kids a normal life, okay?
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-01-m0.u64	Dear colleagues, let's go to the vote. Take your seats. We are now putting the vote on the ground. After that, it was suggested that the deadlines for the application of the rights and suggestions and preparations for the second reading should be reduced by half to a minimum of two factions. I understand that no one will mind. Everyone agrees. Dear colleagues, I am voting on a proposal for adoption based on the Committee's proposals for a bill amending some Ukrainian legislation on the protection of the rights of orphans, children deprived of parental care who are disabled (registration number 3594). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[13:35:28]] For 340. Decision taken. Dear colleagues, I am voting on the proposal: in accordance with part two of article 116 of the Supreme Council's Rules on the Reduction of Half of the Periods of Offering and Rights and Preparations for the Second Reading of the Bill, registration number 3594. Please support and vote. [[13:36:04]] For 335 Decision taken. Show the factions, please. The People's Party is 215, the Opposition Platform for Life is 24, the European Solidarity Party is 23, the Father's Party is 16, the Future, 15, the Voice is 17, the Trust is 15, the Non-Factional Party is 10. The next issue of the agenda is the draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine that regulate the relations related to obtaining documents of a permissive nature (registration number 0897). A member of the Committee on Education, Science, and Innovation, Ivan Grigorovich, is invited to the rostrum. Would you please tell me who's going to insist on what they're doing? You won't insist? Then I'll bet you, dear fellows.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-01-m0.u65	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues! It is likely a unique case in practice when a bill prepared for consideration by the chairman will now put forward a proposal for the rapporteur to vote with yellow buttons. My friends, I remind you, 2015 was a year of radical reform in the area of deregulation, in the area of arbitrary procedures. Normative acts have been adopted to unlock economic development. But not all of them went as easily as they seemed. This bill, which is now being presented, refers to arbitrary procedures that touch on a very sensitive subject — environmental protection, animal world and GMOs. The government introduced it in early 2015. With great difficulty in the hall he went through the first reading, and to the second reading, the number of times he was not tried to enter the hall, there were no votes. Because it was simply impossible to settle what was written there without breaking the Rules. So to clear the field for further work in this area.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-01-m0.u66	Ivan Grigorovitch, I'm sorry. I'll do it now. Ivan Grigorovitch, I can't give you extra time, then others will ask. Thank you for your position. Dear colleagues, I, as usual, am voting on the committee's proposal. It is: accept as a foundation. But the author of the bill made a proposal to vote "yellow" and to abstain. I think we should consider the opinion of a distinguished national MP. Is there no objection? I am voting on the proposal to adopt, in the second reading and in general with the necessary technical and legal rights, the draft Law amending certain laws of Ukraine which regulate relations relating to the obtaining of documents of a permissive nature (registration No. 0897). Ready to vote? Please identify and vote. [[13:39:34]] For-7. The decision is not taken. The law is rejected. Thank you, Ivan Grigorovich. Dear colleagues, you have been invited to consider the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Performing Conduct (as regards the obligation of the performer to carry out the indexation of the size of alimony determined by the court in a fixed amount of money) (registration number 3112). The chairman of the Committee’s Committee on Legal Policy, Fris Igor Pavlovich, is invited to the rostrum. Amendment number 2, Yvchenko. Is he insisting? Don't insist. Batenko, 5 o'clock. Royal, 6 lashes. Didenko, 7th edition. Cymbaluk, 8th Amendment. Please turn on the Zimbaluku microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-01-m0.u67	Mikhailo Cimbaluk, Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-01-m0.u68	One minute, Mikhail Mikhailovich. Dear colleagues, don't break up, there's literally another amendment and if the author insists. Please stay in the hall. Tsymbaluk.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-01-m0.u69	Mikhailo Cimbaluk, Fatherland. My dear reporter, I want to say first of all that the bill is important, and that's precisely in the direction that today September 1st and the protection of children's rights, it's about paying alimony for those who are not a good father or mother. My amendment relates to the obligation of the contractor to calculate the amount of debt and alimony payments each month and to index alimony in accordance with part of the first article. My amendment was not fully taken into account, and I would therefore ask for it to be put to the vote. And in general, we support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-01-m0.u70	Thank you. I'm betting on the vote number 8 of the people's representative of Tsimbaluka. It's rejected by the committee. Please identify and vote. [[13:42:07]] For-93 No decision taken, no correction counted. Amendment number 12 of the national MP Ivchenka. He insists. Please turn on the microphone. And then we go to the vote, invite the people's deputies to the hall. Please turn on the Vadim Evgenovich microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-01-m0.u71	Yvchenko, Fatherland. Colleagues, I want to tell you that since the beginning of the 20th year, government contractors have brought for the benefit of children, for example, 84 million in Poltavšina, 55 million in the sums, 50 million in Montenegro. It's an important bill. In the 18th year, we voted an appropriate law, where we're talking about that if you don't pay the elements for three months, the underpaid person won't be able to make any property withdrawal deal, he's going to have public consequences. The resident of the registry is denied any transaction in the form of a transport vehicle, and if you have four months, you're denied entry abroad, and if you don't, you can't even deny a mother's export. An important law, let's support it. And I thank the committee for taking into account the editorial revisions of Fatherland. Thank you, colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-01-m0.u72	Thank you. Do you insist on voting? Don't insist. Dear colleagues, we are going to vote in favour of the law as a whole. Please take your seats, prepare for the vote. You are invited to consider a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act "On Executive Conduct" (with regard to the obligation of the performer to carry out an index of the size of alimony determined by the court in a solid amount of money). It is suggested that we accept it in the second reading and in general with the necessary technical and legal rights. Bill 3112 registration number. Ready to vote? Is everyone ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[13:44:25]] For 321 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Thank you. The next issue of the agenda is the draft Act amending the Final and Transitional Provisions of the Ukrainian Electricity Market Act on the supply of electricity to ensure the operation of the common property of a multi-family residential building (registration number 2098). The chairman of the Committee on Energy and Housing is invited to the rostrum. Edit number one, Minko. Don't insist. Amendment number four, County. Don't insist. Amendment number 8. [[B in m in s a l in]] Edit number 3 counted. And if you want to put it on confirmation, you have to say it. Right? Okay. It's a speed bump. Yeah? 3 row, Speedboat.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-01-m0.u73	Dear colleagues, I would like to place number three in this bill for confirmation. Because I don't understand at all why in this bill we're looking at bilateral agreements when it comes to ensuring the common property of a multi-housing apartment building. So please place it on confirmation.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-01-m0.u74	Dear colleagues, I'm putting number three to the vote for confirmation of the National Deputy of the County. The committee took her into account. Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[13:46:46]] For the 250. Decision taken. Edit is confirmed. 4 axles. Don't insist. What's the readout? 5th? 5 revisions, Zablocky. For confirmation? Turn on the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-01-m0.u75	Mr. Speaker, I'm asking you to put in order to confirm the 2nd, 5th, 6th, 7th.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-01-m0.u76	Again.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-01-m0.u77	Two-y, five-y, six-y, seven-y, eleven-y, twelve-y, thirteen-y, fourteen-y, fifteen-y. Almost all of them are edited, not entirely regulated by the Supreme Council Rules. And in order to avoid later legal collegiates as to how this will be treated by the legal authorities, it is best to place these amendments on confirmation. It really doesn't even matter how they're going to be counted, but it's better to go through this procedure to have a clear position of the Supreme Council on them. So all of these changes are asked to be confirmed one by one by one to be counted exactly as proposed in the comparative table. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-01-m0.u78	Thank you. Dear colleagues, number two. It was taken into account by the committee in its entirety, the law of the County. I'll put her to the vote. Please support and vote in the paper in which. to support it in the way it was proposed by the committee. Please support and vote. [[13:48:27]] For 257 Decision taken. Edit is confirmed. Number five, County. It was considered editorially. That's exactly what I'm betting on. Please support and vote. [[13:48:53]] For the 250. Decision taken. Edit is confirmed. Number six, Puppy. She was accounted for completely, Zablock asks to be put on confirmation. I'll put her to the vote, number six, please support and vote. [[13:49:26]] For 279 Decision taken. Edit is confirmed. Number seven, Puppy. It was considered editorially. That's exactly the kind of offer I'm putting in for confirmation. Please support and vote. [[13:49:52]] For 285 Decision taken. Edit is confirmed. Edit 8, Mezentseva. Don't insist. I know it's rejected. Edit number 9, Minko. Don't insist. 10th, Mandy. Don't insist. 11 Amendments apply to confirmation. It's edited, the author is Kucherenko. I'm betting on her confirmation. Please support and vote. Amendment number 11. [[13:50:37]] For 293 Decision taken. Edit is confirmed. Number 12, Puppy. Edited. Ask for confirmation. Please support and vote in the editorial form proposed by the committee. [[13:51:04]] For 274 Decision taken. Edit is confirmed. 13 revisions, also Kucherenko. Edited. Ask for confirmation. I'll bet you a vote. Please support and vote. [[13:51:30.]] For 262 Decision taken. Edit is confirmed. Edit number 14, also Kucherenko. Edited. Ask for confirmation. I'm betting on the vote number 14 in the paper in which it's proposed by the committee. Please support and vote. [[13:52:03]] For 264 Decision taken. Edit is confirmed. And extreme revision number 15, also Kucherenko. It was counted by the committee. Ask for confirmation. Now we vote, then we vote in favour of the law as a whole. I'm betting on a vote to confirm the number 15 of the Kucherenka People's Deputies. Please support and vote. [[13:52:39]] For 284 Decision taken. Edit is confirmed. Dear colleagues, let's move on to voting for the law as a whole. Ready to vote? I am voting on the proposal to adopt a second reading and, in general, with the necessary technical and legal regulations, the draft Law amending the Final and Transitional Provisions of the Ukrainian Electricity Market Act on the provision of electricity to ensure the operation of the common property of a multi-housing house (registration No. 2098). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[13:53:41]] For 276 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Thank you, Your Honor. Let's see the factions. "The Servant of the People" – 198, "The Opposition Platform for Life" – 0, "The European Solidarity" – 25, "The Fatherland" – 0, "The Future Party" – 16, "The Voice" – 16, "The Trust" – 16, "the Non-Factional" – 5. Thank you again. The next issue of the agenda is the draft Act amending the Act on Tourism (Registration No. 2673). It is suggested that this issue be considered in a simplified manner. Please support and vote. [[13:54:37]] For 246 Decision taken. The National Deputy of Ukraine, Fries Igor Pavlovich, is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-01-m0.u79	Good afternoon, dear fellows! You know, in 1995, the Ukrainian Tourism Act was passed. Today, tourism is one of the most important sectors of our economy, the development of entrepreneurial activities. And unfortunately, we found that when we looked at this law, and when we were talking to tourism providers, we found such a big problem that today's hotel is an enterprise that provides hotel services. Thus, subjects of farming are different from legal persons, and given the rules of the Civil Code, an enterprise should be a legal person, unable to obtain a proper categorization of hotels of starryness so called. This law is totally unrelated, the bill is not related to the work and changes that we have adopted in the so - called Act on Toys, it has been submitted much earlier, much earlier annotated, and it has not been intended to fully identify the subjects that will receive 3 or 4 stars. Today, Ukraine is operating a very large number of temporary or temporary facilities. But unfortunately, some diversification, let's say, is also an inequality in the ability to obtain hotel categories in order to make it impossible to access the European categorization mechanism itself proposed by this bill. Of course, with the members of the subcommittee, we will make some changes to his second reading. So I ask you to support this bill and allow authors and other people's deputies to make appropriate changes, which is even more so.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-01-m0.u80	Thank you. I can't. Thank you. Dear colleagues, I give the floor to the co-rapporteur, vice-chairman of the Committee on Humanities and Information Policy of Eugenia Michael Krawczuk. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-01-m0.u81	Mr. Chairman, Your Honor, our Committee on Humanities and Information Policy supports this bill, which amends the Tourism Act. In general, such a concept as a hotel, hotel service, appeared in our legislation back in 2010, but unfortunately, the natural persons of entrepreneurs were simply excluded from the legal field. They couldn't get categories for small, actually small hotels. We have to fix this gap, and actually this very short bill, and it makes these two changes. We're changing the hotel, the hotel service, the enterprise, to the subject of farming, which will expand the service providers' circle, and the physical entrepreneurs will be in the legal field, and they'll also be able to get the categories. With regard to the support of other committees. It was the Ukrainian Integration Committee with the European Union that supported the bill. He acknowledged that positions were not subject to international legal obligations. The Committee on Budgets noted that it could even lead to increased income in the budget from payments. And the GNEU noted that it activates the hotel service market. We ask you to adopt this bill as a basis. We're working on it. Let us make the necessary adjustments and finally vote. A request for support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-01-m0.u82	Thank you. Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss this bill? Yes. Please sign up: two in, two in. Please, National Deputy Evtushok Sergey Mikolaiovich, faction of the political party of the All-Ukrainian Union of Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-01-m0.u83	Sergey Eutuszek, Equinox, Fatherland. Dear colleagues, under the conditions of the Coronavirus, we have had the opportunity to take vacations in our country and travel not abroad, but have had the opportunity to see our country -- the shores of Dnieper, very beautiful, good mountain lakes and other lakes, the sea. And all of this tells us that our country, in principle, may not be very well-dressed, maybe not very organized, but at the same time very beautiful. And we need to make sure that our travel routes are so good that we do not choose our vacation abroad, but at the same time, we have had the opportunity to relax in Ukraine, giving our service providers the opportunity, in fact, to do what is currently going on in the bill, to those who have, the owners who have real estate and can turn them in as hotels. At the same time, I want to say that there are a number of warnings in the bill that I would like to see the committee members correct. The Ukrainian Tourism Act, article 24, makes it clear that it is up to the establishment of tourist infrastructure facilities (hotels, other facilities intended for the provision of accommodation services) to be owned or decided by the owners of which they are relevant categories. I mean, assigning stars. In this context, I want to say, literally recently in this session room, the Act on the Playing Business has been voted out, and so that we don't get to put machines in an apartment with six beds. So the first reading, we're still working on it. Fatherland supports the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-01-m0.u84	The word is given to National Deputy Ariev Volodymyr Igorovich, please the faction of the political party "European Solidarity". But Alexi Hotcharenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-01-m0.u85	Alexei Hotcharenko, European Solidarity. Dear friends, this bill is really a showcase, it actually shows the level of what's happening in the hall and the meaning of our stay and work here. See, the bill is called upon to create favourable conditions for the development of emergency infrastructure and tourism by expanding the supply of hotel services. Who are we going to give them to, my friends? By the time the issue was brought to the attention of the Supreme Council, our distinguished fine government, which had already fled the session, had completely closed the country. Totally! He shut the country down. Again. We used to have a car, then it was turned into a dead end, because we have quarantines and terrible numbers, and we can no longer enter the Schengen area. I've lost my car and now I've lost my car because no one can get into the country. This is really a complete failure for the tourist industry and many others. Can someone please explain to me what it was like to close the country as a whole for a month? In doing so, in fact, the last day of this closure was changed, and the last minute people found out that hundreds of people around the world at the airports were not allowed to fly or cross the border because they didn't even know that our government had made such a wonderful decision. And then they're going to talk about the investment attractiveness of the state, how investors are going to get here, about tourism. Such wonderful laws are passed. Yes, and for whom does this need to be done when this government and your authority completely destroys everything? What is the tourist attraction in a country that you cannot even enter? Zelensky dropped the green addiction on Ukraine. That's terrible!
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-01-m0.u86	The word is given to the National MP, Yatzenk Anton Volodymyrovich, "The Party for the Future."
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-01-m0.u87	Dear colleagues! We have, you know, like they say, "the anger hides in the crumbs." And I'm very curious where these bills come from. So we're actually going to have a casino in every corner where someone rents a piece of space and there's going to be a casino opening, in hotels. So we have the author of the law decided to expand the circle of subjects so that the hotel can open up anyone, even the bogeyman, even a person who doesn't exist at all, and very much. Instead of the owner, you can rent now. So this is actually going to be about expanding the range of casinos and slot machines, and then working people are going to lose their pay. And it's such an unpleasant law, it's Jesuit. And it's like there's nothing there, but in fact, if you read it deeply, there's a lot of corruption risks there. And so, of course, even in the first reading, it can't be accepted, because it's going to be a mafia game. I don't think there's any need to vote on this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-01-m0.u88	Dear colleagues, I now invite Nestor Ivanovich Schufrich. Is there anyone else? Yes, I can see the Voice. I see, yes. Then there's Nestor Ivanovich Schufrich, two speeches and we're getting ready for the vote. Please invite the people's deputies to the hall. Please, Nestor Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-01-m0.u89	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. Well, I have a little experience working in this room, and I'm asking myself: September 1st, the first day of the Supreme Council's work and some interest in supporting tourism, when we have a problem with COVID right now, we have doctors saying that we don't have money. And the money was, we raised 65 billion dollars, and then we distributed it all over the world. Everyone was given, except our doctors. And I asked myself, what's the interest in this law? And you know, I can't help but agree with the previous speaker, really, under the desire to support the idea that tourism is actually expanding the possibility of getting the status of a hotel that could get and open a casino and halls with "one-handed bandits." So first the school, the casino, the school, the casino. And you're doing this cynically on September 1. The conscience would have, no matter what that day, been forced by this lobbyist corrupt law! We're going to give every sauna the status of a hotel. But how will our children walk? Sauna school – "one-armed bandit" or vice versa, "one-armed bandit" – sauna – school. And that's what you're doing on September 1. Cynics! You don't have a conscience! No conscience. So I think that if we respect our children and really fight for the future, this law needs to be rejected. And the authors can explain where the crabs are wintering. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-01-m0.u90	The motive is Francis, Julia Leonidivna. And who else? Chess? Chess. Igor Pavlovich, please, Fris.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-01-m0.u91	Dear colleagues, it's so much as a perfectly normal idea to try to turn into some kind of farce, frankly. So this law, as I've already said, has absolutely nothing to do with casinos or any expansion of hotels, where gambling activities can be carried out. This refers exclusively to the possibility of getting entrepreneurs, natural persons entrepreneurs, not just legal persons, the possibility of obtaining the established European categorization of temporary placement facilities. The numbers are the number where the casino can be clearly defined by law. This has nothing to do with it. So do not resort to absolute populism or incomprehensible appeals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-01-m0.u92	Clemensa Julia Leonidivna.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-01-m0.u93	My colleagues, I would like to add to what has been said, that tourism really needs serious reform, and the Tourism Act needs to be much more worked out. One definition of the problem is that we can't solve it. But I also want to pay attention to those people who will then fall, according to Mr. Fries, under, let's say, hotel categorization, that, in addition to all that, they will pay the tourist congregation. Right now, in fact, this market is in the shadows, and no one from the apartments that seem to be paying. Therefore, not only this bill but also the budget should be worked out. We will. Budget Code and Tax Code. So we're willing to support it in the first reading, but only if we work with it in the second. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-01-m0.u94	Thank you. Jacenko, Shahov. Then we go to the vote. Jacenko Anton Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-01-m0.u95	Dear colleagues!
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-01-m0.u96	Wait. Wait, "For the Future" was Anton Volodymyrovich. It was "For the Future," you were speaking. You're gonna do it twice? Well, that'll be too much. No, no, you did. Shahov Sergei Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-01-m0.u97	Sergey Shahov, Luhanščina, Deputy Group "Trust". Dear colleagues, tourism is certainly necessary, but such tourism as that of the OAU, as in Europe. What do you want to show today? I invite everyone to Lugansk, I asked to leave the 2070 Free Zone Bill and invite everyone to Lugansk to see how people live like mines today, miners without wages on September 1st and miner's Day are starving. Today, the authorities have called for the service of the Four Horsemen of the Apocalypse — hunger, cold, death and disease. Please tell me what tourism you're talking about today. Therefore, the Trust Group will abstain and we will not vote in favour of this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-01-m0.u98	If we do so, we will go far. Please invite the national deputies to the hall. David Georgievich. I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Act amending the Act on Tourism on the Expansion of Subjects of Hotel Services (Registration No. 2673). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[14:12:20]] For 251 Decision taken. The bill was adopted as a basis. The next issue of the agenda is the draft Act amending article 268 of the Ukrainian Tax Code concerning the exemption from payment of the tourist congregation of internally displaced persons (registration No. 3103, 3103-1). It is suggested that this issue be considered in a simplified manner. Please support and vote. [[2:13:02]] For 227 Decision taken. The National Deputy of Ukraine, Lubinets Dmitry Valeriyovich, is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-01-m0.u99	Honorable Presidium, Honourable People's Deputies, Honorable Citizens of Ukraine! Bill 3103 is proposed for your consideration. It's technical, so you can all understand. Internally displaced persons are also a category of people who are not travelling in Ukraine on their own terms. Regrettably, statistics currently show that some four hundred thousand internally displaced persons are registered in Ukraine. Confirmed data indicates that some tens of thousands of them live continuously in hotel areas, various hotel complexes, and so forth. On November 23, 2018, changes were made to the Ukrainian Tax Code, which regulates the acquisition of a tourist congregation. And according to the new edition, all who live in hotels are obliged to pay for the tourist congregation, which is established by local authorities. Of course, when changes were made, no such category as internally displaced persons was included in the list of people who were exempt from the paying of the tourist congregation. Therefore, honourable national MPs, this bill is designed to support people who have not yet found a permanent place of residence and, unfortunately, travel to Ukraine, live in hotels, and automatically pay the tourist congregation. Let's support them and show them that we care about them. Thank you. The MP's Party for the Future urges everyone to vote in favour of the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-01-m0.u100	Thank you. Natalia Juryovna Kraljevska. The author of the alternative bill (registration number 3103-1).
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-01-m0.u101	Dear colleagues, well, this is a very good offer that we have just heard about the exemption from the payment of the tourist congregation of internally displaced persons. Well, you could say that. But, colleagues, let's still be smart people. What's going on? Now 500,000 people have been deprived of their right to vote in our country. And some of these people are settlers because a lot of people come and live near the line of separation. You deprived people of their dignity, their constitutional right to choose their local authority today. And that's why we insist, first of all, that we address the hall, colleagues, we can't leave this fact undetected today in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. We have to listen here to the heads of the VCA, listen here to the Central Election Commission, and take this decision in a responsible manner. We do not have the right today to give such opportunities to officials who will deny the right to vote, the constitutional rights of Ukrainian citizens, citizens who live in our country. That is why it is good to make decisions today to deprive the tourist congregation of displaced persons. But above all, we must solve the global issue today. And this is a housing issue, this is a question of the status of children today who have suffered from combat and who have received nothing in six years. And today, September 1st, those children born in combat go to first grade. And we are obliged to address this issue in a comprehensive manner and to give people the opportunity to feel worthy in their own country so that people know that the state will never leave them alone with the problems they have left behind. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-01-m0.u102	The chairman of the Committee on Finance, Tax, and Customs Policy of the Gethmans Danilo Aleksandrovich is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-01-m0.u103	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we've had a lot going on in this way in the last five years that the problems that concern people, our fellow citizens, have not been noticed by the authorities. And in fact, the tourist congregation -- it would seem like a very small problem, but it's very typical. The entire category of people who have been deprived of their ability to live where they were born are moving to Ukraine, to the territory under our control, paying the tourist congregation as tourists. It's ridiculous and it's actually beyond the understanding of a normal person. The committee unanimously, almost unanimously, supported the bill as a basis. And I'm asking the hall, please, colleagues, back it up today as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-01-m0.u104	Please sign up: two in, two in, and two in, against, from the MP factions and groups. Makarov Oleg Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-01-m0.u105	Please, Iron word.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-01-m0.u106	Ironman Jaroslav Ivanovich, out of place, right? Out of the way.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-01-m0.u107	Comrades, good afternoon! We support this bill. And I personally, as a person from Mariupul, understand how important this question is. Unfortunately, he is punctual, and we have a lot on the committee, and I hope that under other laws we will have to work on the mechanism of the tourist congregation at all. But this is the step that Lubinec's colleague and other colleagues have taken. These are important changes that will not bring significant negatives to the local and more to the state budget, but will help temporarily displaced people to feel more comfortable in our country. That's why we're going to support this bill. And we urge all colleagues to accept it as a minimum in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-01-m0.u108	Fries Igor Pavlovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-01-m0.u109	Dear colleagues, I would also like to ask you to uphold this law. However, there are some points regarding the general tourist congregation. I don't think the head of the committee is going to let me lie about how much more difficult he is to administer than he is to benefit the state. In view of this, we have ideas in the future in the drafting of the big tourism law in Ukraine to discuss this issue and to address the need and formula of the tourism congregation in general. At the same time, however, I would like to point out that the tourist congregation is not paid by hotels; it is paid by no one but the recipients of human services. That's the main thing. If we release such a category of people as displaced persons from the payment of a fully administrative tax or congregation, it will only be a blessing to all of us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-01-m0.u110	Vlasenko Sergei Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-01-m0.u111	Dear colleagues, do internally displaced persons need support? Yes, of course. Is there a need for a national program of support for internally displaced persons? Yes, of course. Do we understand the problems of these people who have lost their homes outside the comfort zone? Clearly, yes. But I have a simple question: Why does the top state translate these problems into local budgets? There's a colleague from Voice talking about the state budget not going to get hurt, so that's for sure. Because the tourist congregation is a local congregation, not a national congregation. Let us therefore make the State budget available to local budgets for the second reading, making it necessary to compensate the local budget for the cost that the hotel provides to internally displaced persons. And then it's going to be, first of all, government; second of all, it's going to be fair; third of all, it's not going to be another theft of local budgets. And we're finally going to force the state not to translate its problems into someone else. And then it's going to be correct, normal and right. Internally displaced people get their benefits, the local budgets don't get hurt, and the state will eventually implement at least some sort of minimal program of support for internally displaced persons. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-01-m0.u112	Majjkovich Mikola Romanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-01-m0.u113	Please pass the word to Ahtem Chigoza.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-01-m0.u114	Ahtem Chigoz.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-01-m0.u115	Dear colleagues, we are not tourists, we were forced to leave our homes because we were occupied by our enemy, Russia, where we lived. Yes, we have many problems, but we are all waiting for Ukraine to be able to liberate our territories and we will return home. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-01-m0.u116	Thank you. All those who wish to speak? No, no, no, no, no, no, no. "The opposition platform is for life," I see, and "The Trust" is not spoken. Now, Shufric's speech, after that, is the Bacon and then we go to the vote. Please invite the national deputies to the hall. Nestor Ivanovich, a word to you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-01-m0.u117	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. Dear colleagues, that's the question. Which, I hope, will unite the entire room now, and we'll get over 300 votes, at least I want to believe it. Indeed, it is the trouble of these people that they have left their homes and are now far away from their little Fatherland. I think we should support it. I agree with the idea that for entrepreneurs, the state has to compensate for the corresponding income cuts, especially for local budgets. I think those who hear us today are advised that even if we did, we would help them. We have to do this now. That's the pit we're capable of right now. And in general, we have to do a lot more for these people: we have to give them peace back, we have to give them the opportunity to come home. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-01-m0.u118	Bacunec Pavel Andryovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-01-m0.u119	Dear Mr. Head, honourable national deputies, the occupation of Crimea and the war in the East have been forced to leave hundreds of thousands of our fellow citizens with you homeless because they have left their homes and have become so-called internally displaced persons. One of the most important issues for internally displaced persons is housing. As we know, more than 60 percent of internally displaced persons still rent housing, and worse yet, many live in places of compact residence, such as abandoned homes or other facilities, and they are forced to pay the tourist congregation as tourists. The bill proposes that they be freed from the payment of such a tourist congregation. And the "Trust" MP clearly supports the bill and urges everyone to support it.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-01-m0.u120	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please invite the national deputies to the hall, and we will proceed to the vote. But now I've been asked by the chairman of the committee with a question, perhaps there's a point to vote it out and in general, will there be any objection? There will be objections. No questions asked. Okay. Committee decision: based. But I'm asking a question. Oh, no? No, it's not. No questions asked. I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Law amending article 268 of the Ukrainian Tax Code on Exemption from Payment of the Tourist Assembly of Internally Moved Persons (register No. 3103). Are you ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[14:27:34]] For 341 Decision taken. Then I suggest we vote on the issue of shorter periods. In accordance with part two of article 116 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules, I am voting on the proposal to cut back half the deadlines for the submission of proposals, allowances and preparation for the second reading of the bill (registration number 3103) amending article 268 of the Ukrainian Tax Code for the exemption from the payment of the tourist assembly of internally displaced persons. Please support and vote. [[14:28:20]] For 312 Decision taken. Thank you. The next issue of the agenda is the bill of parliamentary hearings on "Mandruj Ukraine: the state, problems and prospects of tourism development in Ukraine" (registration number 3914). It is suggested that this issue be considered in a simplified manner. No discussion? Without discussion, can we vote? I am voting on the proposal for adoption of the entire draft Parliamentary Hearing Order on "Mandruj Ukraine: status, problems and prospects for tourism development in Ukraine" on 10 November 2020 (registration number 3914). Please support and vote. [[14:29:29]] For 334 Decision taken. The next issue of the agenda is the draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on increasing forest protection, preventing fires on forest and water foundations, peatland and other categories of land (registration number 3526). It is suggested that this issue be dealt with by a reduced procedure, and I ask you to support and vote. [[14:30:14]] For 259. Decision taken. The National Deputy of Ukraine, Bondarenko Oleg Volodymyrovich, is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-01-m0.u121	Good afternoon, dear fellows! The aim of the draft law is to strengthen forest protection, prevent forest and water fires, peatland and other categories of land, improve management and control in this area, increase administrative responsibility for violations of forest fire rules, farmland and other natural ecosystems. This bill is complex, it amends four codes and several laws. The bill proposes that the powers of central and local authorities be clarified, that the authorities of the National Police be empowered to deal with violations of forest fire safety and agricultural work, to strengthen administrative responsibility, to prevent the burning of dry vegetation and to take responsibility for violations of the rules of fire, including on owners and users of relevant areas and objects. The adoption of the draft law will increase environmental security, protect forests and address the state’s natural ecosystems. Dear colleagues, I welcome you with what the environmental issue has been asked, the more important environmental issue, such as the prevention of fires in the pre-flight period, was put on the first day of the fourth session. This indicates that the environmental issues of the entire session will be given more space, more attention will be given, it is a very good sign. I ask you to support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-01-m0.u122	The vice president of the Committee on Environmental Policy and the Environmental Use of Ovchinnik Yuli Yuli Yuriyovn is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-01-m0.u123	Good afternoon, dear fellows! For your consideration of Law 3526, the main purpose of which is to strengthen forest protection and to prevent fires on forest, water, peatland, and other categories of land. I'm only going to give an environmental assessment because the analysis of the increase in powers is not directly for our committee. I'm going to point out that climate change as a result of human activity and directly anthropogenic influences tell us that fires are going to increase. And thanks to the analysis of experts and scientists, they predicted that by the end of this century the risk of an increase in fires worldwide increased to 62 percent. This suggests that we, as the legislature and the Cabinet of Ministers, as the body that will perform certain functions, should strategically approach this issue and plan how to protect Ukraine's natural resources from fires. For example. In Australia, the total cost of fighting fires is 1.3 percent of the country's GDP. In the United States, over the last seven years, $1.5 billion has already been spent. What's in Ukraine? This bill is a small step. It is clear that we have to approach strategically, and thanks to the decision and initiative of the Committee on Environmental Policy, a national forest policy strategy is now being developed. There has been no such strategic document in the last 10 years. But this bill is a little puzzle in this strategy, and we sincerely believe that all of the puzzles we're going to put together and solve at least with the fires that have taken place in our country. I will point out that in recent articles, even the location of the fires in Ukraine has been clearly identified by German scientists as the Chernobyl Biosphere Reserve. Finally, I would like to point out that the committee supported this bill, but directly within the framework of a comprehensive approach and a complete strategy for forest policy development.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-01-m0.u124	Thank you. Please sign up from the MP factions and groups.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-01-m0.u125	The word is given to the National Deputy Vasilchenko Galini Ivanovni, faction of the Political Party "The Voice".
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-01-m0.u126	Please pass the word to Lesi Vasilko.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-01-m0.u127	National Deputy Lesia Vasilenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-01-m0.u128	Dear colleagues, today September 1st is the first day of autumn, and so the autumn harvest is about to begin, which means not only harvesting, it's also a new wave of fires, which traditionally occur when they start harvesting, burning the barn, dry leaves, and what is left after harvesting. In the spring we had already seen cities and villages standing in the smoke for weeks. The inhabitants of Kiev may not soon forget how we lived for 10 days and breathed from the burning rainforests and the Blackwater forests. 11,000 hectares of burned forest that will be restored for the next 30 years at least. This is the reality of an irresponsible and non-systemic approach to fire safety in the country. And now this painting can be repeated again, because the long tradition of burning everything out of the ground has not gone anywhere. And it won't go anywhere until people understand the responsibility for the consequences that they cause for their activities for the environment and for their neighbors. This bill provides an incentive to change the rules of conduct. And under these new rules, owners and landowners, tenants, will be responsible and pay fines for neglecting land and violating fire safety in their areas. In addition to increasing fines, however, it is also necessary to ensure that the perpetrators and offenders are held accountable. Also, for the second reading, this bill requires harmonization with other legislation, such as the Earth Code, the Water Code and other laws of Ukraine. The Voice faction will support this bill in the first reading, but it will also work on improving it to the second reading in order for it to actually work. Thank you all for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-01-m0.u129	Jacenko Anton Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-01-m0.u130	The group will uphold this law. Now, please pass the word to Anna Speedhod.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-01-m0.u131	Anna Constantine's speedboat.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-01-m0.u132	Dear colleagues, of course, we may not worry about such important issues as the prevention of fires, but send all firefighters to glue the election boards of "ministers of the people" as we had in the Mikolai district. But let us still be prudent and remember the terrible consequences of the fires in Ukraine today, what terrible environmental consequences we have, how difficult it is to cope with all those fires at all. How difficult it is to deal with humans and the fact that, after harvesting, they simply burn dry grass, destroying not only animals but also when we have fires falling on human buildings. That's why the parliamentary group "For the Future" will support this bill in the first reading. And I also hope that the "ministers of the people" will stop using firemen on the glue of their election boards and will still enable them to carry out their direct duties and put out fires. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-01-m0.u133	Labunsky Angela Victorian.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-01-m0.u134	Unfortunately, dear colleagues, this year the situation has shown that the country is not ready for such disasters. Regrettably, the previous speaker did not have accurate information: not 11,000 acres [11,000 ha] of forest burned. 43,000 acres of forest is all that's being calculated today, the damage that. was burned during a fire in the Gitomirsk district, which took place in the spring. I want to tell you that this bill, it's very timely, but it doesn't solve all of the issues that have arisen today and have shown the situation today. We will support it in the first reading, where we need to reconcile some points, because several organs are considering the same offences. But I want to go to the hall with two questions. First of all, why doesn't the committee that was set up with two committees come together, these are the law enforcement agencies and our environmental committee, and why we don't figure out why these fires started. Think about it, 43,000 200 hectares, it's almost an area of some area, we're talking today. And with the budget, I'm just talking to my colleagues, we need to develop a state-wide fire-fighting program not just for the woods. So we need to budget this program and anticipate funding for these things, because people, you would see people killing, praising God, human factor, and nature spared us this time, but this may not happen again. Thank you, colleagues. We need to support this bill in the first reading, but continue with the work of the commission and develop a state programme on this issue at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-01-m0.u135	Thank you. Shufrich Nestor Ivanovich is invited to attend. Who else will be motivated to speak? Yes, I see, the EU, "Trust." What about "For the future"? "For the future" was on. Oh, "Trust," that's all. Suffritch Nestor Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-01-m0.u136	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. Dear colleagues, I would like to begin by saying thanks to our rescuers, our firemen, who are loyally, in terms of limited, frankly, to you, lack of financial security compared to other representatives of our military forces and formations, who receive less money, are loyal to their service. And the fact that we are going to meet them and all our citizens today is in fact our position as the Supreme Council of Ukraine, which I hope will unite once again. We're a very principled opposition, but I've always said from this rostrum that the worst for the country, the better for the opposition, is not our principle. So today we support this bill, realizing that forest fires resulting from negligence need to be fought, held accountable, and done everything possible to preserve our forests. We remember from our childhood when we came into the forest zone, we always saw a poster saying, "The forest is our treasure." That's how it is, we have to preserve our wealth, if we respect ourselves, respect our country, and we want to pass it on to our children, grandchildren and great-grandchildren with the kind of flower that our founding parents gave us in the 91st year. Today, Ukraine is far from territorial, sadly, or equal to life. For Ukraine, for our forests! Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-01-m0.u137	Thank you. Mikola Leonidovich, then Bakunec. Princely Mikola Leonidovich, after that, is a Bacunets, and we move on to the vote. Invite the national deputies to the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-01-m0.u138	May I? "Ukraine is not like that," said the previous reporter, because of the Russian aggression that we will defeat and in which we will win. And this bill, of course, we will support in the first reading. I want to draw attention to a few of the rules that need to be adjusted in the second one, including other laws on plant life and animal life that allow combustion under certain conditions permitted by Derjekoin inspection. And in such cases, the complainant in the ECHR always wins, and this needs to be corrected. And there's another part of the norms that essentially refer to administrative violations that are now criminalized, so they are actually decriminalizing these violations. This too needs to be corrected if we are to make sure that violators of environmental rules are punished. Hopefully this will be included in the second reading. And in the first we support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-01-m0.u139	Thank you. Bacunec Pavel Andryovich. Then we vote. Invite people's deputies.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-01-m0.u140	Dear Mr. Head! Dear National Deputies! First of all, I would like to point out that the purpose of the bill that we are considering is clearly supported unanimously. The fight against fires, especially in peatlands, especially in the forests, are extremely important things, and such fires clearly cause great damage to the environment. And for that, it is necessary to clearly impose a cruel responsibility. However, not all the provisions of the bill are clear. For example, it is suggested that strict responsibility be established for destroying and damaging vegetation on the watercourses. What is damage to vegetation? Will there be responsibility for the rupture of the reeds on the waterholes? Is it possible that if there is an accident or a damage to the electricity line, vegetation should be cut out? This bill requires further substantive revision to the second reading. That's why the Trust MPs support the bill in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-01-m0.u141	Let's go to the vote. Ready to vote? I am voting on the proposal to adopt, on the basis of the draft Act amending some of Ukraine’s legislative acts on increasing forest protection, preventing forest and water fires, peatland and other categories of land (registration number 3526). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[14:46:09]] For 328 Decision taken. The next issue of the agenda is the draft Act amending the article of the Law on Public Procurement on the effective implementation of State policy in the field of physical culture and sports (registration No. 3075). It is suggested that this issue be considered in a simplified manner. Please support and vote. [[14:46:44]] For 246 Decision taken. The National Deputy of Ukraine, Anatholius Vejacheslavovich, is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-01-m0.u142	Dear colleagues, in recent years, there has been a critical situation with the procedure for public procurement of services required to ensure the activities of the National Teams of National Sports Teams of Ukraine, their training and participation in international sports competitions, as well as the organization of all-U.S. competitions and other sporting activities, taking into account the requirements of international sports organisations in accordance with the Ukrainian Public Procurement Act. That's why my colleagues and I have proposed appropriate changes to article 3 of the Ukrainian Public Procurement Act in order to address the problem. The bill proposes to establish that the purchase by the buyer of goods, jobs and services, which are equal to or greater than 50,000 dollars, is less than the cost set out in paragraphs 1 and 2 of Part One of the Ukrainian Law on Public Procurement, is carried out without the application of the order of simplified purchases established by this law, if the purchase of services necessary for the conduct of physical culture and sports, physical and sporting rehabilitation and provision of preparation is carried out, in the case of the participation of Ukraine's national team of sports in international sports activities, which are included in the sole calendar of physical and sporting activities of Ukraine. Such changes will allow the organization, housing, and nutrition of athletes, and the provision of services in a timely manner. etc. and the needs of Ukraine's national team of sports, participants in all-U.S. and international sporting activities, in accordance with the requirements of the current legislation, taking into account the rules, regulations, prices, tariffs, quantitative indicators established according to the specificity of the conduct of a particular sport action, and taking into account the requirements of the regulations and regulations of competitions, rules and recommendations of international sports organisations. It's what athletes really need. Without this, it will be impossible to prepare well for international games, such as the Olympic Games or European Games. Colleagues, please support.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-01-m0.u143	Thank you. The chairman of the Committee on Economic Development, Mr. Dmitry Andriyovich, is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-01-m0.u144	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished colleagues, my greetings! Indeed, a very simple but very important bill is that it will enable our athletes to prepare adequately for international competitions. Each country has a so - called hard force that is reflected in the power of its economy, in the strength and harmony of its forces, in its industrial potential, and there is a so - called soft force. And this soft force is also the sports victories of any state, the victory of its athletes and their training. And this law is called upon to simplify this training and allow Ukrainian athletes to speak with dignity internationally, being absolutely ready for any challenges in sports that confront them. So I invite everyone to support this bill. Just as he was supported by the committee and decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the adoption of this draft law on the basis and taking into account the Committee's proposals as a whole as a technical law. In particular, the committee proposes to present part two of the bill as follows: "Number 2. This law takes effect from the day of its publication." So, colleagues, I am very much asking you to support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-01-m0.u145	Thank you. Please sign up from the MP factions and groups. Grandmaster Mikola.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-01-m0.u146	Please pass the word to Stepan Kubi.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-01-m0.u147	Kubi Stepan Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-01-m0.u148	Dear Mr. Head, Your Honor, Your Honor, your colleagues! I want each of us back in May 2016 and in August 2016, when we switched from the Public Procurement Test Regime to the Industrial Regime. The philosophy of sales has changed, price philosophy has changed, price ambiguity has changed, and income has also increased in the country’s state budget. This bill, which we have considered on the committee, and today on the faction, tells us that it is proposed not to apply the order of simplified purchases in the case of purchases of services necessary for physical culture and sports. We understand that the period of coronavirus, and for our athletes, both in internal and external competitions, in the 20th year of preparation for the 32nd Summer Olympic Games, is planned to spend the right amount of money, the young Olympic games, and especially the Paralympic games that we talked about with Mr. Suškević. I want to say that according to the explanatory note, this project has improved conditions for purchasing services. We discussed the bill today on the faction of the bill, and we will support it in the second reading if the recommendations of the Chief Executive are taken into account between the first and the second readings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-01-m0.u149	Mealer Victor Nichiporovich. Polakov Anton Eduardoovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-01-m0.u150	Dear colleagues, Anton Polakov, 206th District, political party MPs for the Future. This bill was discussed at an anti-corruption committee meeting and we unanimously decided that it did not comply with Ukraine's anti-corruption legislation, because it clearly stipulated that procurement procedures would take place without the application of simplified procurement procedures. I mean, to understand, in simple words, hospitals have to make purchases through tender procedures, and that doesn't prevent doctors from treating patients. Schools, kindergartens are to be purchased through tenders, and this does not prevent them from rearing students, and some athletes will be hampered by these tender procedures. Most of you athletes here know that often the state does nothing to win the Olympics or races. So we don't understand how at this level of anti-corruption, when, for example, thanks to the super-efficient work of NABA in the middle of the year, 48,000 dollars have been returned to the budget and nearly half a billion dollars spent, as we're going to help our sport with this bill. So, frankly, looking at today's agenda in general, when we're adopting very nice bills or voting, for example, about animal experiments, for example, about opening gaming halls, sorry, hotels, I have a very good question, and perhaps, as the opposition and all the other MPs have said, to put into order really important bills that affect the development of our state and the improvement of people's lives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-01-m0.u151	Juršin Jaroslav Romanović.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-01-m0.u152	Please pass the word to Volodymyr Cabal.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-01-m0.u153	Again, I'm sorry?
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-01-m0.u154	I'm going to say the word to Zabal Volodymyr.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-01-m0.u155	Cabal Volodymyr Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-01-m0.u156	Dear colleagues, I want to pay attention to one important thing. Here we all remember how much effort it took in the 16th year to adopt the Public Procurement Act. We all know that public procurement reform has been one of the most successful reforms in recent years in Ukraine, one of the few. But now what do we often see and what happens? Now, very often, some representatives from Kabmin and other authorities are trying, in the form of a struggle against the coronavirus, to produce some types of purchases under the Public Procurement Act. Are there, in fact, those areas and areas where it is necessary to do so from one condition or another, for example, to protect our athletes, our children, and so forth? Yes, such cases, such exceptions may occur, and they need to be studied in detail for what they deserve. But very often it's also impossible to do things or other things, where other things can happen, where the differences really don't need to be done, and where they really just go, let's say, the mechanism of getting back to the old procedures. That's why I want to call everyone. I'm not even talking about this particular law anymore, I'm talking about the future. Let's study very carefully all the laws where there's a large range of services coming out of the Public Procurement Act. Because it could happen that in 2-3 years, the Public Procurement Act is going to be, and it's going to be a zero, because almost everything is going to be out of it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-01-m0.u157	Papiev Mikhailo Mikolaiovich. Suffritch? So who?
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-01-m0.u158	Thank you. Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine! Mikhail Papiev, faction "The Opposition Platform for Life." Well, let's think about this bill in general and imagine. First of all, what is the reason why he came and was born and today on the first day of the opening session we are considering this law that excludes and excludes the general rule of public procurement? Actually, if such a bill is being considered, first of all, it should be with the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. It's different. This bill confirms that the minister and his deputies have failed those measures that have been introduced into the single register of sporting activities, have not formed them in the right way, and today they are trying to somehow get out of this situation under the form of a bill under the authority of the Ukrainian People's Deputy. Such bills have never been considered by Ukrainian national deputies. They have to be initiated by the government, there has to be a minister sitting here who has to explain why they failed to comply with the law and why they today require some special conditions, and whether there is corruption in these very conditions. I read this bill carefully, and I read an explanatory note. There is not a single word to confirm what is the reason and why the Supreme Council of Ukraine has its precious time to spend now to make exceptions to general rules. Dear colleagues, if today, in parallel with this law, we have decided to release the minister of youth and sports, then we vote in favour. However, if we today cover the issue with changes to the law, then the purpose of the Supreme Council is not understood. And to the end. You know, the first day of opening a session, those who once worked in the government, they know that in a month and a half that the Supreme Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-01-m0.u159	Thank you, Mikhailo Mikolaiovich. I continue to meet for 15 minutes or until this matter is considered. It's from Bilozer, Sobolev. Then we go to the vote. Larissa Mikolayevna.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-01-m0.u160	Dear colleagues, regarding this bill. Of course, we're about to make an exception to the rules, and Mr. Nataluha's Economics Committee has considered it. But why is it that the committee is not yet considering Bill 3715, which would finally allow us to conduct the purchase of ZIZs (individual protection) through ProZorro? Because we've been temporarily voting in March that we're pulling these purchases from ProZorro and today we're getting the kind of stuff that we buy for hospitals, we're buying the MOH, we're getting the local authorities overpriced 3-4 times. That's why it's important, because the quarantine has been continued, and again we've been able to get it out of ProZorro. So I don't think it's time for this bill, and there are more important questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-01-m0.u161	Thank you. Sergey Vladislavovich was involved.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-01-m0.u162	The "Fatherland" faction has also carefully considered this bill. In our view, the failure of the purchase schedule should in no way be affected by athletes. That is why our faction proposes to vote for him only in the first reading. And it is imperative that both the committee head and the committee as a whole limit it in time. For example, by the end of this year. For the following year no exceptions have been made, the competitions to be held this year must be held, and athletes cannot suffer because of the insufferability of government officials. So we support in the first reading with the correctness that we will introduce to the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-01-m0.u163	Thank you. Dear colleagues, Sergey Vladislavovich, an important bill, a proper bill. The right bill. But what you've just said is that it's actually been approached by almost all of the MPs and groups that need to be worked out between the first and the second readings. So now I'm just laying the groundwork. Right? I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Law amending article 3 of the Law on Public Procurement on the effective implementation of State policy in the field of physical culture and sport (registration number 3075), taking into account those proposals that. We're voting for the basis now, but I'm going to the committee to take into account the suggestions that were made in the hall today, and they were very conveniently noted. We're only voting on the basis of bill 3075. Please support and vote. [[15:03:24]] For 247 Decision taken. Thank you. Dear colleagues, thank you all. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed.
