ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-17-m0.u1	Good morning, dear fellows! Good morning, dear colleagues. Please prepare for registration. Dear colleagues, good morning. Please prepare for registration. Are you ready to register? I'm reminded that registration takes place by clicking on the green pros button. Please register. [[08:09:30]] There are 324 Ukrainian national deputies registered in the hall. Show me the factions, please. I now declare open the plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. According to part of article 19, part of article 73 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules of Procedure, the parliamentary factions and groups on the Conciliation Council made a proposal to convene today’s extraordinary plenary meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The proposal to convene an extraordinary plenary meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine was adopted unanimously at the Conciliation Council. At the next meeting, MPs and groups insist on considering legislative measures to prevent proliferation and opposition. the spread in Ukraine of COPID-19. The list of issues identified in the proposals for calling an extraordinary meeting is given. Let's get to it. Dear colleagues, the Prime Minister of Ukraine and the Deputy Minister of Health are present at the meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. There is a proposal to allow the Prime Minister of Ukraine to speak and allow him to represent the Deputy Minister of Health, who is responsible for this direction of work. In parallel, I would like to point out and call again, and inform our fellow citizens with you. Dear colleagues, the Supreme Council, like all other institutions, continues to work. We continue to work because we understand all the responsibility that lies with us, which lies with the President of the State, who lies on the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. We are really changing the format of work, but the Supreme Council is not closing into quarantine. The Supreme Council understands, and this needs to be done properly, and they understand all the deputies who are in the hall today. Despite all the challenges we face, we are ready to work. Yes, we are changing our mode of action to ensure that we are able to work and to protect people. That's true. Yet I am confident that the Supreme Council will always work for the benefit of our nation. I wanted to thank all the people's deputies and all the public authorities and institutions for that. The Prime Minister of Ukraine, Denis Anatoliyovich Schmigal, is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-17-m0.u2	Mr. President of the Supreme Council, ladies and gentlemen of the people, thank you for this opportunity, and I will also join you in thanking the Head of the Supreme Council, the deputy corps for their work today in the off-duty regime and in such an emergency, together with the Cabinet of Ministers. The Cabinet of Ministers is now working virtually 24 hours a day. We have created an appropriate information centre for the coronavirus, established by the government headquarters, we are doing and using all the necessary measures that Ukraine needs to protect its citizens. We don't want to be premature, we definitely don't want to panic or frighten the population, but we can't afford and delay, because, according to the experience of the world, delay costs human lives. And China has actually overcome the growth of the virus today because of its hard actions, some of the European countries have been slowing down, making decisions for a long time, thinking about, for today, we see, paying for human lives. Therefore, we must take primary care of the people of Ukraine in order to preserve every life, every Ukrainian’s health. So the decisions have to be pretty fast, if necessary, tough. The bill prepared and proposed today allows us to mitigate the consequences for the economy and for each individual citizen. So, of course, I'm going to ask you to support this bill, and I know about the unity that is in Parliament today, in the face of a crisis that is actually a world challenge. Therefore, I thank the political parties, the heads of political parties, the factions for their unity in the fight against the coronavirus and for their willingness to make all the necessary decisions quickly, quickly, for the benefit of Ukraine and the Ukrainians. Thank you for your attention. Thank you for your support. The bill, I understand, will be presented by the committee. If you have any questions, you are ready to answer them. Also present today is the chief health - care doctor, who can also provide information promptly. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-17-m0.u3	Thank you, Denise Anatolyovich. Look, there's no question. There's a deputy minister. If I want to, I'll ask the faction a question from a pro. [[B in m in s a l in]] This is not a question. This is the Prime Minister's speech. Irina Volodymyrna, now the deputy minister will be, I'll ask you a question. Thank you. Are you ready to answer? Okay. One question from each faction. But then we don't ask the deputy not to waste time. One question to the Prime Minister. Sign up for the factions, please. Ivchenko Vadim Evgenovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-17-m0.u4	Please pass the word to Krulk Ivan.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-17-m0.u5	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. Mr. Prime Minister, I have to ask you the next question about statistics. How many Ukrainian citizens in January-February this year have contracted pneumonia, pneumonia, other forms of acute respiratory disease? And how does this correspond to the same period last year? Accordingly, how many people in Ukraine have died from such diseases? And how does this compare with the similar period of the past 2019? Thank you. Please give a specific answer to this question. This is very important in the context of the situation in Ukraine today, as well as in other countries of the European Union and the world. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-17-m0.u6	Thank you for asking. Of course, we're going to prepare you for this particular analysis so that I don't think about it right now. But there are now seven reported cases of coronavirus in Ukraine. Sadly, one person died, an older person, and we all know that. There are also cases of Ukrainian diseases abroad that are not unique, including the case of one of the consulate officials who is currently being treated. So I understand your question about pneumonia. To compare, we will prepare such an analysis. There's no secrets, we're not trying to hide anything. All the statistics available are available, and we will be ready to share them. It will be at headquarters and will be given to the Supreme Council without any restrictions, no problems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-17-m0.u7	Laba Mikhailo Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-17-m0.u8	Good afternoon, Prime Minister. Laba Mikhailo, 70 constituency, Carpathians. Say, please, there's a situation right now that's literally outside the country where our representations and consulates are mediaically weak, that's what our employees are saying, they're saying that they're making some kind of proposal about logistics and other communications. I would even ask the consular authorities to speak on local media in countries where our Ukrainians are very large. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-17-m0.u9	Thank you. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs works, in fact, 24 hours a day. A suitable headquarters has also been created. All consuls and consuls work 24 hours a day, hot lines. It's all coming out. With mobile operators, they come up with appropriate text messages, abroad in particular. Not only in Ukraine but also abroad, information messages are being received for each particular country as to how to get to Ukraine, where the hubs formed before the departure of a group of Ukrainians, where the consulate, with whom to connect, are hot lines. This information is there. We're strengthening it. And we'll take your advice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-17-m0.u10	Royal Natalia Yuriovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-17-m0.u11	The Honourable Prime Minister, "The Opposition Platform for Life" took the most active part in the development of anti-crisis legislation for two years. But we don't think that's enough today. Because now, more than ever, we need to reject all our political contradictions and unite our efforts to adopt vital, life - giving decisions for our country. Because the economic looting that we have seen in recent weeks is unacceptable. And we're asking you to activate all available tools immediately. And if necessary, we're ready to provide you with additional tools to bring the country's prices into line, provide people with the necessary means of individual protection and medicine. You also have a question. Please tell me how much the Corona has suffered in the country today and how many people have died. We hope you are.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-17-m0.u12	In answer to your question, I'll say again: seven people -- officially confirmed -- have a disease that is defined as a coronary infection. One person in Ukraine died. There are no other recorded or confirmed cases. We're investigating all these things, and this statistic is open, it's going to be given. With regard to activities. Once again, I thank Parliament for the willingness and support of those bills and actions that are necessary today in order to act quickly, decisively, hard, when necessary, in order to save every Ukrainian's life and preserve the health of the nation, which is now priority number one and Parliament. The unity of Parliament is evident, for which I am deeply grateful today.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-17-m0.u13	Lozinski Roman Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-17-m0.u14	Please pass the word to Sergey Rachmanin.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-17-m0.u15	Rachmanin Sergey Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-17-m0.u16	Thank you. Mr. Prime Minister, in accordance with the Law on the Legal Regime of Emergency Situation, in the event of an epidemic and a pandemic, a state of emergency is announced by the President at the suggestion of the Cabinet of Ministers. Yesterday, the president assumed he could bring about a state of emergency. I have two questions. First. Do you support the introduction of a state of emergency in individual territories or across Ukraine? And does the Cabinet of Ministers prepare well-founded proposals for the introduction of the President's decree, as required by the law? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-17-m0.u17	Thank you. You see the work and the actions of the Cabinet of Ministers, we also make decisions every day that are difficult, that are not made during Ukraine's independence. In two areas, both in Zitomirsk and in Chernivsky, yesterday, the decision of the district commissions and then the decision of the government is an extraordinary situation. In the future, if necessary, we are ready to introduce a state of emergency in Ukraine, just as most European countries do. If necessary, we are ready to make such decisions. The proposals are prepared and will be made, the legislation we have is appropriate, it regulates all these things. We adopted a number of restrictions at the late-night Kabmin meeting yesterday, and we strengthened them, including with regard to the movement of the country, with regard to the movement of public transport, with respect to the gathering of no more than 10 people, if this is not the case with the measures of public necessity. And there are a number of other measures that increase and divide people's flows and reduce human contact. Because it is every saved life, and every day is worth making hard, hard, but reasonable decisions. We'll be ready for an emergency if we need to.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-17-m0.u18	Thank you. Kulinich Oleg Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-17-m0.u19	Oleg Kulinich, trust MP. Mr. Prime Minister, this is a very difficult situation. This is about district hospitals, about district hospitals. There's not enough express tests, there's no equipment, there's no artificial lung ventilation. We understand perfectly that we are now voting, and the government is spending money, but where do we get these artificial lung ventilation machines if they're not on the market right now? So please give a concrete answer, how this will be practical, so that we can, basically, all of us majors, calm people down and give a clear answer. And how fast it's going to be and how practical it's going to be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-17-m0.u20	Thank you. What we've done is we've passed on almost 10 million masks in the area plus we've passed on the equipment. There are about one and a half thousand artificial ventilators and other devices. I've been talking about this before. The other one. We had a few meetings with business representatives yesterday, including in the Cabinet of Ministers, we met with representatives, with the largest manufacturers of personal protection and medical equipment in Ukraine, with associations, with representatives of the network of pharmacies, and prepared a memorandum with them to sign, which stated, firstly, prices, secondly, volumes, thirdly, conditions of joint crisis. Absolute business understanding, Ukrainian business is beginning to increase production volume. Yes, there is a question that we are part of today in those bills that Parliament will adopt, support, and in terms of supporting this business. They have questions about raw materials, we also help to solve them. In the future, we are negotiating with our international partners to find the necessary equipment, personal protection tools, medicines. There are first deals, pretty big, big ones. So this week we're going to be carrying both equipment and personal protection. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-17-m0.u21	Thank you. Irina Volodymyrna's character.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-17-m0.u22	Mr. Prime Minister, we wanted to remind you that there are no tests in the Cherkas, Odessa, Lugans and other areas. We want to ask you when, in what quality tests will be delivered, we want to get written information from the government about where exactly these came from, as you said, thousands of artificial ventilation devices of lungs, other techniques. And also to draw your attention to the following. How will doctors and transportation and logistics be provided, and how much social security will be raised for doctors who will now be involved in stopping this possible epidemic? And how much in Kiev and in the regions, that's how much we have a cot-bed country to make. How long do we expect to be able to accept, if necessary, Ukrainian citizens in hospitals? And notice that no country in the world was closing down the subway. There's a limitation on the subway, there's free subway masks, there's a decrease in the number of trains there, but there's a decrease in the number of trains there.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-17-m0.u23	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-17-m0.u24	So, in answer to your question, I'll say, 12,000 beds in infectious compartments are prepared in Ukraine, totalling 200,000 beds in Ukrainian hospitals. With regard to the support of doctors. Today, doctors are like the military -- people who stand up for Ukrainian society. In fact, they work almost in military, frontal conditions today, so the issue of their social guarantees, their support is being considered by the Cabinet of Ministers. The task is to calculate and provide financial and material stimulation to those doctors who will work directly with the coronavirus. And in the future, we're going to use all the protections to protect and support doctors, and we're also going to ask Parliament to do that, and we're also going to be our partner in this work to protect and support Ukrainian medics and younger medical personnel. With regard to personal protection, the information will be provided, and it will be published on Facebook, including, but we will officially give it to the area in which it was distributed. It's about the tests. By the end of this week, we're taking the first batch of tests to Ukraine, which is going to be made up of 10 million quick tests that respond 99.99 to the disease, the coronavirus.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-17-m0.u25	Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Prime Minister. Have a seat. Baby Viktor Kostinovich, three minutes for the show, please. Give your recommendations, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-17-m0.u26	Good day, distinguished national MPs, the situation with the world’s coronavirus is becoming increasingly dangerous. The World Health Organization has declared an epidemic. Today we have over 182 thousand reported cases of coronary infection. Since February 27, there has been a significant increase in cases of coronary disease outside the People’s Republic of China. By February 27, about 90 percent of all cases were in one province in the People’s Republic of China. Today, more than 100 countries in the world are spreading. Unfortunately, we have seven reported cases of coronary disease in Ukraine, four of them related to the internal country of the virus in our country. They are not related to travel. Therefore, as the Ministry of Health, we change the algorithms for diagnosis and detection of coronary infections. The government is taking all preventive restrictive measures to prevent the spread of disease and the rapid increase of coronary disease within our nation. We all need to understand that the preventive measures that are being taken at the level of the State are primarily aimed at preventing peak stress on the number of patients who come to our health care facilities at the same time. According to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, there are about 12,000 infectious hospitals in our country, infectious beds in infectious hospitals. There's a total of 2.5 thousand infectious boxing. At the same time, we realize that if there is a mass onset of patients with coronary disease, these beds will not be enough. We need to have and know how to reclassify other health facilities in order to provide quality medical care. Statistics in the world today show that about 80 percent of cases occur in light forms. About 10 percent will require hospitalization. And statistics in Italy show that about 10 percent of others will need hospitalization in intensive care. So today we've analyzed and we know the number of beds that we have in intensive care units outside of infectious identity facilities. And the statistics we have say that we're ready and should provide quality, effective help, because we have about 3.5 thousand artificial lung ventilation devices right in intensive care units. At the same time, the amount may not be enough and the equipment may be outdated. We're taking all the measures and we're spending extra money to upgrade the material and technical base to protect our medical personnel who will be the first to meet.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-17-m0.u27	Thank you. Victor Costinovich. Thank you. Dear colleagues. Thank you. So let's get to the point. Dear colleagues, today's next session, convened by the Conciliation Council, is now taking place, followed by an extraordinary session initiated by the President of the State. It will consider two questions. Dear colleagues, two questions will be considered: the first question is the appointment of the Minister for Economic Development, the second question is the election of the Attorney General, the appointment of the Attorney General. Therefore, I ask the Committee on Economic Development and the Committee on Law Enforcement to gather and consider these issues at its meetings. So let's get to the point. You are invited to consider the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation aimed at preventing the occurrence and spread of coronary disease (COVID-19), registration number 3219. Dear colleagues, please prepare for the vote. We need to make a decision on the inclusion in the agenda of the day session. Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[08:34:05]] For 336 Decision taken. It is suggested that this issue be considered in a simplified manner. Please support and vote. [[B in m in s a l in]] I can hear you. I'll make you an offer. [[08:34:27]] For 340. Decision taken. Dear colleagues, it is suggested that this issue be considered without discussion and a decision taken. Ready to vote? I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Act amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine aimed at preventing the occurrence and spread of coronary disease (COVID-19) (registration number 3219). Please support and vote. And now we're going to put the next vote on adoption as a whole. [[08:35:07]] For 336 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, I am voting on the proposal to adopt, in general, the necessary technical and legal regulations, the draft Law (Registration No. 3219) amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine aimed at preventing the emergence and spread of coronary disease (COVID-19). Please support and vote. [[08:35:45]] For 344 Decision taken. [[B in m in s a l in]] Look, the whole room made a decision. I thank you for your support, too, dear colleagues. Thank you. Dear colleagues, with motives. No, wait, no, not now. We haven't asked yet. Draft law. If there's a discussion, wait. Draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation aimed at improving the availability of medical supplies, medical devices and other goods purchased by a person authorized to purchase in the field of health care (Registration No. 2538). It's a second reading. There are unaccounted for. With motive? It's a motive character. Ivchenko with motive, Kulinich with motive. Wait, I see. Heroceno. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-17-m0.u28	Dear colleagues, we believe that, unfortunately, the authorities have failed the information campaign concerning the Coronavirus. And now millions of people are following this session. They want to know that we have just voted in this wave of turbulence. Ukrainians, millions of Ukrainians, journalists who are not currently in bed with the press, have the right to know what the bill was about, which was voted by 300 MPs. We propose after the end of the question that we've already come to give two minutes of motivation to the factions to explain what we're talking about. What's more, this law we've been working on in a consolidated way together, it's going to work out a positive perception of our work together, of constructive importance and all that. We demand that we simply clarify.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-17-m0.u29	Roger that. If no one will deny it, so will I.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-17-m0.u30	So that we can explain to people what we accepted. People are scared. Let's say there's an economic, there's a social, there's a medical. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-17-m0.u31	Irina Volodymyrna, we have an agreement. Then let's go back to our positions. Okay. This is going to be the position of each faction. It's a deal. Here you all insist. Ironborn Jaroslav Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-17-m0.u32	Dear Mr. Head! We and the whole faction, I'm sure the whole room supports the position that there should be at least an elementary discussion. For example, under that law that we introduced, we had a separate position on the temporary effect of criminal norms that are in this law, and now there was no banal possibility to say that.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-17-m0.u33	Jaroslav Ivanovich, I apologize for beating you up, but we agreed to give you two minutes each faction after that. Then let's not waste time now, let's go through this question -- and then two minutes later. It's okay, isn't it? It's a deal. Dear colleagues, 2538 second reading. Is anyone insisting on the papers? [[B in m in s a l in]] Which one? Nina Petrovn Yuzanin, on which side do you insist? And Raducci.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-17-m0.u34	Please tell me that you and I voted in the first reading of this bill, said that you would do a second reading so that, indeed, this enterprise that you're creating, did a function that wasn't related to commercial activity, and if there were extra funds, they were directed like in a non-profit organization exclusively to that activity that is foreseen by the charter. To that end, I have made a single amendment that makes it impossible to abuse and use this organization in general for the different schemes that are set up in the further taxation system, because all operations related to the operation of this company will be released in the following law. In order to really accomplish the goal you set yourself, or you did not realize that it must be a purely latent nonprofit enterprise. This would mean that, since it would operate exclusively with government funds, it would have to perform all the functions that are legally applicable under article 76 of the Penal Code.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-17-m0.u35	Thank you. Nina Petrovna, don't you insist on voting? No, we'll listen to the committee's position. Mikhail Borisovich, come in.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-17-m0.u36	Good afternoon. That's a 2x, isn't it, Nina Petrovna?
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-17-m0.u37	11th.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-17-m0.u38	11th. Wait a minute, I am.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-17-m0.u39	Included in part 11 papers, by Eugene Nina Petrovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-17-m0.u40	11 readout included in part. Partially counted. Well, why not?
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-17-m0.u41	Dear colleagues, Nina Petrovna, will you insist on voting?
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-17-m0.u42	Partially counted, the point is similar to line 7: regarding the criteria for a person authorized to purchase.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-17-m0.u43	All right, I'm betting on the vote of 11 of the South. It's partially accounted for. Please identify and vote. Partially counted. Wait, stop the vote. Stop voting. Written: partially counted. I can see the chart, dear colleagues. I'll put it to a vote as it's taken into account. I'm betting on the vote number 11 of the Southman, partially counted. Please identify and vote. [[08:42:00]] For a hundred and No decision taken, no correction counted. Dear colleagues, who else insists on their work? No, it's not. What?
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-17-m0.u44	I want 94 copies for confirmation, because there is. 94 revisions are about the duration of 2 years or the time limit, the duration of action. Now, just a minute, I'll read it completely.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-17-m0.u45	You don't insist, do you? Don't insist. He doesn't insist. Irina Volodymyrna, can you hear me? Thank you. No one's insisting on the papers anymore? Stefani's. Please turn on the microphone. It's okay. It's The number?
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-17-m0.u46	Dear colleagues, we ask you to put 94 votes in the room. I'll explain briefly. This amendment cancels the possibility of a simplified registration of medicines for government purchases by this company. What does that mean? That we're going to have limited competition and that patients are essentially not going to get the cure. This is a very important remedy for patients with cancer, AIDS, hepatitis, and other diseases. This standard, which allows simplified registration for medical devices, should be permanent, not temporary.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-17-m0.u47	Ninety-four? Yes, and it's counted. What do you mean? Raducci 94. For confirmation? I'll bet you 94 votes. It's counted by the committee. Please support and vote. [[08:44:27]] For 252 Edit is confirmed. Who else insists on editing? Nobody? Let's go to the vote. Dear colleagues, I'll put it to a vote for you. I am voting on the proposal to adopt a second reading and, in general, with the necessary technical and legal regulations, the draft Law amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine aimed at improving the availability of medical supplies, medical products and other goods purchased by a person authorised to purchase health supplies (registration No. 2538). Please support and vote. [[08:45:25]] For 290 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Dear colleagues, let's move on to the next issue of the agenda. You are invited to consider a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Tax Code to increase the availability of medical supplies, medical products and other goods purchased at the expense of the State budget. Dear colleagues, I'm really sorry. It was agreed that after 2538 and two minutes each faction on the first bill passed, the so - called Coronavirus Act, on the fight against the coronavirus. Please sign up from the MP factions and groups. Bobrovska Solomija Anatoliyevna
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-17-m0.u48	Please pass the word Oli Stefanishini.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-17-m0.u49	Olga Anatolyevna Stefanishina But, dear colleagues, we're talking about the first bill that was passed. It's 3219.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-17-m0.u50	Dear colleagues, good afternoon! Today we have voted for a law that will allow for many simplifications to counter the coronavirus in Ukraine. But I want to stop at one important point. You and I voted today to amend the article of Criminal Code 325, which allows for criminal responsibility for violations of sanitary standards. And of course, so many countries today are increasing their responsibility in connection with the opposition of the Coronavirus. But it is common for progressive countries to increase responsibility by increasing fines. Ukraine, on the other hand, went the other way: we introduce criminal responsibility. In our view, this is a huge threat to Ukraine today. We have unreformed courts, we have unreformed National Police. And we believe that using this article today will be a crime. And against this article being used today to land the disagreeable. So the position of the Voice faction is that this article is still temporary. And we will demand that this law be reviewed. We were unable, unfortunately, to do so within the working group, because the situation was very urgent and it was very difficult for us to respond to this situation. So our position is that this article is not one that meets European rules and standards and should be temporary. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-17-m0.u51	Thank you. Boyko Yuri Anatoliyovich. Royal Natalia Yuriovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-17-m0.u52	Dear fellows, the honourable ones are present! First of all, I would like to thank everyone for having passed the tests on strength and in a crisis for the country we have been able to reject all our contradictions and unite our efforts to make an extremely important decision. This bill, 3219, involved almost all the factions of Parliament, and we all worked together on the most necessary, the most time-consuming actions. And I want to explain to people the most important norms that are regulated today. First. We're asking the government, and it's already agreed that they should immediately carry out state control over prices for medical supplies, medical supplies and socially significant goods. It's also a ban on billing and collecting instability for late payments for residential services. It also prohibits the provision of housing services if they are not paid or paid in full. It's also forbidden to cancel the help of a displaced person, also to stop the Social and Retirement Fund from paying social and pension payments to displaced persons. The prohibition of forced evictions from housing and forced housing belonging to citizens during the enforcement of court decisions to collect debts for residential services and many other rules. Also, pay up to 200 percent to health - care workers and those involved in overcoming the crisis. Dear colleagues, these are very important standards, but that is not enough today. And we're calling on the government to provide a full plan of action, a step-by-step plan of action. If the government is unable to do so today, we are ready to help them to take all necessary precautions and to protect their health. This is the main objective of today’s parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-17-m0.u53	Belkova Olga Valentinovna. Ivchenko Vadim Evgenovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-17-m0.u54	Vadim Yvchenko, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear colleagues, today the world is in a difficult situation, with a pandemic coming upon us in the face of an economic crisis. And the very faithful steps that the government is taking today. The opposition faction of Fatherland supported Bill 3219. We've joined his work. It's not enough that we're willing to continue to implement all necessary measures with the committee, with Parliament, with the government, so that we can get through this ruby faster. And for people, what I want to say is that we temporarily freed from the import of drugs, we made purchases of goods, jobs and services to counter the coronavirus directly without tenders with 100 percent prepayment. The deadline for submitting electronic declarations for individuals was 1 June. During the quarantine period, we predicted remote work and vacation, and the vacation period on its own account would not be included in the total 15-day deadline. For a period of quarantine within 30 days of its withdrawal, it is prohibited to cancel help for internally displaced persons. Colleagues, very important, we've assigned to the government, I'm asking for attention, first of all: to ensure that prices, medicines and socially meaningful goods are controlled. This is an important issue that bothers people. Medical workers were paid 200 percent of their salary. We have provided this law to ensure that housing subsidies are not allowed to stop. Colleagues, we've done a nice job, let's keep going. The opposition today together so that we can fight this pandemic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-17-m0.u55	Thank you. Eugene Nina Petrovna. Victoria Petrovna Sumar.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-17-m0.u56	Dear colleagues, this law has become the product of a complex compromise between different factions. What do we see today? The third month in the world is the epidemic. What Is in Ukraine? There's almost nothing, really, hospitals don't have equipment, doctors don't have personal defenses, they don't have banal masks, they don't have banal antiseptics, not to mention artificial lung ventilation machines, which are the first necessary equipment in the event of coronary complications. This bill, it can be divided into three parts: the first part answers how quickly the purchase takes place under these conditions. In fact, they were needed, Mr. Prime Minister, and it was obvious that this appeal to the previous Prime Minister had to be carried out in January when such an alarming situation became known. But now we've taken these purchases out of the Public Procurement Act and kept them responsible. We actually took away their customs and VAT. And that will allow, I hope, the government to act quickly. Similarly, we have strengthened the social protection of people in real life. We've introduced quarantine into the force-major list. And so if someone tries to break contracts, it can't be done during quarantine, because obviously they're now finally going to fall under force majeure. We've tried our best to protect people who can be evicted from apartments that just don't have any money because they won't get paid. And by increasing criminal responsibility. It's a very complicated compromise. This article already existed in the Criminal Code, but we agreed -- I want to say it under the transcript -- that we're going to change it and we're going to do everything together with different factions to give tools to counteract infection, but not to abuse people's rights and freedoms. It's a trust law. Without trust, we're going to break down. Let's have confidence and make arrangements. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-17-m0.u57	Kulinich Oleg Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-17-m0.u58	Good afternoon, dear colleagues. Oleg Kulinich, trust MP. Our group will support all necessary legislation for the country that is now extremely important in the fight against the coronavirus. Because in this situation, both the government and parliament should be the only ones. But no less important today is the moral support of the affected countries of Europe now facing such a terrible threat. I think that all the factions will support me when we express our support for the countries of Europe, including the Italian people, who are now most affected by this terrible threat. Because in this situation, moral support is the only and best way to show that we are the only ones in the European Union, and together, we can face these challenges, with the problem that we are facing right now, is the coronavirus. I think all the factions will support me when we give the mandate to the Head of the Supreme Council to prepare an official appeal to support European countries in such a difficult fight against the coronavirus. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-17-m0.u59	Thank you, Oleg Ivanovich. Dear colleagues, I think the whole world needs to unite around this problem. Bondar Victor Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-17-m0.u60	Thank you, Reverend Dmitri Alexanderovich. Dear colleagues, today we are considering an extremely important bill that gives us a chance, a hope for the country to go through this epidemic, and to resolve many of the issues the government today is asking them to solve with regard to the purchase of drugs, the urgent preparation of the country, the hospitals for this epidemic, and so on. Of course, our parliamentary group "For the Future" will support this bill. And we're going to support all the necessary bills that will allow us to solve at least 1 percent, by 10, by 20 issues of combating this epidemic. But at the same time, I want to go to the government. I've said this over and over again at all the last meetings this week. We want to see from the government, from the headquarters that's dealing with the epidemic, a clear plan of action at least for the next 2-3 weeks. We want to see the hospital mobilization plan, how many hospitals, where the hospitals will be involved to combat this epidemic. We want to see what's going to happen to the drugs that are going to happen to the mobilisation and training of doctors that are going to happen with the protection of doctors who are going to take part in this fight, what is going to happen to other issues, such as the return of our Ukrainians from abroad, how we're going to evacuate them, such as international aid. So there are so many questions, and these questions have to be answered, and we need to hear the answer from the government. As long as we're seeing a lot of different kinds of scarves from side to side. We see a lot of talk, but we don't see any specifics. So we suggest that every two days there be a joint meeting of this anti-crisis headquarters between the government and representatives from each of the MPs and factions. Then we'll have operational information that's actually happening, how many tests there are in Ukraine, how many have been taken and what measures are being taken by the government. Then we'll quickly inform the public.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-17-m0.u61	Thank you, Victor Vasilovich. Katchura Alexander Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-17-m0.u62	Alexander Kachura, "Serial of the People" faction. My dear colleagues, indeed, thank all the MP factions, including the opposition, who are now united in order to protect the Ukrainians from the epidemic that is coming upon the territory of Ukraine. In fact, let's put aside our political ambitions and our opposition now and do everything we can to make Ukraine bear as easily as possible that huge epidemic that's moving around the world. What Bill 3219 is about. This bill provides, first and foremost, for tender simplified procedures. The bill also provides for exemption from tax on added value for medical goods. This bill, as they say, already foresees also the definition of an epidemic, the definition of today of this situation as force majeure. This is business support. Most importantly, what I'd like to say is that the Cabinet of Ministers, I'm now addressing the Prime Minister of Ukraine with the possibility of controlling and setting prices temporarily. I went to a meeting today at the Supreme Council, and I went to a pharmacy at the Institute. Do you know how much masks cost? 50 grand is 2,000 dollars. So the next step should be to impose criminal responsibility for speculation, and I would call it marauding. Because during the war, when an epidemic occurs in the country, it is not possible to take advantage of Ukrainian citizens. That's why I'm going to put the bill directly today, and I'm going to hope that the hall will support it. And for all of our Ukrainian citizens, please don't panic, we'll provide doctors with 200 percent of their wages over a week. It's gonna be okay. Let's stick together, we'll all be healthy.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-17-m0.u63	Thank you. Dear colleagues! I'm on my own, and I think from all the MPs, I'd like to thank the working group that worked on this bill. They've been working on a lot of issues for three years, but they've compromised and we've accepted it today. It's very important. I'd like to go back to both the committee and this group: to work out a brief information letter that we could demonstrate to society, which is what this bill is about, which are the positive things that are predicted there, which are the first steps that are reflected there, and why we've adopted it today. Mikhailo Borisovich! I don't see Raducci. Please prepare to consider the matter. Draft Act amending the Ukrainian Tax Code to increase the availability of medical supplies, medical products and other goods purchased at the expense of the State budget and to create conditions for public health procurement (Registration No. 2539). Aren't we going to discuss this? Edit. It's a second reading. There's an update. Vote? Are you insisting? Nina Petrovna Jujanina, what's the readout? Again? 7th Amendment, Eugene.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-17-m0.u64	Dear colleagues, this amendment is related to the basic law that we have just passed. I don't understand if you've all heard about the creation of a private enterprise that's going to be run by the MoH and do operations, including huge sums, from the state budget. I don’t understand those colleagues who don’t want to fix the situation and all the benefits provided by this law to provide exactly the kind of enterprise that will perform functions related to the state, with public funds, for the purchase of medicines. So I think you're just going to make a huge mistake. You know, there's a lot of examples like this, of enterprises that are made that use government funds, and the consequences are purely negative. So I'm against leaving in the same wording in the Tax Code the definitions that are generally adopted by the law. If possible, let's fix it here, and then you'll make some changes.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-17-m0.u65	Thank you. Danilo Aleksandrovich, 7th row.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-17-m0.u66	Dear Nina Petrovna, we discussed this issue on the committee, and you and I understand that the norm, which is basically the law, we can't change it in a law that goes with a package of basics. Because if we have different definitions in the Tax Code and basically the law, we'll find nothing with you but contradictions and confusion. And we agreed with you that the Supreme Council would determine your direction mainly by law, and if it did, we would support it here. The Supreme Council has identified itself and has not supported your amendment, so the decision of the committee is to reject it. And I'm asking you to support the committee's decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-17-m0.u67	Are you insisting, Nina Petrovna? I'll bet on the vote of 7 of the Jujanina bill. I ask you to identify yourself and vote. [[09:05:45]] For-123 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. Who else will insist on their work? Nina Petrovna, too. What's the readout?
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-17-m0.u68	Next amendment 9. I'd like to contact you, Mr. Chairman of the Committee. For the first time since 2010, you have allowed for amendments to be made to an absolute bill unrelated to the Tax Code. This is the bill we just voted on, 3219. And I'm getting to the knowledge of all people: they've released the VAT on medical drugs, but they haven't released the next shipment, so they're not paying for imported VAT, and people won't have anything to do with it, because 7 percent and 20 percent will be applied when sold in pharmacies or other places. Therefore, such changes should not take place on a non-profile committee. Yesterday, you were asked to take these amendments away, to consider them, to write them in writing so that they could be part of our project. And yet, just adopted by 2538 and 2539, there is nothing to do with the current measures in the country associated with the epidemic. So it's just a stretch under the noise.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-17-m0.u69	Danilo Alexandrovich! Danilo Alexandrovich, position of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-17-m0.u70	For the first time in our kencia, Nina Petrovna has made unprofiled changes to the Tax Code. I do not agree with this practice and justify it solely with the exception of the situation, the extraordinary situation that has taken place in the country today. For the future, we certainly cannot allow changes to the Tax Code to be considered by a non-professional law and a non-professional committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-17-m0.u71	Thank you. I'm betting on the vote of the 9th edition of the Yuzana. Please identify and vote. The committee turned her down. [[09:08:05]] For 115 The decision is not taken. Who else insists on the right? Nina Petrovna, what's the readout?
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-17-m0.u72	51st. I want to address my colleagues for the last time on this bill. Just understand that the changes that have been made to resolve a complex situation, the changes in the Tax Code and the Customs Code, do not solve anything. So maybe now our committee is meeting and not adopting this bill in the second reading, something. Not something, but they've fixed the situation and written out the items that are being sent to spend all the drugs and drugs that will be imported into Ukraine. This refers to the changes made in both the Tax Code and the Customs Code, they need to be corrected urgently, otherwise you have deceived people and done nothing for them in this part. Thank you. And you don't have to make this right, I'm just going to call you, head of the committee: let's get together now and make things right.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-17-m0.u73	Thank you. Do you insist on voting? Don't insist. Nina Petrovna, are you going to make any more adjustments? Colleagues, who else insists on editing? No, it's not. Let's go to the vote for the law. Dear colleagues, I am voting on the proposal to adopt in the second reading and in general with the necessary technical and legal regulations, the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Tax Code on Access to Medical Devices, Medical Products and Other Goods Purchased at the expense of the State Budget, and the creation of conditions for purchases in the field of health at the expense of the State budget (Registration No. 2539). Ready to vote? Ready. Please support and vote. [[09:10:03]] For 295 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Dear colleagues, you are invited to consider the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Tax Code and other Ukrainian laws on the support of taxpayers for the period of implementation of measures aimed at preventing the occurrence and spread of coronary disease (COVID-19). We need to include this issue in the agenda of the day session. Please support and vote. [[09:10:43]] For 358 Decision taken. It is suggested that we consider this question. [[B in m in s a l in]] No discussion? Vote. Dear colleagues. [[B in m in s a l in]] Who wants to talk? One faction? Who? Ready? One faction. One faction is two minutes. Okay. Heroceno. Oh, no? Why? You asked. Please turn on the microphone. Who?
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-17-m0.u74	Please pass the word to the potter.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-17-m0.u75	Who? Hotcharyenko Alexiyyovich, 2 minutes, minute. From Motives
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-17-m0.u76	Thank you. Dear friends! Alexei Hotcharenko, European Solidarity, Clothing. Of course, we have to support the economy of Ukraine today, our entrepreneurs and all those who create jobs. It's too bad we're only doing this right now, although the economic crisis in the country has already begun before the coronavirus. In January there's a drop in GDP, that's before the epidemic, and for the first time in four years, we have a half-percent drop in GDP in January. Why? Because that's what the economic policy of the government has led to. You don't just have to adopt this law -- you have to change the completely economic policy that is destroying today's production that is destroying entrepreneurship. Yes, today we must look for every opportunity to support those who give jobs to Ukrainians for those who feed us all here. And we need to remember all of this! So we vote on this law and we change politics as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-17-m0.u77	I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Code of Taxation and other laws on the support of taxpayers for the period of implementation of measures aimed at preventing the occurrence and spread of coronary disease (COVID 19) (Registration No. 3220). Please support and vote. [[09:12:57]] For 359 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, I am voting on the proposal to adopt, in general, the necessary technical and legal regulations, the draft Act (Registration No. 3220) amending the Ukrainian Code of Taxation and other laws on the support of taxpayers for the period of action aimed at preventing the emergence and spread of coronary disease (COVID 19). Please support and vote. [[09:13:34]] For 359 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Thank you. Dear colleagues, the next question is the draft Decision on certain issues of the organization of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for the period of quarantine in Ukraine (3218). Needed Discussion? [[B in m in s a l in]] No, it's not. I am voting on the proposal for adoption as a basis and in general, taking into account the Committee's proposals and the necessary technical and legal rights, the draft Decision on certain matters of the organization of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for the period of quarantine in Ukraine (registration No. 3218). Please support and vote. [[09:14:34]] For 358 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, the next question is the draft Order to make changes to the calendar plan. Do we need to talk? You don't have to. I am voting on the proposal for adoption as a basis and as a whole the draft Order amending the calendar plan for the third session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the ninth call (registration number 3224). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[09:15:16]] For 359 Decision taken. Ruslan Alexiovich Stefanchuk
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-17-m0.u78	Honourable national deputies, taking into account the need for urgent legislative measures to combat.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-17-m0.u79	Dear colleagues, a moment of silence.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-17-m0.u80	I'll have a moment of silence. Honourable National Deputies, taking into account the need for urgent legislative measures to combat the coronavirus, I propose that the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine sign the acts adopted by the Supreme Council immediately and send them to the President of Ukraine. If there's no objection, I'll put it to a vote. Please support and vote for immediate signature. Please support and vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-17-m0.u81	Wait, wait, wait! I once again, look, we passed laws today. In order not to wait for two days, the Supreme Council is tasking the Head of the Supreme Council to sign the laws today. By all four laws, all the laws that were being considered today. All the questions that have been discussed at the extraordinary meeting today.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-17-m0.u82	Dear colleagues, there is a proposal to vote. Whoever thinks otherwise has other buttons. I'll put it to a vote. Please support and vote. [[09:17:02]] For-360
ParlaMint-UA_2020-03-17-m0.u83	Thank you. Decision taken. Dear colleagues! Dear colleagues, the list of issues proposed for consideration at the extraordinary meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is exhausted. I now declare the plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine closed.
