ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-29-m0.u1	Good morning, dear fellows! Good morning, media officials! Please prepare for registration. As always. No Vlasenko? But I remind you that registration takes place by pressing the green button, the first button on the left. If you do, you'll hand it over to Sergei Volodymyrovich, won't you? Thank you. Please prepare for registration. Are you ready to register? Please register. [[10:17:06]] There are 244 Ukrainian national deputies registered in the hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear colleagues, a moment of attention, please. Dear colleagues! Mikola Leonidovich, if you please. Dear colleagues! Last Friday we had a terrible tragedy. Ukraine lost 26 of its sons. She lost 26 young boys, who. Someone had already become a pilot, someone wanted to be, conquer the sky. And it's a tragedy for both the state and any citizen of our Ukraine, but above all, it's a tragedy for those young people who are loved and loved. And I now propose a moment of silence to honor the memory of all those who died in this terrible tragedy. [[A Minute of Silence]] Please sit down. Also almost 80 years ago, there were terrible events in Ukraine — events that are well known around the world as the tragedy of Baba Jar. And today there will be celebrations. But we are primarily like the national MPs and how people should remember the terrible lessons of history that we have not, fortunately, observed, but that even today we can be told about by those who participated in these events. And we need to make sure that such events never happen again in Ukraine or in the world. Thank you. Dear colleagues, I remind you that the Conciliation Council has also decided on this plenary week to use the schedule that we used for our work last plenary week. That's Tuesday and Thursday is a 15-hour job with a break from 12 to 12:30, and Friday we're working until the first time we're moving. We're working for the second one, but we've got 30 minutes to ask questions since the first hour, and 30 minutes to the Range. If there is no objection, I propose that this mode of work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine be voted on this plenary week. Please prepare for the vote. Ready to vote? I would like to vote on the above proposal, please support and vote. [[10:21:33]] For 241 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, we have a noun today, the National Deputy Fries. [[Applause]] Igor Pavlovich, I welcome you both from my colleagues. I want the health, strength, success, and professionalism of the one you have so that he will always be with you. Dear colleagues, in accordance with article 25 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Regulations, we have up to 30 minutes to speak on Tuesday from the MP factions and groups expressing positions, announcements and statements. Please sign up for the performances by the MPs. Batenko Taras Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-29-m0.u2	Dear Dmitry Aleksandrovich, distinguished fellow national MPs, respected citizens! We're all back from the constituency. As we communicate with people, we have felt the mood of people, and we have felt the reality of what is happening in power today. The government actually lives in one reality, and our people live in another reality. This includes the State Budget Project for 2021. What do we see as to how different this reality is from what we feel on the bottom? We see that the budget, the draft budget, does not provide for any incentives for the development and rescue of the economy and citizens in the face of coronaryism and an unprecedented decline in industry, GDP and the welfare of citizens. We see that, instead of supporting the economy of a national producer, as is done worldwide by reducing tax burden and providing state support, the government's budget process, on the other hand, envisions an increase in the number of bets and congregations. We see a left-hand portion of the increase in budget revenue the government is planning to gain by increasing fiscal pressure on individuals who are entrepreneurs and citizens. We see that the draft budget is based on increasing taxation of the sole social contribution of working individuals of entrepreneurs. It seems that the government is planning to take real action on the encroachment of the individual entrepreneurs, and that planned for January 1st, 21st, for them, registerers are only flowers and the first step by the state, followed by the following steps. We see protests from citizens in front of a session of the Supreme Council, a rostrum, district centers, and circuit centers that we have traveled around. And so in the last days, we want to see how the FOPs will be protected in this room, like Mr. Getmantsev's profile committee on behalf of the Supreme Council Head will bring to the Supreme Council those bills that are awaiting physical entrepreneurs, our micro-entrepreneurs. It's 3853-1, 3853-2 and our bill 3993, which are aimed at simplifying the income of the natural entrepreneurs, which will enable them to work properly. Because no socks, no glasses, no tractor parts can be a risky commodity. And microenterprise cannot continue to be under fiscal pressure by the state. The minimum wage is increasing, but it is not accompanied by an increase in the minimum pension and subsistence minimum, to which all social benefits in the country are actually linked. We see the government's incredible plans to increase tax revenue by as much as 145 billion tax dollars, which is about 30 billion dollars worth of taxes on individuals. So instead of predicting support for the population that's getting poorer, it's suggested that more and more money be squeezed out of people, and the attitude towards domestic business is not much better. That is why I believe, and we are convinced, that our parliamentary group "For the Future" is unacceptable for the State to translate the main burden of fighting directly into the population. And we're not voting for that budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-29-m0.u3	Thank you. Please, National Deputy Aresonkov Volodymyr Yuriovich, Deputy Group "Trust".
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-29-m0.u4	Dear Lord Chairman, dear colleagues! Of course, this week is extremely important in terms of the issues that arise on the agenda. It is symbolic, of course, that the day before the Pedagogical Day, there are many bills dedicated to supporting the development of Ukrainian education and science. Although it is clear that it would have been better for educators and scientists if the government had removed the shameful Order 822 as soon as possible, which halted the wage raises for our teachers and other educators in the field of education. Of course, it would be better for our students if the draft budget for the following year provided not 3.9 of the expected gross domestic product, but 7 percent, as provided by the sectoral laws. But I stress that it is important that the committee of profile has worked and brought enough important bills for consideration this week. This also raises wages for pre - school, extra - school workers, this and attention to Ukrainian colleges, this is a question related to implementation of international standards. But, honourable colleagues of all factions, I would like to draw your attention to today's consideration of Bill 3900, which concerns the Ukrainian textbook. And it seems to me that the committee's decision (we'll talk about it again when we come to the consideration of this bill) is somewhat hasty and erroneous. I'm only going to ask one question to those who don't like the Silicon today as the head of the Academy of Pedagogical Sciences, who today question the role and weight of Ukrainian scientists and educators. Who allows you, who gives you the right to destroy what is done by the Academy of Pedagogical Sciences today? It seems to me that there should be common sense in this opposition. So let us be very careful and scrupulous about those bills that are being considered in the session hall. But in general, I appreciate the fact that we will be paying attention this week to both the education community and the scientists, and a huge block of social protection for children, children, deprived of parental care, veterans of war, Chernobyl. So this work week is extremely important, and I want us all to do it energetically. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-29-m0.u5	Please, National Deputy Zabrodsky Mikhailo Vitaliyovich, factions of the political party "European Solidarity".
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-29-m0.u6	Klimpush-Cincadze Ivanna Orestovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-29-m0.u7	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished colleagues, respected Ukrainians! The European Union is not an ATM or a charity. That is what the Europeans say to our authorities. And even after changing that phrase, they point out that, in fact, aid can only be in exchange for reform, not for good eyes. Europeans say they need a stable democratically prosperous Ukraine, not an oligarchic, corrupt state, without the rule of law. Europeans are making the last attempt to urge today's leaders to think about it because they already see that European integration has ended and that only Euroimitation and a good mine at a bad game have flourished, oligarchism has flourished, a legal divide has flourished and a rematch has been discovered. The government has lost out on what the relationship with the civilized world is based on -- it's lost confidence. You don't believe or believe in your desire to actually build a European democratic civilised state of Ukraine. The probability of receiving tranches from the IMF, from the World Bank, from the European Union is already minimal. And this is going to destroy the economy of Ukraine, it's going to hit all of our citizens. You promised people a refrigerator instead of values. The people received neither the refrigerator nor the values. You have betrayed those who have given their lives for European values and for the European future, and this is the beginning of your end, and you will see it in the local elections. From "European Solidarity," I remind you that Ukraine is not a show or a monopoly that people actually live, die, hope, yearn, and suffer, and you think that people are chips that can be controlled by a gaming cube. Stop bullying people. The President's office today has total control over the legislature, the executive power, the law enforcement system, the courts. And this principle of distribution of power is generally buried in Ukraine today. Is that not enough to make your reforms work? You can't win the election honestly, so you took the express tests at Yanukovich and Lukashenko, express courses? You're putting dust in the eyes of the Ukrainians, and that's not the country of the dream that President Greensky promised to build. I'll turn to you one last time, Mr. Head. The petition to investigate the matter of "vagners" about the creation of the TSC for possible treason has won over 25,000 votes. You are obliged by the Rules to place it in full discussion today. I hope you will respect the Rules, as you are very proud of them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-29-m0.u8	Coltunovich Alexander Sergiyovich. Rabbi Vadim Zinovovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-29-m0.u9	Dear friends, last week we were going through a process, no, not an election, but a candidate's registration. During the years of independence, Ukraine became a constant expression of "dirty choices." I can see how dirty today's green elections are going to be, local elections, because only the registration of candidates has shown an unprecedented level of counterfeiting using administrative resources, including the judicial system. Obviously, one goal in power is to prevent unfavourable candidates from racing, and first and foremost, to prevent our party from winning, which is the leader in most regions of Ukraine. The last week, special emissaries in the fields did what they did to create problems for the Opposition Platform for Life. There are hundreds of examples, I'll just give you one. In the Voyage of the Donetsk Region, registration documents were falsified. The police are already doing this. A similar situation with the use of machines is found in Mikolayev, Luhansk, Poltava, and other cities. I won't count them all because there's not enough time. And if the previous authorities were inventing a variety of craftsmanship, today’s is the easiest way to go: its representatives are forging documents. Dozens of criminal cases, falsifications, and just a straightforward "headline" are all going to prevent them from being elected. Gentlemen of the Greens, you've already denied the right to choose hundreds of thousands of people in the Lugansk and Donetsk areas, just by forgetting that they voted for your President. Then you were comfortable, and today you tricked them like the rest of the country. But too little for you, you went on and you want to deprive people of their right to vote in other areas of Ukraine. Let me ask you, guys, what are you doing with the country? I warn all those who break the law on the spot, this "green power" for a short time, you'll have to take responsibility for your actions, and no one will help you. Dear voters, dear Ukrainians, "greens" have declared to all countries that have the right to make mistakes, but we don't have that right. Today, more than ever, I'm sure we can, we'll go through this difficult path to victory. Victory will follow us!
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-29-m0.u10	Ivchenko Vadim Evgenovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-29-m0.u11	Vadim Yvchenko, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear colleagues, Julia Timoshenko is now in the Constitutional Court as one of the initiators of the constitutional submission against the land market you have voted on. Colleagues, all of us remember the violent violations of the Rules. Remember when the first reading did not invite opposition deputies to the committee and voted on the committee without opposition? Do you remember how this was done on the committee when not all deputies were able to stand up? Do you remember, colleagues, when we voted in the hall and did not sit everywhere while we discussed the bill? And this, colleagues, is a violation of the Rules, and I'm not saying that the session was resumed the next day. Violent violations of the Rules that we will be proving in court today. Next up, colleagues. As for the violation of the Constitution. We have prepared a great legal position, and "Fatherland" will today speak to the judges of the Constitutional Court, in particular this bill, which was voted by the majority and opened the market for land, violated articles 14, 13, 17, 22, 41, 42, 43, 48. Colleagues, this bill poses a threat to national security due to the loss of large areas as a result of the massive accumulation of land in Ukraine. This bill violates the integrity of the State’s territorial system by acquiring large areas of land. This bill opens the way to an agrarian arrangement with preferences and advantages of a large non-Selian business. Colleagues, this bill introduces an uncontrolled growth of agro-holdintization as a predatory economic phenomenon, excites the entire social orientation of the objective of land reform. Colleagues, this bill creates conditions for largely uncontrollable export-oriented monoculture production on Ukrainian lands. This bill depopulates rural areas, colleagues. This bill does not create justice for Ukrainian peasants and citizens to complete land reform. He introduces a model of land sales that ignores or sees Ukrainian peasants and Ukrainians. This bill is irresponsible to future generations and violates Ukraine’s economic independence. Timoshenko will talk about all of this today in the Constitutional Court. And we're going to try to reverse this anti-constitutional decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-29-m0.u12	Costenko Roman.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-29-m0.u13	Dear fellow citizens! The Voice faction, as promised, has registered the Order for the establishment of the Temporary Investigation Commission for the collapse of the special operation with the "vagners". Because society requires answers and answers, not details, but specific questions about whether there has been treason and trust. There's a lot of fairies around here. It's already some kind of information campaign just started, maybe for distractions. Journalists publish classified information, law enforcement calls citizens for questioning, and Ukrainian society simply does not understand who to trust. In a democratic country, only parliament can be an effective arbitrator between the President and the Special Forces. So we have to take responsibility and create a temporary commission of inquiry. I want to assure you that the creation of the TSC is the most effective way to find out the truth that is going to result in either the denial of fairies or the appeal of law enforcement authorities. We see that the TSC is braking, so we are initiating an extraordinary plenary session and calling on all MPs, regardless of the political factions, from the political forces to support our initiative. We have to vote and create a temporary commission of inquiry. I urge everyone to go in there and figure out what really happened. It's a matter of national security where there's no room for secrets. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-29-m0.u14	Thank you. Dear colleagues, all who would like to speak have spoken. Please invite the national deputies to the hall. We need to vote on the agenda, the changes to the order of the day session. Dear colleagues, I remind you that the bill is being proposed this week. Wait. "The Servant of the People" – 10, "The Opposition Platform for Life" – 9, "The Fatherland" – 6, "European Solidarity" – 7, "The Voice" – 5, "The Future Group" – 6, "The Trust" – 7, "The Non-Flocked People's Deputies" – 5. Give me a minute. Wait a minute. "The EU" says, "The Fatherland" in a minute, and then we vote. Invite the national deputies to the hall. Heratchenko Irina Volodymyrna is a minute. Turn it on, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-29-m0.u15	Dear colleagues, it has not been a year since the opposition bill began to be placed in the order of the day. Last week a bill of our faction was voted out, which waited a year for its time, to ban its national deputies from joining the state. And that's actually the only thing that was put into the agenda, after the investigative journalists and journalists of Radio Freedom began to prepare the relevant material about these family ties and camaraderie in contact with national deputies and assistants, for which we thank them very much. This week there are several bills of our political power, but it's obviously not enough for us to have a decent agenda. We will now support our vote to form this agenda, but we insist that this week we put the day-to-day creation of the TSC into the "vagres" order. State treachery must be punished.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-29-m0.u16	Sergey Vladislavovich is a minute, and we vote. Please take your seats.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-29-m0.u17	Sobolje, Fatherland. Unfortunately, only two of the 70 bills that we put into the agenda are included. Indeed, a number of bills have been included this week, where our colleagues are coauthors. Unfortunately, however, the level of legislative work in Parliament fell very sharply. Everyone understands that very well. Attempts to transpose bills that were drafted by the opposition, including the "Fatherland" faction as their own, are failing. And I think we should go on the principle that Parliament has always worked on: all MPs have the right to legislative initiative. All bills that are put directly into the agenda should be incorporated. Unfortunately, our 68 drafts are not included. That's why we're going to keep voting for changes to the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-29-m0.u18	Dear colleagues, once again, I am aware that the bills co-authored and authored by "The Fatherland" are at this plenary week 6. Let's be honest. 66 Bills Just Fatherland? So let's take all the other political forces as a percentage, get about 200 bills? Most of them have not yet been considered on the committee. I understand. It's not a question of quantity, it's a question of quality. As I recall, in this regard, you and I will hold exactly the same position that I am grateful for. Dear colleagues, let's go to the vote. People's deputies are already in the hall. I thank all my colleagues. Please take your seats. I am voting on the proposal for the adoption of the entire draft Order amending the agenda of the fourth session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the ninth call (registration No. 3050a-4). Ready to vote? Ready? Please support and vote. [[10:47:13]] For 245 Decision taken. Thank you. Dear colleagues, I have been approached by the head of the "Serve of the People" faction. David Georgievich, out of procedure? Please give me a minute of Arahamaia.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-29-m0.u19	Dear colleagues, I propose to change today's schedule for the consideration of Bills 4119, 4120 and 3900, to postpone and move forward on a day-to-day basis. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-29-m0.u20	Is there no objection? We can move on with the consensus. Thank you. The next issue is the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Electoral Code and some Ukrainian legislation on the characteristics of the organization of preparations and elections during the quarantine period established to prevent the spread in Ukraine of particularly dangerous and dangerous infectious diseases and to improve individual provisions of electoral legislation (registration No. 4117). We need to make a decision to include this issue in the agenda of the day session. It takes 226 votes. Please support and vote. [[10:48:52]] For 213 The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, it's a question that's being referred to. There's a committee decision. Are you sure you don't have to do this? Maybe we'll make another procedural decision. about the inclusion in the agenda of the session.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-29-m0.u21	Dear colleagues, this is a procedural decision to include. And there's no procedural decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-29-m0.u22	Once again, one more minute, I remind you, this is a question to ask. It needs to be considered in order to be sent for further processing. There's a committee decision in the morning. Right? Please, Ruslan Alexiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-29-m0.u23	Dear colleagues, I'm putting a decision in the agenda and a decision to shorten the deadline for the introduction of alternative projects. This is Bill 4117: draft Act amending the Ukrainian Electoral Code and certain legislative acts. I told you. Draft Act amending the Ukrainian Electoral Code and some Ukrainian legislation on the characteristics of preparing and holding elections during the quarantine period established to prevent the spread in Ukraine of particularly dangerous and dangerous infectious diseases, and to improve individual provisions of electoral legislation (registration number 4117). It's a day-to-day inclusion.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-29-m0.u24	Dear colleagues, I'd like to make amends to these two questions, this and the next, this is about inclusion and shortening, we're not even going to consider them today.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-29-m0.u25	Dear colleagues, that is to say, regarding the inclusion and adoption of decisions to shorten the deadline for the introduction of alternative projects. Ready to vote? The question of inclusion, yes. Please support and vote. [[10:51:08]] For 208
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-29-m0.u26	The decision is not taken. The next question is similar. This is a draft Act amending section X, paragraph 4, of the Act on Public Procurement, on the characteristics of procurement during the electoral process (registration number 4099). This issue is included in the agenda of the day session, and it is proposed to shorten the deadlines for submission of allowances and offers by 29 September 2020. It's also a cut in time, there's not going to be a question today, there's going to be a committee tomorrow, as far as I know, and on Thursday it'll be out in the hall if it's supported now. Abbreviations. I would like to vote on the proposal to declare the bill urgent and to shorten the deadlines for the introduction of alternative bills until the day of the plenary meeting on 29 September 2020 (Article 101a). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[10:52:33]] For 259. Decision taken. Thank you. Dear colleagues, the next issue of the agenda is the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislative acts to improve the conduct of the public service (registration number 3748). It is suggested that this issue be considered in a simplified manner. Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[10:53:10]] For 210 Decision taken. The head of the National Service Agency Alushina Natalija Alexandrovna is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-29-m0.u27	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs! Your opinion is now proposed in the Government Bill 3748, which is developed by the NADH in cooperation with international partners, namely the Project "Supporting Integrated Government Reform in Ukraine" (EU4PAR) and SIGMA. The bill provides a series of conceptual changes and clarifications to address these issues. First. Ensure the political neutrality of the members of the commission on matters of the higher body of the public service. The other one. Defining and assigning the only winner of the highest rating contest. Now it's defined as 5 winners, and this lowers the motivation of the participants. Third. It is possible to make effective use of the potential of staff defined in the competitions. That is, the formation of a reserve of others and thirds in the candidate rating for further appointments. Four. Provide career advancement in the public service, taking into account the excellent annual evaluation. In addition, the settlement of public employees ’ salaries and the structure of wages are regulated. This is an increase in the role of office salary, a reduction in premiums, and a cancellation of incentive payments that are subjective. The introduction of a new classification of public service posts and the optimisation of regularity, increased responsibility for disciplinary misconduct. We ask you to support the adoption of the bill in the first reading as a basis for further implementation of the principles of good governance and the fulfilment of international obligations. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-29-m0.u28	Thank you. The word is given to the head of the committee, Andriyovich, please. Andrew Andryovich Kloczko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-29-m0.u29	Good afternoon, dear presiding fellows! The Committee on the Organization of Government, Local Self-Government, Regional Development and Urbanization, commissioned by the Supreme Head, reviewed at its meetings on 16 and 29 September of this year the draft Act amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine to improve the conduct of the State service. The bill proposes amendments to the Ukrainian Labour Code, the Ukrainian Employment Act, the Prevention of Corruption Act, the State Service Act, the Amendments to the Ukrainian State Budget for 2020, with the aim of improving the procedure for entry, passage and termination of the public service, changes in the system and approaches to the settlement of civil service salaries, optimizing competitive elections for public service posts, and improving the application of disciplinary fees. At the same time, when considering the matter on the Committee, the Committee concluded that it was necessary to comprehensively develop the relevant normative material and to amend it to all legislative acts governing the activities of public authorities, particularly the part of the conduct of the public service, not only those covered by the bill. In view of the above and taking into account the conclusion of the Supreme Council's Chief Scientific and Expert Office on the need for drafting the bill, the Committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, in accordance with article 114, paragraph 3, of the First Rule of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, that the draft Act amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine should be amended to improve the conduct of the public service for the purpose of re-reading. Thank you. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-29-m0.u30	Thank you, Andry Andryovich. Dear colleagues, the committee's proposal to re-read. Is there a need to discuss? Yes. Then please sign up: two in, two in, two in. Please give the floor to Taras Ivanovich Batenka, the MP's Party for the Future.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-29-m0.u31	Dear colleagues, we understand that the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine is said to have hit a stand. I don't understand why we're putting these bills in the session room at all. To hear the conclusion of the Supreme Council’s committee of profile in order to take it off the table for re-reading, and to listen to the GNEU’s conclusion that this bill requires further elaboration? We understand what the Cabinet of Ministers is doing, especially in the context of public service reform. We see that further down the prestige of the public service, when in fact you exclude from the structure of the wages of government officials all categories of ingredients, you cut out their monthly bonuses, you cut out all the allowances by rank, you actually leave them a net salary. It's a good, of course, incentive to pull up the administrative resources before the local elections, I think, all the power verticals that are now in place. And at the same time, I think it's an assessment of the ability of the Cabinet of Ministers today to cope with the crisis and, above all, the crisis of government. Our parliamentary group "For the Future" supports the position of the PIC committee and the conclusion of the GNEU that such a bill should be removed from the agenda at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-29-m0.u32	The word is given to the national deputy of Chigoza Ahtem Zeitullajovich, please. The faction of the European Solidarity political party.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-29-m0.u33	Please hand over Knyazevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-29-m0.u34	Ruslan Petrovich Knazević, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-29-m0.u35	Thank you very much. Dear Ruslan Alexiyovich, distinguished colleagues, well, I fully support my colleague Batenka, there's nothing to work on. And the committee can't do that by definition. The chairman of the committee had just read out a conclusion in which he had actually criticised the conceptual approach to the bill. And we can't send bills for re-reading if we have to amend the concept bill. They can only work in some way in part, let's say, improving the concept that is proposed and the committee has agreed to. So in this case, we have two outcomes: either we can even rule out what would be much better, or, in the extreme case, we can send the subject of the right of legislative initiative to pre-work, and then there should be another bill, a new one that would fit the concept that the committee head was talking about. Friends, I don't want to repeat what's been said, but there's still a series of novels that aren't going to come up. In fact, the possibility of freeing an employee, more specifically, a government official without a union committee, without having been duly notified, is being rewritten in full by the Law on Prevention of Corruption, in a part of the special check by silence in the "Transitional Positions" to this bill. In fact, we've already got the bill a previous state service, here you're trying to somehow correct your mistakes, but it's too late. What does it matter now, whether the 5 winners will be chosen from, or 3? It doesn't matter anymore. In a year, everything is ruined, and all of the competitions are actually seeing what has led to, more precisely, this is just what the government itself has been forced to declare loudly now. The other thing is, it doesn't have to be the bill. Now conceptually not to change the basic bill, there's no point in changing it. That's why our faction appealed to the Constitutional Court and asked that bill amending the State Service Act to be declared unconstitutional. We need to go back to the original edition, which for several years built a normal, European type of government service, and only then try to improve it. Without taking a conceptual step towards a return to the previous law.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-29-m0.u36	The word is given to the National Deputy to Black Viktor Ivanovich, the faction of the political party "The Opposition Platform for Life". It's a royal one. Do I get it right? Royal Natalia Yuriovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-29-m0.u37	Dear colleagues, well, it might be enough to spend Parliament's time, which is very expensive, as we see from the 2021 draft budget, to look at unprepared draft decisions at all. On July 7, we had already amended the Law on State Service. Are we going to change the State Service Act every month? We're going to spend every month of our time trying to make a stupid decision here to send them back to work? Well, if the government isn't able to prepare a service model, you don't have to touch that question at all. If the government is unable to prepare a draft budget for 2021 because what we have seen with you is just an absurd set of figures and no more, why are we wasting our time today instead of making decisions to really discuss proposals for the budget in 2021 to prepare a country's development strategy? We have a lot of challenges with you that we have to answer, not so that this unprepared government is not able to prepare a single document here. So "The Opposition Platform in Life" thinks that this government needs to be put away as quickly as possible, that it's better not to spend the money of the country, stop that hedge fund robbery that the whole country sees. And now we have very little time to prepare the country for the winter to prepare a professional budget project to prepare today and form a professional government in our country. Therefore, "The Opposition Platform – Life" believes that this bill and other government bills cannot be considered in this way. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-29-m0.u38	It's a good word. You will, won't you? Please, Alona Igorovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-29-m0.u39	Ivanovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-29-m0.u40	Excuse me, Alona Ivanovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-29-m0.u41	Good afternoon, fellow countrymen, dear Ukrainians! Alona's splinter, Fatherland faction. In fact, President Zelensky of the same rostrum promised us a land of dreams where reason for appointment would be mind, honor and conscience, not that children were baptized together. I think we can honestly say today that this has not happened, and unfortunately, it is very painful to admit that it will not happen again. What happened here a year ago? A year ago, unfortunately, the "ministers of the people" passed the "State Service" Act, where they completely nullified the public service, where they humiliated every civil servant who had worked fruitfully for years in this country, where they introduced so-called political liberations for no reason at all, because they didn't like where a national deputy from the pro-dominant faction "Serve of the People" was first placed in the High Corps of the State Service. Look, there's never been a President like this before. Unfortunately, every future president of Ukraine has further destroyed and continued to be a professional independent non-political public service, but right after President Zelensky, and I find it painful to say that government officials have actually become political advisors to the President's Office, and they feel that. And after all the destruction, you're surprised, and President Zelensky is surprised that in a country called cadre hunger, and no one wants to go to public service. But of course, colleagues, in this respect, under such conditions and under such a change of law a year ago, no one will ever go into the public service, and no one who respects himself will come there. This law is trying to correct some of these mistakes, and there are the right good things. This law clears the law on political arbitrary dismissal and cleans up the disgraceful quarantines assigned by the President’s Office to date by more than half of category A. Sadly, though, everything else in this law is causing many objections. So the contests need to be restored. We expect the government to have a full strategy. If we do not return to the professional non-political public service, nothing will happen in this country. Fellows, hear this, and let the President understand it at last. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-29-m0.u42	Thank you, Alona Ivanovna. Please, from the motives of Alexander Kachura. And who? And Lozinski, yes, Roman Lozinski. Please, Alexander Kachura, then Roman Lozinski. And we're going to the vote, and I'm going to ask the people's deputies to come to the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-29-m0.u43	Alexander Kachura, "Serial of the People" faction. I don't know who wrote this bill, but you definitely need to conduct an internal service investigation into who is the author of the paragraphs that prohibit the employee from initiating an official investigation of his initiative in the event that he thinks he has groundless charges. So you're cleaning it up. Secondly, it's very interesting that you want to legalize some illegal orders from your superiors? You write here that if an employee gets an illegal order, not like now, if there's any doubt, an employee can go to the manager and ask for a written statement during the period of time, now you are obliged to write an explanatory order, which standards are illegal. What is it? It's not that this bill has to go back to work -- to reject it. And you're going to have to go there, and you're going to have to go there, and you're going to have to go there, and you're going to have to go there, and you're going to have to go there, and you're going to have to have to do some official investigation, because this is the name of Prime Minister Schmigal.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-29-m0.u44	Thank you. Please, the national MP of Lozinski Roman. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-29-m0.u45	Dear Ruslan Alexiyovich, a colleague of a majority, I urge you all to stop raping the State Service. I urge you to stop doing research at the State Service. Each of you, when we look at similar initiatives, should remember that government officials are about 200,000 people, that the public service is the foundation, is the bone of our state. Nor should the public service be replaced by political slavery. It is not necessary to continue to prosecute, not the political advisers, but the political slaves of the Office of the President of all without excluding government officials in all institutions. I'm saying from the Voice faction, stop raping the State Service. This will destroy our country. And these initiatives are essentially nothing to consider, because it's a horror and it's political slavery.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-29-m0.u46	Dear colleagues, everyone has spoken out of this question, so I will ask you to prepare for the vote. Dear colleagues, I ask you to prepare for the vote. And I'm proposing to the committee to re-read the draft Act amending some of the Ukrainian legislative acts to improve the conduct of the public service (project registration number 3748). Dear colleagues, do you understand? For the re-reading, the committee's proposal. Ready to vote? Ready to vote? Dear colleagues, please support and vote. [[11:10:26]] For 175 The decision is not taken. If the decision is not taken again, then I take the initiative to return the subject to the right of the legislative initiative for further work. Ready to vote? Once again, it is suggested that the subject of the legislative initiative should be returned to the draft Law on Amendments to certain Ukrainian legislative acts on improving the conduct of the public service (project registration number 3748). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[11:11:15]] For-189 The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, if not supported, are regarded as being rejected. Excuse me? Out of procedure, please, Tzabal.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-29-m0.u47	Colleagues, me. The decision is not made. Why don't we take a break till next week?
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-29-m0.u48	Please tell me that according to article 114, I have an exclusive list of reasons why I can make this decision. This decision of the "one at a time" committee is not supported, the decision I have proposed, the second at a time is a decision to make. I'll finish. If not, the decision is rejected. From the motive of who? Bujansky, please. I'm sorry, the procedure is Bujansky.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-29-m0.u49	Colleagues from the Voice faction say they don't make decisions. So I have a question, and where is the Vakarczuk People's Deputy, who counts on the Supreme Council site as a nardep and why isn't it in the hall? Where's Vakarczuk? Why isn't it working? Why does he get paid? Why is his absence not making decisions? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-29-m0.u50	Maxime Arkadyovich, your honor, is not exactly a procedure. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, one second, one second. I will ask, however, when a national MP takes the procedure out of the procedure, to proceed with the procedure. The procedure is governed by the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Besides, as far as the right to a replica is concerned, I understand the faction of the Voice, yes. Once again, a national MP is entitled to be mentioned. He's not in the hall. One second. If the faction is mentioned, it is only when it is given, when there is an insult. The insults, yes, I'm sorry. [[B in m in s a l in]] Guys, let's take that question down. What do you mean, no? May I ask the representative of the Voice faction to come to me and see the Rules? Please give 30 seconds for Rachmanin. Because. For the right of reply, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-29-m0.u51	Thank you, Ruslan Alexiovich. First. The National Deputy of Ukraine, Svetoslav Vakarczuk, has given his mandate in accordance with the convention’s decision. One. The other one. The National Deputy of Ukraine, Svetoslav Vakarczuk, does not receive any kind of monetary reward, either as a deputy or as a salary, from the Supreme Council. Period. The questions are closed.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-29-m0.u52	Thank you. Dear colleagues, once again, the decision on this is a draft law that is rejected. As I continue to hold meetings, I report to the distinguished national deputies that a statement has been made by two political factions, so I understand, "The Voice" and "the EU" in order to take a real break in the plenary session. I'm calling it a 30-minute break. And we're meeting in the hall at 11:45. Please gather yourself, well, not in the head's office, then in my office, it's on the floor above. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-29-m0.u53	Dear colleagues, a meeting of factions and groups continues. So there's this proposal, if you don't mind, we'll announce a break now, but we'll get together at 12:20. Okay? Is there no objection? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-29-m0.u54	Dear colleagues, I'm asking you to invite the people's deputies into the hall. And we're about to begin, more faithfully, we're continuing our morning session. Dear colleagues, the next question we have is a draft law amending some of the legislative acts on improving the legal regulation of remote work (Law No. 4051). Under this bill, decisions should be made to include it in the agenda. Dear colleagues, in order to include this issue in the agenda, we need to get 226 votes. I'm going to ask the national MPs to come to the hall. Dear colleagues, I am voting on the inclusion in the agenda of the Draft Law on Amendments to Certain Legislative Acts on Improving the Legal Regulation of Remote Work (Law No. 4051). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[12:35:30.]] For 180. The decision is not taken. The bill will not be considered today. Next bill 3287. It's a bill. Please, from the procedure, the Gethmans.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-29-m0.u55	Dear colleagues, I'd like your attention. The technical bill, let's unify the hall, make technical amendments to the codex in order for it to work. There was unanimous support on the committee. Let's include and vote, even without discussion, there's nothing to talk about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-29-m0.u56	Danilo Alexandrovich, you don't have to include him, he's already on. We need to vote on it now and consider it. Therefore, my fellow Members, I am referring to the issue of a simplified procedure for reviewing the draft Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Customs Code in connection with the adoption of the Ukrainian Act on Amendments to Certain Legislative Acts on the Simplification of the Trial Investigation of Certain Categories of Criminal Offences (Journal of Law 3287). So once again, this is a review of the reduced procedure. Are you ready to support me? Please support and vote. [[12:37:06]] For-189 Decision taken. I invite you to the floor of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Denis Anatoliyovich Monastirski. Please, Dennis Anatolyovich. Oh, it's the Gethmans, isn't it? Danilo Alexandrovich, will you do that? And you, and from the committee, do I understand? Then I'd like four minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-29-m0.u57	Thank you. I won't take your four minutes. Look, the Monastery passed the basic bill. We introduced an alternative bill that simply expanded the terminology that conforms to the actual changes to other laws. It's about a few terms: "crime" and a second term is the name of those authorities that exercise authority in the field of customs. It's a very simple bill, but it's very necessary, because in fact a huge number of the rules of the Customs Code can't work without these changes. The committee unanimously supported the alternative bill, as the alternative bill is simply broader. We ask you as a committee to support this bill on the basis and in general and to unite in the hall, because this initiative is very necessary and does not create any contradictions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-29-m0.u58	Thank you, Danilo Alexanderovich. Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss? There is a need to discuss, please. Dear colleagues, I ask you to sign up: two in favor, two in favor. The word is given to National Deputy Zinkevich Jani Vadimovni, faction of the political party "European Solidarity".
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-29-m0.u59	Please pass the word to Nina Petrovni Jujanini.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-29-m0.u60	Nina Petrovn Jujanin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-29-m0.u61	Honorable Presidium, Your Honor! The law is indeed technical and essentially formal in terms of the sphere of legal regulation, bringing several provisions of the Customs Code into line with the criminal code of changes that have been adopted. Will the situation really change at least at the customs office? I don't think anything's gonna change. On the other hand, the structure of customs posts has been formally changed in the last ten months. Thousands of tax collectors are once again out of the state to be accepted into the new structure. And the new structure is usually in the formal renaming of customs posts with a view to obtaining reasons for change of direction and other things. And it's already turned into a carousel that lasts almost a year, a completely uncontrollable carousel from both Minfina and Kabmin, groundless, groundless. And by the way, there's no such trend and there's no such action in any of the executive bodies. Instead of assigning professional management of customs posts, the change in the direction of the State Service and customs will begin with a mass cleansing of the management of fastings on their own and loyal ones. Will the state or society benefit from this? Would Customs Management Improve? Will a better business environment be created? Is there an increasing level of opposition to customs offenses? Is it less gray and black? Judging by the current state of affairs and the conclusions of business, no, nothing will add that. So I would like to draw attention now not to the technical changes to the Customs Code, but actually to the chaos and uncontrolledness of customs. I ask that the hall pay attention to these draft laws and consider them in the hall. And these technical projects, of course, we're going to vote yes, but they don't make any sense right now. Customs don't change anything for the better, chaos does happen over and over again. Please pay attention to this.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-29-m0.u62	The word is given to national deputy Kovalczuk Alexander Volodymyrovich, faction of the political party "Slut of the People".
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-29-m0.u63	Dear colleagues, first of all, I would like to thank the head of the committee, Daniel Alexander Gettmantsev, for being so considerate of time and not using those four minutes. He did not take advantage of the fact that the bill is a purely technical example of how technical bills are to be adopted. And this time that colleagues are using in front of me to say that there's nothing going to work out at the customs office, you know, your responsibility is also very great, which we're also going to have to look forward to. This bill, once again, is very simple, very technical, which replaces one word with another, which is necessary to improve our legislation. There's nothing complicated about it. The main scientific and expert office in its conclusions also says that 3281 is a more perfect bill, a technical bill that can be supported on a basis and in general. And I would also like to point out that by the decision of the committee. The majority of the committee unanimously decided to support the bill. Dear colleagues, I ask you not to waste too much time discussing this law. We vote yes. Thank you all.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-29-m0.u64	Thank you. The word is given to Mother Gregory Mikolaiovich, faction of the political party "The Opposition Platform for Life".
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-29-m0.u65	Dear National Deputies! Well, there are no technical bills, there are laws, and they're all important to the state of Ukraine. The fact that people who are incompetent write them and then vote is a completely different story. Previous speakers pointed out that there are customs problems and everything else. Yes, indeed, they are. Yes, indeed, no one works with them, nor do they have a professional intention to work with them. We can create abbreviations in the National Police -- the U.S.A.R., the new baby organ -- we plan to create, well, that kind of story. Dear National MPs, this bill, it's important why? Because he's opening up a slugbaum for a criminal delinquency in the State Tax Service. Please support, vote and run a course or a full-service knowledge body. Thank you for your attention. We'll vote yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-29-m0.u66	It's a good word. Before I give the last word, I'll ask for the final word on this bill, and I'll ask the people's deputies to come to the hall, and then we'll vote. I invite you to speak to National Deputy Ivchenko Vadim Evgenovich, faction of the political party of the All-Ukrainian Union of Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-29-m0.u67	Oh, my God.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-29-m0.u68	Krulko Ivanovich. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-29-m0.u69	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. I heard about five previous speeches that we were voting on such a technical bill. And I, my colleagues, have a question. We're the only legislative body in the country -- the Supreme Council of Ukraine -- maybe let's stop looking at technical bills and start looking at some laws that people need? If there are no members of the majority, let's face it and say that we don't have monocoalities. We don't need to be blindfolded and put in technical bills, we weren't chosen here by people. How many bills are waiting for their queues of real, those submitted by the Fatherland faction that deal with solving the problem of these destructive pensions for people who apply to bringing tariff issues into line, which are debilitating, which are related to cancelling this standard completely ridiculous when people have to pay for transporting gas through those pipes that their money has laid. So I think we should, as a parliament, understand that there's a hot season going on, stop pretending that everything is good here and there's monocolation, and start really looking at the issues that concern people today, then maybe trust in the Supreme Council will be a little bit different than it is today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-29-m0.u70	Thank you. Anyone else want to come out? Please, Aresonkov Vladimir Yuriovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-29-m0.u71	Yes, Your Honor, the Trust MP group is calling on everyone to support this bill, because it is important. Finally, he settles the issue of criminal law. A great deal of work was done by all the committees. So let's vote. Because now, according to the general analysis of customs work, and so forth, some begin to question whether they should vote in favour of the bill. We're voting on it as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-29-m0.u72	Thank you, Vladimir Yuriovich. Anyone else want to say something, please? Please, Cabal, a national MP.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-29-m0.u73	Colleagues, of course, the Voice faction will support this law. I do not agree in part with my colleagues that technical laws, including the correction of previous mistakes, are needed. Such laws should also be voted on. But on the other hand, I also agree with my colleague, John Krulk, if we really see that we have, let's say, not all the laws can vote today, let's change the order of the day, and we'll actually go there, and we can openly say that we only vote for things that we can fix mistakes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-29-m0.u74	Thank you. Dear colleagues, everyone said who wanted it, after this bill? There are no more desirous ones. I'll ask you to prepare for the vote. Dear colleagues, there is a proposal for the committee to take on a basis as a whole. Is there any objection? Then I'm going to lay the groundwork first, and if we get the required number of votes, we're going to put it all together. Dear colleagues, please prepare for the vote. I am voting on the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Customs Code in connection with the adoption of the Ukrainian Act on Amendments to certain Ukrainian Legislative Acts on the Simplification of the Trial Investigation of Certain Categories of Criminal Offences. I'm sorry, not this one, the other one looks, I'm sorry. Draft Law on Amendments to the Customs Code of Ukraine and certain legislative acts of Ukraine on the Elimination of Terminological Disagreements (draft No.3287-1). Dear colleagues, ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[12:48:47]] For 271 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, there is a proposal in general. Then, with your permission, I'm adopting a whole bill No.3287-1: draft law amending the Ukrainian Customs Code and some Ukrainian legislation on the elimination of terminology disagreements, a bill in general. Please support and vote. [[12:49:26]] For 276 Decision taken. The bill was adopted as a whole. Congratulations, colleagues. The next bill, 3961, is a bill amending section XI, paragraph 1, of the Act on Concession and Transitional Provisions of the Ukrainian Act on Concession. Dear colleagues, I ask you to prepare, there is an offer to consider this issue in a simplified manner. We need to get 150 votes. Please support and vote in favour of the simplified procedure. [[12:50:13]] For-200 Decision taken. I invite the Deputy Minister for Economic Development, Trade and Agriculture, Irina Yuriov Novikov. Please, Irina Yuriovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-29-m0.u75	Good afternoon, Reverend Head, distinguished national MPs! The new concession bill, which was adopted on October 3, 2019, provided for the launch of an electronic trading system from October 1, 2020 for concessions. Our bill proposes to postpone the start of an electronic trading system for concessional competitions because there is no such system anywhere in the world, and we need more time to develop it. Unfortunately, the coronation and the lack of funds in the state budget led us to be unable to develop it during the period 2019-2020. We now have certain arrangements with the EBRD, and we are now starting the preparation of this electronic trading system. There are no such trading systems in any country of the world, so we need more financial resources and time resources to develop and implement this quality system. I would like to point out that before such a system is put in place, all concessions will be held on a regular basis. Moreover, we are currently developing a draft government act that will clearly provide that all competition announcements and all competition documentation will be published in a separate tab on the ProZorro site. Sales. In doing so, we will ensure full access to information. Ladies and gentlemen, please support the adoption of this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-29-m0.u76	Thank you. The word is given to the deputy head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Economic Development, Roxolani Andriyovni Podlasi.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-29-m0.u77	Good afternoon, dear colleagues. It's a very simple bill, as you just heard. The Economic Development Committee heard the above arguments and agreed that they made sense. And the actual position of the concession law, which applies to the electronic system, makes sense to postpone. That is why the Committee on Economic Development decided to recommend to the Supreme Council to include a bill in the agenda and as a result of the first reading to be adopted on the basis and as a whole with technical legal proceedings, but by placing part of the first bill in the Committee's edition, namely, replacing the words and figures "January 1, 2022" with "September 1, 2021". Please support this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-29-m0.u78	Thank you. Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss such an important bill? Then please sign up: two in, two in, two in. The word is given to national deputy Taras Ivanovich Batenka, MP for the Future.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-29-m0.u79	Please pass the word to Victor Vasilovich Bondar.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-29-m0.u80	Please give it to Bondar.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-29-m0.u81	Dear colleagues, this bill is just an example of when laws are voted first a year ago -- no one reads and then begins to think about how to fix the situation. Look at what's going on here, and they've adopted the Act on Concession, and they've foreseen in the law of creation, and they've put in place an electronic trading system that's supposed to decide something electronically and help. Nowhere in the world is an example of such a story, there is no example of such a system to be used when determining concessionaires or anything else. And then people's servants started to figure out what could be the design of a system. Then they told us that we should look for grants on this system, because the state, nobody wants to finance it, realizing that there's no technical task, that we're building, that we're looking for funding. Then we decided to move on. Let's, if we don't know what we're doing, and we don't have the money from the budget, and we don't give the grants, let's think about what we're going to do, and in six months, we're going to think about what we're going to do with the budget, and what we're going to do is we're going to do, and then we're just going to vote. So we propose not to support this bill, because let's not play with the stupidity that someone, last year's government launched, big reformers, and today the whole country sees Parliament suffer and think about how to do the stupid thing that they voted on a year ago. Let's stop this kind of free stuff and finally do things, not by imitating reforms and large digital actors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-29-m0.u82	The word is given to the National Deputy of Germany, Vasil Ivanovich, the faction of the political party "The Opposition Platform for Life".
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-29-m0.u83	Germano Vasil Ivanovich, "The Opposition Platform for Life". Dear colleagues, you know, this concession legislation has opened up a fairway for actual privatization of our entire complexes, especially the coast, where the issue of port concessions is concerned. And you know, it starts with Herson, Mikolai, and they're going to keep trampling the road to Odessa. And we see all of this as our basic foundations of the state are being embalmed, and in fact the national wealth of our people. And it's all made up under 90, under 50 years of age. Tell me, who invented this concession under these conditions when we're a poorer country ourselves? What's more, the country itself is far behind, and I'll tell you, it's proven for today. And we're using e-commerce. What are we talking about? There is a language to hide under this factor the opportunity to buy both the basic and the negotiable sources of our basic economic development of the state. And the more we delay that term, the better. And I think we need to look at what you did last October to understand at all. Look at how much we change, rename, and change the rules of law so that they don't violate the Constitution. And that's why we need to be supportive. And it's not possible at all to solve the issue of today's electronic commerce, because we can't do it physically or mentally or materially.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-29-m0.u84	The words are given to the national deputy of Osadchuk Andri Petrovich, the faction of the political party "Golos".
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-29-m0.u85	Please, Clemensa Julia.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-29-m0.u86	Dear colleagues, I want to say that a year ago, the concession law was passed, and everyone saw that there were 12 months, all the government authorities saw that there were 12 months to complete this point -- the creation of an electronic system. No one has done anything for a year, and now they have come to Parliament to extend the term. Dear colleagues, this is not how executive power works. If there is a term in the law, it is fulfilled. So any transfer, maybe because of the Corona, you can do it for six months, but for a maximum of six months. So the Voice faction is going to argue that in the middle of the 21st year, when other concession projects come out, this system is already working. Projects should be open, transparent, and all should see the conditions under which they are implemented. And I also want to say that there's really no money in the 21st year budget for this system again. So be consistent. If you are transferring terms, make changes to the state budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-29-m0.u87	The word is given to the national deputy Zabrodsky Mikhail Vitaliyovich, the faction of the political party "European Solidarity".
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-29-m0.u88	Please, Stepan Kubi.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-29-m0.u89	Stepan Ivanovich of Cuba, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-29-m0.u90	Dear colleagues, the fact that in the previous session we approved a bill sign for Ukrainian legislation and for the state of Ukraine, it speaks of a great deal of work that has been done both in the past and in this vocation. At the same time, I want to say that what we are considering today is many both subjective and objective reasons. I would like to thank Mrs. Irina Novikova for the work she has done, for her contribution to this bill, as head of the department and now as deputy minister. But I also want to respond to the fact that concessions without an electronic trading system or the embodiment of concession aspects absolutely require access to everyone's information. So this risk that the system didn't work and there are no analogs, we looked at it on the committee, we had a discussion. And we've done a lot of meaningful work on the timeline. And we talked, and we decided to shorten the term to September 1, 2021. At the same time, I want to say that it will allow for today to work clearly in a transparent plane, to work with effective aspects of those bills that will complement and expand the possibility of our country's investment attractiveness. The faction of the European Solidarity political party will support this bill, and we should therefore be involved in the lines recommended by our committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-29-m0.u91	Thank you. Dear colleagues, two others who would like to speak: Sobolev Sergey Vladislavovich and then Alexander Kachura. And we're going to go to the vote. I'm going to ask the national MPs to come to the hall. Please, Sergey Vladislavovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-29-m0.u92	Sobolje, Fatherland. I would like to remind you how a year ago this bill was introduced as urgent. And that's how it all ended. This is clearly a corrupt scheme that is being proposed. And we have two examples of direct corruption when the Mikolai port was built without electronic commerce for 80 million a year, and Olivia for 20 million. These are ports that have roughly the same power. The bill continues to propose to legitimize the situation when it will continue to be done for the official’s consideration, as has been done all this time. The Berdian example. Before the port is bankrupt, 250 million taxes per year alone. Now this scheme also works on this port where taxes are paid 10 times less. We will not vote in favour of this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-29-m0.u93	The word is given to Alexander Kachuri, the "Serving of the People" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-29-m0.u94	Alexander Kachura, "Serial of the People" faction. You know, this bill reminds me of another bill. Remember, even at the beginning of this parliamentary call, we destroyed the evaluation sites. We all applauded, we rejoiced that such great schemes were being fought. What do we have instead? Loss of the government budget for billions of dollars. The State Property Fund, which was to be made free of charge to all Ukrainian citizens of the state, did nothing and is now requesting a suspension. Take responsibility, do it! You are the executive authority, so there is the law and you must do it. You see, the dates are written here. No change! No vote! We vote red. Take responsibility, do it! Parliament is not where you need your "hotels" to pass and yours to correct mistakes. Let's do it! Let's do it!
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-29-m0.u95	Thank you. Dear colleagues, is there anyone else who would like to? Mother Grigory Mikolaiovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-29-m0.u96	Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, we haven't seen a minister here. The minister introduced the deputy minister, who did not explain, in my opinion, any reason why the Supreme Council should vote and continue to postpone the act of law. But I would still like to hear it from the deputy minister. First. Who was responsible for putting this system into operation. The other one. What reasons did they serve because they cannot run this system that must exist? And the third. Who is to blame that she did not work at the time that she was given the law and upon whom should be the responsibility where the reference is made. The introduction of information to the ERDF, which must be planted for things that do not, in fact, comply with the law. We will not support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-29-m0.u97	Thank you. Dear colleagues, let's go to the vote. I'll ask the national deputies to take their seats. Dear colleagues, are you ready to vote? Bill 3961 is put to the vote: draft Act amending section XI, paragraph 1, of the Act on Concession. This is a committee decision to make as a basis. Dear colleagues, ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[13:05:41]] For 226 Decision taken. Thank you, colleagues. Show the factions, please. Dear colleagues, we are moving on to the next bill. Bill 3577: draft law. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, let's move on to. Because even the committee's decision was first and foremost, but I understand that the people in the room would deny it. Yeah? Will there be factions that deny to adopt the previous bill as a whole? Yes. All right, then that's the end of the matter. Dear colleagues, we're moving on to the next question. Bill 3577 on amending certain legislation on the protection of the housing rights of orphans and children deprived of parental care, persons of their number. Ladies and gentlemen, we must now vote on the summary procedure for this bill. Ready to vote? A vote is taken on the summary procedure of Bill 3577. Please support and vote. [[13:07:32]] For 221 Decision taken. I invite you to the floor of Deputy Minister of Social Policy of Lebedtsov Boris Borisovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-29-m0.u98	Good day, Your Honor, distinguished national MPs! Your attention is given to the draft Ukrainian Act amending certain legislation on the protection of the housing rights of orphans and children deprived of parental care, persons of their number (registration number 3577). A bill prepared by the Ministry of Social Policy to further protect the housing rights of orphans, children deprived of parental care, social support for orphans and children deprived of parental care, as well as those who have reached the age of 23. The situation regarding the livelihood of orphans, children deprived of parental care, and the number of children remains critical. As of 01.01.2019, the number of orphans and children deprived of parental care after reaching 23 years of age who are in the housing of citizens who need to improve housing conditions and who are entitled to extra housing is 28708. The figure for the year 01.01.20 is now 30,600. So the bill provides for the right of orphans, children deprived of parental care, after 23 years of extra-dwelling, provided that they are in an orderly position to accommodate citizens who need to improve housing conditions when they reach their 23-year-old age age. They also have the right of orphans, children deprived of parental care, as well as those who have reached the age of 23 years to receive housing from the social housing fund. In addition, the bill proposes not to take into account in the determination of the monthly total income of orphans, children deprived of parental care and persons with a social scholarship, a pension in connection with the loss of a breadwinner and alimony to support a child, as this is an obstacle for them.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-29-m0.u99	Thank you. The word is given to the author of an alternative bill to the national deputy of the Ukraine of Natalia Yuriovna Kraljevska.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-29-m0.u100	Dear colleagues, I understand that everyone here will agree that the social protection system for children and families with children is a complex issue and that it needs to be addressed systematically. Especially since we have a massive reduction in the level of social support for Ukrainian citizens, including children in the last six years. And I would like to draw your attention to the fact that Government Bill 3577 absolutely does not provide for a solution to a number of important problems of social protection of children's rights and interests. And to eliminate social injustice, we prepared this alternative bill. We have developed and introduced such proposals. And may I have your attention, please? First. We propose to remove from article 13 of the Child Protection Act the rule that provides for the granting of individual benefits to many children and foster families, as well as family-type children's homes, depending on the family's total income, because you are now restricting people's right to state support. The second thing we're proposing is our project: to provide housing for orphans, children deprived of parental care, as well as for those of them who are not in charge of internally displaced persons, but have a place of origin of the population on the line of conflict in the Donbasa war zone. Because children living in the sixth year of war but now remain in cities such as Marinka, Krasnogorovka, and elsewhere along the line of separation, they do not have the status of displaced persons. And you're excluding them today from this state support. Please include and support these suggestions because they are really useful and support our children today. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-29-m0.u101	Thank you, Natalia Yuriovna. It is given to a member of the Committee on Humanities and Information Policy, Boblach Andry Rostislavovich, from the Committee. Please, Andrew Rostislavovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-29-m0.u102	Good afternoon, dear Ukrainians! Dear colleagues! The Committee on Humanities and Information Policy considered Bills 3577 and 3577-1 at its meeting on July 2, this year. As has already been said, the bill proposes to improve the existing legislation on the protection of the rights of orphans, children deprived of parental care, and those of them to provide housing, including after they have reached 23 years of age, to establish an alternative mechanism to provide them with housing in the form of monetary compensation, to settle the issue of housing for orphans, children deprived of parental care, persons of their number who are in charge of the treatment of internally displaced persons. The committee certainly supports the basic idea of bills aimed at addressing the housing issues of orphans, children deprived of parental care and those of them. There is also support for the idea of addressing the need to provide housing for orphans, children deprived of parental care, persons of their number who are not internally displaced persons, but the place of origin or residence for the family of citizens, the relevant facilities are settlements located on the collision line. The main scientific and expert office has made a number of comments on drafts that can be taken into account in the second reading. The Committee recommends that the Supreme Council adopt bill 3577 on the basis of the proposals made by the Committee. Please support the committee's decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-29-m0.u103	Thank you. Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss? Please sign up: two in, two in. Please, National Deputy Royal Natala Yuriovna, faction of the political party "The Opposition Platform for Life".
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-29-m0.u104	Ladies and gentlemen, once again, I would like to ask you that we now have the opportunity to consider two bills. And our bill, it supports the government's bill, but we're dealing with a lot more issues there and it's much more complex. And we ask you, well, you don't have to make decisions in this room solely depending on the authorship, well, if our government, well, can't come up with a comprehensive and professional bill. Well, it's not a panacea that needs to be supported today by a short bill of government just because it's a government bill, when our team "The Opposition Platform for Life" together with experts, along with people who gave their lives to protect their children, to the Mothers' Council, to the Women for Peace team, developed this bill more comprehensively and effectively to protect our children today in our country. So we're going to ask you, let's support Bill 3577-1 in the first reading, we're going to take it as a basis, we're going to work on the second reading, but it's going to be really supporting families today with children, children in Ukraine, especially children with disabilities, children who are deprived of care today, those who have suffered domestic violence, those categories of children who today need our immediate support and protection. That's why we're talking to you: don't adopt laws solely on political grounds; let's say that Parliament will work exclusively on professional terms and solutions to the problems that stand today. And first of all, we ask you that our bill supports children who live in war for six years, give them a chance today to get the support of the state at least a little bit. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-29-m0.u105	The word is given to National Deputy Vátarović Volodymyr Mihajlovich, faction of the political party "European Solidarity".
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-29-m0.u106	Good afternoon. The bill is important, it regulates housing for orphans after they reach adulthood, in particular by regulating the recognition of the right to extra-housing housing and the preservation of such rights after they have reached the age of 23. It is also envisaged that such persons may receive compensation for renting housing if the State did not provide it with ownership. But both this bill and the alternative bill do not contain in the explanatory note any additional budget expenditures. Because of this, "European Solidarity" will vote in the first reading for this bill with further elaboration. But with the opportunity, I would also like to refer to the leadership of the Supreme Council and remind myself of the need for a day-to-day decision to create a temporary commission of inquiry on the so-called "vagregate." Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-29-m0.u107	The word is given to the People's Deputy Boris Viktorovich, the MP's "Trust". Whitelighter, please, National Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-29-m0.u108	Larissa Bilozer, Trust Group. Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs, distinguished voters! This bill is really very important, it's designed to solve the important problem of housing for orphans. Our nation must at last cease to be just a problem overseer and ensure the rights of such children. Today, about 15,000 orphans remain unsecured in Ukraine, and a third of them have reached 35 years of age and have never received help. Unfortunately, the housing issue of orphans has never been resolved systematically, but in fact, since 2017, a subsidy has finally been introduced at the state level to help buy housing. From 2017 to 2019, 3,000 housing units have been acquired, and this year almost 1 billion have been allocated when 8 billion are needed. So I also wanted to say that, in particular, there are 2,000,300 children on Winnitzkin and only 88, i.e. only 4 percent, and a lot of those in 23 who lose that opportunity are just being removed from the queue. And this bill, it's very important because it provides guarantees for such children after reaching 23 years of age, but it also provides compensation and settles the issue of taking on citizens whose residence is temporarily occupied areas. So we have to make it clear that this bill is important, it needs to be supported, and the future of such children really depends on all of us, because they are very vulnerable categories of citizens and they need support. That's why I'm asking you to support this bill. Trust Group will vote in favour.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-29-m0.u109	Thank you. The word is given to the national deputy of Bobrovska Solomija Anatolyevna, faction of the political party "Golos".
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-29-m0.u110	Good afternoon, dear colleagues. Of course, the bill is long overdue and should have been in the hall in the past weeks and in general before the end of our previous session. And I want to give you figures, actually, that were a year ago. It's about orphans and children deprived of parental care between the ages of 18 and 23, and it's about 14,000 839 people. Think about these numbers. 8 000 664 are citizens of orphans and children deprived of parental care under 35 years of age. And these are actually categories that line up that are unknown when, like so many military personnel, other categories of credit, you don't know when they're going to see these apartments. And it's wonderful that this bill proposes to give you a choice and an opportunity, either through money compensation, or through literally physical housing, so that these kids can finally see these apartments in their hands. But I also want to give you an example of actually my birthplace, where these orphans or children who are deprived of parental care are close, or more than 2,000 of them. And it's a colossal number and a number, and it definitely can't be solved even at the local level. And of course, this is where the state has to act as a guarantor and a fully active participant in the process. So the Voice faction will support and work on the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-29-m0.u111	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to invite Mikhail Mikhailovich Zimbaluuk to vote for this bill. I'll have the National Deputies come to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, and we'll vote. Please, Mikhail Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-29-m0.u112	Thank you. Mikhailo Cimbaluk, Fatherland. Honorable Chairman, Honorable Presidium, Colleagues! First of all, I'd like to start by saying that I'm sorry to be in the session hall, and most of all, I don't have the support of the 4,051 Bill by Mrs. Tretiakov on working at home -- remote work. During the quarantine of this bill, millions of Ukrainians are awaiting, in fact, a bill on the very housing of orphans and children deprived of parental care. The Fatherland faction will support the bill. Indeed, it establishes justice and enables the authorities to provide orphans, children deprived of parental care, housing even after 23 years of age. But, dear government officials, your job is to use this law to make sure that these children are finally provided with housing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-29-m0.u113	Thank you. And please, National Deputy Constanceevich Irina Miroslavovna, Party for the Future. And then we go to the vote. I'd like the deputies to take up their jobs.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-29-m0.u114	Dear National Deputies, the Group "For the Future" will support this bill, because we consistently stand up for high social standards for children, especially for those categories that apply to children who are orphaned and deprived of parental care. But at the same time, we demand that this bill, as well as all legislation relating to child protection, be prepared at a high, high-quality level so that the standards and mechanisms for implementing these bills are clearly laid down. We're against populism, we're against demagogy. We want there to be real funding in the 21st year budget for the provision and social protection of childhood. That's the position of the Future Party and that's the position of the major MPs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-29-m0.u115	Thank you. Dear colleagues, would you please tell everyone who wanted to speak up? We're going to the vote. I, too, would like to ask you to support this important bill, regardless of authorship and political status. Therefore, honourable colleagues, in accordance with the committee's decision, I am voting on Bill No.3577: draft Act amending certain legislation on the protection of the housing rights of orphans and children deprived of parental care, persons of their number. Such a proposal is made, on the basis of a proposal by the committee to take into account the proposed clarifications when preparing for the second reading in accordance with article 116 of the Rules. In view of this, we can make other additions during our second reading. So, uh, are your esteemed colleagues ready to vote? Bill number 3577. Once again, I repeat, the Committee's decision to take into account the proposed clarifications when preparing for second reading in accordance with article 116 of the Rules. Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[13:25:37]] For 292 Decision taken. Thank you, colleagues. The decision is taken in the first. The bill was adopted as a basis. Dear colleagues, I just want to make a little anonymous offer. Now we're going to go through two more bills, and then we're going to go into one procedure that's the first time that's listened to in the history of this Council, and I think maybe for the first time in the history of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. It's an electronic petition discussion. You know that this issue is regulated by chapter 36 with the symbol 1 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules and should be discussed by the Supreme Council of Ukraine without taking any decision, but by a separate procedure of full consideration. So, dear colleagues, we're going to go through two more bills and then we're going to go to the electronic petition procedure. The next drafts that we have are coming after the cure. That's it. And because we decided to take it off today. We voted 226. Dear colleagues, we're moving on to Bill 2443. Draft Law on Amendments to Article 46 of the Ukrainian RSR Housing Code on Extra-Second Housing for Persons Accounted for before 1 January 93 and residing in a temporary residence. Dear colleagues, there is a suggestion to consider this issue in a simplified manner. Please support and vote. [[13:27:31]] For 214 Decision taken. I invite the head of the Committee's subcommittee on the organization of government, local self-government, regional development and the construction of Litvinov Alexander Mikolaiovich. Four minutes, because he's from the committee. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-29-m0.u116	Honorable Presidium, Your Honor! A bill with registration number 2443 provides for the addition of a list of persons entitled to an extra residence. It is proposed that those who live in temporary housing and for long periods of time be taken into account for those who need improvement in living conditions. The bill proposes that article 46 of the Housing Code should be supplemented by the rule that outside of the dormitory, persons who have not been provided with housing by 1 January 1993 have no housing and living quarters in accordance with the current Housing Code; persons who for whatever reason have not exercised the right to privatize housing from the State Housing Fund and who live in temporary housing. Realizing that the adoption of this bill actually expands the number of people who claim to receive housing on an extra basis, I propose to support citizens who are almost 30 years forced to live in a temporary home without having the right to privatize it. According to this, the All-Ukrainian Association of Local Self-Government Authorities, the Association of Cities of Ukraine, informed by its letter supporting the adoption of the bill. I also draw your attention to the fact that the Committee on Budget Issues, in its conclusion of 15 January 2020, noted that the implementation of the bill would not require spending from the State budget or affect budgeting. Thus, the adoption of the bill will provide legal guarantees and create conditions for the restoration of social justice with regard to the establishment of the right to housing in the permanent use of the listed category of citizens outside the queue. The Committee on the Organization of State Authorities, Local Self-Government, Regional Development and Urbanization, at its meeting on January 19, this year, reviewed Bill 2443 and decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, in accordance with article 114, paragraph 1, of the First Rule of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, on the basis of the outcome of the first reading. Please support and thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-29-m0.u117	Thank you, Alexander Mikolayovich. Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss this issue? Then please sign up: two in, two in, two in. But write down those who want to. The word is given to the national deputy of Ustinov, Alexander Yuriovna, the faction of the political party "The Voice".
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-29-m0.u118	Please pass the word to Lozinski.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-29-m0.u119	Roman Lozinski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-29-m0.u120	Dear colleagues, we have this week, we see, we're starting to look at the bill very badly. Many bills are not supported. It's just that MPs are sitting here, they're pushing buttons, and it's not going to do people any good. If we're talking specifically about this bill, this is a bill that people need, this is a bill that restores social justice to those Ukrainians who have been waiting decades for their right to housing. So as the first deputy head of the committee, I supported this issue on the committee. And the Voice faction and I always support social initiatives that are really called upon to improve Ukrainian living conditions. So here today the Supreme Council is going to support those Ukrainians, and I'm stressing the tens of years they've been waiting for their homes. So please, the Voice faction supports this bill and the Ukrainians, who have to improve their living conditions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-29-m0.u121	Thank you. The word is given to the National Deputy Pavelska Rostislav Mikolaiovich, the faction of the political party "European Solidarity".
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-29-m0.u122	Thank you. Please give the word to Stepan Ivanovich Kubi.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-29-m0.u123	Please, Kubi Stepan Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-29-m0.u124	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues! What I'm saying is that this bill is important, it's social, and it deserves attention for support. I also want to say that the bill expands the number of people who have the right to claim housing from the State outside. The Ministry of Finance's conclusion confirms that there is no need to increase additional costs from the state budget. And this allows us to argue today that without additional funding, we can adequately support this bill in the first reading. The other one. Subjects of the legislative initiative to adopt the project will also provide legal guarantees and create conditions for the restoration of social justice. We're talking about the right and the acquisition of housing in the constant use of the listed category of citizens out of line. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-29-m0.u125	Thank you. The word is given to the National MP Batenek Taras Ivanovich, the MP's Party for the Future. Please, Taras Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-29-m0.u126	To Anton Polakov, please pass on the word.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-29-m0.u127	Please, Anton Eduardoovich Polakov.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-29-m0.u128	Anton Polyakov, Montenegro, the parliamentary political party for the future. The "For the Future" political party and the "For the Future" parliamentary group unquestionably supports all social initiatives and, in particular, this bill. But we want to note that it is not in line with the standards of the Housing Code, and there are some observations that have also been made by the Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority of the Supreme Council, which needs to be corrected to the second reading in order for this bill to actually work for the people. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-29-m0.u129	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, have you all expressed your wish? Please, Coltunovich Alexander Sergiyyovich, and after that, I will ask you to invite all the national deputies to the hall, and we will proceed to the vote. Please, Alexander Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-29-m0.u130	Please give the floor to the National Deputy to Crybaby Tetya.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-29-m0.u131	Aunt Placzkova, please. Please speak, Mrs. Tetjano. Something with a microphone in Mrs. Tetjane. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-29-m0.u132	Thank you. It's actually a very important bill, and the faction "The Opposition Platform for Life" supports it. But I want to remind you of the following numbers. You know, every time we make changes to the Housing Code, we're still in the Soviet Union. You mention so often that there were bad laws. Is it possible to prepare the new Housing Code altogether for the time being? Because what we're doing right now is nice, but in fact, it doesn't add any quality to either Ukrainian citizens or, unfortunately, to those people who are in line today. I want to give you an example of how many people are out of line today. For example, Raven is more than 800 people, Vinnica is more than 400 people, Herson is almost 300 people, the city of Black Seas, a small city 141 people, the city of Bilgorod-Dnistrovski is 71 people, the city of Odessa is not defined at all. They're just extracurriculars.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-29-m0.u133	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I ask you to prepare for the vote. I am voting on the draft Law amending article 46 of the Ukrainian RSR Housing Code on housing security for persons who have been billed before January 01, 1993 and who live in a temporary residence (project registration number 2443). This bill is put in place for adoption as a basis. Dear colleagues, ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[13:36:50]] For 269 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, let's move on. The next bill is a bill amending some Ukrainian legislative acts to increase liability for the sale of electronic cigarettes and liquids to children in the field of crime (project registration number 3628). Dear colleagues, I suggest you consider this issue in a simplified manner. Please support and vote. [[13:37:35]] For 203 Decision taken. I invite you to the floor of Deputy Minister of Social Policy Boris Borisovich Lebedtsov. Please, Boris Borisovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-29-m0.u134	Honourable National MPs, a bill prepared by the Ministry of Social Policy to further protect children’s lives and health and prevent children from selling electronic cigarettes and fluids used in electronic cigarettes. In Ukraine, resistance to mass smoking began in 2006. Since 2006, a number of measures have been taken to ban tobacco advertising, ban smoking in public places, introduce labelling requirements for tobacco products, provide graphic insights into the harmfulness of smoking, increase taxation of additional products, and so forth. However, tobacco manufacturers are offered new products that are viewed as a less harmful alternative to traditional cigarettes. According to the World Health Organization, tobacco products are not completely dangerous because they contain tobacco and cause addiction. Today, there is a lack of independent research, but the impact of electronic cigarettes on health, including long - term cigarettes, is unknown. The published results of some independent studies show that when tobacco is used for heating, the level of certain toxic substances emitted is higher than in cigarettes. The preservation and strengthening of child health, the prevention of the most important childhood diseases, is a major initiative of the State and requires additional measures, such as the establishment of certain prohibitions and the strengthening of responsibility for the sale of electronic cigarettes. Increasing administrative responsibility for the sale of electronic cigarettes to persons under the age of 18 at the level of traditional tobacco products and banning the sale of such products. The bill is proposed to be valid and effective on January 1, 2021. The implementation of the act will have a positive impact on the life and health of children. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-29-m0.u135	Thank you. I would like to invite the head of the Committee on Financial, Tax and Customs Policy, Danil Alexandrovich Hetmantsev, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-29-m0.u136	Dear colleagues, the deputy minister has just said that we do not know the negative impact of electronic cigarettes on a child’s life or life. I'm convinced that everything but oxygen is harmful to the lungs of a child and to the lungs of a human being, all the more tobacco. I think the hall will be joined together in this one too. with the support of this legislative initiative, because it is very right and very right. In fact, we balance the legal status of electronic cigarettes and liquid tobacco with regular cigarettes. Moreover, we increase our responsibility for the sale of such products to children and for violating the rules for the sale of such products. The committee unanimously supported the bill. We think it's on time, and it's long overdue, because the new technologies used in tobacco are as harmful as the old ones. And this argument between what is more harmful, it seems to me from the wicked one. And I want to end with a figure, this is a number from the Ministry of Health. 4,000,300 deaths per year of people under 20 years of age from tobacco - related diseases. These are really scary numbers, given the age and the fact that we and those who consume passive and active tobacco suffer much more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-29-m0.u137	Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss this bill? I ask you to write it down: two, two, no. Dear colleagues, while you're still writing down, I'm asking the National MPs to take precautions on epidemiological safety. I'm asking you to put on masks that will protect both you and your colleagues. Besides, I'm tired of repeating it, and I want to go to the Minister of Internal Affairs and finally get people's deputies fined for failing to comply with the requirements that apply to personal hygiene. Thank you, colleagues. Dear colleagues, I'd like to invite you to the speech of the national deputy, Železnjak Jaroslav Ivanovich, the faction of the political party "The Voice".
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-29-m0.u138	Dear colleagues, good afternoon! This bill is one of the important things for us to continue to fight smoking, including people who have not yet exceeded 18 years of age. This bill, it's very simple, it actually introduces exactly this kind of regulation just so that you don't sell, like there, in shops, in shops, I don't know, the more there in big stores, electronic cigarettes to people who haven't reached this age. This is an important change, although very small, which is why our committee has supported it both on the basis and in general, which will allow us to continue to bring our legislation to those requirements in order to protect our children from smoking. Is that enough? Apparently not. And we will continue to insist on other changes that are not necessary to protect our young people from both cigarettes and alcoholic beverages, and more from other banned substances. But this is an important change that allows, on the one hand, people who fight against tobacco companies, people who fight against smoking, people who promote a healthy lifestyle, to call not only on the seller's conscience, but also on the law in order not to distribute these products to children and our young. We need to think separately about how to put in place the best practices of the world in order to fight smoking in our country. We need to think separately about how to promote healthy lifestyles at the very beginning in schools, universities, and among our young people so that they do not use tobacco at all. But this law will help at least at the slightest level to prohibit or to stop some of the new disease that is being spread under the name "electronic cigarettes." Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-29-m0.u139	Thank you. The word is given to the National Deputy of the Synth of Oleg Mikhailovich, faction of the political party "European Solidarity".
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-29-m0.u140	Dear colleagues, "European Solidarity" will support this bill. Because we think that protecting children, adolescents is not just about the Ukrainian Parliament, it's about every informed citizen of Ukraine. And the fact that the World Health Organization is on the verge of being alarmed today is that 1 in 5 teenagers, according to its report, is a wepper in Ukraine. And this is a big challenge to us, because the damage from smoking electronic cigarettes is nothing less than the harmfulness of smoking ordinary tobacco. I am convinced, and I urge that this bill be voted in favour of the Ukrainian people's deputies, who, in spite of the interests of the children who have voted in this parliamentary chamber for the bill to return the "one-handed bandits" on our street. The bill brought great harm to the interests of the children. I think that this bill also needs to be redrafted because this bill today goes against those directives that are in the European Union. The bill also requires further introduction into the Code of Administrative Law. I'm convinced that this bill has to be finalized, because it's very important, it's a matter of handling, in fact, assemblies and fines, so that we don't give officials a tool to abuse entrepreneurs and not protect children. And another, very important thing that applies to entrepreneurs. I urge you once again that neither this bill nor any other bill should become an important influence and method for the destruction of entrepreneurs. I am convinced that a microbusiness bill should be introduced into the session room.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-29-m0.u141	The word is given to the national deputy of Burmitch Anatoly Petrovich, the faction of the political party "The Opposition Platform for Life".
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-29-m0.u142	May I give the floor to the National Deputy of Crying for Auntie Mikhailovny?
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-29-m0.u143	Aunt Mikhaylovna Placzkova, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-29-m0.u144	Thank you, colleagues. You know, I don't think business is going to hurt if you don't sell kids electronic cigarettes, and what the previous speaker said. But I want to make a note of this bill. It's a really good bill, and our faction will definitely support it. I hope he'll be supported by the entire hall. But I want to point out that there are such problems. Unfortunately, even good drafts are passed in our courtroom with procedural violations. These changes to the Administrative Code, why was this bill to be passed by a committee of law enforcement? Sadly, we do not see that conclusion. And that's not very good, because a good bill is going through a bad procedure. I'd like to make a note. You know, for our children, it's going to be very important, and for us, it's going to be very important. But we still have to think about who will execute and how these bills will be implemented. In this Supreme Council, we have adopted many laws of beauty that are unfortunately not being implemented or implemented solely for a corrupt purpose. So unfortunately, I don't see in this bill the purpose of implementing the very responsibility and how it's going to be implemented I've just been at a school and unfortunately I've seen there both the sale of tobacco products and the sale of alcoholic products. So let's unite the hall, let's support this bill, actually protect the children, but we also have to oblige the government to take all measures to make these laws really, not just on paper. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-29-m0.u145	Thank you. Please, National Deputy Rudik Sergey Jaroslavovich, Party for the Future, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-29-m0.u146	Dear colleagues, most of us have our own children, and we don't want any of them to get lung cancer, obstructive lung problems, some cardiovascular diseases, and a lot of other things. To date, our experts at the MOH have found that 1 out of every 5 teenagers from 13 to 15 years of age is using these fucking electronic cigarettes, and the state has not addressed this issue to this day. In the United States, President Trump himself took this matter under personal control. But we live in the parliamentary-presidential republic, so we have to take this under our own control. The MP's "For the Future" party believes that the proposed fine rates are too small a rate for people who trade in death. We think that an increase from one hundred to four hundred is a minimum, and according to a thousand to four hundred minimum citizens' non-taxable incomes, it's too small a salary for people who sell to children what can kill them. So, colleagues, of course, we're going to support this bill in the first reading, but for the second reading, we're going to increase this rate. I propose to my colleagues to support our initiative so that no one in our country will put at risk the main thing that each of us has is the future of our children.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-29-m0.u147	Please, Alexander Kachura. And then I invite Paul Andriovich Bakuntz, and then we go to the vote. Please, Alexander Kachura, Servant of the People.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-29-m0.u148	Alexander Kachura, "Serial of the People" faction. This bill clearly establishes an excessive level of responsibility for the harm our children are doing. Moreover, the bill did not see a mechanism in place to control online sales. Because on the Internet you've ordered any teenager, you can experiment, no one will ask you a passport, they'll only ask you an address, a last name, a name, where to deliver any product. So the question is not solved. I think we should impose criminal responsibility for the sale of tobacco products, alcohol products for minors, for children. This is the only way out of this situation. And look, there's this kind of, you see, these cables are written on the walls. Now we're talking about smoking -- that's how we sell drugs all over the country, they write addresses on the walls where we can buy them. Why don't we just think about it, shall we, like ostriches, bury our heads in the sand that we don't have? Where are the law enforcement authorities where the bill on this is? Is this the most important question now, the administrative responsibility to introduce?
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-29-m0.u149	Thank you. Bacunec Pavel Andryovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-29-m0.u150	Mr. Chairman, honourable colleagues, it is clear that this bill is of social importance. There has been long opposition to tobacco smoking in Ukraine, since there is a ban on advertising, high taxes, and a ban on smoking in public places. But manufacturers come up with new and new mechanisms, and here they come up with these electronic cigarettes. And clearly, the important purpose of this bill is to ban the sale of these electronic cigarettes to minors. And what's important is that we give local self-government authorities the right to ban and sell, and to limit the consumption of these electronic cigarettes in different areas, in different local self-government bodies. This includes schools, hospitals, sports arenas, and so forth. This is very important, so I urge everyone in this room to support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-29-m0.u151	Dear colleagues, I'm sorry. Yes, dear colleagues, if everyone has discussed it, I would then like to vote on the committee's proposal to adopt a draft law (project registration number 3628) amending some of the Ukrainian legislative acts to increase the liability for the sale of children's electronic cigarettes and liquids used in electronic cigarettes. Dear colleagues, are you ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[13:54:38]] For 272 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, thank you for voting. And I'm telling you, for the first time in the history of the Supreme Council, as I've been informed, that's exactly what we're starting to hear about the new procedure envisaged in chapter 36 with badge 1, this is an electronic petition review. As far as you know, both the President and Parliament are active supporters of the Ukrainian peoples. And I'm informing you that there was a petition from the Supreme Council of Ukraine that received 25,000 705 signatures on the need to create a temporary commission of inquiry to investigate the possibility of treason during the organization and the conduct of operations from the export to Ukraine of Russian mercenaries and PVC fighters "Vagner", involved in the defeat of Ukrainian military aircraft. In accordance with article 223 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules of Procedure, honourable colleagues are invited to consider the electronic petition. First. This is a time-limit for a report by the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on national security, defence and intelligence in up to 10 minutes. The other one. It's taking time for a reporter to ask him 10 minutes. And the third. Spending time with representatives of the MPs and groups is up to 21 minutes. Dear colleagues, I'm very concerned that we're not going in. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues. Arthur Volodymyrovich, I can't hear you because I can hear you here. Please give the procedure to Gerasimov.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-29-m0.u152	Dear Lord Chairman, dear colleagues! According to article 223, part two is being discussed in full discussion, which includes not only the report of the committee and the authors of the petition but also statements from the factions. And I am asking for 35 minutes here, but there are also speeches by Ukrainian national deputies. That too. Plus the question-answers you've already announced. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-29-m0.u153	Arthur Volodymyrovich, that's all well and good, but I'm afraid we may not invest in the hour of the deadline that we've offered. After all, I'm going to ask you to listen or I'm going to put the rules to the vote. Dear colleagues, look, we have a rule-of-law decision to make with you. If we don't make any decisions, I don't even know how we're going to look at it. Okay, you insist on what else to give to the national MPs, right? All right, we're going to do a recording on the National Deputies. Is there no objection to such consideration? No, three minutes for the faction, as stipulated by the Rules. Come on, we're not in the capital market, we're not trading. Three minutes. Dear colleagues, then I give the floor to a report by the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on national security, defence, and intelligence of Besugold Marianne Volodymyrn, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-29-m0.u154	Dear colleagues, at the request of the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and in accordance with article 223 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, article 23 of the Ukrainian Citizens' Appeal Act, the Committee on National Security, Defence and Intelligence has considered an electronic petition from Tarasov Vitalina, which has received 25 000 705 signatures on the need for the establishment of a Temporary Investigation Commission to investigate possible state fraud during the organization and conduct of an operation for the export to Ukraine of Russian mercenaries and MPC fighters "Vagner", responsible for the overthrow of Ukrainian military aircraft, and has approved such a decision. First. Taking into account a draft by the Secretary of the Committee on National Security, Defence and Intelligence of the Kostencom of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the establishment of the interim commission of inquiry of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the investigation of facts published in the media of possible illegal actions by officials, which could have led to the avoidance of criminal liability by members of the "private military company Wagner" and the damage to Ukraine's national interests (registration number 4105 of 22.09.202020), which is proposed to create an interim commission of inquiry into public information in the media, which has caused a wide social resonance on the existence of the specialisation itself, the motives of officials from its possible suppression, and the reputational loss and damage to the public interest of the public against the possible criminalization of the military, which may be attributed to the criminalization of the criminal offence. The other one. To make a decision to the Committee on Rules, Deputy Ethics and Organization of Work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, which has been designated chief in the preparation and preliminary consideration of the draft Decree on Registration No. 4105, and to direct the decision of the committee of the author of the Tarasov Vitali’s electronic petition. Dear colleagues, after reading the conclusion of the committee, a few explanations. The committee is not defined for the establishment of a temporary commission of inquiry, a temporary special commission. So we've redirected this issue to a regulatory committee, given that such a decision to create a TSC has already been registered, the decision to create or not to create this TSC should, in particular, be taken by the Hall and determined accordingly as to the need for such a commission. The committee discussed the matter in its established order. Also, the petitioner was invited to the committee meeting, unfortunately, the phones and contact data that were given in the petition, they didn't fit in, and we couldn't have Mrs. Vitalina. So, gentlemen, I'm ready to answer the question. To sum up, the regulatory committee is preparing a decision on the establishment of the TSC, and the creation of the TSC is a definition directly in the room. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-29-m0.u155	Thank you, Mrs. Mariana. There'll be more questions for you right now. Please sign up for a question to the reporter. It's a recording, please. Thank you. Samantha Bobrowski, the Voice faction, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-29-m0.u156	Please give Rahman a word.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-29-m0.u157	Sergey Rachmanin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-29-m0.u158	Thank you, Helen Constantine. Dear colleagues, there is a draft decree registered in the Supreme Council. There is a social request to create a temporary special, more specifically, temporary commission of inquiry. There is a general understanding that this question cannot be buried. If the Supreme Council burys this issue, society will raise questions for all of us regardless of our factionship. There is a very sensitive question, a matter of state importance. There was this very important and very interesting character, the man who created American military intelligence, William Donovan. He said, "To keep the state secret properly, we need to know its contents first." And those who fear the flow of some data need to get to the bottom of this. I call on everyone to support a story that is very important, to support the creation of a commission, so that life can show who is where it is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-29-m0.u159	Thank you. Please, Mrs. Mariana, will you answer something?
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-29-m0.u160	Yes. Thank you. As already noted, the committee does not make decisions about the creation of the TSC. We understand a certain resonance in society and acted within our powers. Including the result of such a resonance, a petition has been made that has raised the necessary number of votes to be considered and listened to. But once again, really, this is a matter for Parliament in general, for colleagues to define whether to create such a TSC or not.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-29-m0.u161	Thank you. Mrs. Tetjana Placzkova, "The Opposition Platform for Life", please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-29-m0.u162	Please pass the word to Mikola Skorik.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-29-m0.u163	Mikola Skorik, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-29-m0.u164	Good afternoon! Mikola Skorik, faction of "The Opposition Platform for Life." Ladies and gentlemen, do you not see some sampling in today's consideration of this issue, rather than considering, say, the question of investigating the events in Maidan, investigating the events in Odessa on 2 May, investigating, for example, land issues, opening up the land market, as discussed in various petitions? It seems to me that this selectivity has a very political element and nothing else. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-29-m0.u165	I note that the petition did not receive the required number of votes to be considered in accordance with the order established by the Rules of the Supreme Council. Thus, we are now considering following the Rules by obeying the law of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-29-m0.u166	Thank you, Mrs. Mariana. Galina Vasilchenko, the Voice faction, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-29-m0.u167	Please pass the word to Jaroslav Iron.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-29-m0.u168	Jaroslav Železniak, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-29-m0.u169	Good afternoon, colleagues! That's my question. We've already created a lot of these TSCs in Parliament -- both by construction, by forests, by football, and by investors. Tell me, please, what happened to this specialty of Wagnerians, that we have an active faction of the coalition that doesn't give its representatives, and it's making it very difficult to create this commission? Well, if nothing happened, let's create an open mode, with political dividends for you, you'll prove it wasn't. And now we're even holding special hearings so that we could literally spend five minutes in Parliament and vote in favour of this TSC. So I call on my colleagues, let's not waste time, let's make a decision right away and vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-29-m0.u170	Thank you. Please, Mrs. Mariano.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-29-m0.u171	Thank you. We're not currently discussing the issue of creating a TSC, we're considering a petition, and again, a reaction to a petition. Given that the petition came after the relevant Supreme Council decision on the establishment of the TSC was registered, the regulatory committee and according to how our Rules work, we will anticipate whether or not we will consider it in the Hall and determine the matter accordingly. Gentlemen, I have already noted that we have tried to contact the petitioner, listen to her position, listen to the work that has been done, but it is impossible because contacts do not match the reality.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-29-m0.u172	Thank you, Mrs. Mariana. Andrew Osadchuk, Voice faction, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-29-m0.u173	Ms. Mariana, people are demanding concrete action. And in this case, it's about a very specific action, creating a temporary special commission. This issue is fully settled by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And that's why I have a simple question for you. Do you agree that, in accordance with article 101 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, there are no obstacles to including this issue without a vote, as you said in the 101 articles, in the agenda right now? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-29-m0.u174	That's not really the question that we're discussing right now. I don't make decisions about getting into the daytime routine of one or the other.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-29-m0.u175	Thank you. Questions from Irina Heraszczenko, faction of European Solidarity. Please, Mrs. Irina.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-29-m0.u176	Thank you. Please pass the word to Vladimir Ariev.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-29-m0.u177	Vladimir Ariev, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-29-m0.u178	We have a very interesting situation right now that the law enforcement agencies have violated the leadership on this subject, but somehow they are calling me, Yuri Butusov, not those who might be asking today who did it. But I have another question. You're on the committee today saying that you've decided what to recommend to the Supreme Council to consider this matter. So the question is, are you as a representative of the majority, of the majority faction, or are you willing to ask your faction leader to delegate, particularly you and the other members of the committee from the "Serve the People" to participate in this commission? And the second question. If it was not possible to contact the first issue of the petition. Have you, besides Vitalina Tarasova, called other initiators at the top of the list? Because all the phones are there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-29-m0.u179	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-29-m0.u180	Thank you. We worked on petitions according to the rules laid down in the Supreme Council. So all procedures were followed. As for your first question, once again, this does not directly apply to the subject of discussion. My personal position is: of course, I am always ready to uphold the legality of decisions and to properly develop the work of Parliament, parliamentaryism. But this is a personal position.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-29-m0.u181	Thank you. Jaroslav Rušchishin, the Voice faction. Your question, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-29-m0.u182	Please pass it on to Jaroslav Jurczyn.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-29-m0.u183	Jaroslav Jurchisin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-29-m0.u184	I have a question for you. Look, we've got this situation where people are already having to knock on the Supreme Council to do their job. How do you know that the easiest thing to do is to investigate any wrongdoing, any crime at a time when it just happened, what's going on, what's going to happen is, in fact, the more chance we're going to be able to respond positively, in fact, to our citizens' request. Now we have the fact that most of you, who are the representative, are constantly avoiding the fulfillment of their promises to the electorate and not delegating candidates to this commission. Tell me, please, how can we not waste our final time and yet when the ruling is given in the vote? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-29-m0.u185	It's not really a question again. If you're talking to me as a reporter, I'm already a member of one of the TSCs, we're investigating the explosions at the warehouses. So quite a lot of TSCs, temporary investigation committees, is an effective tool. But your question isn't really what we're looking at right now.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-29-m0.u186	Thank you. Ahtem Chigoz, your question, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-29-m0.u187	Please give to the potter.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-29-m0.u188	Alexei Hotcharenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-29-m0.u189	Alexei Hotcharenko, European Solidarity. I have absolutely a question for you. Were you under pressure by Andria Jarmak and Vladimir Zelensky, or did you know that such pressure was exerted to direct your faction or committee, in order to avoid the creation of a temporary investigation commission into the investigation of "vagregate" and the failure of the special operations of the Ukrainian Special Forces for the arrest of Ukrainian military assassins? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-29-m0.u190	Thank you. This is not really true again, but the pressure has not been exerted, and I am not aware of such pressure.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-29-m0.u191	Thank you. One last question: Vladimir Vjatrović, European Solidarity, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-29-m0.u192	Good afternoon, dear fellows! Please note that last week we witnessed a statement by a majority of Mr. Arahamaia's representatives that there should never be an investigation into this case. Today, in fact, the majority left the hall when the matter was considered. So I do have a question for you, how many times have you heard, the answers you've been avoiding? The point of this petition is not just to have a hearing with you here, but to create a temporary commission of inquiry. Is it and when a temporary commission of inquiry will be established? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-29-m0.u193	Please, Mrs. Mariana.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-29-m0.u194	Thank you. The whole point of the petition is just this kind of hearing, and now we're doing it. That is, respectable colleagues have the opportunity to comment on the matter, but the decision is not for adoption. So we're taking into account the request and the resonance that the petition had, and we're holding a hearing in Parliament.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-29-m0.u195	Thank you, Mrs. Mariana, for your answers to your questions. You can take your place. And now we're conducting the following questions, more faithfully, please sign up for statements by representatives of the MP factions and groups. Please sign up, national MPs. Yes, please, Mrs. Tetjana Placzkova, faction "The Opposition Platform for Life."
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-29-m0.u196	Please pass the word to Anatoly Burmich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-29-m0.u197	Anatoly Burmich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-29-m0.u198	Dear colleagues, this is a really interesting question, but I want to remind you who we have here in our country as Commander-in-Chief. We all know the president. Who in the country determines foreign policy? The same answer is the President. And I think no one, as he should determine what's more important for today or tomorrow, and what's not so important to him, is what he sees. But there's something else I want to say. Personally, it would be very interesting for me to get answers to the following questions, whether or not a temporary commission of inquiry will be created. Was there an operational search case at all, and who did it have, either at the H.R.S. or in military intelligence? I'd be wondering if they'd reported it to the President and how many times they'd done the operation, if that was the case at all. I wonder who smoked it. And what they're saying is that we have all of our special resonative operations being handled by American experts. I would be very interested to know in which section they're smoking these operations or they're planning it. Are there any written contracts, are there signatures there or no signatures, are there instructions or are these special operations taking place orally? I would also like to know why they insist, as the media do, that certain military intelligence leaders there want to become stars, that they've done some kind of operation and glorify themselves. And I would also like to understand whether they really wanted to be stars, whether they wanted to be stars, whether they were in line with the President, or how it should be in any civilized country at all. Who's defining all of this, and who needs it? We know when this operation was, if it was, before the mine meeting and the Normandy meeting. So I would like to draw your attention to what we do not have, but the President who is not, but the Commander-in-Chief who is not, but the one who determines foreign policy and priorities. If the commission isn't set up, I'd very much like either the Attorney General's Office or the U.S.A. to test the questions I've been asking, and we've all got the answers to how things are going in the country, who determines and what: both foreign policy and who the security agencies are serving. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-29-m0.u199	Thank you. Vladimir Vjatrović, faction of European Solidarity. Alexei Hotcharenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-29-m0.u200	Alexei Hotcharenko, European Solidarity. You know, first of all, I want to draw your attention to how they work in sync and have the position of the "Serial of the People" faction and the OPCW on this issue. You know, a coincidence? I don't think so. I don't believe in coincidences. I'm sure it's a conscious act when the current authorities are trying to hide something very important for society, and it's about state betrayal at the highest level, and it's helping the LRA. And that, I think, is very eloquent about what's going on. I want to say that the faction of European Solidarity, Fatherland, Voice has submitted its nominations to the interim commission of inquiry. Where's the feed from the "Serve of the People"? None. Where's the feed from the OCJ? None. Again, it's completely synchronous. Moreover, you and I are now considering a petition signed by more than 25,000 Ukrainian citizens. But I would like to inform the community and the people’s deputies that Parliament’s leadership has refused to ask this question today, even though it is bound by the Rules. Obliged, but refused, until a break was taken to require the factions "European Solidarity" and "Voice," where we demanded that today's Rules be implemented and this petition was considered. And only after that did we come into the discussion of the matter. The Coincidence Again? I don't think so. I think and I'm sure that the authorities are feverishly trying to hide what's really happened. And actually, this is what happened. Just two months ago, on July 29th, in Minsk, the Wagnerians were detained and were to fly to Istanbul on a plane and find themselves in Ukraine. They've already had their suspicions drawn up, Ukrainian law enforcement officers have already gone to court, and there are documents from the Ukrainian courts today about these suspicions. They were expected to be arrested in Ukraine to give a witness on extremely important crimes, terrible crimes. And the Il-76 with the Ukrainian military, and MH17 are crimes against humanity, crimes that could have become a serious base even for The Hague, which would have been an extraordinary challenge for the Russian Federation. For two months now, these activists and murderers, who killed Ukrainian military personnel, may have been in the Ukrainian S.E.S.O. and testify. Instead, they returned to Russia. And this happened because someone in the highest leadership of the state leaked this information. And the issue of national security and life today, so we can find out who did it. And no matter how much we try to hide through all these, you know, devices, in and out of the Supreme Council, we will certainly learn the truth. And that sent-away German Cossack will be discovered. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-29-m0.u201	Mariana Bezaugla, "Serial of the People" faction. Please. Yes, please, Mrs. Mariano.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-29-m0.u202	Gentlemen, once and for all, Parliament is one of the most productive or not productive in the history of Ukraine. The largest number of decisions were supported by more than a constitutional majority. And in particular, such a decision as the draft Intelligence Act. The draft Intelligence Act provides for the establishment of a so - called special committee to oversee the services. As I have already pointed out, this is our supervision and control, and this is the systemic approach that I hope will find support in Parliament when we prepare decisions on the establishment of such a committee and where different factions are to enter, and to oversee and monitor the activities of both the Ukrainian Security Service and intelligence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-29-m0.u203	Thank you. Ms. Anna Speedy, the Party for the Future faction. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-29-m0.u204	Anna Krakhod, MP for the Future. Dear colleagues, in any case, the matter of "vagners" is a matter of national betrayal and national security in Ukraine. Therefore, it is necessary to create a temporary commission of inquiry. If we have such facts that we have been published, we need to raise and investigate this issue. But the question is, Is there a problem at all, and is it physical? Because given that the Ukrainian Security Service and the GUR were involved in the matter, the same is true of access to confidentiality and confidentiality in general. Let's create a TSC. But please tell me, what position does the President have as Commander-in-Chief on this matter? In any case, we understand that the issue will only move if the President and the Office of the President of Ukraine directs it. If the Office of the President of Ukraine is involved, what kind of investigation might this be? Let's just consider that in this case, the President's Office can come out on its own. And this one, well, I don't think they can let it. Of course, we need to create a TSC, and we need to deal with this, because this is a fundamental issue of Ukrainian national security. We support the full creation of such a commission. And yet, I hope that it will work, because today all the Tsks that have been created have not produced any real results. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-29-m0.u205	Thank you. Galina Vasilchenko, Voice faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-29-m0.u206	Alexander Ustinov's word, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-29-m0.u207	Alexander Ustinov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-29-m0.u208	Dear colleagues, you know, I'm very sorry to see an empty hall right now, when everyone went to have coffee, I don't know, to eat lunch when we're now discussing national security issues, national betrayal. I think we could wait for lunch with a sandwich when we're talking about the release of the killer people, the murderers of our boys in the east, the murderers of our citizens, including those on a Malaysian plane. You know, I had a friend there. He was not Ukrainian, he lived in Amsterdam, he was Dutch, he was Dutch. And, you know, I still remember that every day. And when the people who killed our citizens in the east who crashed the planes were released, and instead of creating the TSC now, an hour in an empty hall, because everyone went to eat the sandwiches, we're discussing a petition, it's a mercy of the eyes. This means that the authorities really don't want to deal with what happened because everyone understands that high heads are going to fly. We're talking about whether we need to create a TSC. I'm sorry, we have a football TSC in this Parliament. And we're comparing football and national security, football and treason? There were voices and time to create a TSC for football, and there was no time to create a TSC for treason, and there was no time for national security. Colleagues, I'm holding in my hand the signed letters to create this TSC. I'm asking everyone who thinks that we need to figure out in this situation that the issue of national security and treason is more important than football, because we have 100 TSCs already created, temporary investigation committees that actually go out on each other. But when we talk about treason, you don't want to sign. I very much ask you not to close your eyes on this and put it in priority right now, because after the election we have a very difficult time ahead of us, and Russia, as you can see, is not sleeping right now. And if we don't deal with our traitors inside the country right now, then it's gonna be hard for everyone. I'm asking everyone, I'm going to personally approach and ask them to sign under the creation of a temporary commission of inquiry, because this state of affairs is going to have to be brought out into clean water.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-29-m0.u209	Thank you. Sergey Sobolev, the Fatherland faction. Please, Mr. Sergei.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-29-m0.u210	Sobolje, Fatherland. Honorable colleagues, respected citizens of Ukraine, had an extraordinary event. Parliament has been pretending for two months that nothing is happening, only three factions have made proposals for the creation of a future commission, the TSC, including our "Paternity" faction. A professional committee that stands up for its positions makes it appear that nothing has happened. Well, who else within the framework of your committee's activities, where everyone has special permissions, has the opportunity to get to know the special materials that are closed. But you had to immediately set up a committee committee to investigate these issues. You don't do that. Ukrainian citizens have already raised this issue to national level. In six days, an unprecedented number of tens of thousands of people who demand that Parliament consider this issue are gathered. There's nothing going on. The Parliament's Professional Committee on Rules is adjourned and does nothing. Now essentially. A private army financed personally by Putin through his former cook Beauty, who is involved in all the most dirty operations around the world: Syria, Libya and any other countries, including Ukraine, which is directly accused by the international community of committing torture, war crimes, acted directly in Ukraine, and the Ukrainian Parliament and President Zelenski pretend that nothing happened. These individuals directly claim that they were shooting, which resulted in the deaths of Ukrainian civilians, citizens of other states, soldiers of Ukraine -- parliament makes it appear that nothing happened. The president pretends that everything is what it is. I think this petition is the last call for "Serve of the People" and President Zelensky. You won't be able to keep quiet. You must either investigate it yourself and report immediately to society and parliament. Since you are unable to do so, Parliament must create an appropriate commission, allow members of this committee to investigate and report immediately on what has happened. I think that's the answer to the question that the people of Ukraine are asking us.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-29-m0.u211	Thank you, Mr. Sergei. Ladies and gentlemen, please sign up for a statement by the National Deputies to discuss this matter. Please, there's a recording of the performances. Aunt Placzkova, "The Opposition Platform for Life".
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-29-m0.u212	Once again, good afternoon, dear colleagues! How many TSCs have we registered? 44. And really, it's an important, probably, control that would have an impact if they actually worked. Unfortunately, most of these TSCs actually have no results. I did not agree to ask a question, but it was about a petition. Nevertheless, if we were to consider, for example, today's petition about the land market, there would be not 25,000 people, but 25 million people to support it. So this is really a selective approach. I absolutely do not object to the creation of another TSC, and it is not against us as parliamentarians to exercise parliamentary control. But we have to answer: What do law enforcement agencies, so many law enforcement agencies, do? In fact, we all have a question: Why is there no TSC on important issues? And today Odessa was mentioned. I also want to say that we've been trying to create a TSC in fires that happen all the time in Odessa. This question was not supported, but it is also important. Sadly, too, many have died, and children continue to die. So if we're going to raise each of these important questions on a temporary commission of inquiry, maybe we should have a separate body set up to deal with the interim commission of inquiry, another. I don't mind at all about the substance of the question, yes, so be it. But let's take a selective approach to petitions. I once tried to petition young people and sports, and so many parents supported the petition about another ice arena in Kiev. Unfortunately, it was not considered. So I want to encourage this Parliament, if we're considering petitions, to look at all of the important issues, not just those that are culturally related to one or the other political requirements. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-29-m0.u213	Thank you. Mikola Skorik, faction of "The Opposition Platform for Life."
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-29-m0.u214	Good afternoon, fellow citizens of Ukraine! Mikola Skorik, faction of "The Opposition Platform for Life." You know, I'm really sad to see what's going on in this room right now. And not because, unfortunately, very few colleagues were left in their jobs, but because of the content of the matter. I fully agree with my colleague at Aunt Plache's faction that, in fact, it would be possible to vote in favour of this issue, as well as for many other temporary commissions of inquiry that were proposed during this time and in previous times, but that if you look at the authorization of these temporary commissions of inquiry, they are not actually there. It seemed to me that a year ago, when a faction of the "Serial of the People" and President Zelensky came to power, which had changed a lot in the current parliament, and when the factions initially supported the establishment of the interim commission of inquiry after Odessa, it seemed to me that justice was really starting to work. But when this question was not supported, when many other questions about the loss of Ukraine of Crimea were not supported, and who is responsible for this by our officials today who are teaching us from the TV, how we live, many other questions, the question of who shot people on the Maidan. Such committees can be counted for a long and long time. I fully agree with the words that there is selectivity of approach. If that's the kind of noise you've made about treachery. Maybe she is, I don't know what was there. But I'm not going to personally support this question because you're demonstrating, colleagues, I'm talking about the majority faction, and the factions that were openly snarling, I'm going to apologize for the statement when I proposed to the committee on May 2nd, about the fact that some people are first class and some people are second class. Some people can be killed and others cannot be killed. This cannot be the case in a normal civilised legal state. We're all equal. And we have to make the law one for all. When that happens, when you demonstrate it at all levels, then you can support any temporary commission of inquiry. Because we really are a parliamentary-presidential republic, we have to have control functions, we really have to monitor and control all the officials in the state. And Parliament is finally the country's main legislative body, from which the last few cadences have made a big deal. I suggest, colleagues, that we take the same approach to all the temporary investigation committees that have been proposed. By the way, the May 2 committee is in the Supreme Council's apparatus. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-29-m0.u215	Maria Ionov, "European Solidarity" faction. Please, Vladimir Ariev.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-29-m0.u216	I have hours of recording a Ukrainian operative's conversation, who was clearly showing up against himself "vagners." And it's not just talk. These conversations are deciphered, recorded in the protocol and signed by the investigator of the second branch office of the Counter Intelligence Department. I have photos of fighters who committed crimes in Ukraine in 2014-2016, documenting themselves and sending all the necessary photos, autobiography, signed by their own hands, to those e-mail addresses that were then used by Ukrainian intelligence services. It was a unique operation that was destroyed. We don't know what she was torn up about, but we want to know. And there's a lot of evidence, and a lot of people are willing to testify that this operation was demolished at President Greensky's office. Whoever did this, we have to get an answer. But today they're being questioned into the appropriate force structures of not the ones who might have leaked information, and the Wagnerians, who were killing Ukrainian soldiers and blaming them for the killing of Ukrainian airmen, the paratroopers, they're still at large and they're still on the loose. Today, Yuri Butusov is summoned. I'm being summoned to the D.B.R. today to pin a case about the disclosure of the state secret. So I want to tell you, I have clear documents that show that all of these facts and all these documents were disclosed in July of this year before the Attorney General's Office was brought before the court for the suspicion of these "vagres" who were documented. Not enough, I will soon have very interesting documents to confirm how this special operation was to be completed. But we have silence today. Silence of Whom? The silence of those who today should primarily be interested in the truth. But the fact that the majority today, according to the Bank's instructions, are completely ignoring this question raises a different question. Are you not guilty and covered? I want David Arahami to immediately take the line and tell him if he is ready to give, at last, the faction members to the commission of inquiry and unlock the work. If not, I can remind you, there is a bird called the ostrich, which, at a time when it is afraid, is thrown into the ground, but there is another interesting place on the outside, and there is another place on the outside.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-29-m0.u217	Ivanna Klimpush-Cincadze, faction of European Solidarity. Sophia Fedina, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-29-m0.u218	What does the Supreme Council fear? What is the fear of monogamy? If you are not covered in this matter, why are you afraid to create a temporary commission of inquiry? Whether people involved in this matter are afraid, if there is no problem, the interim commission of inquiry will examine all the facts, listen to all the potential witnesses, find the problem, and then draw conclusions. But in view of the fact that the authorities are so actively blocking the creation of this commission, the Ukrainian citizens conclude: yes, the State's treason was and, yes, the supreme government of the state is covering this treason. Otherwise, I can't explain what's going on. When I said that grenades were fired on the front and the grenades were broken, the screams that were raised were all, I'm sorry, such debts and active ones. And when it comes to catching, planting, condemning Moscow mercenaries who not only kill Ukrainians, but people all over the world, and the services of different countries are working to catch murderers from a private military company called Putin, the Ukrainian authorities are somehow trying to shut up and shut up the matter as much as possible. Logically, then, the question is: Who are you serving, gentlemen? Or is it the same Putin? Because I don't understand why this is happening. And today everyone who blocks the creation of the TSC is today everyone who silences this question is the killer's guide. The assassins of our Il-76 squadrons, who were knocked down by the Wagners, were given orders from Putin. It's a tool for killing people in different countries. And the answer to some of the colleagues who are very upset by Majdan. The situation in Maidan was this because Putin and Moscow’s mercenaries, some who even sit in this room, did everything they could to destroy the Ukrainian nation. And thank God, we've given up! And I really hope that there are people in the majority faction today who are willing to protect not some ephemeral party or anything, but willing to protect Ukrainians from murderers. Thank you. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-29-m0.u219	Victor Black, faction "The Opposition Platform for Life"
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-29-m0.u220	Please pass the word to Anatoly Burmich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-29-m0.u221	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-29-m0.u222	Dear colleagues, I have already spoken and said some things today, but having listened to my fellow Members of Parliament, I have once again found that the main issue that is being considered today is political, it is political. Because I say again, who are we, and what do we want to investigate today? Who's the president? Yes, I'm sorry, he has the right to determine, he controls, he gives instructions to our security forces and the S.B.I., and military intelligence, because he is the Commander-in-Chief, and at the same time he is the one who defines foreign policy and what steps should be taken at one point or another. And who do we want to expose today, the President, is that he's all authorized or something? I can't figure it out. If he has authority, he has the full right to do so or to do otherwise. That's what he did. I have another question, the one I asked. Was it really an operation? Today I see that there will be no votes for the creation of this TSC, but it's still interesting, and I'm going to go to the Security Service officially: conduct an investigation, and with all the absolutely moments, impartially, whether they were there and if there were all the standards of law, agreement and so on. Of course, all criminals must be exposed. Of course, those who have accepted armed conflict against Ukraine must be planted and persecuted, I agree with it absolutely. But until we know if there was a child or not, what are we talking about? Let's figure out that there was an operation, let's say that in a case like this, she was, like, normal, and in spite of the President's will, someone betrayed her. But there is no such thing. We were told by the Security Service that there was no criminal case, the military counterintelligence said the same thing. What do we want to investigate? And today we're simple. It's just the politics we have today, just the exchange of thoughts. And the bottom line is, should we have peace on Donbassa or shouldn't we? So we all know that there must be peace, and everyone is making an effort to do so. And what should we do for this peace? Well, maybe as the president decides, maybe he knows more than we do, and not just us paging here? I believe that if the TSC is not even created, we need to verify the work of our special intelligence agencies, both within what and in the legal field. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-29-m0.u223	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we are out of time to discuss this matter. Once again, this is the first time in the history of the Supreme Council of Ukraine that we have considered the subject of an electronic petition, chapter 36, with the "prim" badge. The regulations of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And according to the same Rules, after discussing the conclusions of the committee, there is no vote. So, honourable colleagues, I want to consult you, do we need to get into the next question, or are we going to take this matter to tomorrow? For tomorrow, right? Dear colleagues, since we have little time left, I declare the morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine closed. Thank you.
