ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-18-m0.u1	Good afternoon, dear fellows! Good afternoon, media officials! Please prepare for registration. Dear colleagues, are you ready to register? Ready? Please register. I'm reminded that registration takes place by clicking on the green button, the first button on the left. [[10:06:39]] There are 291 Ukrainian national deputies registered in the hall. Dear colleagues, the morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear colleagues, today it is Vladislav Valeriovich Borodin, Mulik Roman Mironovich and Valery Alexanderovich Sternichuk. [[Applause]] Also on Deputy Prime Minister Reznik's birthday, Alexi Yuriovich. Hello! [[Applause]] Dear colleagues, let's move on to our work. The first issue of the agenda is the program of activity of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. According to article 85, paragraph 11, of the Constitution of Ukraine, the Supreme Council of Ukraine is to consider and decide on the approval of the Cabinet of Ministers programme. In accordance with article 227 of the Rules, the following procedure is proposed: report by the Prime Minister of Ukraine, up to 15 minutes; replies to questions from Ukrainian national deputies, up to 10 minutes: one minute to a question, two minutes to answer; statements from deputy factions and groups, up to 3 minutes from each factions and group; statements from national deputies, 6 minutes; final words from the Prime Minister, if necessary, and decision-making. Is there no objection? Let's move on to the question. The Prime Minister of Ukraine, Denis Anatoliyovich Schmigal, is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-18-m0.u2	Good afternoon, Your Honor! Good afternoon, distinguished national MPs! Good afternoon, dear Ukrainians! The government has shown that it can master the crown crisis with Ukraine. Now we're proposing a new development plan for the country. The approval of our program is the support of the Ukrainian manufacturer, it's the support of small and medium-sized businesses, it's the support of energy and farmers, it's an updated medical reform and changes to the pension system, it's a reduction in credit and a rise in social standards, it's a support for a very large number of steps that we're going to take to achieve a common result. The approval of our program is the fulfilment of our obligations to Ukrainian citizens, this is the course of President Vladimir Zelensky of Ukraine. Our program of action is a new social agreement with people, it's to consolidate our responsibility right before the Ukrainians. We're not a government of dreamers, not a government of populists, or a government of pianists. We have come to correct other people’s mistakes and to make the changes that society expects us to make. Neither I nor the members of the government need immunity. We can and will work effectively without any immunity. We're non-classical, and I'm personally a non-classical politician, not a populist, I identify myself as a government manager. So our government and Parliament need a common road map and we need the interaction of two key branches of government. And this is this map that we've been developing with you over the last month. The Action Program is also your government control tool. Each item and indicator will show what is being done and what is left on paper. At present, the medium-term and long-term priorities include 19 points, 82 sub-items, and the total expected results are 320. Our programme of activities is strengthened by the economic recovery programme and will be expanded by the government's action plan, where both the figures and the specific normative acts are presented, by the specific contractors. The action plan is a document that follows the government's agenda, we will also present it to Parliament and also work together with the committees. Each ministry has a specific set of tasks and responsibility for their implementation. Most of the sub-items in our program have been formed within the framework of economic policy. I've already said that we're going to implement a new economic philosophy on the priority of the Ukrainian producer and the Ukrainian business. We're talking about a new period of economic nationalism. To this end, the government will offer: full launch of the Export Credit Agency; changes in the export structure from raw materials to finished production; promotion of industry through public procurement, public procurement; increased share of the Ukrainian component in goods, jobs, services, that is, localization; promotion of industrial parks as a fundamental investment site; development of the defence and industrial complex as a hub for industrial development and new technologies; bidding agrarian subsidies for small farmers, not for oligarchs; development of an economic passport for a citizen; creation of a national airline. And the mass of the tasks that lie ahead of us to work together for the benefit of our nation. It's just a small fraction of the proposals I called. And no economic policy can produce results for people without the development of regions and the reform of decentralization, of course. This is a fundamental reform supported by people. And by the end of the year, we will be building a new territorial administration of Ukraine. We will certainly hold local elections. We're going to change medicine, and we're going to make real reform for people. Already this year, we will substantially increase the salaries of all health workers and will fully upgrade 212 reception wards of hospitals to ensure that every Ukrainian has access to the right medicine and feels the result of the expected reform. We will certainly end the period of low pensions. And we could all see that, despite the crisis, it's for our government, for our nation, not empty words. And we've already implemented the first three pension initiatives and we're planning additional steps. Together with the President, we have not only launched the largest infrastructure project in the history of Ukraine, but we will continue to expand it. Each of you could read the program in detail. I personally and the ministers came and worked with the committees. I'm ready to answer all the questions. I believe that the government's agenda today is an opportunity to demonstrate the unity of politics and concern for our people. But once again, let me stress, trade, exchange for supplies we're not going to, our program is documents, a plan of action that we're going to be managing and doing. We're different from our predecessors, we're not interested in immunity, we're interested in the country's welfare. I'm sure in the faction of most and all responsible MPs, we share the task and purpose. It's a strong economy, it's creating a real middle class in Ukraine, it's a powerful army, it's a progressive education, it's an effective medicine, it's all about the other tasks of this software strategy paper. So please support the program today, please support the Ukrainians, please support Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-18-m0.u3	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, please sign up for a question to the Prime Minister of Ukraine. Lucnyak Mikola Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-18-m0.u4	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Denis Anatolyevich, thank you for the meaningful program of government. But I wanted to hear more expanded in the fields, as the economy of our nation is about to develop today. Because you realize that consumption of your own product is also an increase in GDP, it's also an increase in the social guarantees you're making on your program today. So I wanted to learn more about the steps you would take. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-18-m0.u5	Thank you. Thank you for asking. In addition to the Cabinet Program, you were able to learn about the program of overcoming the economic crisis and the effects of COVID-19, and there are also operational concrete steps. Top 10 steps. This is when we move to an adaptive quarantine of small and medium-sized enterprise and business development; a regulatory guillotine where we see the possibility of cutting 30 and more restrictive regulatory acts that will deregulation of small and medium-sized businesses; the improvement of the tax system when we can eliminate divisions of economic investigations in various controlling law enforcement authorities; this is the introduction of a "zero declaration" of so-called "zero declaration"; the abolition of total fiscalization of simplifyers with the full introduction of software RROs; the relaunch of the industrial sector; the exit of the energy crisis from which we have already started; and this is a complex process because it is indeed a profound crisis in the energy sphere; the reform of transport and infrastructure that we started. And there's also a number of steps, and also on the committee, we've had the opportunity to work together on this. The development of international trade (e.g. export orientation and assistance to international markets) is one of the priorities of this year and from this month onward. Support for the agro-industrial complex. And here I've been saying, and I've been stressing that we're not just interested in growing and selling raw materials, we're also interested in deep processing with an added value that will increase Ukraine's GDP. Digital transformation, IT service development. And another 320 goals that we're ready to implement in this program. Plus 230 goals in the economic recovery program, plus a government action plan that will consist of specific programs and goals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-18-m0.u6	Moroz Vladimir Viktorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-18-m0.u7	Please give me the word of Scorch.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-18-m0.u8	Scroak by Mikola Leonidovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-18-m0.u9	Dear Mr. Prime Minister! The next question. We were talking about privatization at the committee meeting yesterday. And you said the government's rate of total privatization. More than 1,200 objects have been removed from those objects, strategic objects that are not privatized. The next question. Do you think it's normal in a situation where there's no market when there's war and there's a lot of problems that we're going to get the price for these businesses. And do you know, when you talk about what our Western partners are asking us to do that, that the successful economies of France, Germany, Britain, they have a holding sector that is more than 30 percent of their economies, and above all, they form a gross domestic product of their countries, and they have a lot of influence on the market in market methods. Please answer the question.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-18-m0.u10	So it's about privatization. Indeed, a fairly large package of small, medium, large privatization was prepared this year. Of course, we're very careful with the holding fund to assess market opportunities, the potential of investors today. And first of all, we're talking about what's called a little privatization, when in regions of state-owned small, medium-sized enterprises that don't actually generate dividends or taxes in the state budget, part of which is in a miserable state with no wages, because there's no effective owner and the state can't control the efficiency of these enterprises, they're now breaking down, this privatization needs to be done first. In Ukraine today, over 3,000 900 state - owned enterprises of various sizes. And you're absolutely right, when we compare it to other states, the state can effectively manage a few dozen of the most efficient enterprises that can fill the budget. That is to pay large amounts of taxes, pay dividends and be budget-generating enterprises, as you say, by 80 percent. Today, such enterprises are defined, they are not privatized, they will be corporateized to increase their efficiency in managing these enterprises, and the government budget from these enterprises is expected to increase. All other inefficient state-owned and medium-sized enterprises, which today are a burden on the body of the state, must be clearly privatized. And it's not about requiring international partners, it's about international partners and international experts that clearly support this path. That's where all the civilized countries went, and today we have to do it. The sooner we do this, the more effective it's going to be to run state-owned enterprises that we have the main budget fillers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-18-m0.u11	Laba Mikhailo Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-18-m0.u12	Good afternoon, Prime Minister. I'd like to point out that, in principle, there's a noticeable shift in human resources policy by area, but there are some other questions where some agencies, let's say, haven't assigned offices to people, and this is true, for example, for forestry, for forest agencies, for Zakarpatt, for example, there are a lot of problems in sorting this area. So I'd like to pay attention to that. And I would also like to point out that a lot of people who are blurry right now after the small floods are already on the roads and bridges in the villages, in the mountain villages of Zakarpatja, where people are without communication, most of the time they've broken down these logging routes. I would also like to draw your attention to such a question -- the financing of united territorial communities, the reimbursement of their funds. Because today's budget failure is exactly what it is. budget segment, but.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-18-m0.u13	There is a possibility that the first part of the question can be repeated – not recorded, not recorded. What's the first part, remember? Forest management. With respect to frame upgrades, there is really a resistance in some directions from the system. By forest management, you know, we went through the separation of the Ministry of Energy and the Ministry of Ecology. I hope that the Supreme Council will support the candidature for the Minister of Ecology, and we will be able to effectively and quickly manage all directions related to the forest environment, the State Agency, including. So I hope that in the coming weeks we will get a new quality and effectiveness of selecting and assigning managers in places once the appropriate Ministry of Profiles is formed and this role and function of environmental direction is strengthened. With regard to floods yesterday, a selector's meeting was held with the heads of the ODA, and separately, in four areas, where floods have resulted, the procedure for determining the necessary assistance at the district, district, state level if necessary has been fully discussed. This procedure is understood, the committees of TEM and NM are sitting in the area. If necessary, the government will join and the state commission can be held at any time, supported. As far as community support is concerned, there are also procedures. I've already said that decentralization reform is going on, and we're definitely working with communities directly, and we're going to continue the work that you're talking about, in places, with heads, too. This is constantly the subject of a selector’s meeting every week. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-18-m0.u14	Kostuch Anatoly Vejacheslavovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-18-m0.u15	Please give the word to Marina Olegny Bardini.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-18-m0.u16	Bardina Marina Olegnowna.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-18-m0.u17	Good afternoon, Mr. Prime Minister! First of all, I want to thank you for supporting the Biarric Partnership program initiated by the First Lady. We all know that this program is aimed at achieving equal rights and opportunities for all of our citizens, especially men and women. We also know that this program also provides inclusive space for people with disabilities. Today, we do not see these people on the streets of Ukraine. But we do not see, not because they do not exist, but because they do not have proper living conditions. The second point is violence, prevention of violence. During COVID, this figure has increased dramatically. And if the French, for example, have allocated budget to provide shelter for the shellfish, to the homes of the victims of the violence, unfortunately in Ukraine we can't even build a network. The question of gender education, first of all. The issue of pay gap between women and men. I hope that you have not only prescribed this in the program, but you will also do all the points that the government has supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-18-m0.u18	Thank you. With regard to persons with disabilities, this is a priority. We're working on it. Appointed to the government on these matters. At each government meeting, representatives are present and authorized. And for me personally, it's also an important question that I've taken care of while I'm still in charge of the government, and I'm not going to let that question go, either. The minister also knows about this priority, it's set out in the program, it's a cross-red line in our activity. Domestic violence. We took part in the first lady’s meeting. All these questions have been spoken, of course we work. Also, the department of profile is fully active. We really, unfortunately, the whole world has been raised because of the coronary crisis, and the problems of this domestic violence, they've been exposed to this today under special light. So we're definitely going to pay attention, not to the paper, but to life, and we're going to show it today, and we're really working on it. With regard to other issues that we have discussed with you on several occasions, we also have a very specific support for action and policy. At all levels, we talk about it, we support it, we put it into programs and all our priorities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-18-m0.u19	Papiev. Oh, no, I'm sorry, time's up. Thank you, Dennis Anatolyovich. Nataluha Dmitry Andriyovich is the head of the Committee on Economic Development. Three minutes, position of committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-18-m0.u20	Dear Dmitri Alexanderovich, dear colleagues! "Except for a few oil-exporting countries, no country has ever been able to become rich without prior industrialization." In 2012, Justin Ifu Lin, head of the World Bank. This tells us how much even international financial institutions like the World Bank understand the importance of industrial production, the industrial potential of each country and the protection of the national industrial producer. And that's very similar to another expression. "Can't let the colonies even make horseshoes nails," 1770, Prime Minister William Pitt of Britain. So when I hear about national, economic nationalism, I'm extremely pleased that in this Program of Government Action, it really does have to be. And as a committee yesterday, we held an appropriate meeting, and we publicly supported Dennis Anatoliyovich's government's intentions to pursue this kind of policy: the policy of supporting a national producer, the policy of protecting national industrial interests, the policy of strengthening and supporting national economic sovereignty, the policy of ensuring that the international trade conducted by Ukraine does not simply provide a positive trade balance, but will be pursued in order to export, not raw materials, but value added, and to export as much production and production as possible, and to import as much foreign raw material. But there is a document other than the government's program. This is a memorandum with the International Monetary Fund. And unfortunately, this memorandum does not allow us to execute the program to the extent that it is marked. In this program, I repeat, there are a lot of nice and absolutely fair decisions, but the memorandum contains restrictions on both monetary and fiscal nature, restrictions on the reduction of tax burden on business, restrictions on the introduction of special economic zones, restrictions on the introduction of industrial parks and actually makes it impossible for this program to be implemented. We sincerely hope that the government will manage its activities, not by memoranda of understanding with the International Monetary Fund, but by its own program and therefore the committee has taken a decision in the second reading and in general, I apologize for recommending that the room be determined by voting for this program. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-18-m0.u21	Thank you. Please sign up from the MP factions and groups. Larissa Mikolayevna. Batenko Taras Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-18-m0.u22	Good afternoon, dear colleagues, dear friends! For us, for the MP's Party for the Future, for the common people, this government is already clear. This government does not know how to conduct a dialogue with society or with parliament by dividing the MPs into blacks and whites. He only knows how to conduct a dialogue with the IMF, putting the country under external control. You, Mr. Prime Minister, are unable to give an answer, a clear signal, to every Ukrainian, to explain openly and specifically what the situation of the epidemic is today from the rostrum, claiming that the government has mastered the coronavirus. That sounds like a lot of fun. You can't tell what the actual number of patients is, and is it really necessary to keep most of the country on pause until now? Because so far you're sowing chaos and you're demonstrating an absolute lack of vertical power in the country. You can't explain to business what it can specifically count on. Or you can honestly say that he's on his own, and he can't count on anything in the state, and every person, from the smallest FOP to the biggest enterprise, can make a decision about how to move on. You can't explain to the graduates whether he can get an education in this country and under what conditions, producing further rumors of external appreciation. You can't give an answer to where Ukraine is going. Because for the time being, our nation is heading for the abyss. You "justly" (in quotes) distributed the socio-economic development, and I emphasize once again by dividing it into "black" and "white" deputies. But you can't divide Ukraine this way because Ukraine is the only one. And the common people will see it in their regions. And those completely foolish initiatives that Mr. Prime Minister is trying to issue for reforms, programs and so on, only hastens this process of economic and country decline. You're running into the cool peak energy sector of Ukraine, leading to the energy crisis, the Eastern mining-enriching combination. And from the analysis of the government's work programmes, it's seen that one of the main priorities of the country is dijitalization. It's funny again in the eyes of this crisis that we're in today. There is no specificity in the area of health care. But as an example, I can give you the purchase of protective equipment (protective glasses, masks, etc.) at a price that is 7 to 8 times their real price. In the area of social protection, a point of extreme concern is the increase in employment from 15 years of age, between 15 and 70 years of age. What is it like not to abuse teenagers to go to work instead of school, or to raise their retirement age? People are confused, scared, and disappointed. But believe me, it will all soon be angry. As long as you think we're okay, the whole country's barely making ends meet. If you are unable to answer that question, leave this post, Mr. Prime Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-18-m0.u23	Kubi Stepan Ivanovich. Hončarenko Alexyyyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-18-m0.u24	Alexei Hotcharenko, European Solidarity. I'd like to ask the honourable Prime Minister to listen because I'm speaking about your program. And that row of beggars that's behind the turn of the pollination can be stopped for a moment. Now, let's talk about the program that we're looking at right now. First they gave us a 10-page program, now 85. Mr. Prime Minister, you weren't working because you were supposed to submit a program on 95 pages -- it's a perfect number for your authority. Well, there's no point in discussing any of these pages. Because our government has already crossed the 100 - day limit. Tell me, what's the approval of the program after 100 days? Worldwide, reports of what has been done in 100 days have already been made. And we're here to discuss with you what we're going to do. Dear friends, what are we going to do? It doesn't make any sense, it doesn't make any sense. We'd like to hear the answer that you've done. Unfortunately, there is no answer. You're telling us, you just told us from the rostrum, we've already won the coronation. Are you making fun of us?Oh, my God! Today's record number in the last day, yesterday's record number, every day the rising numbers -- did you win the coronary crisis? You're telling us that you're introducing economic nationalism. I have a simple question: economic nationalism is what? Is this Russian coal on Centrenergo? Are economic nationalism Chinese suits protective of our medics, or French helicopters, or Egyptian potatoes in our supermarkets? Where is your economic nationalism, what are you telling us? All these empty conversations we've heard many times before, and these general phrases that you've written here. Where are the results? And the concrete results are: the economy is going to break down, and it's going down. Our first Green government told us it would be plus 8 percent per year of GDP. You know, with a number, they guessed eight, not plus, minus. This year's forecast is minus 8 percent of GDP. That's not what you're talking about. What are you going to do about it? You told us about the income of the population. Where are these incomes? People lost their jobs. During the short quarantine you introduced, your facilities worked, the various "Velores" in which you were sitting, and people were sitting in quarantine and losing their last penny, where they could earn something. As a result, after 100 days, you must be sent hundreds of miles away from Kabminu so that you do not even enter the radius. Now what needs to be done. These are the signatures that the European Solidarity faction collects for resigning this government. You don't have to take the program, you have to put it in your neck. There are already 80 signatures. I invite all those who call themselves opposition and the people's deputies of Ukraine to drive down the second government of Zelensky, preferably with him too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-18-m0.u25	Ironborn Jaroslav Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-18-m0.u26	Once again, this government comes to us with a program. Again, this program looks like a work. Again, even the committee did not approve of the program. And then there's two again. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to remind you of the famous expression of Reagan, quoted here by Mr. Zelensky: "The government is not solving our problems, the government is our problem." Now this expression is more relevant than ever. Government is our problem when it's trying to crush our eyes with another piece of paper. The government is our problem when citizens are not protected in police stations but are tortured and raped. The government is our problem when instead of charging hospitals, they charge their own pockets. The government is our problem when instead of giving the graduates a future, they're trying to cancel the KNZ. Government is our problem when instead of another story of 40 percent GDP growth, they offer another unrealistic story about 500,000 jobs. Dear coalition, the government is our problem, so they consider our employers not with you, but with Parliament, but with a completely different building on Bank Street. And yes, the government is our problem, because in 100 days they have shown that they do not deserve this immunity. Why did they come here? In order to obtain the right not to be released for a year. But I don't believe them personally. I believe you. I believe that the Health Committee will not allow doctors to rob. I believe the education committee won't let the ZO cancel. I believe the Economic Committee will protect the industry. I believe that this Parliament is capable of changing the country. But this Parliament cannot change a country when we have such an inefficient government. Dear colleagues, our mission is not just to accept something at times. Our mission is to prevent it. And today, regardless of factions, whatever political position I'm asking you, let's do our mission and not accept this program, let's finally press the red button, tell them they don't deserve the year of immunity, and then we'll show you what an effective job is. I call on all of you today to vote with a red click for this program and put the two back on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-18-m0.u27	Dear colleagues. Oleg Ivanovich Kulinich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-18-m0.u28	Good afternoon, dear colleagues. Can Parliament today be fully satisfied with the government’s work programme? Of course not. Because in this situation that Ukraine today is in, taking into account the global economic crisis, taking into account the situation with the Coronavirus pandemic, we would want a much bigger government. As far as the program itself is concerned, it has become more systematic than the previous one, taking into account the proposals made by the deputies, including our group, they are taken into account, which relate to fair taxation, the withdrawal of the country's economy from the shadows. And this is the basis for filling budgets, this is the basis for filling budgets at all levels. It's a positive one. The government declares the continuation of European integration, the indexation of pensions, the creation of new jobs, the involvement of investments. That's actually what our group is always stressing, and that's actually what our country needs. Unfortunately, we have not seen any of the most radically new things in the document that we have worked on. Of course, I would like to see a huge amount of money in the program to fight the coronavirus, as the United States, France, Germany, does. I would like to see specific figures on the support of small and medium-sized businesses when the country comes out of a difficult economic situation, when the country comes out of the crisis. And there are many other things that powerful European countries do, including the United States. But let us be objective. Sadly, our nation cannot afford to do so today. The working government worked for three months. These were difficult times both for the government and for the whole state as a whole. The quarantine restrictions that have been imposed, we believe that at the right time, whoever speaks, have secured the medical system from collapse in the state. Of course, not everything was done. There were delays in paying the doctor’s wages. Payments were not made in the amount that would have been desirable. But now in Ukraine it's a relatively good disease statistic for COVID-19, if we compare it to European countries, to the United States of America. In our view, under existing conditions, we cannot constantly change the government that works for 100 days. It's not for the benefit of the state, it's not for the stability of the state. I think that today Parliament should give the Cabinet a chance to show its effectiveness in implementing its own programme, especially in addressing economic and social challenges. Therefore, our MPs decided to support today’s well - worked government program. In general, Parliament has enough tools to send the government away at any time if this team shows its incompetence and fails to implement its own programme. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-18-m0.u29	Nicolanca. Julia Volodymyrna Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-18-m0.u30	The Fatherland faction, Julia Timoshenko. Dear friends, I hope that at least everyone in this room understands that this is not about the government's agenda. I think you realize that these are ritual dances that are now trying to perform on a bad political stage. I want to remind this room and the country that this is the third government and the third prime minister who works for President Zelenski. And now what we're seeing with you now is that the third government has actually received a ticket out. Because if this program isn't voted in the room right now, it's not because it's a bad program or a good program, it's because there's a Greens team to vote for the government's action programme or not, and whether Greens has agreed to merge this government or whether he's still going to hold it. That's the question. Now let's think about why the first government worked three months, the second six months, the third three months, and it's probably going to be the fourth. Because it's not a government program that's interesting, it's a real program that now has the absolute power of President Zelensky, it's a memorandum with the International Monetary Fund, and there's a diameter of other things written by what's "sweet" in the government program today. The problem and the question are quite different. You know that 60 percent of people today, according to a recent sociological survey, think that the country is moving in the wrong direction, and only 26 think that it is the right one. For someone, all these failures in the government of the country, all this chaos, the mess, if that's what you say, you have to cheat on someone. And so they wrote everything they could down for the government of Pottery, and he left with a zero rating in the country. Today, the President has 33 percent of the support, in Parliament 9 and in this government 9. And that's why there's now another victim to whom the absolute government of Zelensky is going to throw chaos in the state and politics that are deliberately against Ukraine's national interests and against every Ukrainian. And so I just want to pay my respects to this Prime Minister, who became the next victim of the massacre. He didn't appoint any ministers himself, he didn't do any tactics and strategies on his own, he lives in the paradigm of the external administration, and now he's going to pay for it in his office. I predict that this program will not be supported. We will not vote for this tutu, of course. But draw your own conclusions, for the country is on its way to a chasm. We need to make amends. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-18-m0.u31	Murmich Anatoly Petrovich. Royal Natalia Yuriovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-18-m0.u32	Dear colleagues! Ladies and gentlemen! There's this disease, and it's called "separation of personality" or schizophrenia. With this disease, people are not taken into the army or assigned to public office. The government of Schmigal, who signed two papers, is a memorandum from the IMF and a government action programme, has shown a clinical picture of this disease because these two documents contradict each other. No matter how much we treat the IMF, it's a serious international structure. And this government "twisted" their money under certain obligations. And what do we see now? They brought us the program. So please tell me, on behalf of Ukraine, that you have signed a commitment to the IMF by deceiving the entire country today. You're going to be running a government program -- then you're going to quit the IMF. And if you're doing a memorandum with the IMF, then today you're deceiving this hall, just like that, you're deceiving our entire country and everyone. And judging by these actions, we're dealing with the bright thimbles that I want to accept today for only one purpose: to get the right to not be released for a year. And from all of this, we see that they're not going to do any program at all, and they don't have any plans today, because they have the main goal today is to put the country into international, you know, external management, and then go, even though they're engulfed or provided, after that for life. So this is our next position. And we're going to the hall, we're going to all the responsible deputies, we're not going to accept this program because it's fraud, and we have to put all our efforts together and put this government away. Enough, enough experimenting over the country, enough experimenting over people. Today, we need to urgently correct the mistakes of the Dusty regime with this medical reform — to abolish it, to review pension reform, and, above all, to unite efforts to bring peace back to our country. And we're talking to President Greensky. It may be enough to appoint good friends, friends, and leadership positions in the country. Let us create a government of national trust, unite efforts, put aside our political ambitions and aspirations.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-18-m0.u33	Katchura Alexander Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-18-m0.u34	Alexander Kachura, "Serial of the People" faction. Mr. Prime Minister, honourable members of the government, in fact, the history of your government's work programme has shown to all the Ukrainian people that we will definitely support the representatives of our team, representatives of the government, but we will not cover up if someone makes mistakes, and we will insist that each of your actions be performed in a qualitative manner. In fact, the 2.0 program, as you call it, is based primarily on the program of President Vladimir Alexandrovich Zelensky of Ukraine, the political party's "Serve of the People" program. And that's right, because it's our political faction that has delegated you to the government. It's based on the proposals of profile committees. According to my information, about 80-85 percent of the proposals came in. I'll tell you that it was crucial for me to vote or not to support your government's agenda. First of all, your program has a strategy for supporting small and medium-sized businesses, and this is 5-7-9, which is also a interest rate compensation program. And that's right, because during the Coronavirus pandemic, because during the economic crisis that's affecting us, we definitely need to focus on supporting small, medium-sized businesses, saving jobs, supporting the small ones that are not so strong. The second block, which was important to me and to the whole country, is the issue of peace in Ukraine and the reintegration of Donbas. A return of residence status for Ukrainian citizens registered and resident in the Donetsk and Lugansk regions has been issued. It's the provision of administrative services for displaced persons, it's the return and provision of at least 1,000 500 Ukrainian migrant families in controlled areas of permanent or temporary residence. This is a solution to the registration of some 800,000 Ukrainian citizens. This is a question that is most important today: it's a food security issue, it's support for Ukrainian entrepreneurship, Ukrainian farming, it's creating conditions for family farming. You have to make this happen. But today we are voting for a strategic document, for a country's development programme, not for indulgence for one year of your state leadership. And we agreed with you inside the faction meeting that if we had a mistrust within Parliament of the activity of you or any of your ministers, you would resign and write this statement. Vote. We support the program. We're developing the Ukrainian state.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-18-m0.u35	Dear colleagues, the time for speeches by MPs and groups is exhausted. We have the next question of the government's action programme, it's a speech from the national MPs. Please sign up for the presentations by the Ukrainian national deputies. Polakov Anton Eduardoovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-18-m0.u36	Dear colleagues, I don't know what we can say here about this program "2.0" if our Kabmin is already working 100 days before Mr. Schmigal worked with Honcharuk, and we're all told stories about our happy future. Where are the answers to the question of 500,000 jobs, the support of the FOPs, namely the adoption of bills that repeal anti-Fopian bills? Where are all the solutions to the questions we asked you during your work? Why you're lying to people again, I don't understand. I understand you've already made arrangements with the "Serial of the People" faction. You're fine. But why lie to our people again? Why can't you just take and retire and give people the opportunity to work, really, instead of lobbying the interests of a certain oligarch, changing, let's say, the waste of electricity? For what? Russian coal. Yes, sir, Schmigal? I just don't understand what's here, just a complete farce and all. I have no particular questions to ask you, because I am already sure that none of your programs will ever be executed.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-18-m0.u37	Makarov Oleg Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-18-m0.u38	Please give Jurczyn to me.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-18-m0.u39	Dear colleagues, in fact, by giving collective immunity to the government, we're completely taking away the possibility of collective immunity for society. Why? I'm not going to talk about all the executives of this alternate government brought to you like cats in a bag. I'll only talk about the staff here. If the minister of health in the government, instead of watching the declines in disease rates, is actually being used for purchases, and there is a reference, particularly to law enforcement authorities; if he does not support a Ukrainian producer, but encourages the purchase of Chinese suits, does he value immunity, this government, would this particular minister be in a completely different position? If the minister of the economy attacks or not the only adequate reform of ProZorro, then systematically, and he himself has been working on the oligarchus of Bachmatyuk, which he speaks frankly, is it worth the immunity of such a minister? If the Minister of the Interior ignores this Parliament, comes up with only three invitations from three hundred thirty-two to a profile committee, just shows where he saw you, if, at the time when the actual increase of COVID starts in the country, he's pressuring the government to pull an additional 2.7 billion out of the stability fund that we've formed for this government to fight the epidemic, is it worth this Minister of Immunity? I'm not talking about what covers rapists, child killers, by the way. And you're willing to vote for immunity for such a government? This government needs to resign or personally that you may, by the way, support the signatures for Mr. Stepanov's resignation are still being gathered, come to our Olga Stefanišina and sign, or generally, as our colleagues suggest. The only thing this government doesn't deserve is the immunity it stole from our society with you. As long as the police kill and torture while the medics are unprotected, and the minister enjoys offering to the Minister of Education a person who spent money not on teachers' salaries, but on a new car, as long as the only slogan is, "Government go away! Habakkuk is gone!"..
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-18-m0.u40	Thank you. Andriovich Zinovy Miroslavovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-18-m0.u41	Please give love to Dmitri.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-18-m0.u42	No, I don't. Dear colleagues, speak to the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-18-m0.u43	Please pass the word to Lovey Dmitri.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-18-m0.u44	Love, Dmitry Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-18-m0.u45	Valeriyovich. Dmitry Lubota, 177 District, Kharkish, "Serve of the People" faction. Mr. Prime Minister, first of all, I would like to thank you for your proper response to the request of the national MPs. More than 70 signatures have been collected to restore the active system of government financial control. Today, more than half of government funds are distributed through local budgets. That's good, but we major MPs see there's a lot of abuse going on here, and the mouths of the local princes are forming. These local budget frauds are seen by virtually everyone, but their practical detection and documentation require decisive steps by the government to build and enhance the institutional capacity of the State Audit Service, since it is practically the only body capable of ensuring proper control of local budgets. At the end of the talk, I want to wish you success in implementing the government program. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-18-m0.u46	Thank you. Dear colleagues, now the closing word of the Prime Minister of Ukraine is three minutes. Then we go to the vote. Please invite the national deputies to the hall. Dennis Anatolyovich Schmigal.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-18-m0.u47	Thank you, Mr. Head. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen of the people. Thank you, fellow Ukrainians. Once again, government, nor do I personally pursue immunity. And all that says is that the government gets immunity or someone needs immunity -- no, today we need to act and show results for the Ukrainians. That's why we're here, in these jobs, and these jobs are hard work, 18-20 hours. And we will do this work with all loyalty, with all the professionalism that every minister has today. I'm sure of it. And of course, working with the Committees of the Supreme Council, supporting Parliament is a key factor in the success of our government. Therefore, only in joint work will we be able to produce the result that the parliamentary, main faction of Parliament, all the other factions, Parliament in general promised to give to the Ukrainians during its work. So government is really a tool for meeting the expectations of society. And once again, not immunity. This is about the clear, very clear vectors that we have to demonstrate to the Ukrainian society, where we're going, what's going to be the result of that. We need to enable society to control the government's activities, to control the promises that parliamentarians made by going to elections and talking to people. Indeed, it has been a while. In 100 days, we reported. And this report was completely open, open, and society appreciates it as it appreciates it. Regarding our further work, I am confident that this program, which has been worked together with the committees, together with the Supreme Council, will be a truly effective, good guide for us to use in any way. With immunity, with no immunity, we will be able to do our work in a quality, loyally and openly before society and in full communication and cooperation with Parliament. So thank you for your support. Thank you for the work we've already done together. I'm asking for a project that is really a good, strategic, correct software document for our nation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-18-m0.u48	Thank you, Dennis Anatolyovich. Dear colleagues, let's go to the vote. Invite the national deputies to the hall. Please take your seats. Ready to vote? Honorary colleagues, in accordance with article 85 of the Constitution of Ukraine, article 227 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules of Procedure, put to the vote for adoption as a whole the draft Decree (registration number 3330 of 12.06). 2020) on the Office of the Ministers of Ukraine Programme of Action. Ready to vote? Vote? [[B in m in s a l in]] Now, now, we've been waiting for you, Jaroslav Ivanovich. I'm sure you will. Please support and vote. [[11:06:36]] For 207 The decision is not taken. Let's see the factions. Next question of the agenda. [[B in m in s a l in]] Thank you. Dear colleagues, with no motive, excuse me. Next question of the agenda. You are invited to consider the report on the implementation of Ukraine's National Budget 2019. He has a word for the report. I'm sorry. In accordance with article 162 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules, the Supreme Council of Ukraine examines the full - time report. The committee proposes this order of action: a report by the Minister of Finance of Ukraine - within 5 minutes, the Ministry of Finance's response to questions from the National Deputies - within 3 minutes, a report by the Deputy Committee on Budget Affairs - within 5 minutes, a report by the Head of the Court of Auditors - within 5 minutes, statements by the MPs and the National Deputies' groups - up to 21 minutes, then a decision will be taken. Is there no objection to such an order of inquiry? None. But, dear colleagues, I still have an announcement to make. A package of documents was received for the appointment of the minister of education. And today we will consider this issue after a break in the order provided for in our Rules. Ukraine’s Minister of Finance has the floor for the report. Sergei Mikhailovich, please. You know him well, don't you? Is that your colleague?
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-18-m0.u49	Ladies and gentlemen, you have a report on the implementation of the Ukrainian National Budget Act 2019. Overall, the growth in the domestic income economy in 2019 and the consumption of positive impacts on the filling of the income part of the budget. While the strengthening of the exchange rate of the US dollar bracelets and the disinflation processes had a negative impact on the budget’s income. At the same time, the strengthening of the exchange rate contributed to ensuring macroeconomic stability and the cost of servicing the foreign currency government debt. The slide presents the main macro indicators for 2018 – 2019. In 2019 the Supreme Council of Ukraine made four changes to the state budget, which reduced both the income and expenditure. Yes, revenue has dropped by 18.8 billion dollars to 1 trillion 7 billion dollars. Expenditures have decreased by 19.1 billion dollars. Loans have increased by 1.4 billion dollars to 15.1 billion dollars. The limit of deficits has increased by 1.1 billion. The major changes were made in October 2019, which included funding for the unification program and the new ministries, increasing the financial security of military personnel, increasing the funds of the contingency fund, and increasing the wages of miners. In 2019 the government budget was 998.3 billion dollars, 7.6 percent more than in 2018. According to expenditure of 1 trillion 75.1 million dollars, which is 9.1 percent more than in 2018 and with a deficit of 81 billion dollars. The level of implementation of the annual figure approved by the Supreme Council of Ukraine with changes was 99.1 percent. The level of execution of the annual subscription with changes made by the public budget administrators with a special fund in part of their own income and expenses was 96.3 percent. The general budget's income increased by 5.5 percent, to 879.8 billion dollars. The level of implementation of the annual subscription with changes to the general fund was 96.9 percent, due to the reduced production of tobacco, the exemption from tax on solar batteries VAT since January 2019, the introduction by the Government of the Russian Federation of export licences to Ukraine of coal, petrol, diesel and scrapped gases, and the strengthening of the exchange rate of the bracelet. The main fiscal taxes in 2019 rewrote the National Bank's general budget bill, which is listed by the National Bank of Ukraine in accordance with the National Bank Act, by 17.3 billion dollars, the corporate income tax of 11.6 billion dollars, the tax and revenue collection of natural persons, by 3.8 billion dollars, in part the net revenue of state or municipal unitary enterprises, by 0.8 billion dollars. Overcoming plans under the above mentioned taxes and congregations have been able to partially compensate for the unscheduling of scheduled volumes from the following sources. In particular, VAT is 39 billion dollars; excise tax is 13.4 billion dollars; rent per nadra is 11.3 billion dollars; import duty is 0.8 billion dollars. 76.2 per cent of the total income of the State budget of Ukraine accounts for five fiscal taxes and assemblies: VAT, 37.9 per cent; excise duty, 12.4 per cent; VAT, 11 per cent; company income, 10.7 per cent; and salary, 4.1 per cent. The income tax on enterprises increased by 10.5 percent compared to 2018, or 10.2 billion dollars, to 107.1 billion dollars. Income from the added value tax to the state budget increased by 1.1 percent or 4.2 billion dollars. The government budget for VAT has increased by 15.4 percent or 20.2 billion dollars.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-18-m0.u50	Sergey Mikhailovich, we don't give the people's deputies any more time, with all due respect. Dear colleagues, the Vice-President of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for Budget Affairs, Alexander Mikolaiovich Truhin, is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-18-m0.u51	Dear Dmitry Alexanderovich, distinguished national deputies. The Budget Committee of June 3, with the participation of representatives of the Ministry of Finance and the Court of Auditors, reviewed the government report on the implementation of the Act on the National Budget of Ukraine for 2019 and the relevant conclusions of the Court of Auditors. A detailed analysis of the implementation of state and local budgets for 2019 is provided in the Committee's report. In particular, as a result of the Committee’s report, the following are highlighted: individual actual macro-indicators, primarily currency exchange rates and inflation, differ significantly from the forecast taken into account in the approval of the budget, which shows that their forecasting is flawed and negatively affects the quality of budget planning. According to the Court of Auditors, the low quality of the macroeconomic forecast has led to a lack of government budget of 43 billion dollars of income, a failure to implement the general fund’s income plan of 28.6 billion dollars, and is the worst indicator in the last five years. While the planned figures were reduced by 20.1 billion in October. This amount of non-performance would be even greater if the marginal overrun of the National Bank's revenues and the payment at the end of the year by Naftogaz was a significant amount of payments. The Court of Auditors believes that a lack of income is due to low-quality macroeconomic projections and income planning weaknesses. The state of payment discipline of taxpayers continued to deteriorate. In particular, the government’s tax debt increased by 18.5 billion dollars. This has a negative impact on the budget’s income management and shows that tax authorities are ineffective in managing tax debt. The general fund expenditure has been spent by 30.8 billion dollars, less budget assignments that have already been reduced by 22 billion dollars in October, which is also the worst indicator of implementation of this plan in the last five years. However, the decrease in appointments was not sufficient, so in December a large portion of the expenditure was limited at the government’s disposal for some time. Traditionally, significant amounts of expenditure are spent in the last quarter, 28.7 percent of the annual volume, which increased the risk of unproductive use of funds and corruption. By the end of the year, there was not enough resources for the general fund in connection with the failure to implement the plan. So the cost involved the cost of a single treasury account that was not the proceeds of the general fund. In general, this is evidence of inadequate budget management, inefficiencies in measures and efficiencies in the ERC. Despite an increase of 32.2 billion dollars compared to 2018 in the State Budget Pension Fund, there was a further increase in the debt of this fund at the ECJ level. Although the requirements require that such positions be terminated until the end of the period of time. The unsatisfying state of spending by the Ministry of Health has not been corrected. The program uses 6.5 billion dollars or 99 percent of the plan. However, the corresponding expenditure between administrative and territorial units was less than 1 percent of the plan. That's unacceptable. As a result, the supply of medical supplies and medical supplies was greatly delayed. In this regard, receivables amounted to 7.7 billion dollars at the end of the year. Overall, the general fund cost of receivables increased by 21 percent and stood at 27.4 billion dollars at the end of the year. A third of the government's decisions on the allocation of inter-budget transfers were made in the last quarter, which created a prerequisite for the partial implementation of local budgets, and indicated inefficient management and planning of allocations and utilization. As a result, at the end of the year, significant amounts of subsidies allocated to local subsidies, including from a general fund of 9.5 billion dollars, caused by inadequate regulatory and methodological security, the lack of objective assessment of the real needs of the regions and the lack of compliance with the requirements of legislation in the use of subsidies, remained unused. In the process of processing a government report, taking into account the findings of the Court of Auditors, a new draft resolution on report 3269-d has been prepared by the Committee. Thus, the Committee on Budgetary Questions recommends to the Supreme Council the outcome of the review of the report to adopt the draft Order 3269-d. Please support the committee's decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-18-m0.u52	Thank you. The Head of the Court of Auditors Valerius Vasilovich Packan is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-18-m0.u53	Good afternoon, Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs! The Court of Auditors carried out an analysis of the implementation of the 2019 budget and confirmed the relevant conclusions. That's the general score. The government did not ensure the implementation of the State Budget for 2019. And that's under the fourth quarter reduction in his income and expenditure of over 20 billion dollars. I will briefly stop at what has affected the implementation of the State Budget and is being observed this year, and what should be taken into account in the formation of the following year. First. The budget is a reflection of the economy. In 2019 the government budget was implemented in a recession in an industry where the most value added is created. Real GDP has been slowing down since the third quarter. This year, before the coronavirus spread, these negative trends only deepened, the unfavourable investment climate in Ukraine hindered the involvement of foreign direct investment in planned volumes. In 2019, only 2.4 billion dollars came from the United States. Think about it, five times less than the amount of private money transfers to Ukraine from abroad. It was not possible to involve investors in the acquisition of state property. As a result, the government budget did not receive any money from major privatization, and the budget was generally under 16 billion dollars. Economic growth was restrained by limited lending. The balance of loans in the economy decreased by 101 billion dollars in 2019 or 9 percent. This year, most of the loan was made from the budget. But even state banks avoid lending, and the reason is the high risk of losing money. The other one. The government needs to improve the quality of the projections of the main macro indicators that are taken into account when the State budget is approved. According to the Court of Auditors, the low quality of the 2019 forecast led to an under-recovery of 43 billion planned revenues. This year was no exception. In the 2020 budget, the average exchange rate was 27 U.S. dollars, and in the future it was 30 dollars. In fact, in January/April, the dollar rate is 25.8. According to the Court of Auditors, the government budget was under 7 billion dollars. Third. Failure to implement the same taxes year after year. This is evidence of the shortcomings in planning and the government’s lack of action to ensure the planned amount of revenue. In particular, by reducing smuggling, reducing the tobacco market for fuel and tobacco products, which we have repeatedly observed in our audiences. Four. Improper planning increases the amount of planned but unutilized budget costs each month. By the beginning of December, it had reached 68 billion dollars. As a result, a large number of changes are made to the state budget. Consider the figure: In 2019 there were 1,100 so - called switches. Fifth. To compensate for his calculations, the government demands that taxes be paid in advance. Yes, in December 2019, 4 billion dollars were additionally mobilised to the budget -- part of the net profit of state-owned enterprises and 8.5 billion dollars -- NAC Naftogaz dividend, due in 2020. Nearly 12 billion dollars — tax and congregation overpayments. The VAT compensation was also restrained. Yes, 10 billion VAT was compensated in December 2019 and 18 billion in January 2020. Six. The Pension Fund and the local budgets, which in turn owed the State Treasury account almost a billion dollars a year in 2019, owed the state budget, and the Prime Minister stopped temporarily servicing payments that were not included in the protected articles. Ladies and gentlemen, I hope that the figures in the Court of Auditors will be taken into account in the implementation of the State Budget for this year and in the preparation of the budget for this year.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-18-m0.u54	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please sign up for the speeches by the MP factions and groups. Larissa Mikolayevna. Lubinet Dmitry Valeriovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-18-m0.u55	Honorable Presidium, Honourable People's Deputies, Honorable Citizens of Ukraine! What are we going to vote for today? You know, right now, I've been very careful to hear a report from the head of the accounting office of Ukraine. More than a thousand flips from one program to another. What does this indicate? We couldn't get enough money, we didn't know how to patch holes, we didn't switch from one program to another. Why did this happen? And because instead of making very quick professional decisions, they were doing holes. I can only give you a few digits. Not collected in the country's state budget for the added tax of 33 billion, the excise tax of 15.6 billion, the rent of 10.9 billion, the value added tax of 5.7 billion. What does this indicate? The idea that the government does not understand what the budget process is and how to do it. When all members of the national parliament pointed to the corruption of customs related to taxation, the fact that the minister of finance comes out here and tells us that only a month does the state budget lose about 5 billion dollars a month because of VAT return equipment, instead of giving orders, such a person is retired. So we certainly have a situation right now where the Ukrainian Parliament is constantly stressing the non-professional actions of the government. Now we've shown that the program of such a government cannot be approved. We show and call on the government whenever you cannot meet your direct responsibilities, excuse me, do not torture Ukrainian citizens, retire and find other professional people. And indeed, the parliamentary group "For the Future" strongly advocates that the next government be formed from representatives of all MP factions, all MP groups and this government become a government of national rescue. And finally, finish assigning people to the government according to your political preferences. Let's get some experts. The situation has already been brought to light that such financial losses of the state budget will soon prevent the salaries of the budgeters from being paid. So the next time we call on our colleagues and our monocolation partners, it's primarily up to you how you feel about these government actions, and the next time we urge you to make peace with these governments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-18-m0.u56	Makarov. Cabal Volodymyr Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-18-m0.u57	Dear colleagues, what have we now heard specifically from the Head, for example, the Accountant Chamber, the only independent body we can now trust? We heard that the 19th year budget was largely unfulfilled, and it was significantly different from the budget that was originally set up. We've been sequestering, the government's been sequestering, reducing revenue by 21 billion, and even after that, the revenue gap was still 29 billion. Why did this happen? Because it was not right, it was inconceivably planned for both income and expenditure by the previous government. As a result, this inestimable forecast has led to a very large number of sectors of the economy not receiving sufficient funding. It's medicine, it's education, it's other economics. But I want to ask you something else. So why are we, the 420 people's deputies, sitting around wasting our time, listening to all this? We listen to the Head of the Court of Auditors, we listen to the Minister of Finance, we listen to the factions. And we do this in order to draw conclusions and to avoid that next time. So I'll tell you what. No conclusions were drawn. Because if we didn't make $28 billion last year, we haven't made 44 billion in five months. No conclusions were drawn by the new government. What is more, it was done even worse. Because the result that we see in five months is twice as bad as the result of the miscalculation that was in the previous year. Did we have the opportunity to draw these conclusions? Of course, kid. Remember, three months ago, when we were making a secester, a lot of national MPs, including the Voice faction, were implying that this budget was unrealistic. But that was not heard. Accordingly, what can now help to draw these conclusions? Now only one thing can help is the resignation of this government, which in three months has shown its failure. And today, as the Supreme Council, as national deputies, without voting for the government programme, we have shown that we feel that way. So I urge this government to resign. And let's finally assign a professional government to bring Ukraine out of the crisis. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-18-m0.u58	Thank you. Chigos. Nina Petrovn Yuzanin.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-18-m0.u59	Dear colleagues, I also listened very carefully to both the conclusions of the committee and the Head of the Court of Auditors. And I'm very happy that the committee has taken a very professional view of its work, because in each sentence, they've analyzed the whole cluster of questions, as it should be, professionally and with conclusions, with figures, with the evaluation of the professional people themselves, the national MPs who gathered on this committee. In fact, the conclusion of the committee is that your colleagues are in the vast majority there, of all the issues are negative. I was impressed by the words that were echoed from this rostrum and the conclusions that the committee had drawn -- to recognize the execution of the State Budget and the work as unsatisfactory. In fact, there is something to think about. And that number of failures is 28.6 billion -- actually, it's artificial. We know that actual failure is much more. We've heard from the Head of the Court of Auditors about a large number, a few tens of billions of prepaid taxes, timely VAT reimbursement, which was delayed at the end of the year and compensated in January 2020. These are the huge machinations that took place in administration for the "tightening" of those numbers to be more or less acceptable in the annual report. But they're unacceptable, not 28.6, not the others. And now I'd like to make another point, colleagues. Because you say the same thing on the air very often. Not me, just now, the Head of the Accounts Chamber said about the sharp decline in GDP, starting in the third quarter of 2019. Thus, some conclusions could be drawn in the fourth quarter. And you were preparing for power. You were preparing and seeing the situation in the world’s markets that you would have to do when you arrived. Not to get to know each other for many years, and then the cadence is over, and we have to leave this room. I'm talking to the Minister of Finance. Now, look, if you did an analysis of the implementation of the State Budget and even took into account the Minfin strategy that you presented to our committee, you wouldn't be making such proposals for a government action programme that has just not been supported by Parliament. I didn't support it, because it's not a government action program, it's just a blurry story, nothing. You wrote all the points that presidential candidates wrote when the presidential elections were held. What did you learn from this, what should you do when you do so? Why is there no understanding? Consider one question that will give additional revenue to the budget. No questions asked logically. The laws passed don't work. Why don't you pay attention to that? Because everything depends on the economy. The economy, the budget.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-18-m0.u60	Thank you. Timishenko Julia Volodymyrna.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-18-m0.u61	Dear colleagues, the show continues today. We just didn't vote in favour of the government's action programme. Of all the deputies of the ruling party, 72 deputies did not vote. I can tell you what this means for politics. This means that under the carpet, the President of Ukraine gave the command to overthrow the government, to overthrow the Prime Minister. This means that you, "ministers of the people," now that you have not voted in favour of the government's agenda, have sent the government de facto to resign. Because now they do not know what to do next. And then the question. Why did the President of Ukraine give this command not to vote for the government? Because he's cheating on his failure of absolute authority on the third government and is now preparing for the fourth. And maybe there's another possibility that there might be a break-up of Parliament, because those failures that are today in the economy and the state's finances need to be translated into someone. And that's why the President is trying to do this. But I want Ukraine to hear me now. The personal responsibility of its absolute monopoly for everything that is going on in Ukraine is borne personally by the President of Ukraine. He gives instructions to governments how to form governments, he gives instructions to parliament how to vote, and he runs foreign administration policies. And there's nothing to talk about about the budget. The budget is the concentrated life of our nation. And now we're talking about the 2019 budget report. There was no COVID, there was no epidemic, but the budget was broken by almost 70 billion on the income side. This means that in 2019 smuggling was a stream, a river, and it could only be under the cover of the President's and President's Administration. This means that forgeries with value added tax and income tax have acquired a schematic, systemic character, and this has led our temporary tracking commission with you to go corrupt revenue abuse to the budget. This means that, as a result, all expenses are broken, there is no pension indexation, there is no salary increase, there is nothing to be in the country. And that means that the President himself has collapsed the government of the country, and we need to get out of this state, act, gather all the patriots, strong people. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-18-m0.u62	Makarenko Mikhailo Vasilovich. Scroak by Mikola Leonidovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-18-m0.u63	Honorable Presidium, distinguished colleagues, respected citizens of Ukraine! People's MP Skork, faction "The Opposition Platform for Life." I wanted to report that our faction has decided not to support the 2019 budget report. You know, I've pointed out that the government isn't even present in the government's bed when you and I are discussing this important issue. I think it's very symbolic, and I have the honour to welcome the entire Ukrainian people with the step that was taken today by the Ukrainian Parliament without supporting the programme of an active Ukrainian government. This program went absolutely nowhere, and when it comes to budget execution and budget in general, and this is really what this was talking about today from this rostrum, it's a reflection of the economy, it's a reflection of life throughout socio-economic, cultural life in the country, and if we talk about a budget that was formed by the government of Groissman, then cosmetic changes were made by the government of Goncharuk, and it's already adopted the budget in 2020, and it's being implemented by the government of Smigal -- it's absolute heiresses. The difference between them is that it's done at a much lower professional level. And that, let's say, is not Minfin's fault, the same professional people stayed in Minfin. And this is a problem of the Cabinet of Ministers, which is completely not a professional one, not a professional one. I think today's vote has been very vividly demonstrated that other times are coming, indeed, the recovery of Ukrainian society from total excitement with so-called new faces and so on. I think it's time to form a government on professional principles. I think it's time to form a government of national unity that can actually save the country from the final collapse. Everyone sees what is happening today in the sphere of government. Everyone sees what's happening today in the area of government finances. Those MPs who were no longer in the first call and who had carefully heard the report not only on the government but also on the Committee on Budget and Accounting pointed out that such criticism by the budget committee and the Court of Auditors never occurred. And the number of violations and calculations that were made in the last quarter, in the third and fourth quarters of 2019, is huge. We now have to prevent this situation from repeating itself in 2021. The budget of 2021 should be formulated on a completely different basis.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-18-m0.u64	Ladies and gentlemen, we are about to hear from Shahov Sergey Volodymyrovich. Then we go to the vote. Please invite the national deputies to the hall. Turn on the chess microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-18-m0.u65	Sergey Shahov, Luhanščina, Deputy Group "Trust". Dear colleagues, you can be in opposition, and for nothing to vote, you can be in constructive opposition. All of you know that we have always criticized and criticized the government if they fail to fulfill their responsibilities. We suggest today that the Prime Minister take his head and put the government in order, and he starts to work. When can we change, when can we be assigned, when nothing works? We just heard from the minister of finance. He said they would give and increase wages to miners. What miners who don't work in mines today? Coal isn't for sale at Centrenergo today. It was rightly said that coal today comes from Africa, from the trenches, from the Russian Federation. But not only does our coal not go to our state enterprises, but miners sit at all without a salary, not to raise it. Today, people are receiving benefits, not from the government budget, but from the local budget. How will local budgets be compensated and filled with what when the pandemic comes? It's enough to hide behind a pandemic of officials today. Let's get people back to work! Again, I appeal to the minister of health to test Ukrainian antibodies free of charge. I'm sure half of this room has fallen into COVID. There is no need to intimidate people again today and to purchase these tests for billions of dollars abroad by 8 euros to 37 euros. These are billions of dollars that can be filled with the Ukrainian budget. We demand that we stop the smuggling immediately, and if we stop the smuggling, with a normal payment to the budget, you get billions of dollars, not dollars. We demand immediate attention from Donbas, Donetsk and Lugansk. To pay attention and to give normal jobs to those who have gone abroad today, they went to Poland to feed other governments. Return men, let them build roads, not destroy them, but build them. To do an audit of all businesses that have been destroyed in 28 years. If they weren't modernized enterprises, return them to the state, give jobs to people. Thank you. Sergey Shahov, Trust MP, Luhanščina.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-18-m0.u66	Please, Your Honor, invite the national deputies to the hall, prepare for the vote. Ready to vote? I'll tell you everything. Dear colleagues, you've been given a ruling, a draft order, yes. I am now putting to the vote for adoption, as a whole, the Committee's draft Decree (Registration No. 3269-d) on the report on the implementation of the Ukrainian Act on the National Budget for Ukraine for 2019. Did you all hear what we're voting for? Can't you hear me? I just said it. Look, you have a decision, we vote for it. Sophia Romanovna, I just said. Dear colleagues, have you all understood what we're voting for? [[B in m in s a l in]] I repeat. Trukin, say it again, please. Put the phone down, please, and tell me you're ready to let everyone know.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-18-m0.u67	The regulation states that, unlike the government, the draft regulation provides for a report to be made known to the government and to be commissioned to resolve existing problems and improve the management of budgetary resources, which is relevant for the implementation of the budget in the current year and for the preparation of the budget for the following year.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-18-m0.u68	Thank you. I would like to place a vote for adoption as a whole of the committee's draft Decree (Registration No. 3269-d) on a report on the implementation of the Ukrainian Act on the National Budget for Ukraine for 2019. Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[11:49:36]] For 237 Decision taken. Thank you, Your Honor. Let's see the factions. Dear colleagues, look, we have 15 minutes until recess. Here's the deal. Listen, please. Now vote without discussion draft Decree No. 3661. Then consider the question that some national deputies will leave us if there is agreement and no objection. Is there no objection? You don't? Dear colleagues, I am voting on the proposal for adoption as a basis and as a whole of the draft Order amending paragraph 2 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Ordinance on the Structure of the Supreme Council of Ukraine (registration number 3661). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[11:50:50]] For 318 Decision taken. Thank you, Your Honor. Let's see the factions. Next question of the agenda. These are two questions that we can procedurally unify and consider at the same time, but the vote will be separate, necessarily separate. This is the draft of Decrees 3673 and 3674, which is the permanent termination of the powers of the Ukrainian national deputy of Vakarczuk and Belkovy. Dear colleagues, it is suggested that these issues be considered in a simplified manner. Please support and vote. With discussion, it is necessary to discuss the matter. [[11:51:44]] For 251 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, Mrs. Bilkova Olga Valentinovna has asked to speak. I don't think anyone will mind. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-18-m0.u69	Ladies and gentlemen, today you are considering a statement from a man who is absolutely sincere and unreservedly in love with parliamentaryism -- that's how it is. [[Applause]] My dears, I believe that Parliament is the most outstanding invention of mankind, which protects us from tyranny and leads us forward as a society as humanity. And the Ukrainian Parliament has often come to the aid of its people. It has been a great privilege for me to be a national member of the seventh, eighth, and ninth vocations, and I believe that our work is not only honorable, it is very difficult, complex, multifaceted, if it is done properly. And it really offends me when some people, perhaps in ignorance, say, "I don't know what I'm doing here." If you don't know, ask those who were here before you, the people, the experts. When I went to Parliament in 2012, with Vitalia Klitschka, I was sitting in this opposition sector, and then I dreamed that I would write laws for the Aitish, but the Aitishians themselves, the doctors, the students, the engineers, they went to Midan to defend their dreams, the European dream of Ukraine. [[Applause]] And I, along with other politicians, had to provide them and other Protestants with warm shoes, to negotiate with the then coalition -- it was also a job of politics, not just writing laws. In my second cadence, the people were waiting for reform, and as a lawyer I had to carry out very difficult laws from then on the coalition: the Gas Market Act, the Transparency of Extractive Industries, the Honest Distribution of Rents to Places, the Energy Regulator, and I know exactly how difficult it is for me to find words of compromise from this rostrum is also the work of politics. In the actual cadence, along with the Fatherland, which is the oldest, perhaps the wisest faction in this room and the most constructively opposition faction, I taught to defend important red lines. And it's very important for the people to know that there is a constructive opposition in this room that can do it professionally. I thank my faction. [[Applause]] By the way, I want to thank the coalitions. Even though I was a member of the formal opposition faction, my amendments were accepted, my ideas were heard both on the committee and in this room. So I'm absolutely honest and honest with you. There were eight years of my professional life. But I'm in love with the idea of parliamentaryism, not myself in this room. Even the best professionals need to recharge and occasionally test the theoretical concepts with reality. I want to make sure that the professional I wrote and conducted here in this room works as planned in the real economy. That's how it's gonna be. There are many challenges facing Ukraine today, including the economy. And I plan to use my parliamentary experience and work with you to protect the great Ukrainian interests. For these reasons, I am in charge, calmly, with plans for the future and with the understanding that there are people in this room without exclusion from factions who I know personally and who, at a difficult, difficult moment for Ukraine, will do as the great Ukraine needs. [[Applause]] Dear colleagues, it has been an extraordinary personal pleasure for me to work with each and every one of you, even when we were fighting. And today I ask you to vote and support my application and consider me a reserve politician. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-18-m0.u70	Dear colleagues, do you need a discussion? We can vote. I would like to thank you, if I may, on behalf of all my colleagues and, Olga Valentine's Day, first and foremost for the work you've been doing. And I'm sure we can thank you just as much for the work you're going to do. And you'll be the same professional, professional person you were in Parliament. Well, there are no reserve politicians. I'm sure you'll always be a politician. Thank you. Dear colleagues, I am voting on the proposal to adopt the entire draft decree on the permanent suspension of the powers of the Ukrainian National Deputy of Bilkova Olga Valentinovna. Please support and vote. [[11:58:14]] For 343 Decision taken. One more vote. Dear colleagues, I am voting on the proposal for the adoption of the entire draft Ordinance on the permanent suspension of the powers of the Ukrainian national deputy Vakarchuk Svetoslav Ivanovich. [[B in m in s a l in]] Ladies and gentlemen. I'll bet you vote number 3673. Please support and vote. [[11:59:02]] For 175 The decision is not taken. There's a break until 12:30.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-18-m0.u71	Dear colleagues, take your seats, get ready to work. A statement came from two factions replacing the performance. The word is given to Lubinz Dmitry Valeriovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-18-m0.u72	Honorable Presidium, distinguished national MPs! I want you to listen very carefully to what happened yesterday at the Human Rights Committee. I want to show you the attitude of the State Judicial Administration to the Ukrainian Parliament. Yesterday we invited the head of the State Judicial Administration to our meeting. We wanted to ask why the Electronic Court has only been running in a test mode for two years now; why the trial participants are not reporting their meetings in a timely manner; why the cases are only being accumulated in the courts and their proceedings are being carried forward for a few months; why the Coronavirus pandemic is unable to provide the format of the videoconferences. And, most importantly, why does the State Court Administration keep asking Parliament for additional funding. And they asked us to allocate more than a billion dollars, but no one is responsible in any way. I want you all to know that at our committee meeting yesterday, the only person who was involved is the advisor to the head of the State Judicial Administration, who works on public principles. Similarly, I would like to inform all of you that this person is not simply a criminalized person, but that NABU has informed him of articles 191 and 366 of the Ukrainian Criminal Code. This attitude towards the Ukrainian Parliament, this attitude towards all of us. They only come here at extra cost. I am now addressing the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I demand that I be the answer from Parliament. I want this to be addressed by a separate budget committee, because you're going to be looking at the extra allocation of over a billion dollars for their activities. I want you to know that the materials that we've analyzed account for a month's wages, premiums, they're supposed to be overworked, and people in the regions get minimum wages. The entire judicial system was rotten, but first it showed its attitude, this rot, the attitude towards the parliamentary committee meeting. We went to the President of Ukraine, to the Minfin, to the Court of Auditors, to the Supreme Council of Justice, to immediately start disciplinary action, to remove the administration of the State Court of Justice from their positions. Assigning others to order urgently what is happening at the Ukrainian State Judicial Administration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-18-m0.u73	Thank you, Dmitri Valeriovich. I think it should be different from any organ in terms of national MPs, let's call it that. And I think the committees will take that into account, and the budget committee, which you've also addressed. Thank you. Dear colleagues, please prepare for work. We're going to need a few votes. Please invite the national deputies to the hall. I had a discussion with all the MP factions and groups. They all made a proposal for immediate consideration of Bill 3669. This is a draft of the Law on Amendments to Certain Ukrainian Laws on Certain Issues of Completion in 2019 - 2020 of the academic year. Consider this question today. Why? Because if this law is not adopted and does not enter into force by June 30, it will not work. First of all, I would like this proposal to be supported by a hall for consideration today. And then we're going to go through all the procedures that are necessary: we're going to put the agenda into the agenda, we're going to apply the ad hoc procedure, and we're going to go through it. Is there no objection? Please prepare for the vote. This position was agreed upon by all the MPs and groups. Ready? I am voting on the proposal that was made by the MPs and groups to consider this bill, registration number 3669, at today's plenary session. Ready to vote? Ready? Please support and vote. [[12:43:50]] For 296 Decision taken. I am voting on the proposal to include this bill in the agenda of the day. Please support and vote. [[12:44:17]] For-300 Decision taken. It is suggested that this issue be considered under the ad hoc procedure and decided on its consideration at this plenary session, as well as on the decision-making process. Please support and vote. [[12:44:46]] For 303 Decision taken. It is suggested that this issue be considered in a simplified manner. Please support and vote. [[12:45:09]] For 282 Decision taken. The report is given to the National Deputy of Ukraine, Representative of the President of Ukraine to the Supreme Council of Ukraine Stefanchuk Ruslan Alexiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-18-m0.u74	Dear Mr. Head, my fellow Members, your opinion is proposed for consideration by the President of Ukraine and defined as urgent by him, the draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine on specific issues of completion 2019-2020 of the academic year (registration number 3669). The law, inter alia, has been adopted in accordance with the Ukrainian Law on Amendments to certain legislative acts of Ukraine aimed at providing additional social and economic guarantees in connection with the spread of coronary disease (COVID-19), which removes the obligation from the Cabinet of Ministers to decide on the duration of the academic year, instead of allowing it to regulate the issue depending on the condition of disease and the spread of the COPID-19. In addition, it is proposed to abolish the peremptory norm for public summary attestation (DPA) in the completion of full general secondary education in the 2019-2020 school year. Such a proposal is based on the active phase of the disease that has taken place today and is aimed at ensuring and minimizing the risk of an increased disease. Instead, the project provides that the listed category of education recipients will have the right to undergo state-owned summary appraisals, including external independent evaluation, only at their own request. Once again, the initiative proposed by the President of Ukraine is not in any way aimed at distinguishing the TNP from the TNP, but merely foresees the possibility for willing students to make their own decisions regarding the conduct of state-owned summary attestation in the form of external independent evaluation. The WCO remains the main possibility of entering higher education institutions. Therefore, I would like to support the legislative initiative of the President of Ukraine and to adopt a bill to amend certain Ukrainian laws on specific issues concerning the completion of the 2019-2020 academic year (registration number 3669) as a basis and as a whole. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-18-m0.u75	The chairman of the Committee on Education, Science, and Innovation, Babak Sergey Vitaliyovich, is invited to comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-18-m0.u76	Good afternoon, dear fellows! The bill proposes to amend the Ukrainian Education Act on the right of the Cabinet of Ministers to determine the date of commencement or completion of the relevant school year in quarantine, as well as to amend the Ukrainian Law on Amendments to certain legislative acts of Ukraine aimed at providing additional social and economic guarantees in relation to the spread of coronary disease (COVID-19), which free education recipients who complete full secondary education in the 2019-2020 academic year from the passing of national summary certification and grant them the right to undergo national summary testing, including in the form of external independent evaluation, at their own request. Taking into account the epidemiological situation in Ukraine and with a view to minimizing the risk of disease on coronary disease COVID-19, when assessing the results of learning from students and students who are improving the achievement of full general secondary education, the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Education, Science and Innovation adopted a decision on the adoption of the draft Ukrainian Law amending certain laws of Ukraine on specific issues of the completion of the 2019-2020 academic year submitted by the President of Ukraine, on the basis and as a whole as a law. Thank you, colleagues. And I'm asking for your support, because this needs to be done at this plenary week in order for us to be able to start this procedure. Then it just won't work. Thank you very much for your support.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-18-m0.u77	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, please sign two for two, two against. Sanchenko Alexander Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-18-m0.u78	I'd like to give you my word.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-18-m0.u79	Grizzly Roman.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-18-m0.u80	Dear colleagues, good afternoon! I'm going to try to explain as much as possible what this bill is about so that there's no manipulation of the COO cancelling. Let me give you an example. Let's say there are three graduates behind me, not speakers and vice-speakers of Parliament, but three graduates this year. If we accept this bill, what happens? They're all getting rid of the state's summary attestation, and they're getting the tests that we welcome them with. Next, what are the choices. Ruslan Alexiyovich Stefanchuk does not plan to enter a higher education facility after obtaining his degree. All right, he's fired, he may not be a COD. Dmitry Alexanderovich plans to enter a higher education facility, he goes to and builds a KNW, and he joins the university. Helen Konstantinovna also plans to join the WHO in Ukraine. It goes and folds it so cool that the DPA, which in the form of a ZNO, can improve the average ball of its attestation. She comes in and says, change my math, do it instead of getting rid of the DPA, put these results in. All of it. Everybody wins. Why do we accept this bill? To reduce by a third the number of people who make up external independent evaluation and thus provide for our children. We have to vote in favour of this bill on the basis and in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-18-m0.u81	Roman Pavlovich, let's not shorten the presidency, let it be in the warehouse that it is.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-18-m0.u82	I'm the only one with a right to a lineup. You said for a third, if you look at it like that, a little bit more than a third.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-18-m0.u83	Constanceevich Irina Miroslavovna
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-18-m0.u84	Dear colleagues, I ask you to listen to the voice of society: parents, students, teachers. Because the TNP and the form proposed in the bill are exactly what society demanded. And that's why this bill needs to be supported. This time. That's exactly what our fellow national deputies at the Conciliation Council were talking about, that's what our parliamentary group "For the Future" and many others were asking. So this bill is in time. Although he really needed to be approved a month ago. So if we work for people, this bill has to be supported. That's why the Group "For the Future" will vote in favour of this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-18-m0.u85	Stephanie Olga Anatolyevna.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-18-m0.u86	Please pass the word to Natalia Pipi.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-18-m0.u87	Pippa Natalia Romanovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-18-m0.u88	Dear Ukrainians, dear colleagues! The Voice faction, 115th District, Lviv. It will be, and it is good news. The good news is that only those who enter higher education institutions will be able to attend the UN. The bad news is that teachers and principals are going to have a lot of problems with adjectives, and there's going to be a lot of misunderstandings about the process. We offered another version of how to make this easier so that there was no chaos. It was designed to make it mandatory this year for those who enter higher education institutions but to cancel the midterm for the test. Because this year we have a challenge -- remote education, not every school has a good time. We will have a very unrealistic year and, in principle, a lower knowledge of our graduates than in general. So we would suggest that we make a decision to do better. But in general, the idea of good, the realization of bad, we're going to figure out how to support it. But first of all, we're going to make a decision today that will determine the fate of the graduates, because they call the masses from teachers and directors who are waiting for our decision today. I very much believe that the epidemiological situation will help us, and June 25th will begin. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-18-m0.u89	Kirilenko Ivan Grigorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-18-m0.u90	Dear colleagues! Ivan Kirilenko, "Fatherland" faction. What I'm saying is that the question that's being addressed right now is not going to be left in our hands and will not remain in the hands of the President, nor will it remain in the hands of higher education institutions or high schools. It will remain in the hands of Light and its agents, and the Cabinet of Ministers. God forbid, the threshold, we've got about 40 by 100,000 now, if, God forbid, it gets to 60, it'll all be canceled. All of it. And so in order to save the end of the academic year, the introductory campaign, the KNZ, and so on, the fate of more than 300,000 children, including family members, parents, teachers, is being decided right now, and we don't waste our time. Therefore, friends, we must vote unanimously for both the first and the second readings. We can see he's a little bit. It could have been easier to write, more clearly, but it's already going to reach the Ministry in the form of instructions, meetings, consultations, press conferences, clarifications -- what we call explanatory work. We need to vote now. Health issues are largely addressed. At the committee meeting yesterday, arrangements were presented that would be used to enable children to give in to the UNV, to complete a peaceful teaching year, and to enter the higher educational institutions of Ukraine. Guys, let's support this. Yes, indeed, we should have done so earlier. But who worked under such force majeure conditions? It's hard today. We need to help resolve this subject. And don’t let God make it grow for us. Let's vote yes!
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-18-m0.u91	Dear colleagues, let's go to the vote. Who else? Heratchenka - with motive, a minute, be kind. And then we go to the vote for the law, invite the national MPs to the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-18-m0.u92	Dear Ukrainians! If the president and the majority were to make DPA and ZNO this year, they would probably get an unsatisfying assessment. Because he hasn't been in the country for a long time. Teachers in very difficult circumstances have been able to organize distance training quickly enough. They expected a majority of them, legally expected this authority to give them a quarantine within four months, some sort of orientation, that children who are graduating from exams, from the DPA, and so on. And we see that today, on June 18, when the exams were long overdue, only now does the majority approach the issue. In the government there is still no minister, and those who are being pushed would have been better off immediately without any, you know, previous results there. And we're actually going to support teachers and children on this issue. But you all have a big couple because you're deciding all the questions on the last day.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-18-m0.u93	Shahov Sergei Volodymyrovich. Then we go to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-18-m0.u94	Sergey Shahov, Luhanščina, Deputy Group "Trust". We will certainly support this bill. We have to support young people, we have to support teachers. And not just the teaching bills, but the money would like to support the teachers and give them a bonus for putting up with Parliament and power in general today. So today, we can give those who have already learned a chance to work, but would like to work again, not abroad, for our children to go, but to work in our country and to fill the Ukrainian budget. And to those who will do so today, God allows them to do what is normal, to study without fail, and to bring our nation to order. Thank you. Sergey Shahov, trust MP.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-18-m0.u95	All those who wish to speak? Lukashev? Wasn't there an OPCW? No, it's not. Please turn on Lukashev's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-18-m0.u96	Thank you. Lukashev Alexander. The Opposition Platform for Life faction will support this bill because it contains two important guarantees. Taking into account the current epidemiological situation, all conditions are created to ensure the health of high school graduates. And secondly, by giving high school graduates the right to make a state-level summary appraisal in the form of external independent evaluation, we guarantee the principle of equal access to higher education. That's why we support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-18-m0.u97	Thank you. Dear colleagues, let's go to the vote. Please take your seats, prepare for the vote. Ready to vote? Dear colleagues, this bill is voted on as a whole. Is there no objection? I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian laws on specific issues for the completion of the 2019-2020 academic year (registration number 3669). Please support and vote. [[13:00:40]] For three hundred Decision taken. Dear colleagues, the next vote is in general. I am voting on the proposal for adoption in general with the necessary technical and legal regulations of the draft Law amending certain Ukrainian laws on specific issues for the completion of the 2019-2020 academic year (registration number 3669). Please support and vote. [[13:01:24]] For three hundred Decision taken.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-18-m0.u98	Dear colleagues, if we are so unanimous, there is a proposal to put an order to the Head of the Supreme Council to sign this law without delay and to send it to the President of Ukraine for signature. Dear colleagues, will there be no objection? Then I propose that the Head of the Supreme Council be given immediate signature of the law. An immediate signature, yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-18-m0.u99	No one's going to make a decision? Right? I'm betting on the vote on the proposal by Ruslan Alexiyovich Stefanchuk. Please support and vote. [[13:02:30.]] For 358 Who's holding up? Show me the factions, please. Thank you. Arahami is a procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-18-m0.u100	Dear colleagues, I have an offer, taking into account that we have a little bit of time there, to prioritize and to put Law 3509 on the table a little earlier. If there's no objection, let's put it to a vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-18-m0.u101	There was a proposal for a change in the order of the day. It is now proposed to consider question 3509, this is the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine 2020. Is there no objection? I'll bet you a vote on the above-mentioned proposal. Please support and vote. [[13:03:44]] For 307 Decision taken. Let's move on to registration number 3509, this is the draft law amending the Ukrainian Law on the Ukrainian State Budget for 2020. At the rostrum is the deputy head of the Committee on Budget Affairs, Truhin Alexander Mikolayovich. Would you please tell me who's going to insist on what they're doing? Oh, no? Vasilchenko. Nobody else? Galina Ivanovna, what correction do you insist on? 25 lacquers. And we can go to the vote after that, right? 25 lashes, Vasilchenko. Then we vote. Don't go away, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-18-m0.u102	Thank you very much. Galina Vasilchenko, Voice faction. In fact, my amendment is to help those who really need it now and, in particular, suffer from a pandemic and severe quarantine. It's about small and medium-sized businesses. In particular, I passed an appropriate alternative bill. But since we then accepted the basic in the first reading, I am very grateful to support this amendment. And in general, I hope there will be enough votes in the room, including the majority representatives, who always say they're on the side of small and medium-sized business. So let us really do this in our own business, not simply in empty words. I will be very grateful for the support of this arrangement.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-18-m0.u103	I'm betting on the vote number 25 Vasilchenko. It's rejected by the committee. Please identify and vote. [[13:05:49]] For-123 The decision is not taken. Natalia Yuryovna, you certainly are. One correction. The 26th Amendment, the Royal, rejected by the Committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-18-m0.u104	Dear colleagues, when we passed the Anti-Coronavirus Act, you and I introduced a standard to increase the wages of health workers to 300 percent and social workers who are directly serving people at home and are also in danger of being sick today. Unfortunately, this day, social workers do not receive any benefits today. And that question is, unfortunately, silent. And the government has made such a unique decision to put these payments on local budgets. Well, reverends, local budgets, they're not disproportionate, and they can't handle it today. So in this work, I'm clarifying to allow people who provide social services directly to their homes or to their recipients. I'd like to support you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-18-m0.u105	I'll bet you 26 votes. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[13:07:23]] For-92 The decision is not taken. Did all the paperwork go through? No, it's not. Yvchenko, the last amendment. What's the number? Dear colleagues, just let us do it the next time we arrange to have you. Everyone heard, yes, that's what we agreed on. What's the correction, Vadim Evgenovich?
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-18-m0.u106	Vadim Ivchenko, Fatherland. Colleagues, I wanted to say that as a faction we made our proposal that these funds should also be distributed to the rural FAPs, to the rural infirmary. And I thank the Committee on Budgets for supporting this proposal. That is why I do not want my amendment to be voted on, but I would like to say that we certainly support the proposal that is being put forward today. The relevant FAPs and appropriate ambulances will be able to apply for funds for the purchase of appropriate equipment or for capital repairs. Colleagues, that's good. This is the availability of health care in rural areas. And I thank you for finally voting on this law and using the funds for the assignment, including the treatment of SOVID. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-18-m0.u107	Let's go to the vote. I'll bet you a vote. Have a seat, please. I am voting on the proposal to adopt a second reading and, in general, with the necessary technical and legal regulations, the draft Law amending the Ukrainian Law on the State Budget for 2020 (Registration No. 3509). Ready to vote? Everybody ready? Please support and vote. [[13:09:19]] For 331 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Hello! The next question of the agenda is a set of questions, honourable colleagues. These are three bills. No discussion? These are three bills, registration numbers 3612, 2182, and 3177, which are related to one another. We will consider them in full procedure, but all three questions at the same time. We're going to vote separately because they're not alternatives. Honorary colleagues are invited to the floor for a report under the bill (registration number 3612), draft Law on Peoples of the Peoples of the All-Ukrainian Referendum, Representative of the President of Ukraine to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Ruslan Alexiyovich Stefanchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-18-m0.u108	The Constitution of Ukraine defines the people as bearing sovereignty and the only source of authority in Ukraine. The will of the Ukrainian people, expressed in an all - Ukrainian referendum on December 1, 1991, confirmed the Declaration of Independence Act and approved Ukraine as an independent, independent and sovereign state. Since then, unfortunately, the will of the Ukrainian people has never been taken into account in addressing the key issues of domestic and foreign policy. Ukrainian President Vladimir Zelensky has repeatedly stressed the priority of standardizing legislative issues affecting the peoples of the government. That is why the Head of State was brought to Parliament and defined as an immediate draft of the Ukrainian Peoples' Law through the U.S. referendum (registration number 3612). The situation that exists today is that, unfortunately, after being declared unconstitutional in 2018, Ukraine's "On the All-Ukrainian Referendum" Act, the people of Ukraine have no legal capacity to exercise the right of peoples by means of an all-Ukrainian referendum. It was in this connection that a working group was formed, which openly prepared a bill on the peoples of the country through a referendum. First of all, four major elements of the U.S. referendum were identified. They are referred to as the approval of the Act amending Chapters I, III and XI of the Constitution of Ukraine. Next. The question of state importance. Next. The question of a change in Ukraine’s territory is a constitutional norm provided for in article 73 of the Constitution. And the issue of the loss of validity by the law of Ukraine or its separate positions. At the same time, in order to stop all the manipulations that have been streaming from our television screens for a long time, we have worked on four major safety nets in the working group to prevent any manipulations, variations in Ukraine's territory. In particular, we have indicated in the bill that is in conflict. cannot be the subject of an all-Ukrainian referendum which is contrary to the provisions of the Constitution of Ukraine, the universal principles and norms of international law, as enshrined primarily by the general declaration of human rights, the Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms and the Protocols thereto. Nor can they be addressed, and this is very important in the context of the referendum subject, issues aimed at eliminating Ukraine's independence, violating Ukraine's national sovereignty and territorial integrity, creating threats to Ukraine's national security, fuelling ethnic and racial and religious hostility. Nor can the question of tax bills, budgets, amnestys be referred to the referendum, as well as the constitutional rule provided for in article 74 of the Constitution of Ukraine. And questions cannot be raised that are referred to by the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine to the knowledge of the law enforcement, the prosecution or the court. This means that we can't appoint the guilty, set the terms, and so on and so forth. In addition, we've identified in this project that there can only be one question for the referendum in order to avoid competition issues that may not find unanimity support. In addition, the law clearly defines the stage of the nationwide referendum. The first stage is the citizens' assembly of at least 300 voters. And most of all, what can be resolved in the congregations is the formulation of the issue of an all-U.S. referendum, and the creation of an initial group of 60 voters, and one group can be created. Step two. This is also provided for by the Constitution of Ukraine, the need for a collection of 3 million signatures. These signatures will be collected in two thirds of the administrative and territorial units provided for by 133 articles of the Constitution by 100,000 signatures in each of them in paper or electronic form. In doing so, both a paper and an electronic commission are created. And step three. The President is obliged to issue a decree proclaiming an all-U.S. referendum on the last week of the 60-day period from the date of the decree. In doing so, the law provides for the possibility of halting the referendum if constitutional guidance is opened on the constitutionality of the issue of an all-U.S. referendum prior to the approval by the Constitutional Court of Ukraine. That is, there is another precaution when it is possible to refer to the Constitutional Court on the constitutionality of the issue raised in the U.S. referendum. What else benefits from the difference in the law? It consists of 80 percent of the procedures and is consistent with both the Central Electoral Commission and civil society with the involvement of scientists. In addition, there is another difference in the bill that we have abandoned the question of consultative referendums. The referendum is an extremely valuable thing, and it must be held only when it is really necessary to determine the strategic direction of the development of the state. Furthermore, the law provides for the duty of referendums, i.e. that any referendum has legal consequences and produces them both for the President of Ukraine and for the Supreme Council of Ukraine. In addition, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that, perhaps in the preparation of this bill, the highest level of openness and communication with civil society has been demonstrated. Because we've been preparing it for almost a year, we've been working with leading scientific institutions, with the public sector, with our international experts. In addition, the bill was presented for an all - Ukrainian and international discussion, which was translated from English into English. Then we received a series of positive reviews from the National Academy of Sciences, the National Academy of Legal Sciences. We also received support from international organizations, such as IFES, which is responsible for international elections, the Swiss Confederation, and the election institutions. Why were they consulted? Because the experience of holding referendums in the Swiss Confederation is probably the greatest in the world. Moreover, even after the amendments, the text of the law was further directed at reaching a conclusion on the part of the Venice Commission. Therefore, Your Honourable Fellow Members, we present this bill for your consideration. And we realize that there may be discussions on some issues. Very many problems, parliamentary myths have already been removed by this point. But I ask you to support it on the basis and then continue the discussion. Because it's extremely important for all of us, and it's a priority for us to finally have article 5 of the Constitution of Ukraine, article 38 of the Ukrainian Constitution, which guarantees that the people of Ukraine, as a higher authority, as well as the possibility of joining in the management of state affairs through a referendum, eventually worked in Ukraine. So I ask you to support and vote on the basis of this bill and to contribute constructively to the further improvement of its provisions. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-18-m0.u109	Thank you. Will there be questions for the reporter? Please sign up for questions. It's three minutes, one minute to question. Arjev Vladimir Igorovich
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-18-m0.u110	Ruslan Knazevitch, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-18-m0.u111	Knyazevich Ruslan Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-18-m0.u112	Ruslan Alexiyovich, I have two short questions. First of all, please explain what an administrative-territorial unit is, because I don't understand what that is. There is no such concept in the Constitution. And there's this notion of an administrative-territorial system that includes areas like Crimea, Kiev, Sevastopol, cities, districts, urban areas, villages and villages. Is that what you're talking about? Because if you've read the Constitution, there's two-thirds of the area of Ukraine -- that's a clear norm of that chapter that can't be changed at all, except as a referendum, as you suggest. Dear fellow Members, let us now see how unconstitutional candor is felt even if we clean up at the first stage, not to embarrass ourselves or anyone who listens to us. And the second. Ruslan Alexiyovich, the legislative referendum, in fact, you're proposing, in terms of the possibility of being recognized as having lost the validity of Ukraine's laws. You know, and the position of the Constitutional Court, the Venice Commission, only the Constitutional Court in a series of decisions made it clear that it is strictly forbidden, it is contrary to the Constitution, to replace Parliament with a referendum. There can be no two legislative bodies in the country. This is expressly prohibited by the Constitution of Ukraine. Why are we here?
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-18-m0.u113	Thank you. Dear Ruslan Petrovich, yes, you're absolutely right, the Constitution has the concept of "area" that you've been talking about. At the same time, when we examine the question of how the Constitution of Ukraine was worked out, article 72 was written before article 133 was written, which clearly defines the individual subject as the Autonomous Republic of Crimea. That's the first one. Secondly, the perception of this position that you're talking about puts the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, the city of Kiev and Sevastopol in unequal conditions compared to other areas. That is why this proposal was proposed by the President of Ukraine because he strongly believes that especially in today's period of discrimination against Crimea, Donbas and other things that are Ukraine are unacceptable. But if you have your own offer, we will certainly discuss it. Second, with regard to legislative issues related to the structure of the law. Exceptional repeals are proposed and non-admissions are proposed. So I wouldn't be exaggerating here, because the canceling function is actually one of the issues.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-18-m0.u114	Any more questions? Now, one minute. Cimbaluk Mikhailovich. Alona Ivanovna's starch.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-18-m0.u115	Alona's splinter, Fatherland faction. Dear colleagues, Your Honor, Ruslan Alexiyovich! Thank you for introducing this bill. And I would like to thank President Zelenski for finally fulfilling his first election promise. He promised to submit the bill first, and he'd have it, probably, by 171 in a year. But it's good anyway. I have two short questions for you. First. The Fatherland fulfilled President Zelensky's pre-election promise in September last year when we passed our own quality bill on the U.S. referendum. Unfortunately, since then he has not been seen in this room, he will be considered today. But why is President Zelensky's bill not an alternative to our bill on the U.S. referendum? It's wrong, it's manipulation, it's a violation. And the second short question. Yesterday the Anti-Corruption Committee, unfortunately, was unable to gather a quorum from this issue, so I understand that some of the "ministers of the people" did not come. But he noted that there are observations and potential corruption risks in this bill. Do you know about this? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-18-m0.u116	Thank you. As far as making promises is concerned, I'll do it again. I just answered those questions to you yesterday on the committee, I'll answer you now. With regard to the fulfillment of promises. It is in the hands of the peoples that the President introduces the bill on the peoples of the country through a referendum. The other one. As for the questions you asked, why right now, not later. It's probably politics when you do that early -- they tell you, not when you're doing it late -- they tell you why. The main thing is that I have a collection of unfulfilled, dead promises of thousands of years of politicians who have worked here. And the last. With regard to the findings of the Anti-Corruption Committee. Yes, of course, he didn't meet yesterday, there's no conclusion. But after that bill you tabled, your faction, the conclusion is that your bill contains anti-corruption risks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-18-m0.u117	Thank you, Ruslan Alexiovich. Please have a seat. Have a seat, please. The National Deputy of Ukraine, Timoshenko, Ulya Volodymyrna, is invited to present Bill 2182. Julia Volodymyrna.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-18-m0.u118	Dear colleagues, I think the whole country remembers the brilliant victory of the incumbent president in the election. It really was a brilliant victory. And I think that Mr. Zelensky's presidential program has been carefully read by the whole country. I can tell you that as your opponents, we also read it very carefully. And I was very pleased that President Zelensky's program started with very important words. He said that no decision could be made in the country, no law could be adopted unless the people had given it their "good." And then he wrote in his program that the first law that he would introduce to the Supreme Council would be the People's Law, where, through a referendum, everyone would decide without exception before he would take a decision, or before the Supreme Council would vote. And you know, actually, our team went to power elections with similar things. And I think maybe that's the only thing that needs to be done in the country is to listen to people and give them the right not to be on the sidelines of government, not those who are used in every election campaign, and when it's over, they just forget about people. And you and I have an intellectual nation with you, an intellectual nation, and if we were able to join people in running the country, it would be such a unique potential that would allow Ukraine to rise. Now I have a few questions. Question number one. Why did the President of Ukraine, who promised the first law to submit to Parliament about the peoples of the country, where everything is decided by referendum, not do so? Why were hundreds of laws passed in Parliament and the Law on Referendums, about the peoples of the first year? I'll give you the answer to that question. Because, unfortunately, through the President of Ukraine, through Parliament, each of the last three governments has passed bills, decisions that have nothing to do with people's interests or with the national interests of Ukraine, or with our present and future, or with our potential prosperity, they have nothing to do with it. Because one of the most important problems is what to do with our resources, our agricultural land, our national monopolies, our strategic property. This is actually what makes up everything we have with you, the people of Ukraine. So why, without any referendums, knowing exactly that 70 percent of society against the sale of agricultural land, 70 percent of society against the sale of strategic state monopolies, that people do not exactly support the Act on the Playing Business, exactly people do not support the Law on the Legalization of marijuana, please tell us why the President, knowing that people against it, understanding exactly that he is acting against the interests of the State and the people, without a referendum, he was conducting these questions. Because he had other clients to make such decisions. And he broke and crushed the Ukrainian state, depriving it of its sovereignty by every bill imposed on him by puppets on the outside, and he continues to do so without any referendums. And you know, it hurts that he's doing it consciously and painfully, that people see a stop -- the axes, the pictures are beautiful, and behind the scenes is the end of national interests and the destruction of the present and the future state. And now I can give you the answer why there was still no referendum law in the country. Because he prevented the President of Ukraine from conducting foreign interests through Parliament, through the government, through his signatures of laws. Because the referendum would definitely not approve of 90 percent of what he's doing today. Otherwise, during the night of quarantine, if humans were unable to gather and defend themselves, they would not have passed the Agricultural Land Sales Law. If he had served people and listened to people and wanted referendums. And that's why today we understand exactly why there was no referendum law and why we, as the "Paternity Party", have repeatedly submitted the Referendum Act, the bill, been constantly returned from the profile committee of this referendum bill to us because no one needed it. And today, when almost everything has been passed on to foreign supervisory boards, when the Land and State Property Sales Act has already been passed, when a memorandum has already been adopted with the International Monetary Fund, which is incompatible with the sovereignty of Ukraine, a bill is now being passed, if it is to hold referendums. And I want to remind you that you already had a promise in your program to give people the right to promise those laws that have been passed in Parliament, but people don't like it. You've already gone to the parliamentary elections to make promises to the people. So tell me, how can you and we, even after the year of President Zelensky's reign, miss a bill that is now being proposed to us, in which no people will be able to hold a referendum? You sit down and read this bill on the referendum that is now being proposed to you, with a pencil, and count whether average citizens will be able to simply do the bureaucratic procedures that are prescribed there and whether they will be able to initiate at least one referendum. You see that there's a Central Election Commission essentially converted into a Damocle sword over its constitutional powers to no referendum by the hands of the CBC (Central Electoral Commission) Don't miss it. And tell me, can you skip the situation where we're here with you every week adopting dozens of laws, and people who have just been offered this law are entitled to apply the veto once a year, once a year, and because of procedures that are insurmountable to humans? You know, a lot of people believe that you, the "ministers of the people," have come to actually do your programs. People had hoped for young new people who would not meet double standards that would not say black or white, which would not, in imitation of the ministry, actually work against people. I want to remind you of this mission. And if today we are discussing such a complex question as a referendum on a national initiative and as a national veto on laws, let us not be deceiving or imposing people under a law that will not work for them. One veto referendum per year. Is that the people of the land? It's a lie. And that's why I want to continue with the Ukrainian people to believe that in this Supreme Council there is no deception, no humiliation, no deprivation of people's last rights, not even those that are prescribed in the Constitution, but that we will actually all work together and make the Law on Referendum and Veto for those laws that Parliament has adopted, those that will be accessible to people and that will finally enable people to participate in the administration of their state. Then it'll be fair. And that's why our team introduced the referendum bill, which may also be imperfect, maybe it's not as beautiful as people would like, but let's all work together to really give people the right to referendum, veto laws that they don't like, and to make people feel that they haven't been missed at least once in all these years, as all the previous presidents who were in our country did. And I believe that it is the "Serial of the People" faction, understanding all the importance of the People's Landing Act, that will protect this procedure from being real. And let's do it once and for all. But not all, but for the people. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-18-m0.u119	Julia Volodymyrna, question to the reporter. Please sign up for a question to the reporter. It's three minutes, one minute, one minute, one minute, answers. You're an outcast.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-18-m0.u120	Haircut.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-18-m0.u121	Vlasenko Sergei Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-18-m0.u122	Thank you, Your Honor Mr. Head, Your Honor Julia Volodymyrical. Between your bill and the President's bill, there are a number of conceptual differences, conceptual differences. Well, let's say there's only one question in the Presidential Bill. You don't have that limit in the law. In doing so, if we're going to touch on the question that you've raised about the referendum, about the land, and if we have to ask the Ukrainian people three questions, first of all, whether we have to sell agricultural land; whether we can sell it to foreigners and sell it to legal persons, we need to hold three referendums under the President's Bill, not one under these failed procedures. Do you not think that this limitation of human rights has no bearing on the peoples of the world, has nothing to do with the real will of the people? I would like to emphasize once again, fortunately, your bill does not have such a restriction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-18-m0.u123	I certainly knew that Sergey Vlasenko would ask me a difficult question, and it would be difficult for me to answer it. I can say that we really need to correct the law that comes in the first reading. And we need to do that by saving people's time and government funds, we have had the opportunity to ask both two, three, and ten questions, the main thing being constitutional. You know, the more we give people power, the more we give people the right to influence our decisions, the better the country lives. Maybe we don't like people's thoughts. But democracy, even if it's imperfect, it predicts that people have the opportunity to say their word. You know, there are countries where 200 referenda a year are held, and these are the richest countries in the world. Let us work honestly on this law and correct these inadequacies, which limit people’s right to express their will.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-18-m0.u124	Cimbaluk Mikhailovich. Yet I do not think such difficult questions should be asked, my dear.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-18-m0.u125	Mikhailo Cimbaluk, Fatherland. Dear Julia Volodymyrno, I have two questions for you. First. You think your bill was filed last September and the president just did. Under the Rules, shouldn't the President's alternative be yours? And the next question. The Presidential Bill proposes an electronic vote in a referendum. Do you think that after the UNV is unable to conduct the vote today, will Ukraine's citizens be able to express the quality of their expression in a referendum through an electronic voting system? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-18-m0.u126	Thank you. Well, I'm glad that, in principle, no other factions have questions about me, that is, everything is clear and agreeing with everything. Only my faction is still fighting. Well, I can tell you, dear friends, that electronic voting and all electronic procedures in general are certainly the present and future of the world, that is true. But at the same time, we need to write a law so that people don't have any suspicion of how these voting results fail. That's the question. And today, there are a lot of people who have a fair mistrust in the electronic counting of votes in elections, in the electronic counting of votes in referendums. And that's why we need to think more about people's confidence in the results of this vote than anything else. There is no doubt that it is possible to organize electronic voting both in referendum and in elections. But at the same time, if there's a professional sitting here in this area, you know, there's not much technology to protect from outside interference.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-18-m0.u127	No, Julia Volodymyrically. Thank you. Julius Volodymyr, time's up. Dear colleagues, the National Deputy of Ukraine, Germano Vasil Ivanovich, is invited to present the draft Law on the All-Ukrainian and Local Referendums of the National Initiative (registration number 3177).
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-18-m0.u128	Good afternoon, dear colleagues. Good day, people of Ukraine. I think it's a historic event today, when there's been an attempt to restore power to the people, to restore the right to govern state affairs and to participate in referendums and other forms of democracy in Ukraine. Unfortunately, I want to bring your time back to the early days of the fifth century B.C. when the question and the concept of democracy began in Athens. People, communities, and communities ruled in Athens, but they humiliated and left opportunities for participation in the administration of foreign affairs, slaves, and women. And today, we are going to Ukraine to have only foreigners and their agents who are established in Ukraine and placed in the institutions of power, including legislative, executive and judicial. In this we see trouble. And the people must say their word on this matter. But unfortunately, starting in the tenth year, all the rules and laws that gave permission to manage state affairs have been violated. You know that the 1991 Law on the All-U.S. Referendum, which was repealed, the Local Referendum Act, was repealed. And we worked for almost a decade and a half and had no mechanisms to ensure the will of the people of Ukraine. The last law adopted regarding referendums has also been repealed. Also cancelled on procedural grounds. And that's why we're essentially on today's "we have what we have," as the great philosopher said, a politician on this issue. And what we have is that, in fact, the people of Ukraine are, unfortunately, removed from the realization of their natural constitutionally established standards. Let us see what article 69 says, as stated in article 38, and on what basis we cannot guarantee citizens the right to manage public affairs. Of course, it's a disgraceful phenomenon. Moreover, it is pointed out that the people are taking part in referendums by means of this way of implementing democratic institutions. I'd like to draw your attention to the fact that the bill that we're proposing is called "Referendations at the People's Initiative, the All-Ukrainian Referendum and the Local Referendum." Once again, I focus on the people's initiative when people decide, in accordance with article 5 of the Constitution, as the only source of authority to solve any issue. I repeat, any question, except. I'm sorry. Except as defined in the Constitution, it is unacceptable to adopt laws. Once again, I stress that the Presidential Bill prohibits people from adopting, reviewing and enacting laws. And the Constitution says you can accept anything except tax bills, amnesty bills, and budget bills. So, tell me, does the Constitution provide for the right of people to adopt laws? And that's why our bill provides for the possibility of, first, a referendum such as a legislative referendum. What's in it? The adoption and repeal of laws in full or in part, including the adoption of the Constitution of Ukraine. I want to go back to history and say that for those apologists who consider it unacceptable to adopt laws or the Constitution by the people and the inability of the people to adopt such laws, I want to go back to Egypt, which in the course of the fighting, I repeat, civil opposition, civil opposition, they adopted the Constitution in a popular referendum. What are we supposed to It's not the people who don't want it, it's not the authority that's in the territory of this bill that's been proposed to you. In addition to the legislative referendums, we certainly believe and ask for your support in the bill to support the consensus referendum. What Is a Conciliation Referendum? This is the everyday activity of our society, the authorities, and when it comes to holding a consensus council from the people, the people must accept an act of national will. What are we talking about? We also suggest that if you read the articles, we specifically indicate that it is only through the people’s agreement that the issue of sales, the realisation of these beneficial fossils and land, including agricultural land, may be involved. To whom it is not yet clear that the national wealth defined in the Constitution in article 14 cannot be applied only once is the land of the people, and we cannot resolve matters without will and without agreement with the owner of this land. Of course, such questions should be referred to a referendum. Unfortunately, we don't see that in the Presidential Bill. There's nothing in this direction in general like the motivation of consent because of will. And the last thing we're offering. In fact, we agree that there is no need to publish and hold advisory referendums at all. Although not including us for consideration, experts and a professional committee referred earlier to the fact that there was no need for advisory referendums. And we don't have them, and we don't need them. Whom should the people consult? This should be consulted by the authorities with the people. And the people are the source of power. So what are we talking about? And the third group of exclusive issues that are referred to in the referendum, we consider this to be a question of a follow-up referendum. We are beaten for suggesting at the referendum level that we ask questions of mistrust on the part of the people of the Supreme Council, of mistrust in the Cabinet of Ministers, and of mistrust at the level of local authorities. Because our bill provides for referendums at the initiative of the people, both at the national and local levels. I'm talking about the people of our opponents who think the people can't solve the issue of distrust and termination of the Supreme Council. I would like to refer you back to an article in the Constitution that clearly states that the President may in three cases cease the activities of the Supreme Council. Including we have a mistrust of the Cabinet of Ministers, and that's in the Constitution, 116th. Why can't we put it in the bill? And we're asking you to support our bill. Is there such a thing as chastity? Of course there is. But basically this is a bill that will allow citizens access to government administration and government control.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-18-m0.u129	Thank you. Will there be questions for the reporter? Please sign up for a question to the reporter. For difficult questions to answer to the reporter. Coltunovich Alexander Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-18-m0.u130	Thank you. Please pass the word to Puzanov Alexander Hennadiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-18-m0.u131	Puzan's Alexander Hennadiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-18-m0.u132	Thank you. Dear Vassil Ivanovich, I will have a very short and simple question. Tell me, please, what, if possible, is the five differences in your bill compared to the Presidential Bill, what is your advantage compared to that of the Presidential? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-18-m0.u133	First of all, I want to say that our bill foresees the possibility for the people of their natural constitutionally established rights to manage matters, including national governance (which is now in the "national governance" theory), where they have the right to manage, including through the creation of legislative mechanisms, including through the implementation of control functions, and at the local level that we have foreseen, and at the national level. That's the first one. And the second. I would like to say that the Presidential Bill provides for a narrowing of the people's right to vote regarding the holding of a referendum, which went beyond the Constitution of Article 74, which clearly provides for three cases and no more. That's it. All of this is unconstitutional. And that's why I'd like to say, dear colleagues, of course, you can vote for his work.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-18-m0.u134	Thank you. Polakov Anton Eduardoovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-18-m0.u135	Dear Vassil Ivanovich, I fully agree with both you and Julia Volodymyrna, because the President's bill on the peoples of the country tells us nothing. And the procedures that it prescribes will in no way help the referendum to happen, only with the administrative resources. And I'm very glad you have the local referendums provided for in your bill. I want to ask you. How many signatures do we need to collect for the U.S. referendum and for the local referendum? Because in the president's, we need to collect as many as 3 million signatures per 100,000 in each area, two thirds of the area is unrealistic, it's not a nation. How many signatures do you have to collect for the referendums? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-18-m0.u136	Thank you for asking. I'm answering. We are now associated with the constitutional norm. The constitutional norm, when it comes to the referendum, when it is held at the national initiative, provides for exactly 3 million, two thirds, and 100,000. At the same time, we have a bill to amend the Constitution, because at this level, they play at this level to prevent the exercise of authority directly to the people. And I want to say on this point that the Committee on Legal Policy did not support or find constitutionality in the President's bill, found no votes. And that means that it's unconstitutional in its root and it's going to be a repeat of the bill that was passed and founded by the head of state, and it's also founded by Parliament, and it's founded ours.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-18-m0.u137	Thank you, Vasil Ivanovich. Thank you. Dear colleagues, the introduction of all the bills took place. Please sign up the MP factions and groups for the performance. Rules up to 3 minutes. Dear colleagues, perhaps first the committee's position on all three, and then the discussion? Huh? The committee? Alina Leonidovna Zagorujko from the committee. For all three bills. It's five minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-18-m0.u138	Thank you. Good day, dear colleagues, a venerable Presidium. On June 17, the Committee on the Organization of State Authorities, Local Self - Government, Regional Development, and Urban Development considered all three bills at its meeting. These are bills: the All-Ukrainian referendum on registration number 2182, completed and introduced by Ukrainian national deputies Timoshenko and Sobolev, the All-Ukrainian and local referendums on the People's Initiative 3177, introduced by German, Medvedchuk and others, and the People's Council on the basis of the All-Ukrainian referendum (registration number 3612), introduced by the President of Ukraine and defined as urgent. As for the bill, registration number 3177. The bill proposes to establish the organization and conduct of all-U.S. and local referendums at the national initiative. First of all, I would like to point out that it is proposed to regulate the organization's initiation and the holding of all-Ukrainian and local referendums exclusively at a time when the Constitution of Ukraine envisages the possibility of holding an all-Ukrainian referendum on the change in the territory of Ukraine, which is appointed by the Supreme Council of Ukraine, as well as the holding of an all-Ukrainian referendum on the approval of a bill adopted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine amending Chapters I, III and III of the Ukrainian Constitution, which is appointed President of Ukraine. The committee proposes to reject the bill. As far as Bill 2182 is concerned. The bill proposes that a new Ukrainian Constitution, which establishes a referendum, may be the subject of an all-U.S. referendum. At the same time, the Constitution does not currently define the order of adoption of the new Constitution. Instead, chapter XI of the Basic Law of Ukraine establishes only the order of amendments to the Constitution of Ukraine. The committee proposes to reject the bill. Regarding the bill (register 3612). The Committee notes that the 3612 bill, submitted by the President of Ukraine, provides for a more comprehensive and systematic approach to resolving the issue of the legislative settlement of the organization and the order of the holding of the all-Ukrainian referendum. The Committee recommends to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft Ukrainian Peoples' Law through the All-U.S. referendum on registration number 3612 to be adopted as a basis. The Committee also decided to invite the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to announce, in accordance with part one of article 116 of the Ukrainian Supreme Council Rules, a plenary meeting during the consideration of the bill on the need to amend, clarify, remove errors and/or contradictions in the text of the bill, other structural parts of the bill and/or other legislative acts that were not subject to consideration in the first reading and correspond to the subject of legal regulation of the bill. Thank you for your attention. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-18-m0.u139	Thank you. Comer Natalia Igorovna. Puzan's Alexander Hennadiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-18-m0.u140	Thank you. I want to say that the faction "The Opposition Platform for Life" has decided not to support the Presidential Bill 3612 on the grounds that it, in its individual positions, is in direct conflict with the Constitution of Ukraine. As you know, yesterday was not only a meeting of the Committee on State Authority and Local Self-Government, but it was also held yesterday by the Committee on Legal Policy. And one of the issues of the agenda of this committee was the consideration of constitutionality, the conformity of the Constitution of this presidential bill. As already mentioned by my colleague Vasil Ivanovich Nimchenko, this issue was not supported by the committee and the committee was unable to gather votes and recognize a presidential bill in a manner consistent with the Constitution. In particular, we have observed that article 74 of the Constitution sets out a comprehensive list of issues that are not allowed to hold an all-U.S. referendum. Contrary to this article of the Constitution of Ukraine, article 3 of the Presidential Bill substantially expands the list of issues that cannot be addressed in a nationwide referendum and establishes an exclusive list of issues that can be addressed. Thus, the law narrows down the power of the people of Ukraine to resolve matters of national importance in the U.S. referendum. The President's project sets unrealistic deadlines for collecting signatures. As you know, 3 million signatures need to be collected in order for the issue to be put to the U.S. referendum. The Presidential Bill proposes only 60 days to support this issue with the required number of votes of Ukrainian citizens. Next. The restriction on the establishment that only one question can be considered over the course of the year and that only one question can be included in the ballot – it also narrows the powers and rights of the people of Ukraine compared to the Constitution of Ukraine. That is why the committee was unable to find votes in favour of the bill and its individual positions were recognized, in fact recognized as being not in conformity with the Constitution of Ukraine. I also want to remind you that we said that before we passed the Law on the All-U.S. referendum, we would get the conclusion of the Venice Commission. It's not there. We still don't know what the Venice Commission will say. The government at the meeting also noted that we had once ignored the requirements of the Constitution of Ukraine, ignored the opposition's remarks that there was no law in place that recognized unconstitutionality, which was recognized by such relevant experts, which did not correspond to the Constitution of Ukraine, was law 1008. Dear colleagues, please listen to the opposition now, do not adopt an unconstitutional law, a law that violates.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-18-m0.u141	The word is given to National Deputy Bondar Viktor Vasilovich, MP Party for the Future. Taras Ivanovich Batenko. Please, Taras Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-18-m0.u142	Dear friends! Dear colleagues! The MP's Party for the Future fights and saves constantly for expanding the opportunities and rights of democracy in this room and outside Parliament. And we are truly grateful for such an initiative in general that we are discussing today. This is a big job, I want to say, which was made by a working group led by Ruslan Alexiyovich Stefanchuk. In general, this applies to the other working groups in which we are involved, and to the changes to the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, and to the emergence of the draft Law on Political and Parliamentary Opposition. But at the same time, as we declare the goal of expanding the people's sovereignty and implementing the constitutional right of citizens, we need to understand how simple this will be on paper, how real this will be in our modern realities, and how it is written primarily in the Presidential Basic Bill. We see the complexity and difficulties that citizens face in initiating the referendum in this bill. Because it is essential that the Central Election Commission be present in order to recognize the congregations of citizens in preparing the referendum. Well, we understand that CEVC, as in the past in previous presidents, is always clearly guided by the instructions of friends from the President's Office or the President's Administration. Obviously, without the presence of the CLTC, such an initiative group will never gather and implement its initiative. In addition, the standard for congregationing is equally unrealistic in 60 days, with an initiative group of 3 million signatures. 60 people should actually collect 3 million signatures, well at least 50,000 signatures a day, which is obviously not real enough. We also see the considerable risks that my colleagues have been talking about, the violation of the constitutional order of the country and the basic principles of its functioning, since it does not require the constitutional court of Ukraine to pass through the question raised by the Ukrainian referendum. Even if it is a matter of making changes to the chapters of the Constitution that determine the general basis of the existence of Ukraine. Obviously, there are also possibilities for influence and manipulation of power on issues that will be raised in the Ukrainian referendum. The other issues that we see in the same way, in general, say that the noble goal of holding the referendum was to have a referendum on land that was promised by President Zelenski and was not implemented before the adoption of the Agricultural Land Circumstances Bill, but I think that this noble objective is really doubtful that it is a sewing mechanism for a country with such a referendum mechanism. So we waited the same way for the conclusions of the Venice Commission, which we did not have. And our position, the MP's Party for the Future Group, is to abstain from voting for the Presidential Bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-18-m0.u143	Please, Princess Nikola Leonidovich, faction of European Solidarity.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-18-m0.u144	Thank you. Dear colleagues! Well, first of all, I'd like to reiterate my sympathy for Peter Alexiyovich Dusty in connection with my father's death, and stress the inadmissibility of provocation. As Henprosecutor Venedict's statement that the funeral will be today and there will be no trial. The court will. And our faction will go there. And to bury Alexia Dust will be tomorrow. Now essentially. Thus, a respected reporter referred to the Swiss experience. Do you know why there are so many referendums in Switzerland? Because there is no opposition in Switzerland. All the parties elected to Parliament there form a common trust government. And when they can't come to a common position, they announce a referendum, which is required in two thirds of the cantons, not administrative-territorial, unspecified units, namely cantons. In countries such as Austria, Denmark, Estonia, Ireland, Italy, Holland, Poland, Hungary, Sweden, and Sweden, a referendum is held only when the Constitution needs to be amended. In Denmark, Estonia, Ireland, Latvia, Lithuania, Slovakia and France, when ratification, denunciation of international agreements and the question of the limitation of state sovereignty. Our law, the Presidential law, does not contain clear rules on the subject of a referendum. And when these clear standards are not available, in this case only a consultation referendum is possible, according to the Venice Commission. And this was misinterpreted by one of the previous narrators who said that the people should not consult with the government. It is this referendum that is being held to consult with the people. Obviously, the referendum has become a base for manipulation in many countries. We remember the referendum in Crimea. Now there's a referendum in Russia on the permanent term of Putin. Maybe that's why President Zelensky is proposing a draft referendum. Why, then, if not, does this so-called electronic vote come in? Electronic voting which the CLTC shall determine by means of regulations the order in which it is to be carried out. Although in accordance with article 92 of the Constitution, the organization and order of the referendum may be determined solely by the laws of Ukraine. Look, my friends, at our country, divided by hybrid propaganda. No, our people are the only ones, but the Russian Federation, as an aggressor, shares this people, uses the media to wage a hybrid war. And the referendum in the proposed version is another hybrid war instrument that will lead to nothing but the collapse of the state. We're voting with a red button. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-18-m0.u145	Please, Kabachenko Volodymir. And please, Vlasenko Sergey Volodymyrovich, excuse me, Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-18-m0.u146	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. "I want to make sure that I'm going on one deadline to change the system for the future. My first bill is about the people of the land. In it, we will together establish a mechanism whereby only the People of Ukraine (two words in capital letters) will form basic tasks for the authorities through referendums and other forms of direct democracy." This is a quote from President Vladimir Zelensky's pre-election program. Here my colleague said that the Presidential Bill kept that promise. Unfortunately, no, dear colleague. Well, first of all, this is not the first law, because the first President introduced laws to increase his powers -- changes to the Constitution. But unfortunately, the word "national government" is only in the title, not in the content of this bill. So it's not the first bill and it's not a bill on the peoples of the country. Colleagues have already talked on a number of occasions about the fact that yesterday, at a meeting of the Committee of Legal Policy, there was indeed a hard discussion and it was quite clear that the bill did not correspond to the Constitution. Therefore, it is impossible to support him, with all due respect for the presidency. The bill of other colleagues is 3177, it combines two types of referendum – the referendum of the state and the referendum of the local. Unfortunately, under these conditions, it can't be supported either, because these are two different approaches to referendums. This should be governed by other laws. So I'm going to be campaigning for Bill 2182, introduced by Julia Timoshenko and Sergey Sobolev. This bill does not conflict with the Constitution. He sets up clear and clear procedures that will allow citizens to make real wills on any matter on which citizens want. I would also like to point out that whatever bill was not adopted as a basis, it would have to be worked out differently than the Presidential Bill had been prepared. Here the rapporteur for the Presidential Bill said that he was preparing for it by broad consensus. I have a working group in my hands. Of the 13 deputies involved in the task force, 11 "Serve the People", two non-factional, no representative of other political factions. If we continue to work on this bill, this is the path to nowhere, this is the path to a further violation of the Constitution, this is the path to a further decision of the Constitutional Court. So once again, any bill that is adopted needs to be worked out. Because even though President Zelensky does not keep his own electoral promises, people are awaiting the Referendum Act. Yes, this law must be such that it is possible for a referendum to be held so that people do not have restrictions on the number of issues they may ask about the quality of the issues they may ask, except for those restrictions that are directly in the Constitution. All these requirements are in line with the "Paternity Bill". Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-18-m0.u147	Bacunec Pavel Andryovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-18-m0.u148	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs, distinguished Ukrainian people! Paul Bakunets, Jovkovsky, Yavorovsk oblasts, Lvivščina, MP group "Trust". According to article 5 of the Constitution, the nation is the only source of success in Ukraine. And this article strengthens the people’s right to exercise their authority directly. Therefore, our country has long needed to resolve the legislative issue of an all-U.S. referendum. Today, three drafts have been tabled in the session. They're offering to solve this referendum problem in their own way. They're not alternatives. But I want to emphasize, it's good and right that we're looking at them together today. This allows us here, in the hall, to identify with the best, with the most optimal mechanism for holding a referendum. The Trust MP Group is ready to support all three bills put forward today. Our position is to get the best standards out of each bill and to get the second reading out in one document. And this document will help develop democracy in our country. Because in such an important question for society as a referendum, you and I should put aside political ambitions. We must allow the only source of power in Ukraine, the Ukrainian people, to exercise power and to comply with the Constitution. Paul Bakunets, the "Trust" MP.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-18-m0.u149	Venislavski Fedir Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-18-m0.u150	Honourable Presidencies, honourable National Deputies, the people of Ukraine, President of Ukraine Vladimir Zelensky indeed, and has repeatedly sounded from this rostrum promised that one of his first bills would be the People's Law. But President Zelenski is an important man and he has called for a wide range of experts, public figures, NGOs to discuss the proposals of the President's team for this bill, and the Green House Bill, which was introduced by the President of the Green People's Bill, through a nationwide referendum, is really a compromise, consensus and option that takes into account the results of a broad public discussion. I would like to remind the honourable national MPs that the only bill that was posted on the site of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for broad discussion was the Presidential Bill, and he was not preparing a culinary bill, he was preparing not to achieve certain political interests, but he was preparing to provide for the real people. As for the critics who have spoken on the Presidential Bill, I would like to call on them, first of all, to read the Constitution of Ukraine, which clearly defines the number of Ukrainian citizens who are to collect signatures on the basis of a nationwide referendum on the National Initiative, and the law cannot reduce 3 million signatures, and the law cannot otherwise regulate their assembly procedure, except as provided for in the Constitution of Ukraine. In addition, I would like to remind all the Ukrainian national deputies, the people of Ukraine, that the Constitutional Court of Ukraine has repeatedly considered the question of the realization of the right of the people to an all-U.S. referendum and its conclusions in the relevant decisions. With regard to Bills No. 2182, I would like to point out directly that the Constitutional Court of Ukraine has clearly stated that the adoption in the referendum of the new Constitution should take place only in a manner which should be defined by the Constitution as valid. That is, in order to initiate an all-Ukrainian referendum on the adoption of the new Constitution, first, the parliament, in the established order of Chapter XIII of the Constitution of Ukraine, has to adopt a bill to amend the Constitution and only then to submit the Constitution to the referendum. This means that Bill 2182 does not correspond to the Constitution, taking into account the legal position of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine. Similarly, Bill 3177 does not correspond to the Constitution, because the Constitutional Court of Ukraine explicitly stated that all-U.S. referendums cannot address the issue that is being resolved in other forms of direct democracy, namely: the issue of the timely cessation of powers, particularly the Supreme Council of Ukraine. So I urge all the national MPs to support the first reading as a basis.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-18-m0.u151	Wasilenko Lesia Volodymyrna. Rachmanin Sergey Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-18-m0.u152	Sergey Rachmanin, Voice faction. Dear colleagues, it is clear that the only bill that has a chance to be passed by this Supreme Council is the bill submitted by the President, 3612. With all the advantages and disadvantages of other bills, this bill can form the basis of a new legislation. And that's why I'm primarily talking to those who are going to vote for this bill. There was much talk about the peoples of the land. But what I'm trying to say is that world practice, world history confirms that a referendum is a very thin instrument that can perform a finely important medical surgery, and it can cut. The pseudoferendums on Donbasa or the dwarf, cartoon referendums in Russia, were mentioned here. And I'm going to remind you of other examples. Mr. Hitler used the practice of a popular referendum very widely in his day. By doing so, for example, he led Germany out of the League of Nations, solving his arms before World War II, illegally joining Austria and uniting the president and chancellor, thereby making his authority absolute. This was done absolutely democratically, through a referendum. So a referendum is a thing that depends on profession, conscience and situations. This should be borne in mind when you, by voting perhaps in favour of this bill, want to give the right of legislative initiative into the hands of those who manipulate. When I think about Germany, I'm going to remind you that just after Hitler's experience, Hitler's sad experience, in Germany, in the democratic post-war, there was a restriction on citizens' right to national referendums. It's so that people don't be a tool of manipulation. I will also remind you that at least one decision of the Constitutional Court stated that the proper use of democracy does not mean substituting Parliament with a referendum, but referendums with a parliament. And if you are going to give the right to legislative initiative or the right to regulate laws or repeal the laws of the people, you need to understand how this is done. The Code of Good Practice sets clear rules by which fuses are used to cancel or prevent manipulation. There's no such thing as safety nets in the bill. Next. Any law must be in conformity with the Constitution. At least 72 articles of the Constitution do not respond to this bill because it clearly lists two thirds of the area. That's why I have an offer. Read carefully what you will vote for, at least at times, so that your knife does not become a butcher’s knife. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-18-m0.u153	Dear colleagues, the time to speak from the MPs is exhausted, let us move on to making a decision. Please invite the national deputies to the hall and prepare for the vote. I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of a proposal by the Committee to take into account the proposed clarifications in the preparation for the second reading, in accordance with article 116 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, the draft Law on the Peoples of the State by means of an all-Ukrainian referendum (registration number 3612). Everyone will be here soon, all the authors will come in. There's a representative of the President. Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[14:20:58]] For 252 Decision taken. Thank you. Two more votes, because it's not an alternative bill, it's just a bill that applies to one subject. I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Law on the All-U.S. Referendum (Registration No. 2182). Please identify and vote. [[14:21:37]] For-68 The decision is not taken. I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Law on the All-U.S. and Local Referendums for the People’s Initiative (register No. 3177). Please identify and vote. [[14:22:07]] For-75 The decision is not taken. Thank you. Dear colleagues, a statement has been made from two MP factions about a break with a replacement for the performance. Who will act? Gerasimov Arthur Volodymyrovich. What factions, Arthur Volodymyrovich? "The Voice" and "European Solidarity."
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-18-m0.u154	Dear Ukrainians! The charges against Petra Prashenko have an alarming aspect of selective justice and political revenge, a part of Ukraine’s past, not its future. That is how NATO Secretary - General Anders Fog Rasmussen responded to an attempt to falsely suspect the fifth president. The entire civilized world condemns political repression against opposition and its leader, Peter Dustenk. Even yesterday’s Zelensky associates call these suspicions a worthless and legal shake. Today, the government is building a model of the Kremlin regime with autosacks and the beating of activists in Ukraine. They storm museums and illegally watch the opposition. They're doing a fictitious search at 6 in the morning, as happened to Volodymyr Omelán. They're holding patriots in jail without evidence, like the Sheremet case, or they're judging them for not killing themselves, like Sternenka did. Notice that Zelensky’s regime is being pursued by those who are in favor of protecting Ukraine from the Kremlin’s aggression. And the climax of these persecutions is fictitious, worthless cases against the fifth president of Ukraine. And it's not just about Dusty. They want to break Ukraine. Authoritarianism begins with a suppression of opposition and ends with a violation of everyone’s rights. So famous Ukrainian scientists, public figures and former political prisoners for the initiative of First December participant Joseph Zissels publicly called on Zelensky to stop building a police state and focus on opposition to Russian aggression. Today, at 15:15, the Zelensky regime organizes, not a court, but an open illegal court over the leader of the opposition, Peter Prashenko. Once again, we are returned to the dark times of political persecution by completely copying Kremlin approaches and rejecting Ukraine away from Europe. And it's very cynical because cynicism and lies are the essence of that power. Today it's a lie from Henprocuror that they seem to have tried. This was after Peter Poroshenko was forced to carry his father’s funeral through this court. The court has not been adjourned. That's why our "European Solidarity" faction goes all the way there, to the cave court on Wolodymyrska Street, 15. We urge all who are concerned about the fate of Ukraine to join us. We were able to resist Russia's aggression, and so we're ready to confront, in fact, the very weak and very complex Green regime, which is constantly ordering criminal cases to prosecute any of its opponents. We're not afraid. Ukraine will win!
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-18-m0.u155	Dear colleagues, let's move on to the next question of the day. This is a draft law amending the Code of Bankruptcy (for non-abuse of bankruptcy for periods of action aimed at preventing the occurrence and spread of coronary disease) (second reading). Reported to the head of the Committee on Economic Development, Mr. That's right, he's invited to the show. Would you please tell me who's going to insist on editing? Yeah? Can we vote? Nice speech, thank you. I am voting on the proposal to adopt, in the second reading and in general with the necessary technical and legal regulations, the draft Law amending the Code of Bankruptcy Procedures (for non-abuse of bankruptcy during the period of action aimed at preventing the occurrence and spread of coronary disease) (registration number 3322). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[14:27:00]] For 307 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Dear colleagues, the next issue of the agenda is 2285-d. There's an offer he doesn't have today because we've got half an hour left. Go ahead and start looking at it. Okay? Next question, huh? The next issue of the agenda is the draft Amendment Act. "The Supreme Anti-Corruption Court" on the provision of premises and other matters of the court's work (registration number 3348). The chairman of the Committee on Anticorruption Policy, Radina Anastasia Olegovna, is invited to the rostrum. Would you please tell me who's going to insist on editing? Oh, no? Please prepare for the vote, Your Honor. Please invite the national deputies to the hall, prepare for the vote. I am voting on the proposal to adopt a second reading and, in general, with the necessary technical and legal remedies, the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the Supreme Anti-Corruption Court on the provision of premises and other matters of the work of the court (registration No. 3348). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[14:28:56]] For 253 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Let's see the factions. The next issue of the agenda is the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the Restructuring of Debt to the State Enterprise Antonov on clarifying certain issues of debt restructuring with a view to creating preconditions for the provision of premises to the Supreme Anti-Corruption Court. The chairman of the Committee on Economic Development, Nataluh Dmitry Andriyovich, is invited to the rostrum. Bill, registration number 3350. Is anyone going to insist on the readouts? Can we vote? Please be prepared. Is there a Grigory Mikolaiovich's mom? What's the readout? Mother, what's the readout? First?
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-18-m0.u156	And there, right at the beginning of the table, is the first one. In fact, this law is a substitute for court decisions, a substitute for commission decisions, and so forth. It is not possible for the Supreme Council, at the legislative level, to decide and acknowledge the debt of one state enterprise to other entities, to take this debt to monetaryize the premises and to transfer it to one institution or another. To that end, there are other safeguards: the judicial branch of power, the pretentious work, and the decision of the Cabinet of Ministers. I propose to reject this amendment and put it to a vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-18-m0.u157	Everybody ready? Am I betting on the vote? I'll bet on it. [[B in m in s a l in]] He's putting it on the line. It's rejected. Right, that's how he puts it. It's all right. I'm betting on vote number one of Mamka's national deputies, she was rejected by the committee. Please identify and vote. [[14:31:22]] For-90 Sadly, no. The decision is not taken. All right, we can vote for the law, right? I'm voting on a proposal for adoption in second reading and in general with the necessary technical and legal rights, a bill amending the Ukrainian Law on the Restructuring of Debt of the State (Dear colleagues! Thank you. Alona Ivanovna!) Antonov enterprises to clarify certain issues of debt restructuring with a view to creating preconditions for the provision of premises to the Supreme Anti-Corruption Court (registration number 3350). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[14:32:27]] For 244 Decision taken. Thank you. The next issue of agenda is the draft Act amending the Code of Masters of Ukraine, the Civil Procedural Code of Ukraine, the Code of Administrative Judiciality of Ukraine concerning the passage of procedural periods during quarantine established by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine to prevent the spread of coronary disease. Paul Vasilovich, a member of the Committee on Legal Policy, is invited to the rostrum. Bill 3383 registration number. Please tell me someone will. He'll insist. Vlasenko. Vlasenko, line number two.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-18-m0.u158	Thank you, Mr. Head. I've got seven rights. Give me three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-18-m0.u159	Two minutes, huh?
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-18-m0.u160	3. Or you want 4, I won't deny it.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-18-m0.u161	Three minutes, come on.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-18-m0.u162	Dear colleagues, I just want to remind you that a few months ago, at the beginning of the Coronavirus pandemic, we passed a law that gave us the order for the calculation of procedural periods. And we've set up some approaches to the order of calculation of the procedural periods. Today, we are encouraged to make a radical change in our approach to the calculation of the procedural periods during the coronavirus. To my profound belief, this will lead to chaos in the judicial system, which will lead to errors in the decision-making process. Yes, I understand the comments made by colleagues, including during the meeting of the Legal Committee, who criticized the approach we had taken. Perhaps there is a certain proportion of reasonable arguments in this criticism. But then let's do it differently. Then let us perhaps just stop the act of the previous law and not establish new special procedures. Because today we're introducing this bill, to my deep conviction, we're bringing real chaos. Because the judges won't know what law they're going to adopt as a law that they're going to adopt from a procedural point of view. Procedural periods are one of the most important, one of the most important institutions in the process. If there is chaos in the lines, the parties are not sure what they should do, how they should do when they need to do so. The judges are not sure what they should do when they need to do and how they should do it. So I think from a conceptual point of view, this approach, as proposed by this bill, is fundamentally wrong. It is not possible to conceptually implement two different approaches to the calculation of procedural periods during a very short period of time. Yes, some say that certain categories of cases have been "frozen" in connection with our previous law. There are no questions, perhaps they are in some categories of business. But once again, the previous mechanism, which was approved by this Supreme Council just a few months ago, gave all the participants the trial and the guarantees and the possibilities. If they needed to speed up the case, they could have done so. But this certainly did not affect any of their rights. We're being offered what. To determine whether the time limit is missed or not, or whether it is a valid reason, or an unimportant reason. At the same time, the quarantine continues. We do not understand when it will end. At the same time, I realize that the city of Kiev is a little easier to move, but believe me, how to travel through areas where perhaps the village is located from the district court up to 60 km away. Therefore, I am asking you not to support the bill, and my rights are not to be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-18-m0.u163	Thank you. Is anyone else going to insist? Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-18-m0.u164	The committee has worked on the bill. And really, when we took changes to the procedural codes, we didn't know how the pandemic would go. And now in order to have access to justice, in order for the decisions of the courts to have legal power, and understanding that the courts are working and the parties are able to appeal to the court, and in order for the decisions of the court to become legal, we need to adopt the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-18-m0.u165	Thank you. Is there anyone else who insists? None. Can we get to the vote? Yuri Alexiovich, don't you insist? What's the correct number? Please invite the people's deputies to the hall, and we will now proceed to the vote. The only thing that can be read is confirmation. Please invite the national deputies to the hall. 18th? Dear colleagues, 18 confirmation papers, Yuri Alexiovich Pavlenko Then we go to the vote. Please invite the people's deputies to the hall. Pauline.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-18-m0.u166	Dear Mr. Head, the honourable reporter! I actually want to ask a question. And if I get enough answer, I won't insist on voting for confirmation. But I would like to point out that more than 400 children are adopted today, but the decision of the court after their adoption will only take effect once quarantine has been completed. Thus, for more than three months now, there are children in the home who could live in the home. Another situation. One thousand and 500 children, a decision has been made to deprive them of their parental rights. And in fact, the same court decision does not become a status, and accordingly these children will not receive legal aid and are again either in boarding schools or in dangerous conditions. Tell me, if this law is passed, such as the Final Orders, will this situation be rectified, and will the children be able to be in the family and be protected by the state?
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-18-m0.u167	Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-18-m0.u168	If an appeal is not filed, or if an application for an extension is not filed, the decision will be legally enforceable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-18-m0.u169	Are you ready to vote, Your Honor? Prepare to vote. Dear colleagues, I am voting on the proposal to adopt, in the second reading and in general with the necessary technical and legal regulations, the draft Law amending the Ukrainian Code of Procedure, the Civil Procedure Code of Ukraine, the Code of Administrative Judiciality on the passage of procedural periods during the quarantine established by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine to prevent the spread of coronary disease (Registration No. 3383). Are you ready to vote? It says, you see, it's up there. Thank you. Can we, yes, vote? Thank you, Sergey Volodymyrovich. Please support and vote. [[14:40:44]] For 264 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Show me the factions, please. Constanceevich Irina Miroslavovna, of the procedure. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-18-m0.u170	Dear Mr. Head, I ask you to consider the Order on the Celebration of Basil Stefanick, 150. Please include it in the agenda and vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-18-m0.u171	She's fine in the daytime. You mean to move it in order, right? Is there no objection? Without discussion, can we vote on it? I think it's going to take a little bit of a while. Dear colleagues, I am voting on the proposal to adopt an entire draft decree marking the 150th anniversary of Vasil Stefanik's birth (registration number 3472). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[14:42:11]] For 304 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, the next issue of the agenda is draft Law 3438. The chairman of the Committee on Environmental Policy and Environmental Use of Bondarenko Oleg Volodymyrovich is invited to the rostrum. Draft Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on Environmental Impact Assessment on the Prevention and Dissemination of Coronary Disease (Registration No. 3438). Dear colleagues, who's going to insist on the papers? You'll have to insist. Labunski, I see. Who else? Angela Victorine, what's your deal? Turn on the Labunski microphone. What's the redundancy, the 3rd amendment?
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-18-m0.u172	I've got one right here. Yes, 3 revisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-18-m0.u173	Yeah, I see 3 revisions. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-18-m0.u174	Dear colleagues, good afternoon. I'm still addressing the committee head again, because the text of the law took into account the committee head's rights. But in fact, in the way that it is, it does not solve the question that it was asked. Let's face it, today, public hearings after all the laws passed by a party, today have completely removed local self-government in general from these issues. And today public hearings remain the only communication between the community, and today the solution to this issue. So I'm asking you to put it to a vote, and the "Fatherland" faction will support this law if you consider it. It's our joint readout, along with the Voice and the Z.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-18-m0.u175	Committee position. Dear colleagues, please prepare for the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-18-m0.u176	Angelica Viktorovna, your honor's colleagues, I ask you not to confuse the public hearings that take place in the order set out in the Law on Local Self-Government and those public hearings that take place in accordance with the Law on Environmental Impact Assessment. According to this law, public hearing is only one form. I ask you to note, Your Honor, that the failure to hold public hearings as a form of public discussion has led us to be hostages, hostages of the fact that we do not have all the planned activities now. In view of the fact that the government has, unfortunately, not been able to make the changes to the Public Hearing Order in time, we should arrange public hearings. So I ask you very much to support this bill and to accept it now.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-18-m0.u177	It was about correcting the question.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-18-m0.u178	The amendment was not counted by the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-18-m0.u179	We got it, we got it. The position of the committee, you insist that it remain unaccounted for. Right?
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-18-m0.u180	Yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-18-m0.u181	I'm betting on the vote number three of the national deputy of Labunski, she was rejected by the committee, and now the committee is in the same position. Please identify and vote. [[14:45:48]] For-84 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. Let's move on to voting for the law as a whole. Please prepare for the vote. I am voting on the proposal to adopt a second reading and, in general, with the necessary technical and legal regulations, the draft Law amending the Ukrainian Law on Environmental Impact Assessment for the Prevention and Dissemination of Coronary Disease (COVID-19) (Registration No. 3438). Ready to vote? Ready? Please support and vote. [[14:46:43]] For 231 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Dear colleagues, the next issue of the agenda is the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act "On Executive Conduct" (for the obligation of the performer to carry out the indexation of the size of alimony determined by the court in a fixed amount of money) (registration number 3112). It is suggested that this issue be considered in a simplified manner. Please support and vote. It's a short-term procedure. [[14:47:24]] For 239. Decision taken. The country’s national deputy, Didenko, Julia Alexandrovna, is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-18-m0.u182	Dear Ukrainians, the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act "On Executive Conduct" (with regard to the obligation of the performer to carry out an indexation of the size of alimony determined by the court in a solid amount of money). The bill is designed to protect children’s rights and interests, whose alimony is sentenced to a fixed amount of money. Starting in 2016, the amount of alimony, determined by the court in a solid amount of money, has been attributed to the objects of the population’s monetary income index. However, the Ukrainian Act on Executive Conduct does not require a public or private contractor to index alimony sizes. It should be noted that the standard for the indexation of alimony in solid cash has been laid down in article 184 of the Ukrainian Family Code for more than 14 years. However, the absence of a mechanism for its implementation in the Act on Executive Conduct leads to the question that alimony indexation can be decided solely in court. In doing so, the absence of such an indexation mechanism in a special law, in turn, creates a coalition of laws. The proposed draft law provides for the obligation of contractors to carry out annual alimony indexes determined by the court in a fixed amount of money and then to collect them into debtors in an indexed amount. The annual implementation of the alimony index determined by the court in a solid amount of money and further withdrawal from the alimony debtor in an appropriate manner will allow the immediate and non-convictional manner to at least partially offset the cost of consumer goods and services, which is particularly important for children and their needs for comprehensive spiritual and physical development. This rule will help ensure the exercise of the constitutional rights and freedoms of citizens in alimony payments. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-18-m0.u183	Thank you. The chairman of the committee’s committee on legal policy, Francis Igor Pavlovich, has the floor for the report.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-18-m0.u184	Good afternoon, dear fellows! I won't be long. The only question I would like to stress is the alimony given each year to update this index and index this amount, you need to go to the court. Imagine the number of court cases that are fast, of course, but still, how much huge each year the courts need to consider in order to solve a small problem such as indexation in a solid sum of alimony payments. The only thing I would like to add to this bill as co-author is, unfortunately, it's too late that it's not just child support alimony that should be indexed, and parents, too, it would be perfectly normal. But at the same time, we have seen some flaws, some inaccuracies, which we will of course try with the authors of this bill and you, the honourable colleagues, to correct for the second reading. Taking this into account, the Committee on Legal Policy decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft law amending the Law on Enforcement (for the executive's duty to carry out an index of the size of alimony determined by the court in a fixed amount of money) (Registration No. 3112), submitted by the national deputy Didenko and others, on the basis of the first reading, to be accepted as a basis. I'd like to support you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-18-m0.u185	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please sign up for two-for-two-against factions. Nikolainko Andri Ivanovich. Ivchenko Vadim Evgenovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-18-m0.u186	Vadim Ivchenko, Fatherland. Dear colleagues, the purpose of the law is quite faithful. In Ukraine, some 8 million children and adolescents are children. Clearly, parents who today do not pay alimony use all the services there. If we see statistics in Minnesota: 125,000 violations, 125,000 restrictions on the use of vehicles, 125,000 restrictions on the use of weapons, and so many restrictions on the crossing of the border. The right path for children to receive financial support from their parents. In the past call to me, my daughter, her father was a member of the Poltava District Council. Father owed the family 107 thousand dollars. Colleagues, it was wise to adopt the law at that time so that we could make money today to allow such daughters to receive alimony. The indexation is to be carried out, and colleague Fries said right away, we need to go to court right now. Do you have any idea how many of these cases there will be? Today, we simplify this very law so that through the executive service we can index. So in fact, the law is necessary, the purpose is necessary, but the technical notes that colleagues are talking about are important for this law to work. I want to remind you again that 8 million children and adolescents are growing in the country today. And 125,000 violators who don't pay alimony, but they're good at hunting and resting in other countries. So let's make this clear in the law today, and this law is going to work, really, for our children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-18-m0.u187	Ironborn Jaroslav Ivanovich. Papiev Mikhailo Mikolaiovich. Mikhailo Mikolaiovich!
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-18-m0.u188	Thank you. Please give the floor to Deputy German Vasil Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-18-m0.u189	Germano Vasil Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-18-m0.u190	Germano Vasil Ivanovich, "The Opposition Platform for Life." Dear colleagues, our policy will support this bill, based on the fact that it provides for the material protection of children. This is what we see as rationalism and the benefits of this bill. At the same time, I would like to say that here we should not go too far for the activities and abuses of the judiciary. You know that today the question of voluntary action on matters of material interest, of material harm, has been eliminated. Therefore, God forbid, yet the executioners of judgment will be on the path of abuse to gain benefits. I want to tell you one example, and I'll finish. It's a matter of when the bailiffs decided the issue of getting Tuscombank out of our country's iron road, 150 million, 150 million dollars. The services knew that such an executive letter would be. It was reworked in this room, and the Law on Forced Enforcement was amended. And they've brought 150 million to Tascombank in an unprecedented manner, and they've left 14 million to themselves. And so I'd like to keep this account from being abused, and for the second reading, this position is equal to the non-abuse situation. And that's how we support it.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-18-m0.u191	Thank you. Let's go to the vote. Please invite the national deputies to the hall, prepare for the vote. With motive? Shahov Sergei Volodymyrovich is motivated. And invite the people's deputies to the hall again, please. Chess.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-18-m0.u192	Sergey Shahov, Luhanščina, Deputy Group "Trust". Dear colleagues, I ask you to focus, everyone -- opposition, coalition, constructive opposition, and support the children and mothers who today raise their children themselves, who don't receive alimony, whose parents have gone somewhere to work, gone somewhere and left their children on their own. And also to support children who today need help from the State. There's the Constitution of Ukraine, and we have to take care of it. We were chosen by the people, the same mothers who suffer today, who have been abandoned by men today, do so in life, psychologically. You need a culture that is still in the family. Family education is also needed when they first marry and then break up and the children suffer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-18-m0.u193	Thank you. Let's go to the vote. Take your seats, please. I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Act amending the Law on Enforcement of Conduct (as regards the obligation of the perpetrator to index the size of alimony determined by the court in a fixed amount of money) (Registration No. 3112). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[14:58:55]] For 274 Decision taken. Thank you, Your Honor. We need to cut it by half, don't we? In accordance with part two of article 116 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules, I am voting on the proposal to cut back on half the deadlines for the submission of proposals and rights and to prepare for the second reading of the bill, registration number 3112. Please support and vote. [[14:59:33]] For 246 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, 3 p.m. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed.
