ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-02-m0.u1	Good afternoon, dear fellows! Good afternoon, media officials! It's good to see you. I hope it's mutual. Please prepare for registration. Dear colleagues, prepare for registration, please. Are you ready to register? Please register. I'll remind you, the registration takes place with the green "Z" button. [[10:09:34]] There are 305 Ukrainian national deputies registered in the hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear colleagues, a minute of silence, please. Sadly, the last two and a half weeks were filled with many sad events. Let's get out of the life of two of our colleagues: Anatoly Sergiyovich Matviyenko, he was the national deputy of six calls, Valery Mikolayovich Davidenko, this is our colleague with you. And yesterday there was no Miroslav Mikhailovich Skorik. I offer to honor the moment of silence of their memory. [[A Minute of Silence]] Please sit down. Dear colleagues, on the Conciliation Board there was a proposal from several MP factions and groups to consider the possibility of our mode of work as follows. To hold the morning meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Tuesday and Thursday until 15 p.m., as suggested earlier. That's how we worked last week. Wednesday and Friday, according to the usual schedule of work. Is there any objection? None. The second question. It was suggested that this Friday would not be "Rizzne" but that it should be replaced by a statement of parliamentary inquiries, because on May 29 they were 273. They need to be announced in order for them to go to work and to be directed to the authorities to which they are addressed. Is there no objection? This needs to be voted on and supported by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Please prepare for the vote. Please prepare for the vote. Ready to vote? I'm voting on the proposal to change the working regime on Tuesday and Thursday -- to hold the morning meetings of the Supreme Council of Ukraine by 15 hours without evening meetings and to replace the "Rizzne" section on Friday for the announcement of parliamentary inquiries. Ready to vote? This week, yeah. Please support and vote. [[10:13:48]] For 321 Decision taken. Thank you. Dear colleagues, I would like to say hello, we have three names today – Ilja Volodymyrovich Kiva, Mikola Leonidovich Knieżicky and Igor Sergijovich Krivoschev. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] [[Applause]] I welcome you, I wish you success, strength, long, long years to live. Let's get to work. According to article 25 of the Rules on Tuesday, we have 30 minutes to speak on behalf of authorized representatives of MPs and groups with proposals, announcements, statements, and messages. I'd like you to sign up for the factions and groups. Wasilenko Lesia Volodymyrna.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-02-m0.u2	On the night of May 23 - 24, police officers in Kagarlik tortured a woman. They put on her antigasus and shot her over the head. Then the woman was raped several times. I can't imagine what she's feeling right now. I sincerely want her to have the strength to move on. But I also realize that her life will never be the same again. And there are people to blame for this. These are two law enforcement officers who tortured her and raped her. We already know their names. But this is an incomplete list of culprits. We know that by May 23, there were complaints against the same police officers. These are complaints that no one has responded to. These are complaints that the system did not respond to. And there's a person who's guilty of not responding to the system. The man’s name is Arsen Habakkuk. The Minister of Internal Affairs has had time for the last six years to make the changes that Ukrainian society demands. But these changes are not happening. The frontal reform of the police did not change the essence of the system, a system in which more than 60,000 tortures continue each year. The police do not protect ordinary citizens, but they cover their own very well. That's why the police who killed 5-year-old Cyril Tlyavov are on the loose. That's why Cagarlik and Brovary happened. And that's why the Voice Party here is calling for the resignation of Minister Habakkuk. I am addressing the members of the "Serve of the People" faction. In the last two days, I have heard many pitiful excuses from you about why you cannot remove Minister Habakkuk. You say the minister isn't guilty, that's what happens. I say, no, it doesn't, it doesn't have to be, the police have to protect it, not torture it. Admit that your excuses are simply a matter of fear. And now it's time to overcome that fear. It takes courage and honesty to admit that no police reform is taking place. And that police reform can't be done by someone who hasn't done it in six years. If you are now afraid to sign the Habakkuk Retirement Order, the bandits will continue to kill and rape and the bandits will shoot on the streets of Ukrainian cities. And at which point it will turn into another Vradivka or Minneapolis, just God. But you, who are now silent, will be responsible for every victim of police violence and powerlessness, for every burning police station, for the ruined dreams of the Ukrainian people. Your silence is now complicity. Habakkuk must go. Inna Sowsun, Voice Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-02-m0.u3	Kucher Mikola Ivanovich. Batenko Taras Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-02-m0.u4	Good afternoon, dear colleagues, dear friends! First of all, the parliamentary group of "For the Future" expresses sincere sympathy for the death of our colleagues and comrades Anatolia Sergeiovich Matvienka and Valery Davidenko. We are also deeply saddened by the great loss of the great Ukrainian and composer of world fame, the national artist of Ukraine, the hero of Ukraine, Miroslav Skorik. My friends, we also note that in fact the last months of the struggle against the coronavirus and the ineffective struggle of the government against the pandemic, our citizens of various professions are now on the verge of survival. And in this situation, it's not just about the medics, who also don't count the payments of 300 percent of the allowances, and actually today they're being dumped on the spot, because we see what situations they're fighting with COVID, because every fifth medic today is infected with this disease. We see another thing, we see what Ukraine is doing today is taking ineffective steps to save the economy and becoming a hostage to an international partnership called an external administration. We believe that Ukraine continues to lose its subjectivity and is fully dependent on international creditors, especially the IMF. At least this comes from what was recently published in the media, a memorandum of cooperation with the IMF, which was adopted by the government. We see in this memorandum that Ukraine has made a commitment to continue reducing the school network as if to make effective use of budgetary resources and optimize education spending. The so-called system of optimisation of education is the unconditional release of teachers from primary and secondary schools, and these schools themselves will be held up, more faithfully, closed at the expense of local budgets. We don't see any economic incentives on taxes. In fact, taxes are declining today in civilized countries of the world, only we continue to fiscalize and pressure business, these taxes for business have not really become smaller. Recall that the Ukrainian industry dropped by 8 percent this month in March, and that in April it fell by 16 percent, and in May 2020 the general State Budget Fund reached 40 billion less than or 38 percent compared to last year. I think this is a critical situation, and we should give a proper assessment of the government's activities. And this week, when we're looking at the government's so-called action programme, we have to say our definite "no" and red buttons to press and demand the government's report and resign it as the most inefficient government in recent years of independence that can't deal with a coronary disease that can't cope with the situation that's happened today in the economy. Please support us in this room and send this government to retirement on Thursday. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-02-m0.u5	Thank you. Please, Hero Irina. Herasimov Arthur Volodymyrovich, please the faction of the European Solidarity Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-02-m0.u6	Dear colleagues, dear Ukrainians! Last week, Zelensky's regime showed his real face by pushing D.B.I. at the National Museum of Potter. They were violently storming the museum, breaking property, beating journalists, obstructing the activities of national MPs, violating at least five articles of the Criminal Code. And all of this, it turns out, is under the direct orders of Zelensky. Even the Cave Court refused to give indulgence to this lawlessness, and the actions of law enforcement officials have already been declared illegal. The storm of the Gonchar Museum is a distress signal for all Ukrainians. If you close your eyes today on this prank, they'll be trespassing in any of our citizens' homes tomorrow. Therefore, "European Solidarity" requires the release of the leadership of the FBI, and all officials involved in the criminal capture of the museum without a court decision must be punished. In general, in the past month, the Greens government has lost control of the criminogenic situation. Crimes in Zitomir, Kagarlik, Barovarah prove this. Let me remind you that it was Zelensky who took the personal responsibility of improving the criminogenic situation in the country. And look at the medical field, where the provision of hospitals with all the necessary means of individual protection for doctors was primarily on the shoulders of mecenati and volunteers. And that's despite the government's allocation of almost 65 billion dollars. The record budget deficit of 300 billion dollars, the total industrial decline and the stopping of AES blocks in energy -- it all started long before the epidemic. And a sad, so-called government action program, and a lie about 500,000 new jobs. All of these failures show that the second government of Zelensky only deepens the crisis that the first government of Zelensky began. That's why "European Solidarity" initiates a statement of mistrust for the entire government. The question not in specific ministers, the system of governance chaos and non-professionalism created by Zelensky, can only produce problems. We urge all parliamentarians to join, otherwise their incompetence will finally conquer the country. Colleagues, it's time to correct their mistakes. We also propose that Parliament adopt Bill 3533 on health insurance. Remember, Zelensky didn't want to insure them at first, and then "European Solidarity" forced the power to insure the lives of medical workers. Today it is time to restore justice to all doctors who have been duped by the majority. Our offer. In case of a medical condition, he should receive about 200,000 dollars of insurance. Finally, we urge all concerned to join the TSC in investigating the facts of the improper preparation of the medical sector for the epidemic. Where are the 10 million tests promised to Zelenski? Stole on the road or lie again? Why was the use of public funds ineffective? All these issues require careful parliamentary control. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-02-m0.u7	Thank you. Please, Rabbi Vadim Zinovyovich, political party "The Opposition Platform for Life."
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-02-m0.u8	Dear colleagues, trouble has come to our house. First of all, I'm talking to the people in this room right now. I hope that they are not only representatives of a political individual party, but actually MP the people of Ukraine. I want you to realize what's really going on in the parliamentary-presidential Republic of Ukraine. The program of the Cabinet of Ministers came to the attention of Parliament. It made it clear that today the country is ruled by people who don't understand the principles of governance from the word "general." These people are neither intellectually nor professionally capable of managing anything, and even more so by the state at such a difficult time. But even though we're returning his program to the government with the "crazy," we've entrusted this government with no control whatsoever to sign an agreement with the IMF. I recall that this document obliges us to continue the murderous reform of Suprun, foresaw the road to a commune, the closure of schools, the complete cabal, and the control of a state that did not even exist among the wild Indians. Today our country is not even being bought - it's being taken away! It is taken away as it was taken in ancient times by some German tribe. My colleagues, I'd like you to remember that you are the deputy of the people of Ukraine. I propose to ask the government, before signing any documents from the IMF, to get the approval of the Supreme Council, which, under the Constitution, I remind you, is the head of the state. I have passed the law and I propose to approve it immediately, which would introduce criminal responsibility for signing any IMF documents if they had not been ratified by the Supreme Council before. We're needed. In this room, boys, in this, and girls, to save Ukraine from the insane actions of a mad government and immediately to put Kabmin under the control of the Ukrainian Parliament, otherwise it will be late. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-02-m0.u9	The word is given to the national deputy from the group "Trust" Kulinich Oleg Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-02-m0.u10	Dear colleagues, on May 23rd, our colleague was not a member of the "Trust" group, Valery Davidenko. In the past call we worked with him on an agrarian committee, like most colleagues, where he showed himself as an experienced agrarian, as a person who loved and knew the village. It was indeed the patriot of his land, who had done so much for his native Montenegrin. He was loved, trusted by his fellow countrymen, who twice elected him as a national deputy. He was respected by his colleagues for his mind, for his principled position, for his kindness, and for his integrity. That's how we knew him. That's how we remember him. But literally on the second day after his death, some of the media and, in particular, regrettably, some of our fellow Members of Parliament began to publish their versions of the destruction and other false information, without having any credible facts or relations to the very dead, even the county began to divide without burying a person, imagine what was going on. We are all interested in having law enforcement agencies establish the real cause of the death of Valery Davidenko, and only they can give official comments and make official conclusions. So I would like to remind some of our parliamentary colleagues that people have chosen us here for legislative work, not to spread dirty rumors and dirty gossip and order materials. And it is very sad to observe when some of our colleagues, having forgotten their consciences, have forgotten their morals, and have forgotten everything, transcending the limits of human dignity. It's very sad. I would like to remind you that Valeria Davidenka had a family — a mother, a wife, and two children. He will always be a loving father, a loving husband, and that is how we remembered him. And for us, his colleagues, who he had so much in the past Parliament, and in Parliament of this calling, he will always be a trusted companion, a person who loved life, who loved people who loved Ukrainian land. He will remain in our memory a true patriot of his land. That is why the kingdom of the heavens is to him, and let the earth become to him a puff. Thank you. Please honor the memory with a moment of silence. [[A Minute of Silence]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-02-m0.u11	Shevchenko Evgeny Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-02-m0.u12	Good afternoon, dear colleagues. I have very short sleep. First of all, I want to go to my colleagues from the "Serial of the People" faction and ask them, "There are strong people in our room, as they say in the people, "with eggs," will we continue to see how Mr. Avakov continues to destroy our country?" This mess. Which he can't bring out on the street, banditry is already coming out of all the red lines. I propose that the statements that people say in factions among themselves bring to the public plane. I now state to the entire country, to all citizens, that in the "Serial of the People" faction, virtually all MPs are dissatisfied with the work of the Ministry of Internal Affairs. Virtually all MPs see that this will lead to nothing, and everyone feels that it is a responsibility for each of us personally to our electorate, to our children who are afraid to go out. I think this mess needs to be stopped. To gain strength, to stop being afraid, and to make the right decision, to resign Habakkuk. His time is up. He was once perhaps an effective minister, but time is changing, and the situation in the country has changed. So I ask all the national MPs, what is there to say to their voters, who are not afraid, who feel responsible to the people of Ukraine, to join in this movement against Habakkuk and to end this mess that is on the streets of Ukraine. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-02-m0.u13	The faction of the political party "The All-Ukrainian Union of Fatherland." Petty Officer Valentin Aleksandrovich. Timishenko Julia Volodymyr, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-02-m0.u14	Dear colleagues, it is a pity that this rostrum is simply a site for the identification of any divisions within the government, between individual branches of government. All of this, to be honest, resembles vanity during a plague. Because really no one on the ruling team is paying attention to the country’s life indicators. I just want to announce them right now so you can feel where the country is going at all. You and I have a January-May budget that's already down 44.2 billion dollars. Do you understand what this is? You realize that if this goes on, we're not going to have the President's salary in six months, it's going to be tangible in every person's life. Now for the question. You remember how the President of Ukraine sat here and said in this Parliament that if Parliament supported the two bills, the sale of agricultural land and the second, the surrender of the National Bank and our state in the banking sphere, the country would get an extended loan called EFF, and we would get up to $10 billion from the International Monetary Fund. You know, both laws, contrary to the position of Fatherland, were adopted in this room and signed by the President. Show me where 10 billion from the International Monetary Fund. Show me where the President said from this rostrum, in the accounts of the budget and the National Bank. No money from the International Monetary Fund is received, the country is falling. At the same time, a new memorandum with the International Monetary Fund, called stand-by, is now being prepared behind Ukraine, and it's already $1.9 billion, which is not equal to $10. And who will answer for Ukraine’s previous pledges and for previous promises to get $10 billion from IMF? No one, I understand. The situation continues to unfold when the International Monetary Fund provides us with new conditions: tariff increases, higher retirement age, in fact, the destruction of the further banking system and many others, including the increase in the position to sell agricultural land. We demand that all of this be public, we demand the immediate convening of the Supreme Council in order to look at this memorandum from the IMF and draw conclusions. We know that this way the country can't move, in chaos, we need to act immediately.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-02-m0.u15	Thank you. Dear colleagues, prepare for the vote, please. We shall now vote on the agenda. And in parallel with that, I'd like to say that one. Two factions: "The Fatherland" and. Who have you been with? "For the future," they're calling for a break. Okay, we're going to vote now, I'm going to announce it. However, I would also like to remind you, dear colleagues, that even last week we agreed that if we work until the third and change the working regime, we do not take breaks. If that's the case, I suggest we go back to normal mode of work. I can't help but announce it. There's a demand for two factions, I'll call it a day. Yet we do not agree.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-02-m0.u16	They're right. I'm not arguing. I'm talking about what we talked about and what we agreed on. I'll be sure to announce it. Please prepare for the vote. A few announcements. According to the minutes of the parliamentary group "For the Future" of 20 May 2020 and in accordance with article 60 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Rules, we are reporting a change in the name of this parliamentary group to that of the parliamentary group "For the Future Party" (short title: "For the Future Party"). Pursuant to article 60, prime. The Supreme Council of Ukraine rules are being reported on the creation in the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the ninth invocation of the interfractional parliamentary association "For Ukraine's Only Regional Orthodox Church". The heads of this association elected the Ukrainian national deputy Bobrovska Solomija Anatoliyevna and Poturayev Mikita Ruslanović. Pursuant to article 60, prime. I report to the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the creation in the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the ninth vocation of the interfractional parliamentary association "For the Development of Ukrainian Missile Construction". The headquarters of this union are the national deputies of Ukraine, Kaptielova Roman Volodymyrovich and Bondar Viktor Vasilovich. Dear colleagues, let's go to the vote. I'll bet you a vote. Please take your seats, prepare for the vote. I am betting on the vote on the proposal for the adoption of the entire draft Order amending the agenda for the day-to-day third session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the ninth call (registration number 2835-11). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[10:42:15]] For 247 Decision taken. By factions, please show me. Dear colleagues, I announce a recess on the demand of two factions: "The Fatherland" and "For the Future." 30 minutes. We start at 11:12. Heads of factions, please approach the forerunner.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-02-m0.u17	Dear colleagues, please invite the national deputies to the hall. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to issues. You are invited to consider a draft regulation on the application of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to the United Nations Organization, the European Parliament, the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, the Parliamentary Assembly of the OSCE, the Parliamentary Assembly of NATO, the Parliamentary Assembly of the United Nations, the governments and parliaments of the States of the world to respect the victims of the genocide of the Crimean Tatar people and to condemn violations by the Russian Federation as an aggressor of the rights and freedoms of the Crimean Tatar people (registration No. 3449). It is suggested that this issue be considered in a simplified manner. Please prepare for the vote. Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[11:19:02]] For 245 Decision taken. The report is given to the Ukrainian national deputy Umerov Rustem Enverovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-02-m0.u18	Dear colleagues! May 18 is the anniversary of the tragic department of the Crimean Tatar people, which is an act of genocide committed by the totalitarian Soviet regime against the Crimea people. During the special operation from Crimea to Central Asia on May 18 - 20, 1944, the entire Crimean Tatar people were deported to Siberia and Ural. During the long journey in commodity echelons and in the early years, more than 46 percent of Crimean Tatars died in places of exile from hunger, disease, and inhumane conditions, four times the loss of the Crimean Tatar people during the war period. The full extent of the tragedy of the people is difficult to appreciate. And the long - term consequences of deportation are now felt in Russia’s temporarily occupied Crimea. Yes, international economic sanctions against Russia are working. At the same time, international cooperation has not yet found effective instruments of political pressure on the Russian Federation to force Russia to abide by the principles and norms of international law and to stop the temporary occupation of the Crimea. The Ukrainian Parliament should constantly remind the world community that deportation from the Crimea of Crimea in 1944 is genocide, and Russia continues to occupy part of Ukraine, where Ukrainian citizens remain hostages and hostages. These are our people whom we remember and will protect as much as we can. With this in mind, I ask you, Your Honor, to support the Appeal to the International Institutions on the Respect of the Victims of the Genocide of the Crimean Tatar People. Thank you. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-02-m0.u19	The word is given to the Committee on Foreign Policy and Inter-Parliamentary Cooperation, Alexander Alexander’s Network, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-02-m0.u20	Dear colleagues, let me begin with the words of General Peter Grigornck in 1968 when he addressed the Crimean Tatars. He said, "Don't consider your case just an internal government, ask for help from the world's progressive public and international organizations. What they did to you in 1944 is quite certain: it's pure water genocide, one of the most serious crimes against humanity." It's been more than half a century, but these words are still, unfortunately, relevant, and we are again addressing the world community and international organizations for the protection of the rights of the Crimean Tatar people against the occupying state. Just for a moment, let us imagine what it means to belong to the Crimean Tatar people, who in the 20th and 20th centuries stole the Motherland several times and were deprived of their rights. For the first time in 1944, the entire nation was a victim of genocide. Deportation, which led to the destruction of nearly half the people who were forcibly deprived of their homeland and evicted. The second time, until 1989, that repressive nation, the victim of genocide, was banned from returning to the Fatherland. And the third time that Crimea was occupied by Russia in 2014. As you well recall, the Crimean Tatars firmly and uncompromisingly sided with Ukraine’s unity against Russian aggression, and we must appreciate it. Today, the Crimean Tatar people remain under difficult conditions of occupation and daily systematic repression by the occupation regime. Nevertheless, the Crimean Tatar people chose a course of nonviolent struggle against the invader and the aggressor, which requires special courage. This is Gandhi, Martin Luther King, and Nelson Mandela. In these circumstances, the Crimean Tatar people, who are the indigenous people of Ukraine, require special protection from us.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-02-m0.u21	Thank you, Alexander Alexander. Dear colleagues, please sign up: two in favour, two in favour. Bobrovska Solomy Anatolyevna, faction of the political party Voice.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-02-m0.u22	Samantha Bobrowski, the Voice faction. You know, I'm very worried because, unfortunately, I'm ashamed, and I'm convinced that perhaps most of you have made no effort to make Crimecatatar culture more present-day in Ukraine. But I would very much like the Crimean Tatars to hear Crimean Tatars from here today. [[Crimean Tatar expression]] It is said that Ukrainians and Crimean Tatars are together. I want us to remember this tragedy together, that we, in fact, were able to speak out loud in the world, who is the invader, who is the enemy, and who brings genocide to you both in your dwelling and to us in our dwelling. These things have to be heard systematically from the Supreme Council's rostrum by the head of state, and these are things and red lines that we have to keep on. Thank you. The Voice faction is in.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-02-m0.u23	Zinkevich Jani Vadimovni, faction of the political party "European Solidarity". Irina Volodymyr, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-02-m0.u24	Dear Ukrainians, dear Crimean Millettes, our dear Crimean Tatar friends, who are now in occupation. Of course, this decision is vital in terms of historical justice and memory. But it is even more important in view of the fact that the heirs of the Stalin regime, today’s Putinian Russia, have not learned a single lesson from those terrible times. And today, when we discuss this decision with you, there are again searches in Crimea. Meanwhile, in the family, women are an activist of the Crimean Tatar movement, to whom the occupations show only one thing: that the Crimean Tatars live with the idea that Crimea is Ukraine. When we discuss this decision with you, more than a hundred Crimean Tatars are in prison in the Russian Federation or in occupation and more than two hundred children of Crimean Tatars are now children of Putin’s political prisoners. You know, a week ago, when Zelenski and his team celebrated their anniversary, at a press conference in Zelensky said that there was very little talk about Crimea in the world arena. That's right, but it's strange why the President who has his life devoted to two key positions is diplomacy and the protection of Ukraine's security, the word "Crime" at the press conference, he only mentioned it once? And to whom today is the main claim that Crimea is mentioned in the international arena? First of all, to the President himself and his team, who only today managed to put this order on the agenda. Crimea is Ukraine, Crimean Tatars are our brothers, and we have to do everything we can to get the Crimea back to Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-02-m0.u25	Kulinich Oleg Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-02-m0.u26	Dear colleagues, dear Ukrainians! The Trust MPs will support this draft decision because we believe that every national minority living in Ukraine has the right to develop its culture, its language, its religion. At the same time, Russia, as an aggressor state, not only occupied the Ukrainian Crimea but also violated the rights of the root Crimean people. This decree reminds the international community of the problems of the rights and freedoms of Crimean Tatars in the occupied Crimea as well as the general situation of the occupation of the peninsula. The political and economic pressure on the Russian Federation in this context should not in any way diminish. At the same time, on May 18, we observed the victims of the genocide of the Crimean Tatar people. If this is done at an international level, it will help to prevent a recurrence of the great tragedies we experienced in 1944. So this appeal calls for the deportation of Crimean Tatars from their homes during World War II by genocide to the Crimean Tatar people. The Trust MPs will support this draft decision. And we also ask our colleagues to support him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-02-m0.u27	Ivchenko Vadim Evgenovich. Krulko Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-02-m0.u28	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. The Fatherland faction will support this draft decision. We are in solidarity with the Crimean Tatar nation, which, and this is provided for, and we have the same position that the genocide of the Crimean Tatar people was carried out when, according to the national sign of the Crimean Tatars, they were removed from their native lands in order to change the composition of the population in Crimea, in order to destroy the Crimea, and in order for Crimea to become Russian. And actually the same thing happened with the Ukrainian nation. We remember Holodomor, remembering how we evicted Ukrainians from our territories in western Ukraine. This was a targeted, planned action taken by the Soviet regime on totalitarianism in relation to all indigenous peoples. Isn't it now that the Russian Federation continues the same policy of genocide with regard to the Crimean Tatar people in Crimea that took place in the 44th century? Now in the 21st century, we see the same thing. The Crimean Tatars once again came under occupation on their own land. Crimean Tatars, and there are national MPs who represent the Crimean Tatar people, including Mustafa Jemiliev, cannot return to their own Crimea. Once his family and you settled him out of there, and now he can't get there again, because the same man-hating totalitarian regime is in power. We must continue the policy of sanctions. And the removal of sanctions until Crimea returns to Ukraine, and the Crimean Tatars can't go back to their homes, they can't be removed in any way. This should be made, and Parliament should be in solidarity with the Ukrainian Crimea and with the support of the Crimean Tatar people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-02-m0.u29	Thank you. All those who wish to speak? Please prepare for the vote. I am voting on the proposal for adoption in general, taking into account the proposals made by the Committee and the necessary technical and legal remedies, the draft Decision on the Referral of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to the United Nations Organization, the European Parliament, the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, the Parliamentary Assembly of the OSCE, the Parliamentary Assembly of NATO, the Parliamentary Assembly of the United Nations, the governments and parliaments of the States of the world on the veneration of the victims of the genocide of the Crimean Tatar people and the condemnation of violations by the Russian Federation as an aggressor of the rights and freedoms of the Crimean Tatar people (registration No. 3449). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[11:32:38]] For 310 Decision taken. Let's see the factions. The next issue of agenda is the draft Order amending the Order of the Supreme Council of Ukraine "On the holding of the spring session of the Parliamentary Assembly of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization" in 2020. Reporting by Ukraine’s National Deputy, Netzko Alexander Aleksandrovich. Give me four minutes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-02-m0.u30	Dear colleagues, in view of the implementation by the governments of the member states and the partner states of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO) of quarantine and other restrictive measures, a draft regulation of the Supreme Council of Ukraine amending the Supreme Council of Ukraine Regulation (No. 2709 of 29 April 2020) on the holding of the Spring Session of the Parliamentary Assembly of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization, in particular with a view to creating preconditions for negotiations with the International Secretariat of the Parliamentary Assembly of NATO on new dates of adoption, was proposed in order to prevent the emergence and spread of COPID-19. The Committee on Foreign Policy and Inter-Parliamentary Cooperation, at its meeting on 1 June 2020, reviewed the above-mentioned draft of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Resolution on Amendments to the Supreme Council of Ukraine Decision on the holding of the NATO Parliamentary Assembly's Spring Session in 2020 and, taking into account the proposals made, approved the decision to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine as a basis and as a whole. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-02-m0.u31	Honorable colleagues, the need for discussion, can we vote immediately? Discussion. Please sign up for factions: two for, two against. Arjev Vladimir Igorovich
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-02-m0.u32	Please pass the word to Ivanni Klimpush-Cincadze.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-02-m0.u33	Ivanna Orestovna Klimpush-Cincadze.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-02-m0.u34	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues, I am confident that the Hall will support this decision, which has unfortunately been caused by a pandemic that you and I have no influence over. I am convinced that the NATO Parliamentary Assembly will take place in Ukraine and will take place several times, and not only as a partner, Ukraine as a partner of the North Atlantic Alliance, but also as a member of the North Atlantic Alliance. But I want to say something else now, because, despite the fact that we're making this positive decision, I want to remind you in what way we got through the systematic joint work and the fifth President of Ukraine, and the government in which I had the honour to work, and the Parliament of the Eighth Assembly, and the parliamentary delegation of ours to the North Atlantic NATO Assembly under the leadership of Irina Friz and Oxana Jurinec, as we have this opportunity. Only by working together can we achieve real goals. But what worries me today is that the President signs the Annual National Cooperation Programme under the auspices of the Ukrainian Commission -- NATO at the end of May, which is the 20th year of the NPP. I am concerned that the leadership of our Supreme Council speaks of the flexibility of the strategic course on NATO and EU membership. What worries me is that the ministers of this government say that we are unable to meet NATO standards. I'm worried about what's really going on in the Ukrainian Armed Forces with regard to the achievement of these standards. And I'm convinced that Russia claps hands when it hears about delays, when it hears about incompetence, when it hears about flexibility and about the inability to achieve standards. And I believe that it is Parliament that must become the hub that will ensure the implementation of the Constitution of Ukraine for membership in the EU and NATO and who will achieve that Euro-Atlantic dream that many have already put their lives in our Ukraine. And we're going to be NATO members, and that's going to be the answer to our real security. Thank you for your attention. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-02-m0.u35	Thank you. Ustenova Alexander Yuriyevna.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-02-m0.u36	Please pass the word to Solomia Bobrowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-02-m0.u37	Samantha Anatolyevna Bobrowska
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-02-m0.u38	Samantha Bobrowski, the Voice faction. The NATO Parliamentary Assembly and the parliamentary dimension since the end of the cold war have in fact become one of the venues and platforms for seeking communication and support, in fact, and for joining the alliance. And I think that all the delegations, and thanks to the leaders, did this happen, Mrs. Ivanni Klimpush-Cincadze, Mrs. Irina Friz, Mrs. Oksani Jurinec, and today in this 1 delegation that works, I think that this is probably one of the stronger holes and playgrounds for our potential membership. Let me remind you that the things that are written in the statement, there is also a political bloc, not only the one that was read by the committee's head, but also our steps towards getting closer to the alliance's partners. But I would like very much not to hide or imitate the things we are obliged to do under these reforms. Not everyone around us is stupid and knows how to read what we're taking, what we're dealing with here, and what comes in. In particular, I would like to remind you of the notorious bills and reforms that the Ukrainian Security Service is potentially seeking to assign periodically to it. Well, two things, actually. I would very much like that resource, which is more than 350,000 of our Ukrainian veterans, would actually be a worthy example for those military and veterans who are around the world today, and would be a resource of knowledge, knowledge and example for imitation. That's the first one. And the last. Of course, NATO membership and our, thank God, established in the Constitution, must once again show us that we are far from the capital of Moscow's neighboring country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-02-m0.u39	Thank you. Montenegro's Yegor Volodymyrovich with a motive. There will be no more who would like to speak? Then we go to the vote. Please invite the national deputies to the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-02-m0.u40	Good afternoon, colleagues! Yegor Černiev, "Slut of the People" faction, head of the Ukrainian delegation to the NATO Parliamentary Assembly. Well, first of all, our NATO course is unchanged. And all that's going on in the government right now is actually going in the direction of NATO. The Parliamentary Assembly is the measure in which we can move our interests towards Euro-Atlantic integration. I want to reassure and reassure our colleagues that we have great support from Western partners, from the United States, from Britain, Canada and others. We had a personal conversation recently with the head of the Parliamentary Assembly. NATO Parliamentary Assembly President Attila Maesterhazi, who assured Russia that the pressure will be maintained, that we will cooperate, that Ukraine is in the daytime order and remains in the daytime order. This is the technical transfer of our Parliamentary Assembly to 2020-2022.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-02-m0.u41	Thank you. Dear colleagues, let's go to the vote. Please take your seats, prepare for the vote. I am voting on the proposal for adoption as a basis and as a whole, taking into account the proposals made by the committee and the necessary technical and legal rights, the draft Ordinance amending the Order of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the holding in 2020 of the Spring Session of the Parliamentary Assembly of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization (Registration No. 3529). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[11:41:40]] For 321 Decision taken. Let's see the factions. The next issue of the agenda is the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Customs Code in connection with the reform of the Prosecutor's Office and the changes in the system of the judicial system of Ukraine (registration No. 3194). It is suggested that this issue be considered in a simplified manner. Please support and vote. [[11:42:15]] For 259. Decision taken. The report is given to the representative of the President of Ukraine at the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Stefanchuk Ruslan Aleksiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-02-m0.u42	Dear Mr. Head! Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine! Your opinion is proposed by the President of Ukraine and defined as an immediate draft of the Law amending the Ukrainian Customs Code in connection with the reform of the prosecutor’s office and the changes in the system of the Ukrainian judiciary (registration number 3194). Based on the title of the bill itself, it proposes amendments to the Customs Code of Ukraine, which has to do with the changes in the legislation of Ukraine to the actual appointments of the highest in the system by the judiciary and the prosecutorial office of the authorities, as well as the names of the directors of such organs. Amendments to part nine of article 340, part one of article 359, part two of article 456 and part two of article 457 of the Ukrainian Customs Code are technical and propose to replace the words "the Supreme Court of Ukraine", "the Attorney General of Ukraine" and "the Attorney General of Ukraine" with the corresponding elements that are currently in law: this is the Supreme Court, the Attorney General and the Attorney General's Office respectively. The adoption of this law will allow for clarification in relation to legislative changes of the actual designation of the highest in the system by the judicial system and the prosecutorial office of the authorities, as well as the names of the directors of such organs. Please support the legislative initiative of the President of Ukraine and adopt Bill 3194. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-02-m0.u43	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the word for the report is given to the head of the Committee on Finance, Tax, and Customs Policy of Owl Aleksandro Georgievicz. Kovalchuku Alexandro Volodymirovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-02-m0.u44	Dear National Deputies, Mr. Golovo, the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Finance, Tax and Customs Policy at its meeting on 20 May 20th (meeting protocol 33) reviewed the draft Act amending the Customs Code of Ukraine in connection with the reform of the Prosecutor's Office and the changes in the system of the Ukrainian judiciary (registration number 3194), submitted by the President of Ukraine and designated by the President of Ukraine as urgent. The purpose of the bill, as stated in the explanatory note, is to clarify the changes in the Ukrainian legislation of the Ukrainian Law of 2 June 2016 on the judiciary and status of judges and the Ukrainian Procuratorial Act, as amended by the Ukrainian Law of 19 June 2019, the number 1139 on the amendment to certain Ukrainian legislative acts on the first-time measures taken to reform the procuratorial bodies, the actual appointments of the highest in the system by the judiciary and the Ukrainian prosecutor's office, as well as the names of the heads of such bodies. With a view to clarifying in the customs legislation of Ukraine the actual appointments of the highest system by the judiciary and the prosecutorial office of the authorities, as well as the names of the directors of such bodies are proposed to amend part nine of article 340, part one of article 359, part two of article 456 and part two of article 457 of the Customs Code of Ukraine on the substance of the technical change in the words "the Supreme Court of Ukraine", "the Attorney General of Ukraine" and "the Attorney General's Office" respectively. The main scientific and expert office supports the adoption of the bill. As a result of the review, the committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council the adoption of a draft law. Please accept as a basis and generally as the law of Ukraine, taking into account technical legal rights.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-02-m0.u45	Thank you, Alexander Volodymyrovich. Dear colleagues, there is a proposal without discussion to vote. Technical law. No discussion? Do you need to talk about it? "European Solidarity" insists on discussion. Please sign up for the performance. Arthur Volodymyrovich Gerasimov, please. You know the subject, you insisted on discussing it. Please. Arthur Volodymyrovich, right? That's too bad.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-02-m0.u46	Alexeiovich Honcharenko, European Solidarity. Dear friends, we are considering the bill, of course, technically, of course, it should be voted on. But I want to draw your attention to the following. For over a year, we've been told about reforms, big reforms that go around the country. This bill is a very vivid testimony to all these super reforms. Change the name "General Prosecutor of Ukraine" to "General Prosecutor." Change the name "the Supreme Court of Ukraine" to "the Supreme Court." In general, if you follow the logic that is now being used, it is more appropriate to rename "The Attorney General of Ukraine" as "The Attorney General of the Quarter," "The Supreme Court of Ukraine" as "the Supreme Court of Servants of the People." Something like that. Because we see when we were told about a human hunger situation in a country that was nowhere to be found, it turns out they couldn't find it in 95 blocks. And if you get a little bit out of it, many, 40 million people live. But no one wants to go out. I want to draw your attention to the fact that this law that we're currently considering, in fact, it is completely technical, and all of these reforms are technical. What we're going to do is we're not going to change the outcome. "You, friends, don't sit there, you don't fit in with musicians" is an exact formulation that applies to active power. What these changes were endless, at first we had the Ministry of Culture, the Ministry of Sport, the Ministry of Information Policy, then they were merged into one Ministry of Culture, Sports, Informatics, and then they were separated into two more ministries. Once upon a time, Greensky was talking about the eternal engine of politics -- the removal of inviolability; Greensky invented a new eternal engine -- simply to rename and simulate violent activity. That's what this law is about.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-02-m0.u47	Juršin Jaroslav Romanović.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-02-m0.u48	Please pass the word to Ironman Jaroslav.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-02-m0.u49	Ironborn Jaroslav Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-02-m0.u50	Dear colleagues, in this powerful bill, two lines, both lines will support the Voice faction. So we're going to vote on the basis as a whole. The discussion is over. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-02-m0.u51	Slavic Antonina Kerimovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-02-m0.u52	Please pass on Papi's word.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-02-m0.u53	Papiev Mikhailo Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-02-m0.u54	Thank you. Dear Ukrainian National Deputies, honourable citizens of Ukraine, I am primarily addressing all Ukrainian citizens who are watching the progress of events in this plenary hall. Look, we've been working on Tuesday practically for two hours, so please tell me, which of the laws discussed by the Supreme Council of Ukraine today apply to Ukrainian citizens? None. That is to say, the Supreme Council of Ukraine is living its own separate space life, and the citizens of Ukraine have completely different problems. Maybe you don't know right now that people don't get the salary right now, that pensioners don't get the pension, that medics don't get the pay you promised them? You're practically three empty bills now, and priority is you're making changes to the Customs Code, are these the main changes that need to be made now? This impression is that in the near future, the Attorney General and the Supreme Court of Ukraine will be moving something across the customs border of Ukraine, and it is imperative that the rule that they are not to be taken care of. Dear colleagues, there are other problems, we need to import high-tech equipment today. If this law were to apply to what investments to be made in Ukraine, how to create decent jobs, how to ensure that the Ukrainian Pension Fund is filled, how to pay help to families with children today, then our faction would understand the priority of these issues. And now you're totally spitting in the eyes of the Ukrainian people, showing and demonstrating once again that you're not interested in people's problems, you're interested in some of your moving goods. Then take care of them, and we will vote against them.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-02-m0.u55	The alien Boris Viktorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-02-m0.u56	Please give the word to a colleague of the Trust Group, Sergey the Great.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-02-m0.u57	Sergey the Great.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-02-m0.u58	Sergey the Great, Luganskina, the Trust Group. Colleagues, I think a lot of people think this bill is a technical document. Indeed, it is proposed to amend the Customs Code by replacing the new names of the Supreme Court of Ukraine and the Attorney General’s Office as well as the names of the heads of those bodies. But the problem is much deeper. I am now speaking specifically of the Supreme Court of Ukraine and the Supreme Court. We now have two supreme courts with different names in the state. History is simple. Four years ago there was a relaunch of the Supreme Court of Ukraine. At that time, the old court was virtually eliminated and new judges were recruited at the competition. The new body was simply called the Supreme Court, and "Ukraine" was removed from the name. The old composition of the Supreme Court of Ukraine did not like it, and he accused the constitutionality of reform. There was a situation in which a court of one but a legal entity existed. I will point out that the judges stayed there and should be transferred to the new Supreme Court. However, no one has the authority to automatically translate them. Therefore, my fellow Members, we support this bill, which has been put to the vote today. But there is a complex problem in the state, and it needs to be solved at the level of the President's Office. Thank you for your attention. Sergey the Great, Luganskina, the Trust Group.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-02-m0.u59	Dear colleagues, let's go to the vote. All those who wish to speak? "Trust" was, no. Please prepare for the vote. Please prepare for the vote. I am voting on the proposal for adoption as a basis and, in general, with the necessary technical and legal regulations, the draft Law amending the Ukrainian Customs Code in connection with the reform of the Prosecutor's Office and the changes in the system of the judiciary of Ukraine (Registration No. 3194). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[11:55:12]] For 301 Decision taken. Thank you. Dear colleagues, you have been invited to consider the draft Law amending the Code of Budgets for Ukraine in connection with the implementation of administrative reform. — Registration No. 2782. It is suggested that this issue be considered in a simplified manner. Please support and vote. [[11:55:42]] For 263 Decision taken. The word for the report is given to the Ukrainian national deputy Kovalchuk Alexander Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-02-m0.u60	Dear colleagues, Mr. Head, I have literally short trailers to the previous speakers. If you do, fellows, appreciate the time we have so short on our work in the Supreme Council, why are you taking two minutes and talking about absolutely nothing? Appreciate our time, don't take 2 minutes, technical laws back up and work. And the second trailer to another colleague who was here talking about us voting on technical laws. If you were to do your job in the previous chambers, we would not have to correct your mistakes today, make technical laws. Thank you. Your consideration is given to the draft Law amending the Code of Budgets for Ukraine in connection with the implementation of administrative reform. — Registration No. 2782. On December 18, 18, Ukraine formed the State Tax and State Customs Service, which became the successors to the rights and duties of the restructuring of the State Fiscal Service in the relevant spheres of activity. The Ukrainian Budget Code uses the concept of "income and assembly" in some cases both for the authorities of Ukraine's newly created State Customs Service and for the State Tax Service. The project is designed to bring Ukraine’s budgetary code into line with the current system of government authorities in relation to the delimitation of the function of Ukraine’s State Fiscal Service as a result of its division and the creation of the Ukrainian State Customs Service and the Ukrainian State Tax Service. Ukraine's law to amend the Customs Code of Ukraine and some other laws of Ukraine in connection with administrative reform changed the term "income and assembly body" to the term "mind organ" and "tax authority" in a series of legislative acts of Ukraine. This will limit the competence of the central executive authorities to implement State customs and public tax policies in the context of the application of the provisions of the Ukrainian Budget Code. For the purpose of unifying the comprehensible apparatus in legislation, I ask you to uphold this law and adopt it as a basis and as a whole. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-02-m0.u61	Thank you. The word for the report is given to the deputy head of the Committee on Budgets, Kopanchuk Oleni Eugeneni.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-02-m0.u62	Good afternoon, Dmitri Alexanderovich, Presidium and Honourable MPs! On March 18, the Committee on Budget Affairs considered bill 2782 on amending the Budget Code in connection with the implementation of administrative reform. The bill is related to the reform of the executive branch, which implements the State Customs and State Tax Policy, in relation to the delimitation of the functions of the State Fiscal Service of Ukraine and the establishment of the State Customs Service of Ukraine and the State Tax Service of Ukraine. These changes were foreseen by the Ukrainian Law of January 14, 2020, No. 440, amending the Ukrainian Customs Code and some other legislative acts. The essence of the bill is very simple, and it refers to changes in the Budget Code of the words "income and assembly bodies" with the words "tax authorities and customs authorities." The bill removes inaccuracies that may cause difficulties in applying legislation or in bringing the guilty to justice. The main scientific and expert administration does not deny the amendments proposed by the bill. The Ministry of Finance has no comment on the draft bill and notes that its implementation does not affect the budget and does not require additional expenditure from the State budget. Taking into account the above, the Committee on Budget Questions adopted a decision: recommending to the Supreme Council bill 2782, which, in the first reading, should be adopted as a basis and generally as a law. Please support the committee's decision and thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-02-m0.u63	Thank you. Needed to Be Discussed? Can we vote? Sign up for the performances by MPs and groups. The great Mikola Romanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-02-m0.u64	Please pass the word to Oleg the Synyth.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-02-m0.u65	Who? Oleg Mikhailovich Sinyutka.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-02-m0.u66	Dear Mr. Head, the distinguished national deputies of Ukraine! Here, in previous speeches by our colleagues in general, the theory was that opposition takes up time with its performances. Dear colleagues from the majority, but you made new names: instead of the President's Administration, they called the President's Office; instead of the Attorney General's Office they called the Attorney General's Office, and now all these technical names have to be entered. And in general, this bill, it's kind of strange that it's being introduced by a deputy corps because I think that these bills would have to be passed by the government of Ukraine. And there are big questions about what the government of Ukraine is doing. Why is it that, instead of introducing bills that simply change technical names, there is still no law that applies to medical insurance, a bill that would allow those medical workers who have become sick with the coronavirus to have government payments guaranteed? But if you go back to the budget, the tax and customs, the honourable colleagues, and please tell me, didn't you prove the economy today when in April we have a 12 percent drop in gross domestic product? Isn't that the result of your work that we have in April the 18 percent drop in industrial production? Isn't it the result of your work that we've had for the first time in the last five years the real incomes of people fall by 1,000 dollars? Dear colleagues, please tell me, isn't it the result of your work that there is a struggle on the border today between foreign and customs officials and those people who are transporting their goods today? Why in Chopa today, there are natural disturbances in Rawi-Russia that people want to work in today.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-02-m0.u67	Thank you. Dear Mikola Mikolaiovich. Out of place, please turn it on.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-02-m0.u68	Good afternoon, dear fellows! Mikola Road, 162 constituency. I propose to support this technical law as quickly as possible and to move on to more important issues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-02-m0.u69	Coltunovich Alexander Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-02-m0.u70	Thank you. I would like to point out that when the reporter presented this bill to us, he didn't notice that it was different from the previous one, because it was already a flaw in the current power and the team that introduced it into the previous draft laws and failed to make it into the Transition or the End of the Position. That's the first one. The other one. When we talk about changes to the Ukrainian Budget Code in connection with administrative reform, this issue should first and foremost concern the increase in the share of local budgets and inter-budgetary transfers in the Ukraine budget. That's where real budget decentralization is. This is where the resources of local communities are. Today, we are making changes to the Budget Code, which are in no way relevant to the moments I have heard. It's another important moment. What my colleagues from this Supreme Council rostrum have already said is, of course, you can make any draft laws that you consider appropriate, but the results of your particular activity are expressed in the "penny" charters, expressed in those tariffs that are today, in those declines in the real income of the population and in all the other macroeconomic indicators that are completely broken down, and they apply not to the 28 years of independence of Ukraine, but to half or, more precisely, half a year of the team's activities. And then we're done. I realize that today’s agenda is complete and there are still many draft laws. Our party will not support those initiatives that will no longer affect the rise in social and economic living in Ukraine, the rise in the real income of the population, the children, the rise in social security and so on, and so on and so forth. So we're asking you for the agenda that deals with pressing socio-economic problems, not your demands. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-02-m0.u71	Bondar Victor Vasilovich. Lubinet Dmitry Valeriovich. Just a minute. After this. All those who wish to speak? Voice is a motive, and then we go to the vote. Please invite the national deputies to the hall. The watermelon.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-02-m0.u72	Dear colleagues, a venerable Presidium! The MPs of the "For the Future" party will vote and support the bill. I'd like to pay attention to all the parliamentarians, and we're working for Kabmin right now, and that's really true. Instead of adopting the Cabinet Order on the separation of the State Fiscal Service into the State Tax Service and the State Customs Service, then automatically the Cabinet of Ministers would have to submit a bill to the session hall, which it turns out they can't even do that. We've asked the people's deputies, and we're working for them. It seems that the only body that is currently working effectively is Parliament, and everyone must admit it. And very often, you know, in previous years, representatives of the Cabinet of Ministers were always present when such drafts were considered, though technical, but directly related to the activities of the Cabinet of Ministers. Look now at the places where Kabmin's representatives should sit, there's no one there. This is their attitude toward Parliament. Parliament worked for them, they can't even come here. That's why, of course, we vote yes, but on the other hand, we pay attention to the activities of Kabmin and their disrespect for Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-02-m0.u73	Thank you. Ironborn Jaroslav Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-02-m0.u74	Dear colleagues, I fully agree with previous speakers. I want to add that in this most powerful bill, four whole lines are also technical, and we all support them. That's why the Voice faction, as in the last case, is going to vote this bill as a basis and as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-02-m0.u75	Thank you. Dear colleagues, let's go to the vote. Invite the national deputies to the hall. I have a question: did the committee recommend that we take it as a basis, and in general, there is no objection? You don't? None. I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Law amending the Code of Budgets for Ukraine in connection with the implementation of administrative reform (Registration No. 2782). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[12:08:42]] For 325 Decision taken. All of it? The factions. Dear colleagues, I am voting on the proposal for adoption in general with the necessary technical and legal rights, the draft Law amending the Ukrainian Code of Budget in connection with the implementation of administrative reform (registration No. 2782). Please support and vote. [[12:09:23]] For 330. Decision taken. Thank you. The law is passed in general. Dear colleagues, a statement came from two factions about a break with a replacement for the performance. Ustenova Alexander Yuriyevna.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-02-m0.u76	Dear colleagues, we've all heard from this rostrum today about Arsen Awakov and what's currently going on in the police force. You know, I heard a lot when I went to sign this document to my colleagues, that if Avakov went, we'd have Russia here. So I'll tell you what we have, if we have Habakkuk, we have Russia. Yesterday, a booth was appointed to the head of the Winnicki District Police. This is the man who was standing with the pro-Russian protestors in Odessa on May 2nd, behind this policeman's back, being shot by the pro-Russian protestors. Imagine that such a person has not been planted, and he has been promoted, and he is now in charge of the Viennese District Police. This is unacceptable in a country that is at war with Russia, and it is not acceptable for the district police to be led by a man who protected the booths during the events that took place in Odessa on May 2. Besides, if you look at the declaration, it's not just a booth, it's a very wealthy person, I'm sorry, with a very wealthy mother-in-law who could never, not a mother-in-law or this person, make money for such wealth, working honestly in the police. That's why I'm addressing everyone today. If you don't want to allow in your regions, like in my home Winnies, to be assigned to the head of the district police, I urge you all to sign under Arsen Awakov's resignation, because tomorrow such booths will come to your regions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-02-m0.u77	Thank you. Let's move on to the next question of order of the day. You are invited to consider the draft Law amending the Forest Code for National Forest Inventory (Registration No. 2379). Break, yeah. Break, I'm sorry. Dear colleagues, from 12 to 12:30, there is a break at 12:40.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-02-m0.u78	Dear colleagues, please invite the national deputies to the hall. Dear colleagues, back to our work. The report is chaired by the Committee on Environmental Policy and Environmental Use by Bondarenko Oleg Volodymyrovich. And let's go straight to the lines that weren't counted. Edit number one, Puziychuk. Don't insist. Checkmate, number five. Don't insist. Shahov, 7th row. 8 axles. 21st, Yvchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-02-m0.u79	Vadim Yvchenko, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear head, I'm asking you to give me two minutes, I've got eight rights. Two minutes of the show. And I'm going to make one revision in the end to make sure that the room is defined during the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-02-m0.u80	Okay. Give me two minutes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-02-m0.u81	Colleagues, I would like to draw attention to this law. You know, there's a national inventory of forests. What will she give us? It will give us a clear understanding of how many trees are in our forests and how many are there. We need to understand clearly what the quality of wood in our forests is, what's with them, what's with them, what's with the sanitary scars, what's the current growth. All of this will answer, this law will answer the question of national forest inventory. And I want to say to you, colleagues, Ukraine is the ninth place in Europe after being burned. 17.5 percent of Ukraine’s forest territory, five areas of Ukraine An area like Carpathians has 51 percent. We have many questions about forest policy in Ukraine. But we have to understand clearly that we have to create a new quality of this policy. And we have a lot of problems. The same state-owned enterprises, the colleagues who are self-sacrifice, and we're looking at Facebook, we're shouting, our mountains are mortifying, but we're leaving state-owned enterprises to self-sacrifice. What does that mean? This means that the more you cut, the more you actually pay your salary. That's not right, colleagues. I'll tell you more. And look, please, at the Eurostat. It's different, it's different from what's happening in Ukraine. We've got a lot of wood that's cut into cheese, blacked out like wood. As a result, customs payments are paid as wood, and this is actually a round that goes to woodworking enterprises in other countries. And that means that even here the state doesn't get it. "Paternality" supports an appropriate bill, many problems need to be addressed. But at the same time, we ask that the number 38 issue be supported by you colleagues. This is 3D Ukraine, this is geospatial data.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-02-m0.u82	Thank you. Committee position on Amendment 38. Oleg Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-02-m0.u83	Amendment 38 was rejected by the committee, but we don't object to putting it on confirmation.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-02-m0.u84	Please prepare for the vote. Ready to vote? I'm betting on the vote number 38 of the national MP Ivchenka. It was rejected by the committee, but in principle the committee does not object if it is supported by a hall. Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[12:52:14]] For 306 Edit included. Next up, Puzichuk. Turn on 3 minutes without a vote instead of a right.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-02-m0.u85	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the forest conservation issue, it's beautiful. I thank the committee for taking into account the constructive proposals of Fatherland. But, Your Honor, I would like to draw your attention to the fires that took place in the Zitomir region in March. No work is being done to invent the forest these days. No one knows the real area of fire, no one knows the consequences, no program to eliminate these consequences. Chief of Staff of the Zitomir region. You're talking about new faces in power today. Tell me, what's this new face? The man who was involved in the corruption scandals in the Chernobyl area, in the region of Ivano-Frankiv, the man wrote an application for release, and was, as a new face, transferred to the Zitomir region. I have a very big request, Oleg Volodymyrovich, for your support, please contact the Attorney General. There must be a proper investigation into the causes of the fire: what happened, why happened, who did it, who did it, what the consequences of losing the state. So we as MPs shouldn't talk and forget about this, that's what worries Ukraine today. Colleagues, please support my appeal to the Attorney General. And we're looking forward to an impartial investigation into what's going on in this area in the forest farm. Thank you. And the Fatherland faction supports a very positive bill. Thank you all.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-02-m0.u86	Thank you. Labunsky, 26. Don't you insist? Are there those who will insist on the work? None. Coltunovich is a minute. And let's go to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-02-m0.u87	Dear Mr. Head, there's an amendment of 22 and 37, I won't insist. We're going to support this bill anyway, and our faction is going to vote for it, so we can not even put them to the vote. These amendments formulated proposals from one of the academic institutions, and that's why they were submitted. Well, if you'll excuse me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-02-m0.u88	Thank you, Alexander Sergiyovich. Dear colleagues, prepare for the vote, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-02-m0.u89	Dear colleagues, since the discussion of this project, Deputy Minister of Energy and Environmental Protection, one minute, please. From the place, please. Irina Ivanovna's bet, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-02-m0.u90	Dear Chairman, distinguished national MPs! The Ministry of Energy and Environmental Protection calls for the bill to be voted in favour. Indeed, the state of forests in Ukraine and the focus of social interest, and the quality management of the forest fund needs to understand what is really going on with the forests of Ukraine. The latest inventory of forests in Ukraine took place in 2011, so there is no complete information on the state of the forest fund at present. The bill introduces the principle and the new concept of inventory. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-02-m0.u91	Thank you. Dear colleagues, ready to vote? I am voting on the proposal to adopt a second reading and, in general, with the necessary technical and legal regulations, the draft Law amending the Ukrainian Forest Code for National Forest Inventory (Registration No. 2379). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[12:57:11]] For 322 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Thank you. The next issue of the agenda is the draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine on the elimination of artificial bureaucratic barriers and corruptogenicities in the area of health (registration 2429). There's someone who insists, right? Stefanine, I know. Will there be no one else? Cymbaluk? There's three minutes. Mikhail Mikhailovich, do you have two minutes, ladies, will you be okay? And then we go to the vote. Please don't split up. Stephanie Olga Anatolyevna – 3 minutes. Two minutes, sorry, two minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-02-m0.u92	Dear colleagues, we will now vote in favour of the Law on Overcoming Corruption in the Health System. But what I want to tell you is that today you and I have all the corruption factors, diagrams and schematics that were still in the wealthier's state budget. We all know about the scandalous purchase of protective suits for doctors, where Mr. Stepanov spent 40 percent of his government funds. This is a tax that was administered by the Ministry of Health of Richter’s Day. So, today, colleagues, there is a competition for a key institution in the health system. This is called the National Health Service, which was created two years ago in order for the minister to have no single control over the state budget. Today it's 100 billion dollars. So, Mr. Stepanov is going around all the competitions, rules and procedures tonight, colleagues, to interview and single-handedly assigns a "watcher" to 100 billion state funds. These are ours with you, colleagues, taxes. Given this fee, 40 percent, colleagues, is 40 billion dollars that Mr. Stepan and his "watcher" will go straight to the sand. The international partners of the European Union, U.S.A., declared that they would monitor the competition. So let me tell you, it's impossible, because Mr. Stepanov has hidden all the interviews that are going to take place today. Neither the media nor the public will be able to see how a man is destined to manage 100 billion dollars in medicine. We have a decision here to release Mr. Stepanov, so I urge everyone to come forward and sign. This is our health and life with you, colleagues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-02-m0.u93	Thank you. Cimbaluk Mikhailovich – 2 minutes. Then we go to voting for the law as a whole. Mesentz? No, for reasons, no. Tsymbaluk. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-02-m0.u94	Mikhailo Cimbaluk, Fatherland. The honourable chairman, a respected report, is indeed a very good title for this bill — to amend some of Ukraine’s laws on the elimination of artificial bureaucratic barriers and corruptive health factors. That's really what we need for today. When this bill was prepared for the second reading, a number of important things were indeed introduced to improve its activities when adopted in the second reading and in general. But there are things that balance it when you accept it in such an editorial. For example, the bill allows blood to be exported abroad to produce certain materials. Is it taken? Yeah, right. And so when the drugs return to the state, the price goes up for them. It is very important that in this law the State has the right to regulate those processes that allow blood to be exported only when the medical sector of Ukraine is fully provided by either the blood bank or the drugs that are produced from it. Next thing. This bill creates a central executive body that will be empowered to regulate these processes. I have a request to the chairman of the committee: Explain. If the blood isn't actually allowed out of control, then the Motherland faction will support this one.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-02-m0.u95	Committee position. And then we move on to the vote. Invite the national deputies to the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-02-m0.u96	Dear Mikhailovich, I am very grateful for your questions. And by the way, it was one of the right-hand side of the Voice faction, your turn. We do. Indeed, this law allows the export of blood components or plasma, blood or drugs, blood abroad only by decision of the government in case of humanitarian aid to other countries. Period. There are no more permits. As for the second question, it is the central body of executive power. Not only is it necessary to control export abroad, it is necessary to control some of the blood collected so that it is not infected with hepatitis C or other infections.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-02-m0.u97	Thank you. Dear colleagues, let's move on to voting for the law as a whole. Please prepare for the vote. I am voting on the proposal to adopt a second reading and, in general, with the necessary technical and legal regulations, the draft Law amending certain Ukrainian laws on the elimination of artificial bureaucratic barriers and corruptogenicities in the field of health (registration 2429). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[13:04:00]] For 332 Decision taken. The law was passed in general. The next issue of the agenda is the draft Act amending the Law on Physical Culture and Sport (for the activities of the Ukrainian Student Association and the Ukrainian Student Sports Federation) (registration number 2077). Dear colleagues, are there those who insist on correction? None. We can go to the vote. I am voting on the proposal for adoption in the second reading and in general with the necessary technical and legal rights, the draft of the Ukrainian Law on Physical Culture and Sport (for the activities of the Ukrainian Student Association and the Ukrainian Federation of Student Sports) (registration No. 2077). Please support and vote. [[13:05:16]] For 248 Decision taken. The law was passed in general. The next issue of the agenda is the draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine (registration number 2494). The chairman of the Committee on Social Policy and Veterans’ Rights, Trelyakov Galina Mikolayevna, is invited to the rostrum. Are there those who will insist on making adjustments? Yeah. Okay. It's a royal one. Don't insist. Yvchenko. Don't insist. Chess. Don't insist. Pauline. Don't insist. Alexi Yuryovich. Yuri Alexiyovich, I'm sorry. Amendment number 18.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-02-m0.u98	Dear Mr. Head, you're a reputable reporter! You know, this law, unfortunately, has not actually been changed between the first and the second readings. But even after sending him back to read again, a few changes took place. In this law, in fact, the only positive norm is the norm in which state aid to orphans deprived of parental care is raised and taken care of, and to children with disabilities. Everything else just makes things worse in the social sphere. New services are being introduced that cannot be implemented, but old services are being eliminated. I'm asking the committee very much, even during the consideration of this bill, to reject all the nonsense in this law, to leave the only rule: to help orphans, children deprived of parental care, and children with disabilities. And then this.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-02-m0.u99	Do you insist on voting? 18 The Law of Pauline Yuri Alexiovich The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[13:07:57]] For-125 The decision is not taken. Kulinich. Don't insist. Yvchenko. Don't insist. Tymoshenko. Five minutes instead of all the rights, right? Julia Volodymyrna Timoshenko – 5 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-02-m0.u100	Respectful friends certainly give help to those families, to those who need help, to those who need help. The bill that we're looking at right now, 2494, is really about increasing aid for children who are being cared for and cared for. And that's very good, and we support that. At the same time, however, we cannot help but note that the bill provides for a series of negative norms that will reduce the amount of assistance to families with children, which violates article 22 of the Ukrainian Constitution, which provides that changes to laws cannot violate the rights of Ukrainian citizens and cannot reduce the social protection system. For example, the project that we are currently considering is to remove such standards from the Ukrainian Law on State Social Assistance for Low-Supplied Families, for example, it was envisaged that for every child who is part of a low-supply family, the level of subsistence allowance increases by 10 percent. It was a legal guarantee, it cancels now. Next. The law also provided for State social assistance for low-income families, that the amount of State social assistance increased by 250 dollars per child to 13 years and between 13 and 18 years by 500 dollars. It cancels. What right do we have to aggravate the social protection of children, with only the celebration of Child Protection Day? In addition, the bill stipulates that the government, not parliament, will now determine the conditions for the granting of state social assistance, particularly as a result of the examination of the material condition of the family. So those who had help today, first of all, they're going to be deprived of it, and second of all, they're going to be further tested. And these families, who are so distressed today, will still be plagued by various tests. This can't be allowed. What I'm trying to say is that under the Constitution, we have social guarantees that have to be protected by laws. This law provides that social guarantees will now be paid to the government, not in part, but in part, not by law. There's money, there's social security, there's no money, there's no social security. It can't be like that. With the aim of not allowing for a reduction in aid, we have made 36 allowances, our team, the Fatherland faction, which has left what is good in this law. And we emphasize that there are good things. But the violations of the rights of people, underprivileged families, children of minors permitted by this law were recorded. And that's why I want to say right now that 16 of our rights aren't counted. And that means that there is still social insecurity and worsening conditions for underprivileged families and for underage children. There can be no such thing as taking from some socially vulnerable families, people, and others. Then it will simply be an inhumane absolute view of people. We must now in such difficult times when the coronavirus has ruined part of the lives of Ukrainian families, on the contrary, strengthen social protection, as is done in all other countries. And we're adding, and in principle, we're removing legally guaranteed social protection for underprivileged families and underage children. So our faction can vote in favour of this law if our 16 rights are counted. If our 16 rights aren't counted, we're held up. And then we're going to the Constitutional Court to accept unconstitutional standards that invalidate social protection.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-02-m0.u101	Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-02-m0.u102	Article 9 of the Ukrainian Law on the State Budget for 2020 changed the level of subsistence minimum in children's programmes from 85 to 130 percent. These changes have taken place in the State Budget, and so the level of assistance for children will increase. For children with disabilities up to 6 years of age, there will be an increase of 2,668 dollars. Now they're getting 3558. Following the adoption of this Law, 6226. Similarly, for children under 6 years of age, if there is no disability, it will be increased from 3558 to 4447. Dear colleagues, please see the 9th article of the State Budget, and then tell us that the bill is getting smaller. This bill increases payments to families with children.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-02-m0.u103	Thank you. Pavlenko Yuri Alexiyovich – 2 minutes instead of straight. Turn it on, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-02-m0.u104	Dear Mr. Head! Dear reporter! A lot of my licenses are, unfortunately, out of the question. And I want to testify that our faction "The Opposition Platform for Life" does not support the changes proposed by the authors of this bill on the appointment and payment of state aid. Because I support previous colleagues here, the proposed changes only make things worse and make it less manageable. That's why much of my rights were meant to remove these changes, and it's possible to do that today, and thus unlock the increase in aid to orphans and children with disabilities. Yes, there is one benefit, and I thank you for taking into account the remedy that relates to the fact that this care and care for children with disabilities is not part of the family’s total income. Thank you for having me on the committee. At the same time, I point out that the correction that I insisted on getting this help to the children since January 1st of this year is not supported, because in fact, these costs are foreseen in the State Budget. Children raised in foster homes and in foster homes of the family type are paid for these 2.5 living minimums, and children under care are the same children who have been discriminated against for five months. It's not that big a sum, it's only 2,000 dollars per month for one child, it's 50,000 children. I ask, at least this amendment, that this help be taken into account for the children of January 1, and we have repaid the debt to the children so that the children will not be held accountable for the inaction of the previous Cabinet of Ministers of the so-called Pottery House and the inability of the Supreme Council to adopt laws and appoint them in a timely manner.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-02-m0.u105	Thank you. Galina Mikolayevna, position of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-02-m0.u106	Indeed, with the State budget for 2020, these amounts have been introduced into the State budget. But in order to pay them off, it is necessary to put a date of introduction to the vote. If you put it in, and the hall confirms it, in this case, okay.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-02-m0.u107	Thank you. The number? What's the correct number? Don't we put it in? Thank you. Batenko Taras Ivanovich. Don't insist. Kucher Mikola Ivanovich. Strunevich. Dirdin. Yvchenko is 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-02-m0.u108	Vadim Yvchenko, "Fatherland" faction, Your Honor, you know when the relevant bills enter the Supreme Council Hall, the MPs begin to work actively. You know, "Fatherland" actively, along with the Ukrainian trade unions, has offered a little bit of another model that we've rejected in our work. But most of the Fatherland's rights, as I hear, and other opposition factions were not voted on. Look here, colleagues, the 22nd Amendment, which turns away what she's talking about. As Fatherland, we have offered to recognize a low-income family that has an average monthly income of lower than the actual subsistence minimum. I want to say that the actual subsistence minimum is set by the Ministry of Social Policy, and on December 19th, it was set at 3,000, 750. At the same time, the State budget for the 20th year is only talking about a minimum of 2,000 living. You see how much money this law actually wants to save and not give to low - income families. For example, 43 of my rights, which refers to the size of state social assistance, are defined as the difference between the actual subsistence minimum and the approved minimum. What does that mean? This means that the subsistence minimum, which is approved in the budget, is 2,000 dollars, and the actual subsistence minimum is almost 3,500, and this difference should cover up as the size of government social assistance. Colleagues, this amendment is also rejected. The next amendment, which deletes the paragraph on the level of subsistence allowance, is based on the real costs of the State budget of Ukraine. It's an outdated economically unmotivated norm that makes it possible to underestimate the social security level of the minimum of living each year. We tried to regulate it in legislation. Unfortunately, 46 of my amendments have also been rejected. Colleagues, 74 revisions, where they're being deleted. We have proposed to remove the situation that the decision to reduce state social assistance, which includes non-working workers, is made on the basis of an act to examine the material and household conditions of such a family. Do we want all the underprivileged people to do inventory so they can see what they have? Colleagues, in the face of a pandemic, in a crisis, in the condition that many businesses have stopped, we have to stimulate and support the poor, move to the actual subsistence minimum as flexible as possible, implement such a mechanism so that the difference between the actual minimum and the minimum cost of living, which is approved in the state budget, is provided as social assistance and support. And when we see that from.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-02-m0.u109	Thank you. Vadim Evgenovich, I know you're worried about 22 cases, but it's Strunuevich's, and it's accounted for. We can keep going. Edit 60, Burmich. Don't insist. Kinsburg. Don't insist. Ryab? Tsymbaluk. Two minutes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-02-m0.u110	Mikhailo Cimbaluk, Fatherland. Honorable Chairman, Honorable Presidium, Reverend Galina Mikolayevna! In fact, this bill is already going through a second government, and there are extremely positive things that need to be accepted and given the opportunity, as previous colleagues have done here, so that these children with increased social assistance can get it increased from January 1st, because the money in the budget is allocated. Here's another thing that we're doing with this bill is we're creating a few sub-legal acts where we give the right, we're assigning the Ministry of Social Policy and other social structures to enable them to have the right, and here, think about it, there's a corruption component, come into the family, and determine whether this family that has the right to support such a child needs help or not. If such a norm is removed now, then the faction of Fatherland can support this bill. Next thing. It is very important that social protection in this regard should be based on laws rather than on well - known bylaws. The law in force is, it works. We just need to make changes and raise payments to these families, and that's what this law is. We are concerned about the payment mechanism — a certain verification that will again affect a large part of those families that have such children in their upbringing. And to the end. Julia Timoshenko made it clear about the many children.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-02-m0.u111	Thank you, Mikhailovich. Committee position, but wait. Is there anyone else who's gonna insist on editing? No, it's not. After a statement on the position of the Third Committee, we shall proceed to the vote. Galina Mikolayevna, your word. Please invite the people's deputies to the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-02-m0.u112	Mikhail Mikhailovich, you know, on the committee we discussed whether to grant or not the Cabinet of Ministers the right to determine that. It's because it's given to Kabmin, who did, by the way, a pilot project in the areas of Lvivska (this is your area), Poltavska and Kharkivska, that we wrote in the bill, if he becomes the law, that every year the Cabinet of Ministers should report on the implementation of this program. We have to put this mechanism into place, and in practice, we have to roll it off, and then we have to make changes to the law. European practice, this is done at the level of the Cabinet of Ministers. And, Yuri Alexiyovich Pavlenko, your rights count, para. 81 in part, the table is rejected, but it's partially counted, and as of 1 January, the budgeted costs will be counted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-02-m0.u113	Thank you. Dear colleagues, let's go to the vote. Invite the national deputies to the hall. Dear colleagues, I am voting on the proposal to re-adopt the second reading and, in general, with the necessary technical and legal regulations, the draft Law amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine (registration No. 2494). Ready to vote? Ready? Please support and vote. [[13:26:15]] For 239. Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Thank you. The next issue of the agenda – by factions, show – is the draft Order amending the Supreme Council of Ukraine Decision on the Election of Heads, First Deputys, Representatives of Heads, Secretaries, Members of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the Ninth Call (registration number 3512). It is suggested that this issue be considered in a simplified manner. What about the need for discussion? Yeah? Let's vote. I would like to vote on the motion for adoption of the Decision on Amendments to the Order of the Supreme Council of Ukraine "On the Election of Heads, First Deputys, Deputy Heads, Secretaries, Members of the Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the Ninth Call" (Registration No. 3512). Ready to vote? Dear colleagues, prepare for the vote, please. Ready? Please support and vote. [[13:27:43]] For 223 The decision is not taken. Let's see the factions. You are invited to consider a draft regulation amending the Supreme Council of Ukraine Decision on the Election of Heads, First Deputys, Deputy Heads, Secretaries, Members of the Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the Ninth Call (registration number 3402). It is suggested that this issue be considered in a simplified manner. Please support and vote. [[13:28:29]] For 230 Decision taken. The report is given to David Georgiyovich, a national deputy of the Ukraine of Arahamaiah.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-02-m0.u114	My colleagues, I'm sorry, I thought I was off the scene. We have a decree on some transitions between committees that have been waiting for a long time, there have been many statements from national MPs, especially those from groups that have been informalized before when Parliament has just been convened. And that's why now it's a technical decision that allows all the people's deputies to join committees where they're professional and understandable, and they can do the most they can to our nation. Please support everyone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-02-m0.u115	The report is given to the head of the Committee on Rules, MPs, and the organization of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Sergio Vitaliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-02-m0.u116	The Honorary Presidium, honourable national deputies, the Regulatory Committee reviewed the draft Registration Order 3402, which proposes to select the national deputy Sanchenk as a member of the Committee on Freedom of Speech. And the committee took into account that the Freedom of Speech Committee has a quota for a representative of the Party's "Serve of the People" faction. The Regulatory Committee similarly drew attention to the fact that, at its February 5th meeting, the application of Deputy Sanchenka and the members of the Regulatory Committee had been submitted to Parliament for consideration of the draft Registration Order 3019 and then, when the draft Decision was adopted, it was appropriate to withdraw the draft Registration Order 3019 from consideration as such, which, according to article 95 and the Rules, had lost its relevance. Thus, the regulatory committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine that the draft be accepted as a whole, and also to withdraw the draft Registration Order 3019 as one that had lost its relevance. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-02-m0.u117	Without discussion, we can vote. Discussing? Sign up: two in, two in, two in, two in, two in. Irina Volodymyrna's character.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-02-m0.u118	Please pass the word to Oleg the Synth.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-02-m0.u119	Blue Oleg Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-02-m0.u120	Dear fellow MPs, we continue to have a situation in the session room where deputies are determined not by a professional sign, but by what will be the greatest benefit of their participation in one committee or another, but by the premier quota sign that some MPs are sent and sent to work on one committee or another. In the end, we get the results that are reflected in our quality work here, in the session hall of Parliament, when the bills that come in are not prepared and reflect the professional level of those people who could really prepare them and today are MPs. I think it's time we moved away from this quota division, and we need to get back to national wisdom and national unity in a crisis. But this situation is completely repeating what is now happening in the public service. When the authorities actually "buried" the State Service Bill, which since 2016 has been able to really take people into the public service on a professional, professional basis. And we have for a long time now, when Godfathers, saints, brothers, relatives, and those who do not exactly act and work in the interests of the State. It seems to me that it is very important today not to divide people further by quotas, but rather to unite by a trade mark and to offer both to the committees and to the public service of those who will benefit the State rather than reflect narrow party interests.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-02-m0.u121	Thank you. Shahov Sergei Volodymyrovich. Jacenko Anton Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-02-m0.u122	Sergey Shahov, Luhanščina, Deputy Group "Trust". Dear colleagues, please tell me what we're getting a salary for here. When we push buttons for axles -- 16,000 rights, 5,000 rights -- we sit here with our chairs, we wipe our pants? It's not on the committees today, it's not working for some deputies -- it's Rudik, it's Gerega, who didn't join the committees. Which should also work. And they're not given a simple one, a majority doesn't vote for these questions. Please explain when this will end, though, this vachanal? Thank you. Sergey Shahov, trust MP.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-02-m0.u123	Mother Grigory Mikolaiovich. One of the group.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-02-m0.u124	Please pass the word to Papiev.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-02-m0.u125	Papiev Mikhailo Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-02-m0.u126	Thank you. Dear National Deputies! Dear citizens of Ukraine! Now, you can see that today we are practically finishing the working day of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. At the same time, the Supreme Council of Ukraine did not consider any bill that would apply to people. The only bill before, but false information that has been, has enabled most of you, most of you, to vote on this antisocial law that leads to the poverty of people in general. With regard to this draft decision. Let us approach all the national deputies of Ukraine in the same way and let us not make decisions about membership on committees based on political relevance. I'm explaining to all the Ukrainian people's deputies. This ruling refers to the fact that the Head of the Freedom of Speech Committee is a representative of the Opposition Platform for Life faction. Now it's just that the Servant of the People wants to create their own monopoly on this committee so that they can't stand up for freedom of speech and make decisions on this committee, not out of expertise, but out of political relevance. If the Supreme Council of Ukraine works in this way, we will not have, as we do not have today, normal draft laws that apply to people. You've been dedicating yourself to political purpose all day today, and you've been dedicating yourself all day, and you don't know why, not to mention any words about Ukrainian citizens. Dear colleagues, the same applies to the next draft of the decree. Why are you so selective? Why do you not make a decision regarding all the national deputies who are not members of the committees? So our faction will not vote in favour of this project. We ask for justice and equal treatment.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-02-m0.u127	Thank you. Mikhail Mikolaiovich, we haven't finished our work day, we've got at least an hour and a half left to work. Let's not set ourselves up for early rest. Thank you. Stephanie Olga Anatolyevna.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-02-m0.u128	Please pass the word to the Ironborn.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-02-m0.u129	Our faction will certainly support this decision. We need to strengthen this powerful Committee on Freedom of Speech, all the more so I understand that the next decision is that this committee of Motovilovac's fighters will move on to another committee. That is why we will uphold this decree. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-02-m0.u130	Rudik Sergey Jaroslavovich, "For the Future", for reasons. Then we go to the vote. Please. I repeat, one person from the faction is also speaking from the group. There was a performance from your group, by Shahov. That's why. I did. Presentations from MP factions and groups. They came and asked Rudik to speak, if he didn't, we could change. I don't need to be shown. Once again, your leadership came up and asked for Rudik. No, let them identify another person. Who's gonna come out of "For the Future"? Rudik? Then explain to your colleagues, Taras Ivanovich. Rudik Jaroslav Ivanovich. Sergei Jaroslavovich, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-02-m0.u131	Dear colleagues, you see, it's been so long since I've been a national MP, and there's still no conflict over this issue regarding my last name. I'll tell you that, like the man 20 in this House, I'm still not a member of any committee. On August 29th, in this room, like all of you, I took the oath of a national MP, but someone didn't want me to be a national deputy very much, and I had to wait another two months and re-commit the oath of a national deputy. According to a decision of the Conciliation Council, which was meeting in the old assembly of the Parliament that was preparing the meeting, it was decided that I would be a member of the Committee on Budgets. But once again, someone did not want Rudik to be a member of the Committee on Budgets, as he does. It's better to get some dorks who don't really know how to handle it. I wrote a statement to the Energy Committee. Once again, Rudik is no match, and representatives of oligarchic groups have been reacquiring only Ukrainian energy.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-02-m0.u132	Dear colleagues, let's go to the vote. Please invite the national deputies to the hall. Dear colleagues, please invite the national deputies to the hall. I would like to vote on the proposal for adoption in the entire draft Order amending the Supreme Council of Ukraine Decision on the Election of Heads, First Deputys, Representatives of Heads, Secretaries, Members of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the Ninth Call (registration No. 3402). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[13:41:17]] For 221 The decision is not taken. Let's see the factions. Dear colleagues, I suggest you step over. The procedure is Arahama.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-02-m0.u133	Colleagues, I propose to postpone consideration of the next order. There is such a request. Tomorrow, for instance.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-02-m0.u134	The procedure is Papiev.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-02-m0.u135	This is the case when Ukraine’s national MPs, out of majority, do not take into account the interests of other Ukrainian national deputies who are equal in rights as you are. We were all chosen by the Ukrainian people. We under the Constitution are representatives of the Ukrainian people. And let's not go selectively for someone to vote for, not vote for someone. We're taking all the Ukrainian national deputies who are not members of the committees, and we're making one common single decision, where the professional level will be balanced, and in general that we have the ultimate goal, is the quality of the legislative work. In order for the bills to be put into the hall, they worked on the committees to raise 300 votes in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. So "drink your cup to the bottom." Let's still fail the next decision. And that's going to be absolutely fair. So we're against taking it off the table.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-02-m0.u136	Jacenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-02-m0.u137	Dear colleagues! Dear Mr. Speaker! I think we shouldn't have the Supreme Council turned into a movie like this when it was "The Wedding in Malinovka" and Popandopoulos when he was doing things. So today we have a speaker who is completely authoritarian about Parliament, sometimes we can break the Rules, that's what we're talking about. But today, this vote shows that it is still the Supreme Council, not just someone who is best man, sister - in - law and brother, and one can be on a committee, and the other can't. Let me give you an example. I remember when we walked into this room right now, it was August 29th, then you decided who the committee was going to, we would take it, and we wouldn't take it. And yet today we still need to understand, Mr. Razumkov, that we have the Supreme Council here, not the Ministry, not the commercial structure that the director runs. And you as a speaker are the speaker of the entire Parliament, not just the "Serial of the People" party. So you are asked to form a working group, as it were, and to take into account the demands and wishes of all national deputies.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-02-m0.u138	Dear colleagues, I understand we're looking at it. Dear colleagues, please be quiet. Consider the following decision. But as we return to the appeals of the national MPs. Dear colleagues, there's something none of you want to talk about, everyone in the budget. In the budget, in the taxes. And the reintegration of the Donbass wasn't possible. There was no freedom of speech. I didn't go to the hospital either. And there's not enough budget for everyone. I'm sorry. We are now considering the draft Ordinance on Amendments to the Supreme Council of Ukraine Decision on the Election of Heads, First Deputys, Heads and Secretaries, Members of the Supreme Council Committees of the Ninth Call of Ukraine (registration number 3401). It is suggested that this issue be considered in a simplified manner. Please support and vote. [[13:45:26]] For 229 Decision taken. The report is given to David Georgiyovich, a national deputy of the Ukraine of Arahamaiah. Turn on the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-02-m0.u139	Colleagues, I've basically already told you from the rostrum. It's the same actual decision that just carries the other deputies from one committee to another committee. Please support and vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-02-m0.u140	Thank you for being so concise. The report is given to the head of the Committee on Rules, MPs, and the organization of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Sergio Vitaliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-02-m0.u141	The Honourable Presidium, the Honourable People's Deputies, the Regulatory Committee reviewed the draft regulation (registration number 3401), which is proposed to ensure the principle of a proportional allocation of quotas, taking into account the creation of a new MP group "Trust" in Parliament, to make changes to the personal composition of individual committees, including the selection of relevant national deputies to the Committees: Puzichuk Andrija Viktorovich, Motovilovt Andrija Viktorovich, Jefimov Maksim Viktorovich, Sowsun Innu Romanovna, Ivanchuk Andrija Volodimirovich, Bakunc Pavel Andriovich At the same time, the Regulatory Committee noted that the meeting on February 5th had already considered the conclusion of the draft Decision No. 3002, submitted by Deputys Timoshenko and Soboljev, on the Puzijczuk People’s Deputy and considered, and the application of the Motovílovec People’s Deputy was supported. As a result of the adoption of the draft decree, if the draft Decree 3401 is adopted, it is appropriate to withdraw the draft Decree 3002 as a matter of urgency. In addition, the committee received statements from Puzijczuk's deputies, Motovilovac, requesting them to consider their applications for election to the respective committees along with other applications for election by members of parliamentary committees. Thus, the Regulatory Committee decided to recommend to Parliament that it consider the draft decree and take a decision on it in accordance with article 138 of the Rules. And also take off the draft Decree, registration 3002 as one that has lost its relevance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-02-m0.u142	Thank you. Please sign up for the discussion. Do we need to talk? Yes, it is. I get it. It's an important question. No, there are colleagues who are eager to speak. [[B in m in s a l in]] I totally agree with you. Irina Volodymyrna's character.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-02-m0.u143	Dear colleagues, it's no secret to anyone why non-fractional deputies refuse to enter their primary place of work on the committee. Because that's how the ruling majority try to push independent deputies to push them into the majority that falls in front of their eyes, or in groups that vote from time to time when there are no votes in the majority. And in fact, we think it's unfair to blackmail a national MP's right to work on a committee to press his political position. It's just as bad to see what's going on today with a majority of MPs who, after nine months of work, have finally been allowed to think about the committee they want to work on, not as rams, at the beginning of Parliament where they've been assigned. For whites, budget committees were usually designated, and for others, where God would send them. But actually, colleagues, I want to say that you really don't just have this mess going on in this room. Unfortunately, because of non-professionalism, you've ruined the public service, where I didn't call any last names today, but whoever heard themselves in the word "baran" is also symbolic enough. You broke up the government service today, where there are no competitions and all that. And you think there's no political culture in the room, and everything has to be regulated by law. Take a look at the dress code of this session hall. Someone comes here in the evening pendulums, and someone at the faction leader level is allowing themselves from the highest court to perform, you know, in this way, as if they've just come into the open new sports clubs. We call, by the way, colleagues, to honor this hall and not only to present valid bills here, but also to look like the Ukrainian National Deputies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-02-m0.u144	Shahov Sergei Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-02-m0.u145	Sergey Shahov, Luhanščina, Deputy Group "Trust". Dear colleagues, surely our group will support this bill, that the National MP should still work. We were chosen not to just sit in this room, but to work. It has practically been a year since we were elected national deputies, and, as Sergius Rudik said, many do not work on committees today because there is no political will. Dear colleagues, let us unite around this bill, vote and give the national deputies a job. Thank you. Sergey Shahov, Luhanščina, Deputy Group "Trust".
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-02-m0.u146	Bondar Victor Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-02-m0.u147	Please pass the word to Batenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-02-m0.u148	Batenko Taras Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-02-m0.u149	Dear friends, dear colleagues! With all due respect to the majority, we don't think this bill is completely technical. We believe that if we vote in favour of this bill, in fact, we are violating the imbalance in several key committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine – it is in the financial and energy committee. And, you know, after that. We certainly will not vote in favour of this decree, especially after the vote in this House for Law 1210, and that if the majority fear the creation of a Temporary Investigation Commission to investigate the energy affair, and to express mistrust with today’s acting Energy Minister. So we think that the approach should be conceptual. If we change and want to change the Rules, let's make it clear in the Rules: a clear proportion of the representation of all factions and MPs. Now, without taking into account the number of non-working deputies on any committee, we refuse to vote in favour of any decision that grants or withdraws any member of any committee. Please support such an initiative by all other members of the parliamentary groups who may find themselves in the same situation to be followed and ignored by any committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-02-m0.u150	Jaroslav Ivanovich Železniak.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-02-m0.u151	Dear colleagues! Dear colleagues, today is likely to be a sad day for the Committee on Education and the Committee on Freedom of Speech, and they are losing the fighters of Mrs. Sowsun and the fighter of Motovilovac. But this is a good day for our tax committee, I hope, and the Fuel and Energy Committee, because they get professional committee members who will continue to work for the benefit of the country and improve legislation in the field. So we support this decision and we ask all of you, regardless of factions and groups, regardless of the comments that are in most cases correct, to support the wishes of our fellow members of the people's deputies to change their own profile committee and continue to work on the bill. Once again, I ask you to support this determination, as will the Voice faction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-02-m0.u152	Thank you. Dear colleagues, now with the motives of the Gethmans, a minute. Then we go to the vote. Please invite the national deputies to the hall. Please turn on Daniel Alexanderovich's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-02-m0.u153	Thank you, Your Honor. I want to remind you of the person who took part in the preparatory group before the first meeting of the Supreme Council, where, in fact, a draft regulation on committees and committee management and committee members was being drafted as it was taking place. According to quotas, according to the number of deputies of each faction represented in the preparatory group, committee members and committee management were identified. This has been done absolutely democratically, absolutely transparently with the participation of all the absolutely political forces that have come to Parliament, as well as all that we do afterwards, in accordance with the Rules, without any manipulations or innuendo that we have become accustomed to, unfortunately, to our predecessors in the previous summons. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-02-m0.u154	Thank you. Now and from "For the Future," and from "Trust." No, it's not. Dear colleagues, they've come from both "Trust" and "For the Future." Let's go to the vote. Please prepare for the vote. I would like to vote on the proposal for adoption in the entire draft Order amending the Supreme Council of Ukraine Decision on the Election of Heads, First Deputys, Representatives of Heads, Secretaries, Members of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the Ninth Call (registration No. 3401). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[13:56:23]] For 229 Decision taken. Let's see the factions. Let's move on to the next question of order of the day. You are invited to consider the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Environmental Impact Assessment to prevent the emergence and spread of coronary disease (COVID-19) (registration number 3438). Dear colleagues, don't split up, please. We need to apply the ad hoc procedure for consideration and decision-making at this plenary session. This requires 226 votes of Ukrainian national deputies. Please prepare for the vote. Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[13:57:25]] For 262 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, it is suggested that this issue be considered in a simplified manner. Please support and vote. [[13:57:47]] For 256 Decision taken. The report is given to the head of the Committee on Environmental Policy and the Environment by Bondarenko Oleg Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-02-m0.u155	Good afternoon, dear colleagues. Meanwhile, in almost all areas of activity planned, Ukraine has experienced such a tragic situation when, unfortunately, the spread of coronary disease has stopped and public hearings have stopped. A bill has been submitted to the Committee on Environmental Policy to address this problem. The adoption of this project will ensure that environmental impact assessments are carried out without risk of the spread of coronary disease associated with the need for mass action in the public discussion of planned activities after the environmental impact assessment report has been submitted, while the adoption of the bill will ensure that public perceptions and proposals regarding environmental protection and public health are taken into account in the management of household activities without the need to stop the quarantine of arbitrary procedures. What are we doing? We replace public hearings with electronic suggestions and observations. This position was discussed with the congregation. Many letters from the European Business Association, the American Chamber of Commerce, the large taxpayers, and the Confederation of Ukrainian Builders supported this position. I ask you to support this bill, accept it as a basis and as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-02-m0.u156	Thank you. Did you also speak from the committee, Oleg Volodymyrovich? Honorable Colleagues, Needed Discussions, Can We Vote? Discussion? Please sign up: two for, two for the factions. Hončarenko Alexyyyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-02-m0.u157	I give the floor to a colleague of the Prince's Santa Claus.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-02-m0.u158	Princess Mikola Leonidovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-02-m0.u159	Thank you. Dear colleagues, well, this bill is really designed to ensure that environmental impact assessments are carried out without risking the spread of coronary disease. But that doesn't have to be done with the law, and that's enough to solve the issues that are being raised at Kabmin's level by making changes to Decree No. 989. Why? The adoption of this law will not solve anything because the public's participation in the discussion of environmental issues is contained in EU directives, three of which were implemented in accordance with the Association Agreement. Moreover, public hearings include not only the Environmental Impact Assessment Act, but also article 6 of the Convention on Access to Information, public participation in environmental decision-making. The most effective quarantine will not be to cancel public hearings in general, but to predict the features of their conduct. And that's what the Cabinet of Ministers can do completely peacefully. The thing is, the quarantine itself, you see, they're dynamic. Quarantine has changed 13 times. It may be that the quarantine in the country will continue until the end of the year. Transportation will work, there will be little restrictions, and public hearings will not be possible. And this, in addition to threatening the environment, will certainly be exposed to criticism by conservation organizations. So our faction will be held in the vote for this law. We urge the government to address this issue so that, indeed, public hearings can be conducted effectively. And at the same time, do not violate existing legislation or put all the participants in this process in an awkward situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-02-m0.u160	Please, National Deputy Marikovsky Alexander Valeriovich, faction of the political party "Slut of the People".
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-02-m0.u161	Dear colleagues, well, enough manipulation. Environmental impact assessment requires public meetings. People have to meet in one room and go through this procedure. But during COVID-19 we have no right to allow such meetings. And people can't actually meet. How should this environmental impact assessment take place? Now we're totally changing this procedure just for the quarantine period COVID-19 plus 30 days. All citizens can be sent by e-mail, and they will be heard and included in the environmental impact assessment. But this unlocks the activities of organizations that are engaged in, for example, the mining sector, the Crushing or Naftogaz Ukraine, which will be able to continue their economic activity. So please, colleagues, no manipulation. Support this bill. It's very important during COVID-19. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-02-m0.u162	Please, People's Deputy Lubinets Dmitry Valeriyovich, MP for the Future.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-02-m0.u163	Dear colleagues, a venerable Presidium! You know, it's like everything's fine, it's a fine technical law. Turning to the previous speaker, we should really agree that during the quarantine period we should not meet at the same time as a large number of people and conduct public hearings. Please explain to me why then in this law you have prescribed a rule, you introduce a new part of the second part of article 17 of the law, the provision that "planned public hearings, the dates of which are held during the period of action, are considered to be such that they have not taken place and are not repeated." So if that was not the case, we could agree and vote. And so that's the lobbyist law. You don't want to have public hearings. Although the procedure of the written gathering of people’s thoughts is and may be. And it's a very cool law: we have a coronavirus -- we don't conduct public hearings. We appointed them, they didn't happen, and they don't need them under this law. So I'm sorry, it's a lobbyist law that can't be voted for. The MPs of the Political Party "For the Future" stand firm against it and will not vote. And we urge everyone not to vote in favour of such openly lobbyist laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-02-m0.u164	Please, Tzabal Vladimir Volodymyrovich, faction of the political party Voice.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-02-m0.u165	Colleagues, we've already adopted a whole series of bills that are designed to help business survive and people get jobs and wages. And this bill is actually another step to helping business first. Quarantine restrictions made public hearings impossible, which are an important part of the environmental impact assessment procedure. This means that a number of projects in the construction sector, for example, cannot be launched in the industrial sector. It's an economic loss, it's a job loss, it's a loss of wages, and it's an even greater increase in the coronary crisis. To prevent this, some changes in the ODS procedure (environmental impact assessments) were proposed. And these changes, they provide the public with the opportunity to comment on the environmental impact of written projects. And that's normal, and it's worth supporting. At the same time, it would probably be good to anticipate the possibility of a special public hearing procedure before the second reading. Just to exclude them and talk about what they consider to be non-existent, to do so is really, to some extent, a violation of the rights enshrined in international legislation, in the Aarhus Convention, particularly the right to access information, to the right of the public to participate in the decision-making process. This bill, it really applies at the same time to the fundamental environmental rights of Ukrainians to obtain such environmental information and to take decisions in different processes that affect the environment. The Voice faction supports this bill in its first reading and will work on its completion to second reading and bringing it into proper condition in accordance with international legislation. But only in such a case is it not on the basis and in general, as proposed. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-02-m0.u166	Thank you. From the motive of who? I see. Angelica Victorovna Labunska I see Labunsky Angelica Victorian. And then we go to the vote. There'll be a deputy minister's speech, and then we'll go to the vote. Invite the national deputies to the hall. Please turn on the Labunski microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-02-m0.u167	Good afternoon! Dear colleagues, let's be honest, this is what I told you about at the committee meeting. This law must be adopted. And unfortunately, by decree of the Cabinet of Ministers, if this is provided for by the Law on ODS, we will not be able to resolve this today by changing the situation. You realize today that the granting of permits and many other documents have stopped. We need to adopt it in the first reading, work on the second, but this law needs urgent action. Look, it says, "for a period of quarantine, it's strictly the act of this law." I propose to vote in favour of the reduced procedure for a week, quickly, there are two sentences in this law, in order to solve this painful business issue more quickly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-02-m0.u168	Thank you. The speech is given to Abram Romanovich. From the motive of the minute, and then we go to the vote. Please invite the national deputies to the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-02-m0.u169	Thank you, Dmitri Alexanderovich. Ladies and gentlemen, the Ministry really supports this bill. And the bill itself was written, to be honest, not on the demand of business associations, it came up later, and professional environmentalists, "Ecology-Right-Man," the Professional Association of Ecologists, Save Dnipro, were speaking for actually simplifying this procedure so that the public discussion process would not stop, despite the fact that we want to cancel listening for a period of quarantine. Because the public debate process -- a broader process and public hearing -- is only part of this procedure. In fact, there's a lot of environmental impact assessment that's just going to collapse, and the quality of the assessment is going to go down. We need business today to keep pace, the economy does not stop, taking into account all the public's interests. Thank you. Please support this bill as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-02-m0.u170	Dear colleagues, let's go to the vote. Please invite the national deputies to the hall. As long as the colleagues are meeting. See, the committee is making a proposal to accept as a whole. How many factions against? Why not? So we have a COVID that's going to be quicker than we're going to accept this bill. Are you ready for the whole thing? Who's against it? "To the future," "The Voice," two factions against. Okay. Ready to vote? Let go of the whole thing? I am voting on the proposal to adopt the draft Law amending the Law on Environmental Impact Assessment on the Prevention and Dissemination of Coronary Disease (COVID-19) (registration number 3438). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[14:11:33]] For 255 Decision taken. The law is adopted as a basis. In general, too? Short-term procedure. I'll bet you a vote. In accordance with part two of article 116 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules, I am voting on the proposal to cut back on half of the sentences and allowances and prepare for the second reading of the bill (registration number 3438). Please support and vote. [[14:12:17]] For 277 Decision taken. The next issue is the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation on the first steps of business deregulation through civil liability insurance (registration number 3361). We need to apply the ad hoc procedure for consideration and decision-making at this plenary session. Please support and vote. It takes 226 votes. Please support and vote. [[14:12:57]] For 284 Decision taken. It is suggested that this issue be considered in a simplified manner. Please support and vote. [[14:13:16]] For 268. Decision taken. Needed Discussion? The report is given to the head of the Committee on Financial, Tax, and Customs Policy of Bilkova Olga Valentinovni. Please give me four minutes, from the author and from the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-02-m0.u171	Dear colleagues, thank you very much for your attention. Today we're looking at a bill called "The Introduction of First Steps to Business Deregulation by Insurance of Civilian Responsibility." In fact, this problem exists, and as far as I can remember, this room is being discussed. This approach is fairly liberal, replacing fire safety tests that are not effective today. And this is recognized by both the profile minister and the head of the State Oversight Service. They admit that today they cannot deal with their own state in 2,400 inspectors of the 300,000 businesses that are in Ukraine today. They're indistinguishable businesses. There's a business where there's a low degree of risk of fire hazard, it's medium, and it's very high. What do the authors of this bill propose? We offer those who understand their own responsibility to third parties, and these are the customers of the company, those who come to restaurants, to cafes that can happen, if there's a fire in a certain room, they usually don't get any compensation. Do you know how many of our citizens have been compensated for the recent loud fires that have taken place in Odessa, unfortunately, and in other cities of Ukraine? Zero didn't get much. Only when it comes to political publicity is it already that Kabmin is gathering from the reserve fund to make some copies of it. At the level of law today, we suggest that those who voluntarily, quite expensively, insure their own responsibility to third parties, not for their property, not for their employees, but for third parties, and, God forbid, they will be harmed, they will be able to receive compensation from insurance companies. What's the motivation in business? We suggest replacing the schedules. I pay your attention, there are many myths around this bill. We're only canceling the planned part. If there are reasonable grounds to believe that there is a systemic fire safety breach in one company or another, it is possible for the State Oversight Service to check in advance. In this bill we came up with this, we suggest that we do this first step only for a low and medium degree of risk. The Ministry representatives themselves, I don't know if they've joined in today, they've admitted that in these companies the risks are that they're all about formalism, and in fact, no inspector can guarantee today that the fire won't happen. That's why if we see that between the first and the second reading there's a form that makes even more transparent and correct the choice of insurance companies, today any insurance companies like state, non-state, state companies we don't have right now, but those who have been professionally engaged solely in these risks, we prefer to create the right motivation for business today to act responsibly. By the way, that's what they do in America, in Germany, in almost all European countries, where business doesn't start without insuranceing its own risks to third parties. I very much ask your support, and I hope that we will collectively find a very good approach to second reading in order to make the bill even more effective. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-02-m0.u172	Thank you. Sign two in, two in factions, please. Vitatrovich Volodymyr Mihajlovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-02-m0.u173	Please pass the word to Nina.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-02-m0.u174	Eugene Nina Petrovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-02-m0.u175	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues! In fact, a lot of what my colleague has said is true and is the aim of the authors of the attempt to liberalize approaches to state control over fire safety. But, as always, the point is in particular. Please state that State control is aimed at detecting violations and preventing violations and ensuring the public’s interest in fire threats and that insurance is provided to third parties. At the same time, if a business entity has secured such responsibility, the planned checks do not come within 60 years. How big is this insurance going to be in a year? As a result of the minimum amount of insurance and premium, about 25,000 dollars a year. Can a small business entity afford to pay such money a year? Maybe. But those who are now, for example, trying to insure their responsibilities are exclusively large business entities who are doing this with the aim of insuranceing the objects in the case of cooperation with banks. So an institution like this, a tool like third-party liability insurance, we don't have it in Ukraine. However, we still have a standard in the draft Law that the insurer, for example, who has entered into this contract and then terminates it in a timely manner, reports the State Supervise Authority that the contract has been terminated. And then the DDSN can plan to conduct a planned inspection. And why don't we do this system at the level of cooperation between them right now? And DNSN can plan a job taking into account the kind of insurance they're making.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-02-m0.u176	Please, National Deputy Stefanishin Olga Anatoliyevna, faction of the political party "Golos". Jaroslav Ivanovich Železniak, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-02-m0.u177	May 29, 2016, fire in Kyivska house for elderly people was 18 victims. October 2, 2017. Five people died in a fire in a hostel. August 17, 2019. In Odessa, eight people were killed in a fire in a hostel. Do you know what links these events to other than tragedy? The fact that none of them have received compensation from those who died and suffered in these disasters. In our country, there are tens of thousands of fires a year, and the damage is about 32 million dollars a day, and the damage is usually not covered by anyone. And it's this bill that we're doing one of the first steps, a small one, but still in order to normalize the responsibility for fires. You can choose as a business whether you get insurance, the same way you usually get insurance on your car, when there's liability for both property, and unfortunately, damage to the lives of third parties, the same thing you can do in business. And that only applies to scheduled tests. I am grateful here, by the way, for the ex-Minister of Economics, Stepan Ivanovich Kubi, in which a normal Law of Verification was introduced. He regulates cases where these tests are necessary. But if we're talking about planning checks, insurance is a worthy alternative. My colleague just talked about the big money -- 25,000 dollars for an entrepreneur. Yeah, that's what insurance costs, but it's much better than a corrupt bribe to a checker. Therefore, honourable colleagues, a great request both from us and from business to support this bill as the first step of deregulation of checks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-02-m0.u178	Kirilenko Ivan Grigorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-02-m0.u179	Belkova.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-02-m0.u180	Belkova Olga Valentinovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-02-m0.u181	It's on. Thank you very much. Once again, colleagues, will anything change after this bill? It will definitely change for those conscious of their responsibility. This bill changes the rules for people who understand this responsibility and who are willing to voluntarily insure themselves and their, let's say, renown, their own business so that, God forbid, if there is a fire, they will have an additional opportunity to compensate through the insurance company. It doesn't change the limits of criminal responsibility, it doesn't change the limits, well, and morals, including responsibility, but it actually creates the basis for all of us to feel a little bit more protected. We're all visitors to restaurants, cafes, even this room today, God forbid that it happens here, we don't have to look to the state with you, we have to expect market mechanisms to protect the responsibility of third parties. I recall that as passengers, we are insured, and the owners of the car are not willing, but they are sure to insure their own responsibility. We're taking this step to show that Ukrainian business can deliberately start doing this, and then it's going to become massive even without the law. And for now, we're only making one small concession -- we're changing the schedule of scheduled visits, leaving the general responsibility of the Public Oversight Service, and they're okay with it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-02-m0.u182	Please, National Deputy Papiev Mikailo Mikolaiovich, faction of the political party "The Opposition Platform for Life."
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-02-m0.u183	Honourable Ukrainian National Deputies, respected Ukrainian citizens, I am first of all addressing Ukrainian citizens now. You see these lobbying laws again. Today, no law has been considered by the Supreme Council of Ukraine regarding people’s interests. I'm reading this law, you know, and again, I have this double feeling: we're being told how good it is here, and I'm telling citizens, it's totally lobbyist law. This is again a law that works for insurance companies. In order to find the truth and the truth of my words confirmed, you should take simple statistics on insurance companies in Ukraine, how much they collect insurance contributions and how much they pay the ratio in an insurance case. You will see that in Ukraine, only 30 percent of the funds raised are directed by insurance companies. These are companies that are actually working for us today, 70 percent of the contributions they put in their pocket. And how can this law place public functions, such as audits, technological and fire safety on insurance companies? And this is not the object of their activity. Dear colleagues, this law violates the main article – article 3 of the Constitution of Ukraine, that man, his life is the greatest social value. And the state is accountable to man, not man to the state. Dear colleagues, let's put an end to these lobbyist laws. Let us, however, mention people rather than take the last penny from people and destroy businesses and businesses in Ukraine. Stop your lobbying and let's do some work for the people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-02-m0.u184	Please, National Deputy Negulewski with a motive. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-02-m0.u185	Dmitry Davidovich Kisilevski.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-02-m0.u186	Good afternoon. Dear colleagues, good afternoon. A very important bill for both business and citizens. For no one is the secret that there are two opposite problems with the testing of firefighters. The first is that dishonest inspectors sometimes treat what is called business, and the underprivileged entrepreneurs, on the other hand, violate the rules of fire safety, which result in bad and sometimes even tragic consequences. In any case, there's only one person left, because first she'll pay the amount of gratitude to such an inspector for the value of goods or services, and then she'll have to suffer in the fire, and she'll be looking for compensation for a very long time. The bill proposes that businesses voluntarily insure their responsibility to third parties and free themselves from planned, planned, and not pre-planned checks. The insurance company is much more difficult to bribe, so for a person, for a citizen who uses this kind of business, it'll be safer and more guaranteed he'll get compensation, don't let anything happen to God. And the law’s standards apply to objects with an average and minor risk of danger — usually small and small.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-02-m0.u187	Dear colleagues, have all those who wish to speak? Let's go to the vote. Please take your seats. Invite the national deputies to the hall. I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Act amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine concerning the first steps of business deregulation through civil liability insurance (registration number 3361). Please prepare for the vote. Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[14:29:26]] For 264 Decision taken. Thank you. In general. All of it? No, committee against, two factions against. No, it's not. I see. Dear colleagues, let's move on to the next issue of the agenda. Draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the Supreme Anti-Corruption Court on the provision of premises and other matters of the work of the court (registration number 3348) Do you want to talk about it? It is suggested that this issue be considered in a simplified manner. Please support and vote. [[14:30:25]] For 256 Decision taken. The report is given to the head of the Anticorruption Policy Committee of Radin Anastasia Olegnowni.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-02-m0.u188	Good afternoon, dear fellows! Colleagues, this bill is very important to ensure justice in high-level corruption and to prevent prolonged deliberation. This bill contains technical but very important standards. There are really only two of them, colleagues. Just two sentences. First. This is the term of office of the investigating judges of the anticorruption court. Now it's a year. There is a proposal to allow the court to extend this term to three years, as in all other courts. What is the importance of this standard? Due to the forced rotation of the investigating judges in September in an anti-corruption court of nine colleges, a colleague will be left with only three. This is not enough to allow us to expect decisions and the results of the court’s work, and this needs to be corrected, colleagues. The second norm of the bill, it provides for the right of the anti-corruption court to manage property in the field of its administration. It's a technical norm. The state of the court is now the chief cost manager, but it is not the owner of the property. That means he can't spend the money that he has on repairing the room that he is. The Ministry of Justice made it clear that this should be regulated at the legislative level. Now, colleagues, I have to inform you that the Committee on Anti-Corruption Policy has ruled out this bill, a rule that applied to candidates for the posts of investigating judges. I'm sorry. There is no such norm in the bill. So, indeed, there are two sentences left in the bill. The Committee on Anti-Corruption Policy at its meeting has considered a bill and recommends that the Supreme Council approve it on the basis and in general, taking into account the Committee's proposals, delete paragraph 3 of chapter one of the bill. And I have to inform you, colleagues, that the bill also supports the Supreme Anti-Corruption Court, whose head of the Apparatus is now in the Hall. Thank you very much, colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-02-m0.u189	Thank you. Please register by faction: two in favour, two in opposition. Cabal Volodymyr Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-02-m0.u190	Jurchisin Jaroslav.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-02-m0.u191	Juršin Jaroslav Romanović.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-02-m0.u192	I'll be very brief. The Supreme Anti-Corruption Court is now showing very good statistics. Now we see how these judges work. And to support this law on the basis and in general to help them work even more effectively. Please be supportive. The Voice faction supports it.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-02-m0.u193	Katchura Alexander Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-02-m0.u194	Alexander Kachura, "Serial of the People" faction. It's actually a good bill. Indeed, those discussional questions about the requirements for judges were ruled out. And just now, the head of the committee said this under the transcript of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And we've really given the Supreme Anti-Corruption Court the opportunity to work. This is such a technical moment, but we need to remember that we're going to unlock his work and give it a chance to deal with top-corruption. That is why I am now addressing the judges of the Supreme Court. We're doing everything we can to make it comfortable for you to work so that you're independent. There's no pressure on you right now. So please make sure that justice is done in the country. And draw on responsibility, though, and look at the things that you have there right now. There's no reason to take things up on top-corruption right now. Thank you. And I also propose to support the bill as a whole. Our MP faction will vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-02-m0.u195	Pavlenko Rostislav Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-02-m0.u196	Please give the word to Ruslan Knazevitch.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-02-m0.u197	Ruslan Petrovich Knazevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-02-m0.u198	Thank you, Mr. Head. I'm on my way. With regard to the possibility of managing property, it is certainly necessary to maintain and move on, and this should apply not only to the Supreme Anticorruption Court but to all the higher specialized courts. That's what we agreed on. I think this position is generally accepted. Similarly, with regard to investigating judges, of course, from the very beginning when the bill was drafted, there was a proposal to adapt it to legislation that extends to the courts of general jurisdiction. But somehow that proposal did not pass, so they decided to give us a trial term. Now we go back to this proposal and we support it here too. With regard to the third part of the possibility that all law enforcement officers who have a 10-year term of office should return to the opportunity to participate in the competition. We are definitely against this proposal and frankly, thank you to the committee for noticing. I hope that we will remove this from the text of the bill in the session room, because the committee's decision is not sufficient, the committee's decision in the first reading is not a committee decision in the second reading, but in the first reading. Therefore, Mr. Head, if this is a consensus in the Hall, please make the appropriate decision to take into account the Committee’s proposals for the deletion of the third paragraph. Then you can vote for it. Otherwise, this can only be voted on the basis of a second reading and corrected by the content of the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-02-m0.u199	I'll comment right away. Even suggested: taking into account the committee’s proposals. If that's the basis, and hopefully that's how it's going to be. The next performance is Papiev Mikhailo Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-02-m0.u200	Thank you. Dear colleagues, first of all, I am now addressing the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. We have a working group that is currently dealing with the rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and bringing it to the rules of the Constitution of Ukraine, and in general that we have the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules to promote legislative work as bills that are being prepared. Look, I have, I've been asking you, the proposal was that the findings of the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration would mean something to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. What the committee is doing right now, because it's also a lobbyist law, they're taking and protruding their standards, and I'm showing people who are watching us on TV, observing science and expertise on the four pages and general conclusion. I read to make it clear that there are deputies in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The general conclusion is: "The first reading of the bill is that it is appropriate to give back to the subject the right of legislative initiative for further development." I mean, respectable colleagues, you don't respect yourself, so let's respect the professionals who've been preparing, who have the appropriate experience, who have the knowledge, who have the professional level. That is, if today, the Ukrainian National Deputies, you vote for political purpose or as your superior has said, let's still respect those people whose work is presented to us in the conclusion of scientific and scientific management. Our faction is going to vote against it, and we're going to make sure that the expertise is confirmed and that these bills are sent for work, as our own science and science management is proposing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-02-m0.u201	Thank you. Mikhaylo Miklaiovich, I will comment on this. In fact, our scientific expertise is very professional, and unfortunately, in a large number of your bills, we're not getting very good conclusions, I mean political power. But I'm not saying that, I think it's important that everyone understands that there are no bosses. The chieftain for each national MP is the Ukrainian people. If you have others, I'm sorry, but it's not for us. Thank you. Kabachenko Vladimir Viktorovich, and we go to the vote. Kabachenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-02-m0.u202	Thank you. Honorary colleagues are talking about the work of the Supreme Anticorruption Court, which consists of 28 judges, and the annual detention of that court costs 300 million dollars to the State. This is the same court that began its work on September 5, 2019. Today, we have only seven sentences. In general, 240,000 dollars have been raised to the State’s budget. So if the Supreme Anti-Corruption Court needs to adopt this law more effectively, a law that allows the administration and management of property, as well as an increase in the term of the investigating judges from 1 year to 3, then the "Fatherland" faction agrees to support this bill on the basis of the condition that the third paragraph of this bill is deleted. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-02-m0.u203	Thank you. Did everyone want to come out? Please invite the national deputies to the hall, prepare for the vote. While the national MPs are coming together, can you please tell us that we can vote both on the basis and then on the whole? What factions against? Papiev, I understand. Factions, too, huh? "The Opposition Platform for Life" against. Who else is against the whole? None. It's just the opposition platform. Ready to vote? I am voting on the proposal to adopt a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the Supreme Anti-Corruption Court on the provision of premises and other matters of the work of the court (registration number 3348). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[14:41:41]] For 260 Decision taken. Let's see the factions. Dear colleagues, perhaps in general, too? I'll bet you a vote. According to part two of article 116 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules on the Reduction of Half of the Deadline for Proposals and Rights and Preparations for the Second Reading of the Bill (Registration No. 3348). Please support and vote. [[14:42:26]] For 248 Decision taken. The next bill is a draft amending the Ukrainian Law on restructuring the debt of the Antonov State Enterprise on clarifying certain issues of debt restructuring with the aim of creating premeditations for the provision of premises to the Supreme Anti-Corruption Court. It is suggested that this issue be considered under a reduced procedure ( bill No. 3350). Please support and vote. [[14:43:11]] For 242 Decision taken. The word for the report is given to the national deputy of Ukraine, Radiniya Anastasia Olegovni.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-02-m0.u204	Good afternoon, dear fellows! It's also a very simple bill designed to pass on to the Supreme Anti-Corruption Court this is the room where it's physically now on the Prospect of Victory. This place belongs to the Antonov State Enterprise. Unfortunately, Anton's State Enterprise has a very large debt. This debt is 500 million. Each month, 10 million dollars are spent in the administration of this debt. A corresponding agreement was reached at the level of the Cabinet of Ministers, at the level of the Ministry of Finance, Ucroborprom, the state-owned company Antonov, to transfer the premises in which the anti-corruption court is located, in fact, to an anti-corruption court at market price, with a corresponding reduction in the debt obligations of the state-owned company Antonov. I'm holding a letter from the Antonov State Enterprise saying that they support it. Colleagues, it's economically advantageous, it's simple, and this is one sentence that I would also like to support as a whole. Thank you very much, colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-02-m0.u205	Thank you. The report is given to the head of the Economic Development Committee, Natalusi Dmitry Andriyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-02-m0.u206	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues, first of all, I would like to take this opportunity on my own behalf and on behalf of the Committee on Economic Development to express my sympathy once again to my family, to my loved ones, and to my colleagues in the "Trust" faction regarding Valery Mikolaiovich Davidenko. This is our colleague, and I assure you that we will honor his memory, his actions, and his accomplishments. With regard to the bill itself, I would like to tell you that this is, first of all, a bill, not about an anti-corruption court, but about an Antonov factory and industry in general. So the first person we contacted was the head of the Antonov DP, who confirmed to us that he was supporting this bill and he was in the interest of this state enterprise. With this in mind, the committee considered the bill and recommended that the Supreme Council of Ukraine should be considered and recommended to include it in the agenda of the day session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and, as a whole, the results of the first reading review should be accepted as a basis and as a law of technical law. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-02-m0.u207	Thank you. Need to discuss this bill? Please sign two in, two in, and two in factions. Jacenko Anton Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-02-m0.u208	Dear colleagues, I give the word to Bondar, he asked for it simply.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-02-m0.u209	Bondar Victor Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-02-m0.u210	Dear colleagues, this bill is all you need to know about the approaches of the vast majority of the "Serves of the People" and the government from "Serve of the People" to the leadership of the state-run Antonov enterprise. Instead of figuring out why there's so much debt and supporting Antonov's domestic airline, they're taking down a central building in the central province of Winning in Kiev. Let's rob Anton's, solve for all their debts and just put a dot on what this enterprise existed. Your Deposit Guarantee Fund has only sold dozens of buildings in the last year for bank robberies and everything. So you didn't find a house there to give to the Supreme Anti-Corruption Court, you decided to rob an Antonov State Enterprise, take this place away from them, and you show us a letter that the company itself says it's in their best interests. Yes, and what will the director sign if you run it and you assign it, and you release it? What's he up to? It can't be like that. But let's include state logic: why do enterprises take a central building in the central city of Kiev and rob it and essentially start putting a dot in its existence? You're looking for a facility for an anti-corruption court, and look at the state institutions that are in Kiev, see what you sold out through the Deposit Guarantee Fund. Cancel what you did, and there you will find dozens of facilities for an anticorruption court. Do not rob the last strategic airline in Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-02-m0.u211	Oddzuk Andri Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-02-m0.u212	Please, the word of Jurchino Jaroslav.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-02-m0.u213	Juršin Jaroslav Romanović.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-02-m0.u214	This bill must be supported on the basis and in general, because economic affairs, budget allocations are always the basis, in fact, of independence. The independence of the judicial system and its individual components is an extremely important component, so we need to vote. And those who have joined the theft of state enterprises who are now breaking their hands that something is not being passed on, just turn around and think about who did it. Now it's the order to have a judicial branch of power that has to be independent and have the opportunity to be independent and in economic format. Vote is on the ground and on the whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-02-m0.u215	Gerasimov. Kubi Stepan Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-02-m0.u216	Dear Mr. Head, Your Honor, Your Honor, your colleagues! I will really support the position that we discussed on the committee. And today our committee head was talking about the Antonov DP. But we should remember that the commitment of the Kyiv Aviation Company "Aviant" to the state was similarly united in the Antonov DP. We're talking today about a reduction in debts of more than 500 million, we're talking today about that this position that we've put on the committee meeting was confirmed by a letter that Mrs Anastasia today showed that the Antonov DP and the manager signed the position. Along with this project, we are proposing to regulate the legal relations associated with the functioning of the Supreme Anti-Corruption Court, and we are talking about the provision of premises, including the minimization of the cost of repair approved by the budget voted this year. At the same time, these commitments made by the State of Ukraine to the international society, and I want to say that when the committee met, there was a direct broadcast between the representative of the anti-corruption court, between DP Antonov, and these demands that were made by members of the committee are fulfilled today. At the same time, I would like to say that the role of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine should be to regulate their legal responsibility and their legal decision that this debt should actually be repaid, and the burden on the plant would be reduced by more than 500 million. You can take this decision with technical law and support this bill. And I want to say that the faction of the European Solidarity political party will support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-02-m0.u217	Taruta Sergey Alexiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-02-m0.u218	Good afternoon, dear fellows! There's actually the address and guidance of Anton, and the anti-corruption court, but if you take the essence of this law, it's still raw, and you can only accept it in the first reading, because unfortunately, the authors of this law didn't say that this debt, which would go down to the cost of this building, is clearly not prescribed when it would go down -- in the end or every quarter or from the beginning. And so I'm going to propose that I vote in the first reading, and then after a brief procedure, I'm going to re-read it, because now it's raw. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-02-m0.u219	Dear colleagues. Coltunovich Alexander Sergiyovich. All those who wish to speak? Everybody here? Alexander Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-02-m0.u220	Thank you, Reverend Dmitri Alexanderovich. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to address our constituents. When I first saw this bill on the Economic Development Committee, I was happy at first because I thought that what the President said about the state support for the aviation industry was finally true, and we're going to get government orders to build airplanes, to get state-owned planes from Antonov on internal flights, and we're actually going to have an airline that will serve and use our planes. But what do we see? In its essence, the support of the state-owned company Antonov is not about the development of new cooperatives, not supporting the high-tech sectors of the national economy, not supporting aviation, not increasing the export of aircraft, I want to say that now 0.1 percent of exports -- that's what you're proposing today. And that's why we won't support him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-02-m0.u221	Dear colleagues, prepare for the vote, please. On the basis and in general, will there be no objection? It won't. Who's against it? "Fatherhood" is against, "For the future" is against, "Trust," "Trust" is against. Okay. Then we vote on the basis and we shorten the lines. Please prepare for the vote. Ready to vote? Not so much so far. I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the Restructuring of Debt of the State Enterprise Antonov on clarifying certain issues of debt restructuring with a view to creating preconditions for the provision of premises to the Higher Anti-Corruption Court (registration No. 3350). Ready to vote? Ready? Please support and vote. [[14:55:15]] For 251 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, in accordance with part two of article 116 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, have put to the vote the proposal to cut back on the proposal and the right and prepare for the second reading of the bill (register No. 3350). Please support and vote. [[14:55:51]] For 240 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, are we considering another bill? And how everyone wanted to work. Okay, four minutes left, okay, then we don't go into the bill. The morning meeting of the Supreme Council is closed. Thank you all.
