ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-19-m0.u1	Good afternoon, dear fellows! Good afternoon, fellow members of the media! Please prepare to register, take your seats. Please invite the people's deputies into the hall. Are you ready to register? Please prepare for registration. Are you ready to register? As always, I remind you, registration takes place by pressing the green button, the first one on the left. Ready? Please register. [[10:13:37]] There are 211 national deputies registered in the hall. [[B in m in s a l in]] Look, fellow officers, the system shows 246 national deputies in the hall. Did you mix the buttons or what? Oh, they didn't insert cards. Andrew Anatolyovich, how could you do this? Dear colleagues, you've been working here for many years, you know that even if there are no 226 in the register, it doesn't affect the opening of a meeting, it affects the decision-making process. Right? Yeah. So why do you propose to close the meetings, Your Honor? I understand we're not here as long as you are, but not so long as we don't learn. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear colleagues, today in our colleague Victoria Alexander's Mushroom is a birthday. [[Applause]] With a feast of you! Happy birthday. Health in the first place, success and achievement, and such flowers each day. With a holiday! A statement came from two MPs about a break with a replacement for the performance. Shahov Sergei Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-19-m0.u2	Sergey Shahov, Luhanščina, Deputy Group "Trust". Dear colleagues, please consider this speech as an address opened to President Vladimir Zelensky of Ukraine. I want to explain that our team has been fighting politically in Luhansk for decades, and we are used to political persecution. We were pleased that President Zelensky, who became President in April, had dissolved that Parliament. All Lugansk was satisfied. Our foundation is named after my name, which I am responsible for, and I help 20 years after my mother left this world. She helped children, and we also help for 20 years. I've assembled a big team, and no one can say today that our team has won in some dirty way. People will appreciate all the work of this Parliament and appreciate the work of all the authorities in our country. Yesterday I'm told from Lugansk that they're after public volunteers and activists. While a police sergeant throws his wife out of the fourth floor, she's all broken up in the hospital, covered by the chief of police, Severodonetska, who's behind the robbery of a billion dollars at the expense of five years, is now covered by the chief of police in the Luhansk district. They're stalking a grandmother who's 65 years old, a second-degree disability, and they're not looking aside what they've done over the last five years. There's a smuggling frenzy, there's a drug trade. On more than one occasion, I stated that 120 criminal acts were violated on my claims. Public officials are being persecuted, looted mines, factories are being looted, scrapped into scrap metal, forests are being exported, and fossils are being mined. And everyone's quiet. Shahov goes out to the rostrum once, two, three, five, ten in that call, and in that -- no one hears, they only do politics. Churchill said, "Who does politics, loses. Whoever's in charge of helping people and building a state is going to win." So let us win together, not persecute public officials and volunteers. Let us put in prison those who have robbed the state in 28 years, who are still looting today. And people see it, they're going to come to that conclusion not only in the local council elections. You don't have to play, I want to say again, in elections and politics. Take up the building of the state, you were chosen by the people.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-19-m0.u3	Thank you. Dear colleagues, another statement came from the factions of Voice and European Solidarity. Irina Volodymyrna's character.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-19-m0.u4	Dear Ukrainians! On behalf of our political team, we want to thank the thousands of Ukrainians who came to the cave court yesterday to express their strong protest against the transformation of Ukraine into a totalitarian state. Of course, yesterday at the cave court, where, you know, we felt like we were moving in the time machine in Yanukovich's time, because Judge Vuk was once again on trial, because again young prosecutors were hiding their eyes. We want to thank you that there was not only our faction in full stock, but also our colleagues in Voice, in which we believe that the common values are the inability to convert Ukraine into a totalitarian police state. And, of course, it's very wild that there were no other political factions there yesterday, including those leaders that we loyally defended 10 years ago from political persecution. We're waiting for you on July 1st to get together to fight a rematch. And of the thousands of Ukrainians gathered at the cave court, we want to make demands in this session hall. Our team will never be intimidated. And not only our team, because the whole pro - Ukrainian society is being united around us today. We're not going to give you any English. We're not going to give you an advance on the Ukrainian army. We need to attack the enemy, not judge veterans and volunteers right now. We will not give you any sign of faith. The army, language and faith are not only the slogans of Ukraine's fifth president and our political team, it is the foundation of an independent Ukraine. And if someone doesn't understand something in power, it's very loud yesterday that thousands of Ukrainians have told you, only those who have come to fight against the quarantine regime. And you know, it's a great shame when today our international partners, who have so loyally supported Ukraine five years ago, today just have their hands down from disappointment, the disappointment of this green young team, who instead of uniting the country around fighting the aggressor, around fighting our enemy Putin, because today he is an enemy of Ukraine who has not left Crimea and Donbas, you continue to fight against political opponents. It's petty, it's very rude, it's vile, and it's especially vile to do at a time when, you know, the person you're fighting is going through a personal tragedy today -- the loss of a father. And those millions of Ukrainians who understand that language is going on today, and not just with Dusty, with our political team, but with Ukraine, we want to say thank you for your support. And we're not afraid, we're together, and we're fully defending.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-19-m0.u5	Let's get to work. Dear colleagues, Prime Minister Denis Anatoliyovich Schmigal and members of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine are taking part in the meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Hello. [[Applause]] Dear colleagues, on the Conciliation Council, it was determined that members of the Cabinet of Ministers would today answer questions about the organization and the conduct of an external independent evaluation in Ukraine in 2020 and the use of state budget funds to counter the spread of coronary disease. The rules were proposed by the next and supported by the Conciliation Council: 10 minutes is given to the rapporteurs. Then they take their place in the government’s bed. And questions come from MP factions and groups: a minute to a question, two minutes to answer. Each faction is determined by which minister it refers. We now have 20 minutes to ask questions from Ukrainian national deputies. Is there no objection? None. Then the Minister of Finance, Sergey Mihajlovich Marchenko, is invited to the podium.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-19-m0.u6	Dear Chairman, distinguished national MPs! Without a doubt, the state and all its citizens are interested in the active and transparent use of budgetary resources. For the Ministry of Finance, this is a priority and a principle, especially in a tense situation caused by a pandemic. I will note that the Cabinet of Ministers, along with the Supreme Council, have found a tool to meet this challenging challenge. In April, Parliament approved the changes to the 2020 State Budget prepared by the Ministry of Finance. In fact, we adopted a budget for an extraordinary situation that required strong, balanced and well-designed decisions to protect all citizens and all the social groups that were waiting for the help of the state. In a context of economic downturn, we have provided the maximum resources to counter the coronavirus, support for people and the whole country. We've accumulated 64.7 billion dollars to fight the coronavirus. Briefly on the mechanism and the results of its activities. For Minfin and, I'm sure, for every national MP, it's a fundamental task for the foundation to be transparent and cost effective. To that end, we have taken two steps into the Fund’s activities. First of all, this is the existence of a well-founded protocol decision on the need to allocate funds. The second is the implementation of this decision. The cost of the fund can be directed towards measures to prevent the emergence, spread, localization and elimination of outbreaks of the epidemic and the COVID-19 pandemic; additional payments to medical and other workers who are directly employed in disease eradication; provision of financial assistance to citizens, in particular those of the elderly due to the negative consequences of the spread of the coronary disease; transfer to the Pension Fund of Ukraine; provision of financial assistance to the Social Insurance Fund and the National Unemployment Social Insurance Fund; and other policies envisaged by legislation. In order to use the COVID fund, each phase of the allocation and use of the funds is clearly defined. The term of the Fund is calculated for the quarantine period and the following 30 days after its official completion. This is important in view of the risks of a resurgence of the pandemic. We have to be ready for any option, although of course we're counting on a positive scenario. Of course, Ukrainian citizens are interested in the financial situation of the fund, since it is a strategic tool that the state is opposed to the pandemic. I report that on June 18, 2020, the government decided to allocate $36.1 billion to the fund. In particular, a government decision of 19 billion dollars has been taken, as well as protocol decisions of 17 billion dollars. Taking these decisions into account, the fund’s balance on June 18 amounts to 28.5 billion dollars. On June 16, cash costs amounted to 0.9 billion dollars. First of all, the expenses provided by the Cabinet of Ministers. The government has decided to channel nearly 9 billion dollars from the accumulated funds of the National Unemployment Insurance Fund. This is vital in view of the increase in unemployment as a result of quarantine. In particular, 4.7 billion dollars were earmarked for partial unemployment payments for quarantine on a non-refundable basis. 1.27 billion dollars -- to help with unemployment from the date of quarantine until the end of the budget period on a rotating basis -- about 3 billion dollars -- to pay unemployment benefits on a non-refundable basis. On June 9, 428,000 people are receiving unemployment relief. That's almost twice as much as last year. It is now decided to provide partial unemployment assistance to nearly 11,000 employers. In total, more than 110,000 workers receive it. There's 1.6 billion dollars available to help children of entrepreneurs. It's about the individuals who are entrepreneurs that are members of the first, third group of single tax payers. A few words about the cost mechanism. We're directing them to regional social protection agencies. From there, the money is counted to the structural units for direct assistance. A child’s payment is assigned to a parent or caregiver with whom a child is permanently living. Each such child will receive the cost of living the minimum that is set for appropriate age groups. This is 1779 bracelets for a child under 6 years of age and 2,218 bracelets for children between 6 and 18 years of age. A total of 285,000 families receive assistance. 100 million dollars are provided to health care facilities that provide fixed medical care to patients with COVID. It's about buying artificial lung ventilation devices. The distribution of equipment is carried out by the Ministry of Health between the district’s structural units and the Kyiv city’s public administrations. Nearly three billion dollars are available to prevent outbreaks of the epidemic and the COVID pandemic. Of these, 650 million dollars — laboratory units of the Ministry of Health, 2.3 billion dollars — for the purchase of individual health care facilities that provide hospital care to patients with COVID and emergency medical care. Two and a half billion dollars are provided to help the Social Insurance Fund. Of these, 471 million dollars is for the payment of material security and insurance payments. It is one - time assistance to family members and other health - care workers who, unfortunately, died of COVID. 1.8 billion dollars is to pay for the material security on a reverse basis. 233 million dollars is on the insurance payout provided for by the People's Protection Against Infectious Diseases Act. 2.7 billion dollars refer to additional payments: up to 50 percent of the salary or financial provision to military personnel, police and related categories that ensure the vitality of the population. 23.7 million dollars are funded for measures to overcome COVID in institutions that execute sentences and investigative isolations of the Ukrainian State Criminal Enforcement Service. 52.5 million dollars to pay back the amount paid for the test external independent evaluation in 2020. As for protocol decisions taken by the government. The main budget managers are preparing draft government decisions for COVID totalling 17 billion dollars. In particular, the funds of the Pension Fund, the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Education and Science, the creation of safe conditions for the implementation of the DPA and other measures. It's a principle for us to avoid any misuse or misuse of funds. For Minfin, this is a top priority. Such threats exist in view of the chronological crisis and the simplified order of the state. We are trying to avoid them, including in the process of negotiating with the International Monetary Fund during the programming process. Under the initiative of the Ministry of Finance, the Cabinet of Ministers has adopted a decision to open beneficial owners in the purchases of COVID. We realize that auditing is a key mechanism that allows us to avoid and detect abuse, and to that end, the Ukrainian State Audit Service is continuously monitoring the use of funds. The current task is to compile and analyse information from the State Department, the ILO, the Ministry of Economics, the Ministry of the Economy, the Ministry and other public authorities. It's about the allocation mechanism and the implementation of the fund's expenditure. We're also doing daily monitoring of ProZorro's electronic system, processing a list of customers who made risky purchases. Cooperation with law enforcement authorities has been established with regard to the exchange of information on risky purchases. The territorial authorities of the Derjaudit Service are involved in the local controls. Since June 9, the Ministry of Health has been responsible for monitoring the services of the Ministry of Health, and since June 16, the Derjaudit Service’s territorial units have started checks at 27 health facilities. I would like to point out that there are only institutions that are not directly involved in the eradication of the disease and have no quarantine restrictions. Once again, I would like to stress that the excess of Minfin is to ensure maximum control and targeted use of the fund's funds. Thank you for your attention. I'm ready to answer the questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-19-m0.u7	Thank you. Have a seat, please. On the platform, the Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine, Ljubomir Stepanovna Mandy, is invited to speak.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-19-m0.u8	Good afternoon, honourable chairman, distinguished national MPs. External independent evaluation will take place in a safe environment in accordance with the recommendations of Ukraine’s Chief State Medic. Now we have everything ready for an external independent evaluation from June 25th to July 17th. External independent evaluation is the guarantee of fair and objective evaluation, as well as fair and transparent introduction. In 2020, 379,000,493 participants registered for the main external independent evaluation session, which chose 1 million, 227,000, 154 tests. For all participants, the Ukrainian Centre for Quality Assessment prepared 82 000,890 audiences at 5,000, 188 test sites. One million 166 thousand 280 certified test reports have already been printed. To be tested in safe conditions, 3 million 230 thousand 104 medical masks, 3 thousand 250 contactless thermometers, 11 thousand 630 medical kits, 104 thousand 382 liters of antiseptics, and 28 thousand 100 liters of surface disinfectants have been purchased and delivered together with partners. In order to conduct an external independent evaluation, 242,000 650 workers and 11,000 630 medical personnel are involved. In 17 areas, individual protection and safety measures have already been delivered to all testing sites, and they are ready to be tested by the State Food Service. 7 other areas and the city of Kiev are finishing their transportation today and on Monday, and they will also be ready for inspection of the State Food Service. I'm going to point out that the readiness of the test points, starting today, is controlled by the Maintenance Service according to the special protocol. We've developed safe algorithms for carrying out and importing participants in external independent evaluation. The individual offices of the participants contain video instructions on the rules of conduct, the conduct of an external independent evaluation. In particular, an action algorithm for a participant in an external independent evaluation. They all received invitations to determine the time of entry, place, and time of testing. Participants on their own or in an organized transport will be brought to the test site. Testpoints are allowed from 9:50 to 10:50. In the street, in front of the test site, in the corridors themselves, you have to keep a social distance. And the participants will be informed and already know. At the entrance, participants will be given thermometry and an assessment of signs of acute respiratory disease. They'll get all the masks and they'll be able to disinfect their hands. After identification, the participant passes to his audience. The cursors are followed by the attendee and are re-identified. Upon completion of the test, the participant submits the form and throws the used mask into the specified urn at the exit of the test item. Each step a participant takes is thoughtful. All participants and instructors are familiar with the rules. We will monitor compliance with all these rules in order to carry out the external independent evaluation safely, and it was safe for all. At the same time, yesterday you passed a law that liberated the general secondary education community from mandatory public summary attestation. This will reduce the number of participants in external independent evaluation. Emphasis is placed on the fact that the approved law does not cancel an external independent evaluation for graduates who are to enter higher education institutions. When it comes to reimbursement for a trial of external independent valuation. Because of an epidemiological situation, the government had canceled the training facilities that were ready to be carried out. Anyone registered for a test WNP was able to obtain or load a test notebook and reply form, send answers to the result-detection service by 18 o’clock today. And by June 23, each member of the probationary WHO gets their results in his office. In addition, unlimited access to tests from all subjects has been opened. I'm going to point out that there were only two test subjects. Unlimited access was opened. And we know that statistics show that the number of people who took it. The number of WCO participants has been accepted. the ability to use, have tried their forces practically all of the subjects from which the test tasks were provided. Costs for a trial of external independent valuation will be returned to the participants. On June 17, the government approved the use of funds. Total return 52 million 450,000 dollars. This decision was made in accordance with the mandate of the President of Ukraine. And I thank the members of the budget committee very much, because this morning the budget committee supported this decision and agreed on the allocation of funds. The refund will take place through Private Bank. All members of the test KNZ who have private bank cards will receive text messages from the phone number that was given when the registration was made with the cost accounting information. Those who do not have a credit card will receive text messages indicating that they have a return card at the nearest branch of the bank. Let me sum it up. The Ministry of Education and Science of Ukraine, Ukrainian and regional centres for quality assessment of education, district government administrations and KMDA are ready to conduct an external independent evaluation from 25 June to 17 July in safe conditions. We are obliged to provide an honest and transparent introduction. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-19-m0.u9	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please sign up from the MP factions and groups for a question to the rapporteurs. I would like to remind you, at the beginning of the question, to whom do you address the question, please contact the minister of finance or the minister of education? Hončarenko Alexyyyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-19-m0.u10	Alexei Hotcharenko, European Solidarity. I have a question first with the Minister of Finance of Marchenk, who reported today. Please tell us we have a second reading of the Act on the Playing Business. I keep in mind that this is the fate of the people and many families who have suffered this, we are bringing this evil back to the country. But for the second reading, it is suggested to reduce the substantial cost of licenses in order to be able to do business. What is your attitude toward this? And then how much will this bring to the state budget? Because we were told it was very important to support the state budget. And the second question I have is perhaps to Mr. Prime Minister. Please tell me after yesterday's rejection of the government's action programme, do you feel like you should resign because you don't have parliamentary support in the parliamentary-president state? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-19-m0.u11	Dear colleagues, questions to the rapporteurs. When asked by the deputies, you can ask them and other members. Sergei Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-19-m0.u12	Thank you, Your Honor, for asking. Of course, we're looking at billing on the gaming business in part of filling the income part of the budget. We think that the license fee should be proportional to those, let's say, so that it's fully included and secured and could be paid both by the operators and we could fund the budget. As for these bills that you said were MP bills. We'll be working with them on the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-19-m0.u13	The sin of Julia Mikolayevna.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-19-m0.u14	Thank you. I have a question before the so - called Minister of Education, Mrs. Lubomira Mandji. Ms. Lubomiro, the question is about respecting the rights of children with special educational needs during the formation of the WCO. Please tell me whether certification work for visually impaired children will be carried out this year. Are professionals prepared and printed in Braille? How inclusive is COD for children with other forms of nosology within the classroom under quarantine? It's about the adjusted ride, the pandas, the direction to the right audience, the toilets, and so on. Thank you. And the second question. How can children from boarding homes who have been returned to their families throughout Ukraine reach the point of formation of the U.N.A.? Because the distance between the place of residence and the COD is often very large. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-19-m0.u15	Thank you for asking. From the first. We have not had the first year of an external independent evaluation for children with special educational needs. In the course of registration, the participant notes his special educational needs, and the regional centres create conditions for the conduct and participation of such participants in external independent evaluation. In particular, there are those test sites that provide barrage and access, including those printed for Braille testing, as required. And there are experts who can test these tests. On the other hand, we have a developed mechanism for bringing children, participants in external independent evaluation, to test points. And in each individual case, it will be arranged to bring such participants to the test site. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-19-m0.u16	Thank you. Bondar Victor Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-19-m0.u17	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I'd like to ask the Prime Minister Mr. Schmigal. That's my question. Tell me why your government has decided not to set aside.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-19-m0.u18	Victor Vasilovich, I'm sorry to interrupt. But once again, I say, question or finance minister, or a colleague from the Ministry of Education. When they're from the People's Deputies, please contact the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-19-m0.u19	I understand what you're going to do. Then give me back a minute, I'll ask you a question.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-19-m0.u20	I'm coming back. Please return the time.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-19-m0.u21	I'm asking the Minister of Finance a question, and he's already there with the Prime Minister. Tell me why the government can't and won't allocate funds for socio-economic development to deputies and to districts where there's no MP from the People's Service? I have, for example, in my home district of Andrew Kovpak, the youngest and most successful mayor of Deražni in the Hmelnicki district, can't finish the central park because you're cleaning up costs, cleaning buildings, some roads. Vitaly Zdebsky, the Old Man Society, could not complete the platoons, repairs to the district hospital, and cleaning facilities were to take place. Basil Annchuk is the village head of my family's Vinykovites. I've already spoken and said many times, we can't finish the treatment plant, we can't finish the sewer work, we're going to finish the stadium this year. Starocostins, Mikola Stepanovich Melniczuk. We were going to graduate from school five, and I spent two years beating them up, and they were going to do it today. Why you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-19-m0.u22	Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for asking. You know, there is a fair distribution of social and economic development subsidies at this point in time, and a government decision is now being prepared that will include the distribution of this subsidy. Regarding your objects, I think that if they are, they will be given to the Ministry of Regional Development, and they will be included or not included in the relevant decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-19-m0.u23	Thank you. Tetjana Mikhaylovna's crying.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-19-m0.u24	Pass the word to Koltunovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-19-m0.u25	Coltunovich Alexander Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-19-m0.u26	Thank you, Reverend Dmitri Alexanderovich. I'll have a question for the Minister of Finance. According to Appendix 2 of the Ukrainian State Budget Act, we plan to borrow 642 billion dollars in 2020. Of these, 377 are domestic loans and 265 are external loans. In this regard, I have a question. Are you planning for 2021 additional borrowings, and how will you calculate the income portion of the budget, taking into account this shameful situation that took place this year? This is the first moment. And second moment. With regard to the failure to implement the budget that began in September of this year, how will you also stop this negative trend? And the third. Here we've been informed by colleagues from the Budget Committee that you don't know the parameters of government debt. Have you learned what a sovereign debt we have? Thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-19-m0.u27	Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for asking. It's about the loan. You are well aware that we are acting in a way that is provided for by law. The State Budget Act provides for both external and domestic sources of borrowing. At this point, we are fully implementing all our projected borrowing plans from both external and internal sources. I guarantee you that the loan plan will be implemented by the end of the year. With respect to the budget in 2021. We're preparing proposals now. You realize that this year’s deficit was related to coronary disease, and we are not a unique country. Other countries, such as the United States, Britain, have a budget deficit of 14 percent of GDP, and we only have 7.5. Italy, Spain, up to 10 percent. So we also respond to the challenges, we respond to the pandemic, we respond to the crisis, and it's a normal situation if we have a deficit and what we borrow. It's about the budget failure. At this point in May, the General Fund of the State Income Budget has been implemented. Income is also expected in June. Moreover, I want to say that the task is to have the income plan implemented by the end of the year. It's a matter of government debt. I can tell you the number of government debt that we have today. Literally, one second, especially at the moment, the external debt is 752 billion dollars. Internal debt is 852 dollars, external debt is 1 trillion 83 million dollars. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-19-m0.u28	Thank you. Please, National Deputy Kirilenko Ivan Grigorovich, faction of the political party of the All-Ukrainian Union of Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-19-m0.u29	Thank you. And please give my word to my colleague Zimbaluku Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-19-m0.u30	Please, Cimbaluk Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-19-m0.u31	Thank you. Mikhailo Tsimbaluk, "The Fatherland" faction. Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Secretary, I have two questions. The first is to the Minister of Finance, briefly. You're predicting a May month pension index. And the question of who will return the index to the Ukrainian pensioners even if it was first January of this year because people don't know the answer. And the second question. Yesterday the chief physician of the military hospital, John Hoyd, died in Lviv. This is a colonel of war who saved thousands of Ukrainian military lives. Today, payments have been blocked for families of dead medics, as well as compensation for all who have been disabled by the medical profession. The Social Insurance Fund cannot pay such costs. When, specifically, will people begin to receive this compensation? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-19-m0.u32	Thank you for asking. Honourable People's Deputy, on the subject of indexation. I hereby state that at the time our government was appointed, we began to take on this issue with responsibility. With the changes to the budget that you supported, in April the pension fund was earmarked for the pension index. And what I want to say is that we're predicting indexation to do in the next year. So this is normal practice when we do the index every year. With regard to damages, I believe that this issue will be resolved quickly when the relevant acts are brought together by the Ministry of Social Policy. The appropriate decisions of the government will be brought up for consideration as soon as possible. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-19-m0.u33	Please, Deputy People's Party Sukhov Alexander Sergiyyovich, Deputy Group "Trust".
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-19-m0.u34	Thank you. Alexander Sukhov, Luganshina. Please give the floor to the ready-to-be-deputy "Trust" group of Oleg Kulinic.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-19-m0.u35	Please, Kulinich Oleg Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-19-m0.u36	Thank you. I have a question for Finance Minister Sergey Marchenk. The government general budget deficit at the end of last year amounted to about 26 billion dollars. The biggest problems we had were customs and tax services, the biggest non-recovery. As far as I know, there's been staff rotations in both tax and customs. Therefore, specific questions. Are you now satisfied with the work of these structures - customs and taxation? What is done in these structures so that this problem that we had at the end of last year is not present in this year? What kind of work? How do we make sure that really the main contributors of the state budget, customs and taxes, work rhythmically and so that we don't have any problems that were at the end of last year? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-19-m0.u37	Thank you for asking. It's a matter of work, efficiency of customs work and tax on my personal control. I want to tell you if I'm satisfied with the work of tax and customs, at this point, it's too early to talk about it. We can only talk about this in December when we don't have to make any changes to the budget, and we can clearly say that we're going to fund all the expenses. So at this point, we're forming teams and customs work and tax work is going to be estimated closer by the end of the year. Thank you for asking.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-19-m0.u38	Thank you. Please, national deputy Stefanis Olga Anatoliyevna, faction of the political party "Golos".
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-19-m0.u39	Please pass the word to Alexandra Ustinov.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-19-m0.u40	Didn't I hear who?
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-19-m0.u41	Alexandri Ustinovy.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-19-m0.u42	Please, Alexandra Ustinova.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-19-m0.u43	Thank you very much. I'll have a question for the Minister of Finance. The question will be very brief. Please tell us, today we learned more faithfully, on Wednesday we learned that 2.6 billion dollars from the hedge fund had been diverted, were supported by the government to redirect this money to the Ministry of Internal Affairs and nearly 67,000 police officers who are now beating people on the streets. To compare, we have only 12,000 medics who have received support from the COVID Foundation, which is the pay they were promised, which is far less than 300 percent. Please tell me, did you personally support such a decision? Do you think it's fair that only 1 out of every 10 medics, when we have more than 6,000 infected medics, will they get help right now and get extra pay for fighting COVID and every other police officer? 12,000 medics and 67,000 police officers. Please tell me what it was. How it was based on what it was.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-19-m0.u44	Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for asking. I don't think it's right to compare medical work with police work. But with regard to this decision by the government, yes, internal affairs authorities have also been involved in actions to combat the coronavirus and quarantine measures. And, yes, the right decision was taken by the government, and, yes, I voted for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-19-m0.u45	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, let us turn to questions to members of the government from national deputies. Please sign up for the question.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-19-m0.u46	Andriovich Zinovy Miroslavovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-19-m0.u47	Good afternoon, fellow MPs! You know, the last week of the accident was in the Ivano-Frankiv region. More than fifteen bridges were taken away, dozens of settlements were cut off from the signs of civilization. I'm talking to the minister of infrastructure. How can it comment and take steps to include additional funding, road subsidies for bridge restoration, roads, especially municipal property? Because at the moment the budget of local communities lacks road subsidies, it is not possible to reestablish those connections that are now in a neglected state that are bridges, roads, and roads. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-19-m0.u48	I'll start to answer, pass the word to the minister of infrastructure. First of all, the distinguished national MP, in fact, in four areas, suffered damage everywhere. We've already talked about this, and we've run appropriate committees for you and for you. We need to take them in areas, including in Ivano-Frankivsk, to determine first what damage people, households, the road fund and the bridges you mentioned. There are reserve funds, both district and local, and state funds. With the right solutions, depending on the level of emergency, the funds are recognized and transferred to eliminate the immediate consequences of the natural disaster. This is the first procedure. And what you're talking about in general, spending on local roads and bridges, now there's a total of 22 billion for repairs, reconstruction of local roads. We also work in the ministry on a separate program of bridge repair and construction, including on roads of local importance. In principle, I have answered your question. So now it's important that the bridges, the local bridges and the local roads be equipped with appropriate project and cost documentation. These are small costs relative to the cost of repairs and construction. We need to prepare a design and cost-effective, expert conclusions and deliver them, and we're going to find the source. It is important for us to develop infrastructure, such as bridges, bridge infrastructure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-19-m0.u49	Tarasenko Taras Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-19-m0.u50	Good afternoon. I have a question for the Minister of Finance regarding the State Court Administration and the financing of the courts. There is now a very difficult situation regarding the inability to send correspondents in connection with the government’s budget deficit. Please answer the first question, how will you solve this problem? And I would also like to point out that, at present, a commission at the Ministry of Finance of Ukraine has not been working for six months to control the expenditure of the SAA, which is also unacceptable.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-19-m0.u51	Thank you for asking. Let's get the commission back on track. With regard to the recovery of expenses. I'm going to remind you that we changed two months ago and unfortunately the previous government didn't anticipate enough spending for the State Judicial Administration, and we had to take into account that someone had a reduced expenditure, the State Judicial Administration had to increase the complexity of the situation by 1 billion dollars. We're also taking into account today's difficult situation, if necessary, we'll find the funds. Thank you for asking.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-19-m0.u52	Polakov.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-19-m0.u53	I have a question for Mr. Prime Minister. I have repeatedly asked you about the situation in the Chernigiv region regarding the distribution of a forward-looking plan and territorial reform. Instead of the five areas that require community creation, four are created. The distribution, the territorial distribution of communities, has also become unconformed with the unified territorial communities. The governor made his own vision of this prospect for Kabmin. He can't hear people. And this Tuesday, there was a storm in the district of the Chernigian government. I'll remind you that the last time that happened was during Maidan. So the situation is very tense, and our governor is engaged in a self-piar, board, and political campaign, and he has the worst results of working among ODA's captors. I ask you to pay attention and address this issue, because there is a very serious situation in our area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-19-m0.u54	Thank you for that signal. The government made all the decisions. The distribution of outlook plans for the regions in Ukraine has been completed. It took place using all the positions and methodologies. An appropriate large working group was working on it with the participation of national MPs, with the participation of experts, Ministry of Regional Development staff, other authorities, including representatives of communities, district councils, district administrations. So today, I repeat, the forward-looking plans are approved and agreed upon. The distribution of areas is part of an administrative reform that envisions the creation of a so-called sub-regional level of government. And it's not about local self-government. So here's the question of methodology, before the formation of areas. I don't see any intrigue or misunderstandings for the community. Regarding the distribution of communities. If there are objective reasons rather than political reasons, let us work on them. There's a profile committee, there's a professional working group that's working today. If there are mistakes, we will look for ways to correct them, but this will be possible after the appropriate local elections are held. Work should probably be done immediately so that communities understand what the process is and understand the objectivity of making all decisions. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-19-m0.u55	Mealer Victor Nichiporovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-19-m0.u56	Please pass the word to Bondar Victor.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-19-m0.u57	Bondar Victor Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-19-m0.u58	I address Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Denis Anatoliyovich. I still have a question, I repeat. I know for a fact that now the government is cutting down the cost of repairing sewers, schools, sewage, plumbing and so on in the districts where MPs from the "Serve of the People" have come. Tell me, what kind of practice is this? What have those who voted for other political parties done? They also voted in the presidential election for Vladimir Alexandrovich Zelensky. They voted for the People's Servant, for the Party, not just for the Marjorie MPs. And I think they deserve the government to evenly distribute funds across Ukraine. I want you to make a firm promise to the whole country that the funds will be distributed across every district, every district, every district. What statistics and tables will be published throughout the country, to whom and to what parties whose parties and deputies have been allocated funds for the district and for which objects.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-19-m0.u59	Terminology is not valid. The government doesn't cut anything. The government approved the distribution of funds for socio-economic development. There is a formula and it provides for a proportional and even distribution of government funds for socioeconomic development in areas. Further, the competition procedure is followed when a district commission and a state commission selects one or more objects. The distribution by region is absolutely uniform according to the formula. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-19-m0.u60	Kuznitsov Aleksandrovich
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-19-m0.u61	Please pass the word to Lovey Dmitri.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-19-m0.u62	Again, who? Lab? Laba Mikhailo Mikhailovich. Please turn on the Laby microphone. My love, Dmitri Valeriyovich. Please insert the card.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-19-m0.u63	Dmitry Lubota, 177 District, Kharkish, "Serve of the People" faction. Mr. Prime Minister, I am convinced, despite yesterday's vote, that the government will still carry out the work programme presented. It's going to be hard, you have inherited problems that were created decades ago, but it's up to you to solve them. Now I'm sending two petitions to you, each signed by a few dozen national deputies. The first relates to the responsibility of the State for improper governance in 2011-2019, resulting in the transfer of millions of debt to small villages for the construction of underwater pipelines. The second is a critical situation with the preservation of the National Archives Fund documents, which directly affects the state's information security system. I ask you, Mr. Prime Minister, to resolve these issues under personal control. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-19-m0.u64	Thank you. We will, indeed, work on the programme that we have jointly worked on, the government, the Supreme Council, the Office of the President, which is based on the President of Ukraine's pre-election programme and its decrees. As far as you're concerned. As we agreed, these appeals will be under control. Please send them and we will continue to work on them accordingly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-19-m0.u65	Oddzuk Andri Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-19-m0.u66	Please give Inni Sussoon the word.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-19-m0.u67	Sowsun? Sussun Inna Romanovna
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-19-m0.u68	Good afternoon, dear fellows! I have a number of questions about education. I would be very happy to address them to the Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine, but we do not have a Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine. That's why the first question I'm addressing is the Prime Minister. Mr. Prime Minister, we are now entering an introductory campaign. We're starting to have an external independent evaluation. In these circumstances, we don't have a minister of education and we don't have a director of the Ukrainian Centre for Quality Assessment. I'd really like to hear the answer to the question, when do we get these inmates of the appropriate department at this difficult period of the start of the introductory campaign? And the question of the acting minister. They're coming from the regions, and they're asking a lot of questions about the Wealth School program. Do people want to know if the money will be spent on summer vacations to finally start the repairs promised under this program? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-19-m0.u69	Thank you for asking. We have an extremely professional and responsible minister of education and science. I would like to thank her for her responsible and completely professional attitude and work. With regard to assignments. I'm sure you'll see soon enough. Regarding funding for the New Ukrainian School and, in principle, funding, it's open. I'm going to ask the finance minister to comment now, to complete the funding of the New Ukrainian School program, from which time we've opened it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-19-m0.u70	We'll be able to fund the program according to the use order. And in the near future, the cost can be used. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-19-m0.u71	Dear Inna Romanovna, I'd like to update myself on the program "Big School for Better Results." Today, the session of the commission ended, and decisions were made. We've agreed on projects in the fields. And in the near future, we will inform the district government authorities of the decisions taken by the commission for the participation of the members of the Supreme Council who are members of the commission. We agreed on all the areas, except for the city of Kiev. This was transferred to Monday. Costs are already directed at district budgets. There's a monthly distribution approved. And it predicts the use of funds during the summer period. And we're also counting on schools, because there's already all the design and cost documentation, we're going to be able to implement the projects by September 1st. And in order to use the funds, all projects are to be completed by 31 December 2020. Thank you for your question and your attention to the issues of education.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-19-m0.u72	Germano Vasil Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-19-m0.u73	I'm asking you to pass the word to Crybaby.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-19-m0.u74	Tetjana Mikhaylovna's crying.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-19-m0.u75	Thank you. I have a question for the Minister of Economics. Please tell me, a month ago, your deputy was in the Balgrad region and looked at the losses our agrarians suffered because of the drought this year. Then he promised the people that they would pay off the government, that they would pay off the budget to these agrarians. I have spoken to you several times, and people have called to you. Sadly, though, there is no payment today. And even you say the answer. You told me there wouldn't be any payments. So, please, honestly, will the government help these agrarians who have suffered today, or will it not? Thank you. And the second question is, I want to ask the Minister of Education. Will the order of payments be reviewed for doctors, including those who enter the emergency services station? Because you've also received a lot of references from Ishmael, Balgrad, from doctors who haven't received it today, who are working in emergency care stations, and they don't get any payments, that's 300.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-19-m0.u76	You can answer that. Thank you for asking. Indeed, there is a difficult situation in the southern Odessa region. We continue to study the question. Right now, we don't have any private sector aid mechanisms in the Cabinet. But we're studying the question. And I think we need to work with the committee to find maybe some kind of legislative solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-19-m0.u77	Is there going to be an answer?
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-19-m0.u78	I think the honourable national MP has gone awry. I asked the minister of education, but it was about paying the doctors. Perhaps it was addressed to the minister of health. We have 300 percent of the salary allowance for all without exception doctors and health workers who work directly with patients with COVID-19, including emergency medical care. If we're talking about the Odessa area, there's a clear definition of the brigades that work directly with the moody patients, go out on the right calls and get that supplement, and all the costs are counted and counted in enough time.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-19-m0.u79	Mushroom Victoria Alexandrovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-19-m0.u80	Dear colleagues, first of all, to the Prime Minister. Denis Anatoliyovich, we thank you very much for your consistent position in addressing the critical situation in the coal sector. The only thing miners now, you know, they just held their breath, they were ready to go to Kiev. And we know that their representatives were here. But your last statements gave them hope, and they look forward to the day when these words will come to an end. That's the first question. And the second. In the Donetsk region, unfortunately, you can't use those loans that are 5-7-9. I very much ask you to pay attention to this, this is both Donetsk and Lugansk. It's said that it's very risky to give credit there now. And how, then, do we transform coal regions, someone will answer that? Take care of those questions, please. And I very much ask your help in the Donetsk and Luhansk region. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-19-m0.u81	Thank you. Dear Victoria Alexandrovna! Congratulations on your birthday! I join those greetings that were today. Regarding the use of Ukrainian coal produced by government mines The government has made an appropriate decision for the heat - generation enterprises of state-owned property, and it will soon be published, enter into force. And indeed, miners will be able to sigh with confidence and relief and continue to be confident of tomorrow and in their profession. As far as credit is concerned, it's 5-7-9. The fact is that this program has been transformed, and in fact this program provides for a zero-percent loan for an existing small and medium-sized business that has loans. So it's a program to refinance existing loans, it's a risk of zero because it's issued existing loans. So it's very important that banks and I talk about it so that they can give additional communication to their micro and small business customers about what they can do through this program to get so-called loan vacations -- zero percent on credit, plus the suspension of the loan body payments by the end of this year. With regard to the new lending programs "New Money" under state guarantees, actually under 10 billion dollars, it's at work and will soon be launched to support small and medium-sized businesses. Thank you. Thank you for asking.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-19-m0.u82	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the "hours of questioning to the government" are over. Thank you, Mr. Prime Minister, thank you, fellow officials of the government. I suggest we move on to our work. Thank you, Denise Anatolyovich. Dear colleagues, you have been invited to consider the draft Decision on the appointment of the Minister of Environmental Protection and Natural Resources of the Republic of Ukraine (registration number 3586). The question of the appointment of a member of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine is addressed by the Supreme Council of Ukraine in accordance with articles 83, 85 and 114 of the Constitution of Ukraine, which includes the majority of Ukrainian national deputies from the constitutional composition of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and which has the right to coalition of parliamentary factions in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Ukrainian Prime Minister Denis Anatoliyovich Schmigal introduced to the Supreme Council the appointment of Abramovska Romanović as Minister of Environmental Protection and Natural Resources of Ukraine, and the materials were distributed to you. The next order of business is proposed. Presentation by the Prime Minister of Ukraine in up to 2 minutes; a candidate for the Environment and Natural Resources Minister in 3 minutes; questions to the candidate from the MPs and groups in up to 21 minutes; questions to the candidate from the Ukrainian National Deputies in 6 minutes. After that, the committee's report is up to two minutes and the decision is made. Are there any objections to order? We can work. Mr. Denis Anatoliyovich Schmigal, Prime Minister of Ukraine, is invited to the floor.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-19-m0.u83	Your Honor, Mr. Head of the Supreme Council, Your Honorable Presidium, Honorable People's Deputies, Honourable Ukrainians! You know that the government made a decision and the Ministry of Energy and Environmental Protection was divided into two ministries: the Ministry of Energy and a separate Ministry of Environmental Protection and Natural Resources. Appropriately today is the need to appoint a minister of profile, which will greatly improve the quality of work in the field of environment and environmental protection, the use of natural resources. Romana Romanovich Abramowski is an active deputy minister of energy and environmental protection. He has been in office since October 2019, and he has had an extremely successful job experience both in business and in the public service, in the government. So after our interviews, it was decided with Roman Romanovich that he would take on such a great responsibility for the ecology of Ukraine, and the corresponding submission was made by me. Therefore, I would like to consider in accordance with paragraph 12 of the first part of article 85 and part of the fourth part of article 114 of the Constitution of Ukraine, at the suggestion of the parliamentary faction of the political party "Slut of the People", which, according to part of article 83 of the Constitution of Ukraine, has the right to coalition of the parliamentary factions in the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the ninth call, the appointment of Abramovian Romanović as Minister of Environmental Protection and Natural Resources of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-19-m0.u84	The candidate for Minister of Environment and Natural Resources of Ukraine, Abramowski Romanović, is invited to speak.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-19-m0.u85	Good afternoon, distinguished national MPs! In fact, there are many challenges to environmental policy today. All these challenges are understandable to us. I know exactly what to do to eliminate both the effects of industrial pollution and to adapt or prevent climate change, many issues in forest management, many issues in waste infrastructure, including radioactive waste. We entered a period of low water. This is also a challenge that will have to be met and combated by using all the resources and capabilities available to us. And there are questions about fish farming and fisheries policy, including. I know I have a clear plan of how to make fisheries and fisheries in general benefit the state, not individual businesses, but the state of Ukraine. If the Ukrainian Parliament gives me the opportunity to demonstrate myself as Minister of Environmental Protection and Natural Resources of Ukraine, I will soon present a clear and progressive plan that will be in line with the government's programme of action. You had the opportunity to familiarize yourself with her environmental block, I don't think there were any significant remarks to it. We're going to make a clear plan for the implementation of this program and we're going to do it throughout the entire cadence of our government. Thank you very much to the government, to all the Ukrainian government, for dividing the ministries that were united in the summer of 2019. This will allow more focus in our ministry on environmental policy and on the cost-saving use of natural resources. I hope that I will work very fruitfully with Parliament, because without Parliament we will not be able to carry out the systemic reforms that are in place today. It's a reform of the wood market, it's a reform of the fish sector, it's a reform to control industrial pollution prevention, adaptation to climate change, waste trading systems, including. I'm ready to answer all the questions of the national MPs. I'd like to thank you for your support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-19-m0.u86	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please sign up for a question to a candidate from MP factions and groups. Please. National MP Ruššin Jaroslav Ivanovich, faction of the political party "Golos".
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-19-m0.u87	Please give Natalia Pipi the word.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-19-m0.u88	Again. I didn't hear.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-19-m0.u89	Good afternoon! I have this question in general with environmental assessments (I would ask you to step away from me so that I can see the minister) as a matter of environmental assessment and, in particular, as a matter of concern throughout Ukraine. I am interested in the region of Lviv and Lviv. Please tell me, what are you going to do to change that?
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-19-m0.u90	Thank you for asking. If you're talking about a strategic environmental assessment, there's actually an adopted bill that basically formalized the process of strategic environmental assessment, but didn't fill it in. That is to say, in most cases it is a formal procedure and a formal approach for the subjects of the evaluation to make such an assessment. We plan to change it at all, make proposals for a change to a bill on strategic environmental assessment to really make sense of it. So that this evaluation, when we talk about assessing government planning documents, should really take into account the interests of the community, the environmental aspects. If we're talking about assessing state programs, targeted state programs, so that we can actually evaluate for a long perspective, what will be the consequences of a program or a program. Yes, we have a day-to-day change to the "Strategic Environmental Assessment" Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-19-m0.u91	Thank you. Please, Vlasenko Sergey Volodymyrovich, faction of the political party of the All-Ukrainian Union of Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-19-m0.u92	Dear Romani Romanovich, representing you, the Prime Minister said that you are an expert in government. You came out, and for three minutes, you told us the password, you used the word reform ten times, you didn't give any programs. You're a regular, sorry, with all due respect to you, you're another whale in a bag that we're offered: no program, no vision, no nothing. And you said you were going to, you said, pick me now, and I'll give you the program later, and you said you were going to give the program on the basis of the government program. I just want to tell you that yesterday the government program was not supported by this Parliament. So you don't have to do anything and run it with a government programme that's not supported by the Ukrainian Parliament. I have a simple question for you: wouldn't it be better for you as a candidate to come to this room with a ready program, report it to the MPs, show your understanding of the issues so that we can support you or not support you? Although we do not support the personnel of the government as an opposition.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-19-m0.u93	Thank you for asking. First of all, I want to say that the adoption or rejection of the government's programme of activities will have no effect on the establishment of the Ministry's work programme. Why, I'll explain. Because the environmental aspect of this program, which I have been working on personally, I think is quite professional. There are both calculated results, and the concrete steps that will be taken, there is all the problem that exists today. I have to disagree with you that the government's programme of action in part of environmental policy is somehow poorly written or irrelevant, and for today, giving and spending a lot of time teaching its program to the people's deputies, I think, was simply useless. I can meet the faction of you separately and report in detail all the steps that we will take if I am elected Minister of Environmental Protection and Natural Resources. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-19-m0.u94	Thank you. Please, National Deputy Bondar Viktor Vasilovich, MP Party for the Future.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-19-m0.u95	Please pass the word to Jacenk Anton.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-19-m0.u96	Anton Yatzenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-19-m0.u97	Dear Mr. Abramowski, we know you on the committee as such a strong enough professional indeed. But I have a question for me and our group, the "For the Future" MP group. So you know, literally, when you put two ministries together, it was a very big mistake, and now we're correcting it, it was actually reduced to three quarters of all environmental programs, the same 1270, the same 1,500, and the same program is actually 100 percent reduced, is a subsidy. And now, at the COVID fund, all of this could be renewed. So, what are your plans for this, what kind of cooperation do you have with Minfin expect us to solve this issue quickly? However, the budget committee decided to recommend Minfina to do so. I would like to hear very clearly your position on this matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-19-m0.u98	Thank you for asking. We have not once, indeed, discussed this issue on a committee and clearly and committee, and the ministry has come to the conclusion that depressing, let's say, environmental programs at the expense of other programs is wrong. In fact, I will address Minfin personally, discuss with the minister, with Prime Minister Denis Anatoliyovich Schmidt, to return the program to some part, and to return the program to 1270 and 1500. As for subsidies, I think it's going to be a question of discussion for next year and there's going to be a discussion. We are ready to join this discussion as a ministry and yet make an objective decision. So it's going to come out of what money is going to be allocated next year for both programs -- 1500 and 1270. Maybe it will be enough, and the mechanism for allocating these resources will be transparent and understandable to the communities, for all of Ukraine. But 100 percent of what we're going to do is consult and our goal is to get this money back and use it as much as possible this year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-19-m0.u99	Nesterenko Kirilo Alexanderovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-19-m0.u100	Good afternoon. Please pass the word to Sheepling Juliet
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-19-m0.u101	Good afternoon, dear Roman Romanovich. There are a few small questions: two strategic, one practical. First of all, then. Recently, the European Union adopted a strategy for the conservation of biodiversity. Are you planning on developing a similar document in Ukraine? The second question. There has been no forest policy document in Ukraine for five years. 2010-2015 was a target forest conservation programme. We've decided on a committee to develop a similar document, but we're very much asking to join you, because the executive is the Ministry itself. And the last question is that now about seven national natural parks remain in the hands of the State Department. In 2009, there was an order, according to which, the Presidential, they would go under the authority of the Ministry of Energy. Asking for personal control so that all national natural parks are in line with the Ministry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-19-m0.u102	Thank you, Julia Yuryovna. I'll start at the end. Of course, all the natural parks, the more we are now, well, it's easy enough for us to do that, not hard enough, all the natural parks that are going to be transferred under the authority of the Ministry, including the national natural parks that are now in the administration of the State Department. That's the first one. It's about biodiversity. We fully support, of course, the Bernese convection, and there will be a strategy for increasing biodiversity in Ukraine, and then a national action plan by 2030. This assignment has already been given to a professional deputy, Irina Stavchuk. And it's going to be developing, well, and the entire ministry, clearly, under my control, will be developing this concept. We can see it in the committee's judgment. Then, based on it, a strategy will be developed and published, well, still a national action plan. As far as forest policy is concerned. We need to take all the legislative acts that we've planned for the conservation of forests as a single block today, and the second block is the use of forests as a natural resource. This has to be balanced actions. They're absolutely balanced, where at the end we're going to see that the deforestation and the number of forests are going to increase, and at least it's going to get closer to European standards. Taking into account what you said in terms of biodiversity. What I'm saying is that we're still going to be in full support of the Emerald Network Act. Emerald’s network is now on Ukraine’s public cadastre map. It's a great achievement, but we don't stop at it. We're waiting for the law, working with the committee on this issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-19-m0.u103	Savrasov. Irina Volodymyrna's character.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-19-m0.u104	My dear candidate, the minister is a political office. And you have to divide the principles of the team you plan to join. Your team has begun its violent activity by eliminating the Ministry of Ecology in general, showing that there is no environmental problem for it. Why are you going there? That's the first question. And the second question. If you go there, what are you going to do with two problems? The first is the problem of garbage treatment, which has actually become lobbyist and corrupt long ago in Ukraine. And in fact, there's still a lot to change to European standards. And the second. It's a new problem. It's a very sharp one. Sadly, there are also many corrupt elements. It's illegal sand mining and so forth, and there's no normal practice of European rescue of Ukrainian rivers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-19-m0.u105	Thank you. I'll start over again. In terms of water resources. I began by entering such a period of water. They happen once every 30 to 40 years, they take a different time. Experience shows that there were 10 years and more of these periods. But what are we going to do about it? First of all, my main task is to restore wetlands. These are all questions that relate to climate change. First of all, we can regulate artificially, of course, the water regime. There, limit hydroelectric power stations, limit water transport. It's happening now. But globally, this will not change the situation. Global change in the situation can be achieved by preventing the non-savory use of water resources. It's about that. There sand is less likely to affect the issue of malaise, but it also affects because hydrogeology is changing. As to why I'm going on this team. First, when I came on the team as deputy minister, the ministries were already divided. Who knows me there from the national deputies understands my position. Since the first day, even at the interview, I have said that it is not possible to unite cross - and - sectoral policies. Thank you very much to today’s government, which divided these policies and divided the authorities by fact. I mean, I'm going to a team that understands that environmental policy is cross-cutting, that it can't be combined with any of the policies that are sectoral. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-19-m0.u106	Slavic Antonina Kerimovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-19-m0.u107	Coltunovich, please pass on the word.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-19-m0.u108	Coltunovich Alexander Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-19-m0.u109	Thank you, Your Honor, Dmitri Alexanderovich. I'll have a question, a few more questions for the environmental minister. First of all, I would like to ask about the performance indicators that Mr. Minister is planning to achieve, and in particular the economic instruments that will be used to reduce energy efficiency. One second. Curious is the number of waste management facilities that will increase. Third. Similarly, what will be the percentage of emissions of pollutants into the atmosphere and the surface of the water? We are interested in specific figures and a specific period when we reach it. Well, it's silently a matter of implementing environmental directives. What kind of financial base do you need to go to these, to meet these standards of air quality, to reduce pollutants that fall into water? And in what period and in what year will we be able to accomplish this? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-19-m0.u110	Thank you. Very thorough questions. I'll start with the first one. As for the computational indicators. We are about to prepare, we have already submitted to the Council, but the change of government is now ready to reintroduce to the Council the Law on Reducing, Preventing and Controling Industrial Pollution. This is the implementation of 75 EU directives on industrial pollution reduction, so-called integrated permits. After these permits have been put in place, our plans are industrial pollution by 2025, and I mean good pollution. Good indicators are expected to fall by 22 percent today. As far as waste is concerned. Again, we are implementing 98 EU directives on waste management. How many factories are going to be built there, I find it hard to say, reprocessing. We need to create conditions that, along with other conditions, are respected people's deputies, with access to justice, with the protection of investment, and thus will lead to private investment, I stress, in private investment in the garbage processing sector. But this is not limited to household garbage. We also want to regulate, regulate normally, hazardous waste management in order not to drive or dispose of documents, but actually to process, dispose of hazardous waste. We want to introduce a system of increasing the responsibility of manufacturers, which, when implemented by itself, will reduce by 25 percent the number of household wastes that enter the landfill. The waste hierarchy itself, where non-waste is the main principle, will reduce these rates. As far as I'm concerned, I've thrown in water objects. We have joined the EU Water Framework Directive. And there's a notion of a good water condition. Of course, our program, yes, it's not that vague, let's say in numbers the term, but it's a European term. Our program is to achieve good water conditions at least for us.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-19-m0.u111	Lunchenko Valeriy Valeriyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-19-m0.u112	Please pass the word to Horvath.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-19-m0.u113	Who, again? You're insensitive, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-19-m0.u114	Robert Gorvato.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-19-m0.u115	Good afternoon. Dear Roman Romanovich, I have a small question, but it can save the state tens of millions of dollars and protect the inhabitants of the mountain regions of Ukraine from flooding. This is about a permit to extract gravel, which, for example, I know in Zakarpatt, I'm from Uzhgrad, in Zakarpatt 8 or 9 years old, because in your future revenge for the mining of gravel in the rivers of Carpathian, Johno-Frankish, Lvivish, Chernobyl, they're asking for bribes about 15 or 20 thousand dollars. What happens next? People can't get permission and extract gravel illegally. And all the control organs on the spot get bribes. As appropriate, according to the projects.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-19-m0.u116	No, dear fellows. Thank you. No, dear fellows.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-19-m0.u117	Thank you for asking. I think I got it, too. I want to answer that. The extraction of gravel in mountain rivers, the extraction of sand, the extraction of quartzite, the extraction of oil, the gas, any natural resources, must not be associated with any corruption. It's a key thesis. So we're not going to separately address the issue of bribes or their absence, or the presence of gravel mining. We'll do it. I'm going to hope that I can make clear environmental policy as such and in drug use separately. So these processes that you're talking about, they were mostly related to an old team that's both in the Dergeonadares and in the Holdinggeocontrol, and so on, in geo-information. I understand all that. Of course, it'll be a leitmotif in the fight against corruption, if that's the answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-19-m0.u118	Thank you. Dear colleagues, let's go to the vote. Oh, no. Dear colleagues, two more questions from the national deputies. Please sign up for questions from national deputies. Mr. Candidate, please come back with two more questions. Babenko Mikola Viktorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-19-m0.u119	Please give the word to Shahov.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-19-m0.u120	It's a gourmet, isn't it? Chess? Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-19-m0.u121	Thank you so much for being able to continue with your question. Once again, Roman Romanovich, which happens if, for example, departments in the regions, in Zakarpatta, in Vodniks, in fishermen, in the Department of Ecology, were to give designers the task of designing in every place where the mountain river flows, where it pours out. What's going on? The gravel, the river washes the shores, then rises from the shores, and waters the villages. Instead, we can increase the bottom, give permission. These are workplaces, which are now being done in areas of both DFRD and socioconomy. And then the rudder will increase, there will be no water spills in the village or in the pastures or in the countryside. I'm asking a lot of permission to get gravel on the spot, it'll solve the question, no one in the area will ever ask.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-19-m0.u122	I have an offer. So let's not say that now or not, let's just do a meeting like this, call all the relevant bodies: the State Department, the State Department, the State Department, the State Control, maybe the DFC -- and we'll hold this meeting and figure out maybe you're right. And for today, I can't say yes or no, but I guarantee we're going to make that kind of advice and we're going to come to a conclusion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-19-m0.u123	Irina Volodymyrna's character.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-19-m0.u124	Please pass the word to the potter.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-19-m0.u125	Hončarenko Alexyyyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-19-m0.u126	Alexei Hotcharenko, European Solidarity. I have two questions for you. First. How do you feel about your assessment of the decision when it came to bringing together the Ministry of Energy and the Ministry of Ecology into such a strange hybrid, somehow a monster -- ecology and energy. Did it work? What did this give us? And your attitude toward this as a manager. The second question is about the city of Kiev. The Aeration Station is an extremely important project. So I have a question for you, your attitude as a minister to this project. And what are you going to do to get this project implemented as soon as possible? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-19-m0.u127	Thank you. Again from the end. At the Bortnicka Station. At one time, in the last meeting of the Supreme Council, I had the honour of serving as deputy minister, and in fact we ended negotiations with the Japanese JICA agency on financing this action, and with the former Minister of Environment and Natural Resources in the intense discussions, we still had the Ministry fund the work in the "pioneer" mule fields. I understand this very clearly, very well, now, in principle, everything you need from the Ministry of Environmental Policy is done on this issue, and the ball in the field of the Department of Housing and Utilities of the KMDA. So everything you need from the Ministry, of course, we'll work and agree within the limits of competence and the legislative order. As for the disengagement of the ministries, the merger, then the disengagement, I answered Irina Heratchenko in two words. I'll say so, and I told the committee that the expected synergies were not achieved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-19-m0.u128	Thank you. Thank you, Your Honor. The head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Environmental Policy and Use, Oleg Volodymyrovich Bondarenko, is invited to attend. Then we go to the vote, invite the national deputies to the hall, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-19-m0.u129	Good afternoon, dear colleagues. The Committee of the Supreme Council on Environmental Policy and Use at its meeting on June 3, 2020, discussed a draft decree by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the appointment of Abramo Romano Romanović as Minister of Environmental Protection and Natural Resources of Ukraine. The committee decided to support the submission by the Prime Minister of Ukraine of Mr. Schmigal Denis Anatoliyovich of the appointment of the Minister for Environmental Protection and Natural Resources of Ukraine, Abrahamoski Romanović. In particular, my dear colleagues, at our meeting Roman Romanovich passed an exam that lasted an hour and a half and a half, he passed it with honor. I am very much asking you to support and vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-19-m0.u130	Ready to vote? Let's move on to making a decision. In accordance with article 85, 114 of the Constitution of Ukraine, I am voting for the entire draft Decree (Registration No. 3586) on the appointment of Abraham’s Romanovich as Minister of Environmental Protection and Natural Resources of Ukraine. Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[11:51:19]] For 264 Decision taken. Hello! In accordance with article 10 of the Ukrainian Cabinet of Ministers Act, a person appointed as a member of the Cabinet of Ministers shall, on the day of his appointment, make an oath at the plenary session of the Supreme Council. Wait, I can finish. The Minister of Environmental Protection and Natural Resources of Ukraine, Abramowski Romanović, is invited to make an oath to the rostrum. Please show me the faction vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-19-m0.u131	I, the Abrahamic Roman Romanovich, recognize the high responsibility of a member of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, solemnly swear allegiance to the Ukrainian people. I commit myself to upholding Ukraine’s Constitution and laws, strengthening Ukraine’s sovereignty and independence, upholding human and civil rights and freedoms, and ensuring the well - being of the Ukrainian people, the continued democratic development of society.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-19-m0.u132	Hello! Dear colleagues, don't disagree, there will now be two votes for inclusion in the agenda, without question. Dear colleagues, prepare for the vote. You have been proposed to amend some of the laws of Ukraine to improve the conditions of electricity generation from alternative sources of energy (registration number 3658). It is suggested to include this issue in the agenda of the day session. Support is needed for 226 Ukrainian national deputies. After that, you'll have to cancel out. The question is not being considered; in fact, we will not be considering it today. Ready to vote? Questions about inclusion in the agenda. I'm betting on the vote on the proposal for the inclusion in the agenda of the bill of registration number 3658. Please support and vote. [[11:53:55]] For 291 Decision taken. It is proposed to shorten the deadline for the submission of alternative bills and to prepare for consideration during the first reading of the bill, registration number 3658. Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[11:54:30]] For 249 Decision taken. A similar bill is a draft law amending the Ukrainian Electricity Market Act (registration number 3657). It is suggested to include this issue in the agenda of the day session. Please support and vote. [[11:54:57]] For 272 Decision taken. It is proposed that the bill be declared urgent and that it should be reduced by half by the time of the introduction of alternative bills and the Committee's conclusions on it. It's about Bill 3657. Please support and vote. [[11:55:29]] For 253 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, announcements. According to these statements and in accordance with part three of article 60 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, I am reporting the departure of the Ukrainian National Deputies Billozard Larissa Mikolayivna, Watsak Gennady Anatoliyovich and Kucher Mikli Ivanovich from the MP's Party for the Future and their membership in the MP's "Trust". Dear colleagues, we have three minutes until recess. There's a break until 12:30. Please don't be late. Wait. The heads of the MP factions and groups, please come to me, and I'd like to discuss this now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-19-m0.u133	Ladies and gentlemen, please invite the national deputies to the hall. So let's move on to the day-to-day issues. Please get ready for work. Dear colleagues, you have been invited to consider the draft Act amending Chapter II of the Final Position Act of Ukraine "To amend certain laws of Ukraine concerning the provision of treatment for coronary disease (COVID-19)" (to extend the period of action due to the threat of an increase in population disease to coronary disease. Dear colleagues, prepare for the vote. It's a short-circuit procedure. Ready to vote? I'm voting on a motion to consider the issue of a reduced procedure. Registration number 3636. 150 votes. Dear colleagues, will everyone be willing to vote in favour of the cut-off procedure? Alexander Rafkatovich, why not? It's a really important question. We're not going to be able to accept it in full, we're not going to be able to work the law. Is it full? Two factions to take him down. Don't you want to go on? Arthur Volodymyrovich, I think you're mistaken. It's a short-term procedure. Please support and vote. [[12:34:24]] For 204 Thank you. For 204. Decision taken. The report is given to the Head of the Committee on National Health, Medical Care, and Medical Insurance of Raducci Mikhail Borisovich. Give it four minutes from the authors. Two is enough? Two minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-19-m0.u134	The President-in-chief, honourable colleagues, your opinion is proposed by the draft Act amending Chapter II of the Act on Amendments to certain Ukrainian Laws on the Treatment of Coronary Disease (COVID-19) (to continue the period of action in connection with the threat of an increase in population disease to coronary disease (COVID-19) (registration number 3636), whose authors are all representatives of the factions and groups of Parliament. Let me remind you, colleagues, that in March we adopted Law 539 as a response to the COVID-19 epidemic in Ukraine. This law, based on the world's experience in the fight against the pandemic, has allowed the so-called use of off-label drugs for the treatment of coronary disease. Today, many patients are already receiving such treatment. But the law has become invalid since 01.07.2020. In fact, since July 1, such patients will not be able to receive appropriate medication, and this can lead to disastrous consequences. The bill proposes to continue Act 539 on off-label use until 1 January 2021. The bill was supported by all factions of Parliament, and the Supreme Council of Ukraine defined it as urgent. The Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority of the Supreme Council also supports the need to adopt a bill. The National Health, Health and Health Insurance Committee recommends to the Supreme Council of Ukraine draft law registration number 3636 on the basis of the first reading to be adopted on the basis and as a whole as a law by entrusting the committee, together with the Chief Legal Authority, to carry out technical legal work. Please support the committee's proposal.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-19-m0.u135	Please sign two in, two in, and two in, against the MP factions and groups. Zinkevich Jan Vadimovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-19-m0.u136	Irina Heratschenko, please pass on the word.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-19-m0.u137	Again? Irina Volodymyrna's character.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-19-m0.u138	Unfortunately, dear Ukrainians, we see extremely disturbing statistics: the number of people with COVID is increasing every day. And that says a few problems. First. The government lost the fight against the pandemic. The other one. The government has never been able to protect the Ukrainian medics. Third. The government was unable to provide enough tests. Where are the 10 million tests that President Zelensky promised to meet at the airports of Ukraine three months ago? They're gone. Where is the number of laboratories needed to prevent Ukrainians suspected of COVID from waiting for the test for a few days? And now, sometimes within 10 days, we have to wait for the necessary analysis to be done. And in fact, all of this says, and consider our performance, "European Solidarity," in the MP's statement that the law enforcement and the power structures that today "shape" the opposition, "shock" the business, "shock" whoever, but didn't steal and corrupt, have to figure out, so where are these tests where the masks, where the protective suits are? And at this time, when our political team, Peter Poroshenko, is transferring protective suits to all parts of Ukraine for doctors, tests, authorities that have lost this battle themselves, also forbids doctors from taking help from Peter Poroshenko and from opposition. A couple of weeks ago, the doctors in Volnovaha called. And when our team brought them these protective suits, they tearfully admitted that the local "prince" had banned them. In the Hmelnicki district, which was breached by quarantine with the President, they drank coffee there without protective masks, so he collected letters from doctors that it was not the European Solidarity Party that brought help, but the Dusty Foundation, but not Dusty. What kind of frost do you come to? You know, it's just a petty little power that can't protect the country from anything, even the pandemic. That's why.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-19-m0.u139	Petty Officer Valentin Aleksandrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-19-m0.u140	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs, citizens of Ukraine! Now, the reason behind this bill is to take it and do it here and now. The government is gone, but they need to hear us, MPs. Sunday is Medical Day in Ukraine, in our country with you. They're the ones on the front. It was time for an advance transfer, to pay 300 percent of the allowance to each doctor, to every health care provider, to each nurse, and to each nurse. It has to be performed as a primary function of the state for our true defenders -- protect, pay and enable Ukrainian doctors to work professionally. The other one. We, as the Fatherland faction, stress that European countries, particularly Germany, have already invented a second vaccine and are now being tested by more than 200 people, and it will soon be available to German citizens. Perhaps it is time for the government to raise our opportunities, Ukrainian diplomacy and enter into negotiations faster. For the citizens of Ukraine too, such a vaccine should be among the first, for our citizens with you. And the third. As the Fatherland faction, we insist on a transparent and effective investigation of corruption in the purchase of medical robes, in the purchase of medical equipment, which has happened in the same way this year. So far neither NABU nor DBR have reported any of these abuses. Millions of thefts on the Coronary are crimes against national security. He needs to be investigated, and we need to find out who is being punished. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-19-m0.u141	The alien Boris Viktorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-19-m0.u142	Please pass the word to Sergey the Great.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-19-m0.u143	He's a great man.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-19-m0.u144	Sergey the Great, Luganskina, the Trust MP. As respectable colleagues look at the statistics of patients with coronary disease, it is clear that medical devices that can facilitate the spread of the disease should be purchased. But it would be good if the MOH would provide information on the drugs that have been purchased for two months and which are laboratory studies on their effectiveness. Parliament will then be able to make a balanced and correct decision on whether to continue the law by the end of the year. Please consider my statement as an official MP to the Ministry of Health on the provision of information on medical devices purchased during April-May this year and on laboratory studies carried out on the effectiveness of medicines purchased. Today, the bill needs to be supported on a basis. And in the second reading, it's only when you get a response from the department of profile. Thank you for your attention. Sergey the Honourable, Deputy Group "Trust", Luhanščina.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-19-m0.u145	Papiev. Thank you, Sergey Anatolyovich. Papiev Mikhailo.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-19-m0.u146	Thank you. Please pass the word to Makarenko Mikhail Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-19-m0.u147	Makarenko Mikhailo Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-19-m0.u148	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues, I want to tell you as a doctor that, to put up a little bit of you to know: the aetiology and the pathogenosis of the coronavirus no one knows. They don't know, and even before that, I want to tell you where we communicate, they don't know the incubation period as much. Some scientists say Sunday, the other two weeks, the third to 30 days. But what I'm saying is, yeah, we go out and say it every time. But I want to tell you, we have to do something. I support those who speak to me, where they say where our masks are, where our tests are, where that's all. It's all good. But I want to say a lot of things, but I want to say that something has to be done. And we're adopting this bill where Mikhailo Borisovich Raducci said, at least something has to be done to heal. Yes, we have many shortcomings. There are many flaws. I still want to tell you how I've been talking to you about what I've been saying in January, as it was burning in Europe, I'm saying around us, about our Ukraine, some unknown infection, the coronavirus is so called. But somehow we didn't focus and we didn't notice and we didn't know it was a disaster. The trouble has come to us, and we must do so. Yeah, I think we'll do anything with you guys, but we need to get to our Cabinet of Ministers. Look, we've made some changes to the budget. We've given 70 billion dollars to the Coroner. We used 12 billion, and the rest of us let go without us, without the Ministry of Finance or our own profile, not our profile.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-19-m0.u149	Thank you. No, I'm sorry. Ladies and gentlemen. We're not adding time, sorry. Honorable colleagues, are they willing to speak out of motives? Please invite the national deputies to the hall. Dear colleagues, let's go to the vote. Please prepare for the vote. I would like to inform you immediately that this bill is recommended by the committee as a whole. I'd like you to support this proposal. Because if we go out in July 1st, we're going to lose this opportunity. Ready to vote? I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Amendment Act to Chapter II of the Final Position Act of Ukraine "To amend certain laws of Ukraine concerning the provision of treatment for coronary disease (COVID-19)" (to extend the period of action in connection with the threat of an increase in population disease to coronary disease (COVID-19) (registration number 3636). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[12:47:51]] For 309 Decision taken. I would like to vote on the proposal for adoption in general with the necessary technical and legal regulations, the draft Law amending Chapter II of the Act on Amendments to certain Ukrainian Laws on the Protection of the Treatment of Coronary Disease (COVID-19) (to extend the period of action in connection with the threat of an increase in population disease to coronary disease (COVID-19) (registration No. 3636). Please support and vote. [[12:48:34]] For 311 Decision taken. Thank you, Your Honor. Ironborn Jaroslav Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-19-m0.u150	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues! You know, yesterday we voted in favour of our colleague Olga Belkovy's mandate, but she left us this important bill 2284. It's in order daily, about financial instruments, we haven't been able to accept it for 10 years. Therefore, a great request, if possible, to raise it today and to adopt this law, and to conclude our plenary week on this positive note. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-19-m0.u151	Who's up for it? One, two. Are you going to insist on law enforcement? What's the Rules? We can move the rules if there are 226 votes. You can't be "against" or "against," that's what the room decides. Let's vote now for the raise. But tell me, is there a lot of rights? Ladies and gentlemen, will anyone insist on the readjustments? No, right? Can I put it to the vote right now? I am voting on the proposal to adopt a second reading and, in general, with the necessary technical and legal regulations, the draft Law amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine to simplify investment participation and introduce new financial instruments (new edition) (registration No. 2284). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[12:50:42]] For 285 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. A statement came from two MP factions and groups about a break with a replacement for the performance. Leros Geo Bagratovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-19-m0.u152	Dear colleagues, what is going on in Parliament right now? The representative of Velour in Parliament is collecting signatures for resigning the head of the Babak committee because he refused to support the appointment of Minister of Education. I don't understand how you can vote for this "scissor" of Smoker, it's unacceptable. I'm addressing my colleagues, and I'm asking you to remember the purpose you went to Parliament for. You want your children to be proud of you, your family and the whole state, but if you vote in favour of such a candidate, it's to concrete yourself under the notion of "corruption," which, as a human hunger, is only one goal -- to find a well-massed corrupter. You can't let that happen. And now I'm going to tell you why they chose this particular candidate. Because the rectors of the Kiev branch promised to support our colleague in the local elections for the mayor of Kiev. There's the whole contractor of this story. I urge you not to vote, not to sign Mr. Babak's resignation as chairman of the committee. Thank you. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-19-m0.u153	Replica is Babak Sergey Vitaliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-19-m0.u154	Dear colleagues were indeed gathering signatures, but I do not really understand why. Maybe because the committee made that decision yesterday, maybe because I'm a supporter of preserving external independent evaluation or maybe because I'm taking progressive steps to make our education more quality and approach international standards at last. If there is a wish or someone really thinks that I am an unworthy committee head, please make a decision in the hall and make a decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-19-m0.u155	Thank you, Sergey Vitaliovich. Dear colleagues, we have three minutes left, I don't think we should ask any other questions. Please don't split now, some of them will have to be voted for.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-19-m0.u156	Thank you, Dmitri Alexanderovich. So, my fellow Members, during the plenary week, there were only 133 parliamentary inquiries. Of these: to the President of Ukraine - 3, to the Supreme Council - 2, to the Cabinet of Ministers - 74, to the heads of other public authorities - 49, to the managers of enterprises, institutions, organizations located in Ukraine, irrespective of their subordination and forms of ownership - 5. So, your honorary colleagues, please have a moment's attention, we're going to vote. Three requests came to the President of Ukraine. An open-ended roll-call vote is supported by a request (a group of national deputies of Pavlovsky, the Roadway, and others). A total of 28 deputies) to the President of Ukraine on the solution of the housing problem of the barracks in the city of Vishneve Kyiv. Please support and vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-19-m0.u157	Ready to vote?
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-19-m0.u158	Yes, please vote. [[12:54:37]] For 293 Decision taken. Therefore, it is up to the President of Ukraine to vote on the decision to send a preliminary request. Please vote. [[12:55:03]] For 292 Decision taken. In total, 292 national deputies. Thank you. Next. It is up to the roll-call vote to support the request of Natalia Royal and Yuri Solod to the President of Ukraine for the implementation of the decisions of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine reiterating the rights of citizens in the area of social protection. Please identify yourself, vote. [[12:55:41]] For a hundred and Decision taken. Only 192. Therefore, I ask you to vote on the decision to send a preliminary request to the President of Ukraine. Please vote. [[12:56:06]] For 227 Decision taken. In total, there are 227 national deputies. Please show the factions. Thank you. And the last request for the President's name is for an open-ended roll-call vote in support of Sergey Demchenk's request to the President of Ukraine to repeal the Ukrainian President's decrees on the liquidation of local courts and the establishment of district courts. Please vote. [[12:56:46]] For 227 Decision taken. Thus, it is up to the vote to decide to send a preliminary request to the President of Ukraine. Please vote. [[12:57:11]] For 225 Unfortunately, no decision is made. We can try again. [[Noise Nodes]] No, dear colleagues, next time. So let's move on to the question-reading. If possible, silence in the hall, because these are your questions. So it's the questions of the national MPs. Mikoli Zadrojny to the head of the Suma District State Administration on measures to detect and halt illegal logging. Oleg Kulinić to Prime Minister of Ukraine, temporarily acting as Minister of Energy of Ukraine, head of the National Police for the implementation of State regulation in the field of energy and utilities to address the issue of the cost of access to electricity infrastructure for the deployment of electricity networks and/or other engineering equipment. Sergia Minka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the need to regulate the implementation of article 46-1 of the Ukrainian Act on Notariat. July Klimenko to Minister of Infrastructure of Ukraine, acting as Head of Government of the Ukrainian Railway Association, to continue the route of the passenger train to the railway station Pázna. Mikhail Kryčka to the Attorney General on illegal actions with the HDR by the prosecutors and criminal offences of Fedorov I.S. Alexander Tkachenka and John Shinkarenk to the National Environmental Inspection of Ukraine regarding the use of effective measures to ensure the proper operation of the National Natural Park "Tuzlovské limans". Alexander Tkachenka to the Ministry of Finance of Ukraine on the use of measures to provide for expenses for employees of Odessa District State Administrations. Alexander Tkachenka to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on the need to improve medical reform and address the urgent health issues of the Killian City’s united territorial community. John Shinkarenk and Alexander Tkachenka to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine regarding the use of effective measures to create the right conditions for human habitation and other activities on the island of Snake and Continental Shelf. Alexander Kunicko and Alexander Dubinsky to the Minister of Finance of Ukraine for the provision of false information to the people’s deputies of Ukraine by Odessa Customs director Oleg Pogorlovski during the College of the Ministry on June 5, 2020. Julius Timoshenko to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the annulment of Cabinet of Ministers Decision No. 191, which foresees a substantial increase in the pay for teaching for higher education. Michael Bondar to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the restriction of access to the State Secret of the People's Deputies of the Political Party "The Opposition Platform for Life". Michael Bondar to the head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the organization of state authority, local self - government, regional development, and city building for the identification of areas of the Lviv region of the Brodov region with an administrative centre in the city of Broda. Groups of National Deputies (Southern, Jonah, and others) A total of 10 deputies) to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine on the provision of up-to-date information on the protocols on administrative offences filed for violations of article 443 KUPAP and article 325 KK of Ukraine. Groups of National Deputies (Herasimova, Savrasova, and others) A total of 10 deputies) to the Minister of Infrastructure of Ukraine, Head of the State Agency for Road Traffic of Ukraine, to provide additional information on the state of implementation of the "Great Building National Project". Irina Herashchenko and Maria Ionova to the Ternopil City Head, head of the Ternopil State Administration on specific issues of ensuring social protection for the participant ATO/OOS Kodjman O.S. Jurya Boyka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine to address the competitiveness of domestic mining enterprises and to take immediate measures to protect domestic steel producers. Tetjana Plačkowa, who is temporarily acting as Minister of Energy of Ukraine, Minister of Infrastructure of Ukraine, Prime Minister of Ukraine, on the need to manage the interaction between the Ukrainian Maritime Port Administration and the National Environmental Inspectorate in order to ensure compliance with environmental legislation in the event of ships being dumped within the seaport. Vladimir Ariev to the head of the Ukrainian State Tax Service for providing information on the size of taxes on the income of individuals paid by the President of Ukraine, Zelenski W.O. and his wife, O.V. during 2014-2018. Zinovija Andryovich to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the immediate repair of the destroyed bridge on the section of the Transvirna Lanchin road in the village of Krasno Suvirnyan district of Ivano-Frankiv region. Valeria Kolucha to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the development of a national target programme for fire safety and the financing of firefighting measures in educational institutions in Ukraine. Jaroslav Jurčina to the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, National Police of Ukraine on the attack on a journalist. Alexander Bakumov to the head of the Antimonopoly Committee of Ukraine, Kharkiv City Head, Head of the State Audit Service of Ukraine, Head of the Court of Auditors, Head of the National Police on Possible Abuses and Violations of Legislation During Public Procurement by Kharkiv Metropolitan Company. Alexander Abdullin to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the unwarranted and hasty intentions of the Cabinet of Ministers to eliminate the Dubrovnik region of the Plains region, which does not take into account the level and availability of services to the population, the organisational capacity of the district authorities to provide the population with quality administrative services secured by their legislation, the way of communication, the infrastructure capacity of the administrative centre, and the level of living of the inhabitants of this radiation-polluted region of northern Plains. Alexander Tkachenka and John Shinkarenk to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine regarding the use of effective measures to preserve the natural complexes of the Lower Nitrost National Natural Park. Mikhail Tsimbaluka to the Minister for Veterans of Ukraine, Prime Minister of Ukraine, for compensation to carriers for the payment of the payment of the pay. Igora Kolyhayeva to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine regarding the observance of the rule of law and the rule of law in the Hersonian region and the service discipline of individuals of the National Police Department in the Hersonian region. Igor Kolyhayeva to the director of the Herson District Employment Center for the annulment of the work permit for foreigners and stateless persons. Roman Mulik to the Head of the Ukrainian Security Service, Deputy Attorney General of Ukraine, Head of the Specialised Anti-Corruption Prosecutor's Office, Director of the National Anti-Corruption Bureau of Ukraine, Acting Director of the State Bureau of Investigation to verify the possible commission of criminal offences by officials of the State Enterprise "NAEK Energoatem". Olega Koljeva to Minister of Interior of Ukraine regarding the legality of accommodation near the residence at: m. Odessa, vul. CAP, 5 MAF, shrapnel. Sergey Ljowczina to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the deterioration of the implementation of the revenue part of the state budget. Taras Batenka to the Lviv City Head for the elimination of hydraulic testing of heat networks until quarantine measures against coronary infection have been completed in Lviv. Tarasa Batenka to perform the duties of Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine, Prime Minister of Ukraine for the provision of milk and dairy products for all schoolchildren in general educational institutions. Natalia Pippa to the Lviv City Head for the competitions for secondary education directors in Lviv. Natalia Pippa to the city head of the town of Winnicki for the provision of copies of documents and information regarding Lake Winnicki and the land near him. Irina Konstankevich to the Minister of Health of Ukraine, Prime Minister of Ukraine, for the provision of State funding for the treatment of citizens with orthopaedic (rare) diseases. Irina Konstanovic to Prime Minister of Ukraine for granting permission to develop the project with regard to the removal of land in the village of Prilisne Manevicki district of Volinsk. Jury Zdebski to Prime Minister of Ukraine for information on the state of engineering and maintenance of the state border. Jury Pavlenko to the Minister of Health of Ukraine, Prime Minister of Ukraine, on the illegal actions of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Ministry of Health of Ukraine on the issue of the creation of the priority of adoption by foreigners of Ukrainian children. Romana Lozinski to the minister of community development and territory of Ukraine regarding the lack of adherence to the method of formation of united territorial communities. Sergia Mandiya to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the need to allocate additional funds for the capital repair of the Levkovka - Josephovka road, which passes through the territory of the Starocostinov district of the Hmelni district. Yuri Boyka and Yuri Pavlenko to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the head of the Provincial District Administration, the Minister for the Development of Communities and Territories of Ukraine on the disagreement between the Andrushew District Council of the Zitomir Region and the Government's proposals for a draft decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the establishment and liquidation of areas in all areas of Ukraine. The Royal Natalia to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the non-response to four parliamentary appeals addressed to the Prime Minister of Ukraine. Nakludova, the head of the Kiev City State Administration, is responsible for providing information on the benefits, payments, and other compensation to persons who have been convicted of reprisals. Victor Medvedchuk and Vasil Nimchenk to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the legal basis of the constitutionality and legality of the activities of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the officials of the Agreement on the State of Loan from the International Monetary Fund without the approval of this decision by the Supreme Council of Ukraine and the issuance of relevant documents. Groups of National Deputies (Medvedchuk, Germany, Makarenko) to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the use of urgent measures to prevent the closure of a medical facility that serves the Irkliyev district community of the Cherkai district and to ensure the realization of the constitutional rights of citizens to health and health care. Jury Pavlenko to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, the Attorney General, for the enforcement of the current criminal and procedural legislation by the investigating and procedural director in criminal proceedings concerning the death of a child. Irina Heratchenko and Maria Ionova to the Minister of Social Policy of Ukraine, the Head of the Pension Fund, the Authorized Supreme Council of Ukraine for the Rights of the Child. on the issue of pension insurance issues of Sizonovich O.I. Anastasia Lashenko to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on support for the construction of private solar and wind power stations in private households. Anastasia Lashenko to the head of Poltava District Administration, the head of the Poltava District Council for the restoration of medical devices containing narcotic drugs, psychotropic substances, for oncological persons in the pharmacies of Velikobogachanski, Lubenski, Orgiecki, Semenów and Horolski districts of the Poltavafarm region, as well as the restoration of the activities of Poltawafarm POTC in full. Mikoli Zadrożny to Prime Minister of Ukraine on urgent solutions to the conservation issue in the microregion of the city of Ohtrika Department of Savings. Vladimir Ivanov to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Finance of Ukraine, Minister of Health of Ukraine, Head of the Herson District State Administration, Head of the Herson District Council for the Treatment of Cancer Diseases in the Herson region. Vladimir Ivanov to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Justice of Ukraine, Head of the Herson District Administration to ensure the proper functioning of the branch of the State Probation Centre in the Herson region. Igor Guza to head the Ukrainian State Property Fund on the plans of the Ukrainian State Property Fund for the privatisation of the No. 10 Shakhta "Novolinska". Igor Guza to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, temporarily acting as head of the National Health Service of Ukraine, on the need to finance secondary health care facilities in Volodymira Volinska. Vladimir Aresonkov to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the adoption of the necessary normative documents to unlock the issue of State and municipal property leases. Vladimir Aresonkova, head of the Ukrainian State Service on geodesy, cartography, and cadastre of clarifications regarding the procedure for the development of projects by the Land Administration regarding the change in the target destination of the land area, which has a cadastre number and is formed by 2017. Steps to the Minister of Infrastructure of Ukraine on the inaction of the Ukratrans security in the area of volume control of trucks, which threatens the successful implementation of the National Big Construction Project. Jaroslava Dubnević to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the issue of financing the unfinished construction of social infrastructure. Jaroslava Dubnević to the Minister for the Development of the Communities and Territories of Ukraine, Head of the Lviv Regional Administration for the Grant from the State Budget for Local Budgets for the Social and Economic Development of Individual Areas of the City District Budget. Anatolia Kostuha to the minister of community development and the territory of Ukraine for the transformation of a number of unified communities in the Zakarpat region. Anatolya Kostucha to the head of the Zacarpathian district administration on the complex counterveloping program "Tisa". Anton Polakov to the Minister for the Development of the Communities and Territories of Ukraine on the allocation for the capital repair of CERNIG's Regional Oncological Dispensor of a subsidy from the State budget to local budgets for the socio-economic development of the territory. Anton Polakov to the Minister for the Development of the Communities and Territories of Ukraine on the allocation for the purchase of the equipment of KNP "Chernig's District Blood Center" a subsidy from the State budget to local budgets for the socio-economic development of the territory. Anton Polakov, head of the State Geology Service and the Ukrainian Nadr for the proper approval of the Right River Clearance Project on the territory of the Montenegrin City Council and the Chernigiv Region of the 1st turn. Alexander Tkachenka and John Shinkarenk to the Ministry of Justice of Ukraine regarding the use of effective measures to enforce a court decision. Alexander Tkachenka and John Shinkarenk to the Ministry of Justice of Ukraine regarding the need to take appropriate measures to protect the rights of a minor child. Vladimir Kabachenko to the Minister of Health of Ukraine, Minister of Social Policy of Ukraine, Minister of Finance of Ukraine, on the issue of sick medical workers for Coronary Disease COVID-19 and compensation and insurance payments to medical workers. Vladimir Vátrović to the Minister for the Development of the Communities and Territories of Ukraine on the gross violation of the Ukrainian Act on Architecture and the Ukrainian Act on the Regulation of Urban Activities by a builder of land on the street of Lesi Ukraine in the city of Vorzel Kyiv region. John Shinkarenko and Alexander Tkachenka to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on the use of effective measures to address pressing socio-economic issues. Natalia Pippa to the head of the Ukrainian State Service on geodesy, cartography, and cadastre regarding illegal refusals by the General Directorate of the State Department of the State in Volinsk district to the veterans of the war of the earth. Roberta Gorvata to the National Institute for Wine and Wine Production of the National Academy of Agricultural Sciences of Ukraine on wine-growing zones, wine-growing areas and on their soil-climate characteristics. Sergey Litvinenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, head of the National Bank of Ukraine for the non-closure of the AT "Savedbink" office in the village of Malinsk Bereznivsky region of the Rhine. Tettina Plačkowa to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, temporarily acting as head of the National Health Service of Ukraine, Ukrainian Minister of Health, on the need to restore the rights of workers in the emergency health system. Sergia Labazuka to the Minister for the Development of the Communities and Territories of Ukraine, Prime Minister of Ukraine, for the financing of Hmelnicka Regional Development. Julius Yatzik to the Energodar City Head of Zaporozhye Region, director of the utility thermal power utility of the Energy City Council on the inaction of the management of the Energodar City Council and the PP "Heatwater Channel" regarding the calculation and approval of economically sound heat tariffs, transportation and supply services for centralized water supply and water supply. Julius Yatzik to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, head of the Department of Strategic Investigations of the National Police of Ukraine, the Attorney-General for the possible conduct of officials of the Energy City Council and the PP Heat Channel to spend budgetary expenses on a particularly large scale. Julius Yatzik to the Energodar City Head of Zaporozhye District for information and action. Paul Melnik to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Infrastructure of Ukraine, temporarily acting as Head of the State Maritime and River Transport Service of Ukraine on the issue of formalization of bases for the maintenance of small-scale vessels and other floaters that carry out non-industrial small-scale fishing and take a walk out into the sea, by amending the relevant legislation. Paul Melnik to the temporary duty of Minister of Energy of Ukraine, the head of the Zaporozhye District State Administration, the head of the National Police of Ukraine to take urgent action on the situation of water poisoning of the Great Utlug River in the Yakimiv region. Julia Ovovnikova, head of the National Environmental Inspectorate of Ukraine, on the use of urgent measures regarding the activities of the Volin Natural Resources KP. Julius Oveknikov, head of the State Geology Service and the Nadr of Ukraine, on the use of urgent measures to initiate a procedure for the cessation of the use of nadrama. And we have a final request from Jaroslav Železniak to the Kyiv Society of the RADAR, the State concert "Ucroborprom" for the use of the Children's Hospital Health and Recreational Type "Friendly" in the city of Irpin. Dear colleagues, these are all questions for today. We tried to read them all. Thank you all for your attention. Mr. Head, will you continue the meeting? Dmitri Alexanderovich, are you still in session?
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-19-m0.u159	That's the velocity. Yeah. Thank you, Olena Constantine. I have a few more announcements. "During the vote on June 19, 2020, my voting button did not work. Surkis Grigory Mikhailovich." Next question. In accordance with part three of article 60 of the Ukrainian Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I report the departure of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Vakarchuk Svetoslav Ivanovich, from the political party's deputy faction, "The Voice". Dear colleagues, we've got "Victory." Please write down who wants to speak, if any. You don't? Maybe not? Okay. You can see it says, "It's coming." If you sign up, I'll give it to you right away. Kostuk Dmitry Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-19-m0.u160	Good afternoon! Dmitry Costuck, "Serial of the People" faction. With the latest news on the 2020 local elections in Pulanski, Baranowski, Novograd Wallinski and Baraniv region of the Žitomir region. A number of candidates continue to participate in local elections. The number of candidates starts at the Paradise and the mayoral districts. What's the plan of action? First of all, candidates who want to walk away from the "Serial of the People" faction, honest and decent people who don't have any white stains on their biography, are offered to fill out an application on the site. The site is called quite original: Costume. Website. After the applications are filled out, we communicate with potential candidates and get an autobiography from them and some kind of pre-election program. We also conduct interviews, after which candidates do some homework. For example, they form parliamentary appeals, imagining themselves as a City Council MP or dealing with one of the problems that exists in a local area. For example, in Novograd Wallinsky, in a city of district importance, there's a big problem with electricity that's not enough to invite really powerful investors and open new businesses. Then after that, all of our candidates are published on social networks, and we get fidbek on it, people have the opportunity to express their opinions about one or the other candidates, and it also has a huge impact on choices. After that, our potential candidates are not yet candidates from the election party, they go to the so-called school of the deputy or the school of the city council MP, where they are taking a course of lectures, training, communication with those who really have experience, with the former mayors of cities, with the active mayors of cities and other districts that are in Ukraine. And hopefully that's the final stage of this school, and we don't mind the coronavirus, it's a trip to the cities that have succeeded, let's say, in those cities that are a model of self-government in Ukraine and their experience. After that, we will have a pool of candidates formed and we will go together to run an electoral campaign and win the next local elections so that we can actually create real power in Ukraine, an already independent Ukraine, an independent Ukraine, not a Soviet one, as before. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-19-m0.u161	Thank you. Next, I invite Mr. Paul Melnik, the "Serve of the People" faction. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-19-m0.u162	Dear Head, distinguished national deputies, dear Ukrainians. This year the resort season started later, June 10, due to the introduction by the government of Ukraine of restrictive measures caused by risks and the spread of coronary infection. As for the start of the holiday season under the terms of the adaptive quarantine, in May, I have addressed an appropriate parliamentary address to the Prime Minister of Ukraine. The result was an official clarification by the Ministry of Education and amendments to the legal and regulatory provisions that allowed for the start of the resort season. The main income of local budgets during the resort season is the revenue from taxes collected from resort operators. For local people, the job provides jobs and for Ukrainian citizens is an opportunity to rest in Ukrainian resorts in the summer of 2020. At the same time, the income from the resort season is a large amount of revenue to the state budget, and for the financial system, it is a reduction in the currency abroad that reduces the pressure on the currency exchange rate. I'm going to say that this year is a year of opportunity for the development of Ukrainian resorts, because most of the tourists in our resorts are an impetus for infrastructure development and service improvement. In the process of repairing the road of state importance, Vasilyvka-Berdjansk, which provides comfort to our citizens to rest at the resorts of the Azov Sea. According to the Chief Sanitary Doctor of Ukraine, coastal recreation strengthens immunity, which is so important in the fight against the spread of coronary infection, and rest is safe in the resorts of the Zaporez region. I am also addressing a parliamentary appeal to the head of the Zaporozhye District State Administration to lower the cost of going to the resorts. Vladimir Zelenski, President of Ukraine, launched the Mandruj Ukraine programme. I encourage everyone to travel to Ukraine and we invite them to rest in Ukraine. I'd like to invite all the Ukrainians to rest in our resorts this year. I invite everyone to the resorts of Zaporozhye district, to the beautiful city of Primorsk, to the resort village of Kirilivka, and to the resorts of Priazova. Thank you all for your attention. Rest in Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-19-m0.u163	Thank you so much for the talk. And I invite Vladimir Ariev, the faction of European Solidarity. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-19-m0.u164	Interesting things happen to us with the rule of law in the country, and such examples are becoming more and more. In addition to persecuting opposition, and all the things that can be discovered against it, we find that we are untouchable today. In Hmelnicki, for example, today the court was unable to fine President Zelenski for a quarantine violation when he and the head of the administration and others drank coffee at the cafe when it was not available to other Ukrainians. Do you know why? Because it was necessary for a judge in Hmelnicki to refer the question to the Supreme Court of Ukraine whether Mr. Zelensky could be fined because he was untouchable. And remember, just recently, Zelensky in his section told us that the untouchables no longer exist after the adoption of the relevant law on changes to the Constitution, which applied to the Ukrainian people's deputies. And it turns out there are. And I want to remind you that Zelensky promised he would leave when he broke the law. But to establish that man has broken the law, only the court can do so, and the court of the untouchable Zelensky does not touch. You know, Kafka's taking a break from these stories. We also have an honest Head of the Ukrainian Security Service, also called Zelensky an example. Thus, this Head of the Ukrainian Security Service has illegally established control over civilian air traffic during quarantine. And the State Aviation Service was obliged by the U.S.B.A.’s management to agree with the Ukrainian Security Service, which is documented. This is illegal, no law regulates the intervention of the BSS in civil aviation, except for monitoring terrorism. But it happened. Both the Air Force and the Air Force tell us that they did it to execute the Greens decree. And here, by the way, about this story I told the D.B.I., we'll see: The FBI can spend government funds on a totally wavy, legal, opposition persecution, or it can pursue an honest Head of the SBU and its boss, Zelenski. We'll see, but something tells me that we'll see that everything is as usual. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-19-m0.u165	Thank you. I'd like to invite Roman Costenko, the Voice faction. Please, Mr. Roman.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-19-m0.u166	Honorable colleagues and respectable citizens!
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-19-m0.u167	Excuse me, please. Dear colleagues, please be a little quieter. Your colleague is speaking. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-19-m0.u168	Thank you. Honorable colleagues and respectable citizens! I would like to draw your attention to the issue of parliamentary oversight of the Special Forces. This is an important issue, and it is now in time, because we have begun a comprehensive reform of the country's intelligence and counterintelligence bodies. The activities of these offices are always related to total secrecy and often to the temporary limitation of human rights and freedoms. In such circumstances, there is always a temptation of abuse in the absence of supervision, and it is not important whether it will be acts of corruption, or pressure to persecute opposition, or simply unsanctioned interference in the private life of citizens. This is all a violation of the law, and it leads to the destruction of the foundations of the rule of law and the loss of trust in the services. Having reached the Supreme Council, I myself found out that there was no effective parliamentary oversight of the security services. All the democratic countries have gone from the complete secrecy of intelligence to the distribution and function of control and control. Such an understanding did not come immediately. All governments were confronted with loud political and corruption scandals involving special organs. To prevent such violations, there is a concept of deterrence and opposition, the distribution of powers, and supervision between different branches of authority. Parliamentary oversight should decide on the legality, relevance, effectiveness and effectiveness of the special services. We're working on it. Two days ago a bill of intelligence was discussed at the committee meeting, setting up clear mechanisms for parliamentary oversight. They meet the standards of democratic countries, and in their development we have used the best world experience that has been tested in time. And the main thing. What I'm saying is that the introduction of effective parliamentary supervision will in no way lead to the weakening of domestic services, but rather to their development and renewal, because in the absence of control, any system begins to deteriorate. And by overcoming corruption, abuse and resource dispersion, we will be able to release forces to increase the effectiveness and effectiveness of Ukrainian intelligence and counter-intelligence. Without proper supervision, there can be no effective reform of the services. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-19-m0.u169	Thank you, Mr. Roman. And I'd like to invite Dmitri Lubinz, the Party for the Future, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-19-m0.u170	Thank you. Honorable citizens of Ukraine, distinguished national MPs, honorable presidency! I'd like to start by saying, "Thank you for the hands that smell like bread." Today, for the first time in Ukraine, a farmer’s day is celebrated. Let us thank them for the work they are doing on earth for all of us. [[Applause]] Let's make this composition of parliament make farmers really feel that the state doesn't just forget about them, but that it cares about them so that there's actually an opportunity to get nice loans for nice little percentages so that we can start to regenerate our production, the production of Ukrainian tractors, the Ukrainian combines. It was then that the Ukrainian village began to develop. Just after additional jobs are created in our rural area, we may not be able to read in the Government's Action Programme such words as: optimizing rural schools, optimizing medical institutions. Just after the state takes care not only of words, but also of farmers, who will constantly support them, and not mention them only twice a year, that is, on Farmer's Day and on Agricultural Workers' Day, but on a permanent basis. So from this high rostrum, I call upon all the national deputies. Next week, I want to remind you, this is the week when we all have to work in the districts, and this applies not only to the national MPs of majors, but also to the national MPs who are elected on the political party lists. Let's all show together that next week we're going to come to the farmers, and we're going to talk to them, and we're going to talk to them, and we're going to help them with the adoption of the already ambiguous Law on Opening the Agricultural Land Market, and we're going to help them work on it. Similarly, I urge all of us to go to medical institutions and see if our doctors are protected, if they actually have wages, or if they are paid 300 percent of the extra to doctors who face the problem of coronavirus in Ukraine every day. Similarly, I urge you to come and talk to your teachers about whether they are ready to optimize our education system, especially in rural areas. So, national MPs, let's not forget that it's not just in Parliament, it's not just here that we all have to sit and we have to go to people. At least the MPs' Party for the Future will be working in the districts next week, because we're all made up solely of major MPs. We are happy to host other national MPs in the constituencies and to change Ukraine together. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-19-m0.u171	Cimbaluk Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-19-m0.u172	Dear Mr. Head, the honourable presidency, the national MPs, the honourable electorate, the process of decentralization is a reform that was initiated by the previous authorities and is not the only one that has been successful. Now it's coming to an end, but, dear fellows, I'm addressing both the national MPs and the government representatives, how are the areas being formed today? The circuitry process is frozen because people are protesting, and the volunteering factor is excluded. For example, in Lviv, people protest the disappearance of the Brodiv region, which has a great history. In Volina, protesting the disappearance of the Manevatsky region and putting an extreme end to the road is a sign of obstruction. There are also Slavuta and some other areas on Hmelničin. The Basilkov district of Kyiv County and the Supreme Council are visited by the community. This is evidence that local authorities, district officials, district administrations forget that in all important matters, community representatives, with the people, should be consulted. Two weeks left to work in the session room. The question from people to us is whether or not there will be new district councils in the newly created major areas and what their functions will be; what they will do and what funding they will do when all authority is given to the united territorial communities. All of these questions need to be answered immediately so that the preparatory process for local elections takes place in time. And one more thing. This is where the colleagues talked about the medics. This Sunday we will honor the people of this courageous profession. I asked the minister of finance today why they did not receive one - time financial assistance from those families of medical professionals who had died from the Coronavirus. Why are those who have been sick? Today, more than 3,000 300 in the Social Insurance Fund are doctors who are sick in their duties to treat people from COVID-19. That's what we have to ask the government about today. And the government is not supposed to answer, the minister that is coming. It's not the official's response, it's the demagogue, the pro and the non-professional. And today we have, by greeting the medics, to say that the state owed, owed that the second stage of medical reform did not take place, as promised -- no funding. And I want all of us to do our duty, to provide for the people.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-19-m0.u173	Thank you, Mikhailovich. Thank you. Arseny Mikhailovich Pusharenko. Bardina Marina Olegnowna.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-19-m0.u174	Good afternoon, dear Ukrainians! Today is the day before Father’s Day, which Ukraine celebrates on June 21, the members of the Supreme Council, for the initiatives of the interfractional merger “Equal Opportunities” have registered a wonderful bill. A bill designed to balance the rights of a woman and a man to parenthood. This bill is being implemented within the framework of the International Partnership for Biarrics, initiated by First Lady Helen Green. What is the purpose of the bill? First, we want to ensure that the mother and father are able to care for the child and combine their work with the family. Eliminate legislative gaps that limit the right of men to a parental leave, as well as create preconditions in Ukraine for responsible parenthood. We introduce a new type of vacation – a vacation when a child is born for up to 14 calendar days. In fact, husbands will now have the opportunity to take such a vacation, and they and their wife will be with their baby when they are born. Second item. It's a vacation to take care of a child until it reaches the age of three, which is defined as the equal right of each parent of a child. Not only women but also men will have the opportunity to share with children or minors who are disabled and have the right to additional leave. Today, this right is reserved exclusively for women. We also introduce the possibility of setting shorter working hours for men who have children under the age of 14 or a child with disabilities and for parents who have children without a mother. It's important to say that these rights now exist for a woman and the right to take care of a child in general after birth, which is derived from a woman's right. We also want men to be actively involved in the care of children, in the upbringing and in general in the system of responsible parenting in Ukraine. That is why I welcome all my dads to Dad’s coming Day, and I want to give as much attention as possible to caring for their children. And together with the United Nations Population Fund again with the support of Ms. Helen Greene, we are launching a large photo project today that will show you famous Ukrainians, famous dads, both Ukrainian national deputies and representatives of ministries, ministers, writers, singers, and will tell stories about their fatherhood. So I ask you all to watch Facebook, and there are these photos. Thank you. And with the coming celebration.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-19-m0.u175	Kitzak Bogdan Viktorovich. Nataluha Dmitry Andriyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-19-m0.u176	Honorable Presidium, Your Honor! I'd like to talk today about, without exaggeration, one of the historic bills that our committee has prepared. This is about the Industrial Parks Bill. Industrial parks are one of the tools that will allow, from our point of view and from the point of view of practice around the world, to stimulate industrial production and finally stop the decline of industrial production, which we have seen, unfortunately, since the end of last year. Today, there are 43 industrial parks in Ukraine. Only 23 of them have a management company, only 7 have residents. But unfortunately, Ukraine's legislation has been in place since the adoption of the bill, if I'm not mistaken, in 2016, did not allow these residents to benefit from any benefits, any tax preferences, and otherwise did not encourage them to be found in these industrial parks. Our bill, which we have prepared collectively, is finally changing this situation. It allows residents to use the following benefits: It exempts taxes on profits for 5 years: payment of 50 per cent of the income tax over the next 5 years on export terms; It introduces VAT rates of 3 per cent on imports of equipment and industrial parks for a period of 10 years; It introduces a minimum VAT rate of 3 per cent on imports of raw materials, semi-manufacturers and appliances, provided that they continue to produce the final product and export at least 50 per cent of the finished product; It frees the residents of industrial parks from import duties on foreign equipment and equipment; It compensates industrial park exporters for a percentage of external credits (30 per cent of the export share of the amount 15.50 per cent of the export share of 30.75 per cent of the export share of 50 per cent and 50 per cent of the export share of 70 per cent of the output). What will that give us? We predict that even in a pessimistic scenario, the expected growth rate in the 24th year of GDP will be 0.9. If the scenario is optimistic, it's 12.4 percent. This bill, without exaggeration, can be considered historic. And we sincerely hope that this will enable us to re-industrialize our country, which will finally allow us to stop being the raw material of the world and make Ukraine a powerful industry, an industrialised state. Thank you all.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-19-m0.u177	Thank you, Your Honor. The speakers spoke. I think we can close our morning session. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed. Anyone who has a wish, we can take a photo as usual.
