ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-03-m0.u1	Good morning, dear fellows! Good morning, distinguished media reps, respected government officials! Please prepare for registration. Dear colleagues, ready to register? Ready? Please register. [[10:11:44]] There are 240 Ukrainian national deputies registered in the hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear colleagues, Prime Minister Denis Anatoliyovich Schmigal and members of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine are taking part in the meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Hello. [[Applause]] In accordance with article 229 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules, “the hour of questions to the Government ” is held on Friday, at 10 a.m. At the suggestion of the deputy factions and groups, the members of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine will today report, answer questions about the situation on Prikarpata, and the measures taken by the Government of Ukraine to eliminate the effects of the flood in this region, the state of use of funds to overcome the COVID-19 pandemic, and the practice of resolving human resources issues that are part of Parliament's constitutional powers. Dear colleagues, the next order is proposed to hold an hour of questions to the government. To take up to 20 minutes for a speech by the Prime Minister of Ukraine on a specific subject; to answer the Prime Minister of Ukraine and questions from the deputy factions and groups, it takes up to 21 minutes; to reply by the Prime Minister of Ukraine and by members of the government to questions from the Ukrainian national deputies, it takes up to 20 minutes. Is there no objection? Question one minute, answer two minutes. Is there no objection? Don't you have to vote? Okay. The Prime Minister of Ukraine, Denis Anatoliyovich Schmigal, is invited to the podium.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-03-m0.u2	Good day, Mr. Head, Your Honorable Presidium, Honourable National Deputies! Good afternoon, dear Ukrainians! Today you and I have a few very important subjects in our agenda. It's a fund issue, using the fund's funds to fight the coronavirus. It is the coordination of all branches of government to deal with the consequences of the disaster in the western areas of Ukraine. On matters relating to human life and health, we should have a united work with you. She already is. And Ukrainians need to see and understand that their future and their security are above all for us. The first question is a report on the use of the Coroner Fund. Transparency and honesty in using these funds are our two priorities. In April of this year, Parliament, at the suggestion of our government, supported the anti-crisis changes to the State Budget and supported the establishment of a fund to combat the coronavirus. This was the right and prompt decision that met the needs of the time, especially the needs of the Ukrainians at that time. The fund is the support of doctors, it's the support of pensioners, small, medium-sized businesses at a time when the state has to show concern and take care of its citizens. Effectiveness and transparency are the main criteria for using funds from the fund to fight COVID. Before we started the fight, we put these priorities together with you, and we follow them. At government meetings, literally yesterday, the minister of finance reported on the use of funds. In fact, today this task is set before all the ministries that use the funds, give the Ukrainians a full report on the funds allocated and used. Now let's talk more about the structure of the fund's payments. In total, 64.7 billion dollars have been allocated to the fund. Of these, 9 billion dollars are directed to the National Unemployment Insurance Fund. Of these, 4.7 billion dollars -- to pay for partial unemployment, 4.3 billion dollars -- to help with unemployment. The state has been helping more than 500,000 unemployed people today. They are specific people in specific businesses, from small factories to factories, to self - employed persons. There are 3 billion dollars available to prevent the spread of the coronavirus. Of these, 650 million are laboratory units of the Ministry of Health. The number of tests we have today at the Czech and Polish levels is over 20,000. There are days when we do about 25,000 tests every day. That's a serious number. 2.3 billion dollars go to purchase individual health care products that provide stationary emergency medical care and adequately rescue Ukrainians from the coronavirus. Although this does not apply to the money of the Coronary Foundation, I want to add that the government allocates 1.3 billion dollars separately to improve emergency medicine. Because those who are saving the lives of Ukrainians today also needed our help through constant underfunding. Two and a half billion dollars are provided to support the Social Insurance Fund. 1.7 billion dollars to provide financial assistance to people, including pensioners, those in need of such assistance; 2.7 billion dollars is an additional payment to military personnel, police and other workers who ensure the viability of the population during the fight against the coronavirus. 100 million dollars is provided for the purchase of artificial ventilation devices to first-line medical facilities that actually provide stationary medical care to patients with COVID-19. So what I'm saying is that with artificial lung ventilation devices, we can increase the amount of them, there's no need for them at the moment, and there's more than 2,000 300 of them, and so far it's less than 7 percent. 52.5 million dollars is the return of money to test-driver participants. It's worth noting here that the first testing sessions took place, they were organized at a high level in terms of the safety of our children, they were conducted full testing of all teachers, they were tested by participants, they were measured by temperature. There were children who were not admitted to the KND because of their symptoms. There were also a number of instructors and inspectors who also had symptoms and who had evidence of an unsymptomable coronary disease as a result of plr testing. Of course, they were not allowed into the TNW. In addition, an additional 45.7 billion dollars have been approved. Of these, 35 billion dollars are used to repair and reconstruct roads. I would like to remind you that this decision was supported by 331 national MPs, which is the fulfilment of the requirements prescribed by government legislation. I have repeatedly stressed that building roads is a game and stimulating our economy, which has a positive effect in the adjacent sectors, the so-called multiplier effect, including by creating additional and new jobs that we've all talked about and promised our Ukrainians. And this is confirmed by statistics: over 150,000 people were able to find jobs during this period and get a job. When we adopted the emergency budget, we predicted that funds from the fund would be able to focus on strategic tasks -- road repairs, the Big Building project. This is now a strategic task, which is personally under the control of the President of Ukraine, in the government of Ukraine, practically on a daily basis. 7.8 billion dollars are also allocated for medical and individual categories of workers that ensure the vitality of the population under COVID-19. What we promised you about 300 percent of the medical supplement is being done in full measure. At the same time, the government understands that it's not enough to supplement certain categories of medical care for the quarantine period. So from September 1st, we start a pay raise program for our medical staff, from doctors to younger nurses. These aren't the sums that doctors in Ukraine have yet to receive, of course, but this is the first step that is extremely important and symbolic for our medicine, for our doctors, for our society. In addition, 2.9 billion from the Kodow Fund will go to purchase equipment for our hospital reception offices. This year, health - care institutions in the hospital districts will be provided with new reception facilities, which will be set up according to modern standards in one style. And in all institutions, people will be able to receive the same medical services when they are approached or in reception. It's part of that program of affordable and quality medicine that we've been implementing, and we want it to be not only in the cities of millionaires, but also in small towns, villages and all over Ukraine. I will take a separate look at the flood situation that has taken place and has not yet been completed in the western areas of Ukraine. As soon as the magnitude and severity of the damage occurred, both I and the President, with the participation of the ministers of our government, personally arrived at the scene, assessed the consequences of the disaster. In the coming days, as promised, the government spent money on overcoming the effects of the flood. Initially, more than 754 million dollars were allocated for the restoration of the infrastructure, timely recovery, for the provision of funds, for compensation to the people who needed it first, and for a set of preventive measures to prevent floods from taking place in the future. Thus, 30 million dollars have been allocated to the Zacarpathian Authority, 480 million dollars to Ivano-Frankiv, 10 million dollars to Lviv, 30 million dollars to Cherniewsky. The state provides assistance to families who have lost 200,000 dollars; owners of homes that have been completely demolished; 300,000 dollars per family; families for capital repairs — 50,000 dollars; and the loss of damaged homes — 20,000 dollars. Separately, 122 million dollars have been allocated to the Ministry of Environmental and Natural Resources Protection for the State Water Agency and the State Forest Resources Agency to restore dams, shores and damaged infrastructure, which, in fact, provides security against such floods. For the State Emergency Service, 41 million dollars were allocated for the National Guard, 22 million dollars for the National Police, and 19 million dollars for the National Police. In fact, it costs fuel to operate these services that operate special technology, aviation technology to deliver food and humanitarian aid to those areas that are now cut off from the great world by the effects of the flood. I have already stressed that more than 750 million dollars is not the final amount that the government is aiming at restoring the infrastructure of the regions. We have received from our respective authorities a preliminary calculation that says that we will need about 2 billion dollars to deal with the consequences of a natural disaster. These are the preliminary calculations that have been received from district government administrations. And it's important to talk about the next thing that money needs to be allocated to people, and it's very important to monitor how this money is going to be used, because we've already allocated over 750 million dollars. The local authorities are about to start distributing this money among the people, and it is very important to understand the responsibility of the local authorities to the people. Because both the parliament and the government did their work quickly, the funds allocated, it's important that they go to every affected family. Here's another point: the efficiency of the investment in infrastructure recovery. Over the past 10 to 15 years, the state has spent billions, tens of billions of dollars on flood infrastructure, coastal reinforcements, dams. But we see every year that this question happens over and over again, we see the inefficient use of these funds over time. The president has assigned us an assignment to keep us from returning to these problems every year. So it's very important to pursue purposeful use of all the funds that are actually going to be allocated to flood management. I hope that this process will be joined by major MPs from all regions, including those who have suffered. With the ministers, we will be sure to examine how these funds are used by local authorities. And it's important that no one then says that we didn't warn them, that control is going to be pretty tough. The main final issue that I consider necessary is the appointment of a new acting minister of education and science to ensure that there is no variation. First. We have not yet appointed a minister of education and science. As deputy minister of education and science, Mr. Sergei Scarlett is temporarily assigned to perform his duties, an important moment. The other one. I believe that Mr. Scarlett has actually been assigned to us with the opportunity to manifest ourselves over the next few months, and that's kind of a test term. With this attitude, by the way, a large number of national deputies also agree. Third. Yesterday, I know that Sergey Mikolaiovich was on the committee, where he presented his vision of the priorities for 2020. And that's a very positive step, because in the first week of office, a person is already working with a committee. Now we have to show you how to implement what's written. Likewise, I think it is important that the presentation takes place before the Committee of the Supreme Council, because, as I said, cooperation with Parliament is a priority for each minister. Moreover, such communication is an opportunity for a minister to dispel myths or speculations that take place around his appointment. Four. In terms of the program presented by Mr. Scarlett, I personally see a lot of positive things there. What is particularly important is that in the prime steps of the minister’s responsibility, there is a large bloc that deals with science and innovation. Because sometimes we forget that the Ministry of Education and Science is not just the Ministry of Education, it's also the Ministry of Science and it's the Ministry of Innovation. And we see that there are good proposals for funding tools to help create such centres of scientific development in Ukraine, because it is very important for us in the country to compete not only at the production stage, but also at the development stage, at the stage of scientific research. We have a tremendous scientific potential that needs to be developed. Another important point regarding the resistance to deforestation. It's important to say the following. In fact, the forest is a flood-prevention dam, a significant amount of water retention and water retention, and according to the State, the average rainfall, for example, in the most affected region of Ivano-Frankiv, was 2.8 billion cubic metres. This is already a number of indicators during this flood period, when a natural disaster took place. The forest could absorb as much as 10 percent of the rainfall in these areas, particularly in John-Francisco. And so we see climate change that has actually led to water level rise. Besides, it's about the numbers. We see a reduction in illegal cuts, but of course, the fight against this phenomenon needs to be completed. Total electronic logging of wood has been introduced, and electronic auctions have been put in place. This enables us to control much of the wood that is being processed in Ukraine today. Of course, there are thefts, law enforcement works today, we see statistics. Regrettably, the theft of forests has not been eliminated until the end, and the cooperation of law enforcement agencies, local authorities, that are directly in control of what is happening on the ground, is important. And on the part of the government, we need to talk about what both the Supreme Council and the government have approved appropriate amendments to the codes, appropriate programs for national forest inventory. According to the government plan's implementation of the Association Agreement by October 31st, 22nd, the implementation of flood risk management plans based on maps of threats and flood risks should be approved and implemented. This is an extremely important moment that will allow us to actually manage the risks of these floods that we have now seen, particularly in 5 areas of Western Ukraine. At present, work is being done to identify areas vulnerable to flooding, for which there will be maps of threats and flood risks. The government is working on a strategy to reform the forest management sector, which will ensure the transition to quality new management standards. The government is working preventively. I've already talked about electronics and digitization of woodworking and logging. With regard to the restoration of forests, all solid woodcuts are restored. In the spring of this year, 32.3 thousand hectares [32.3,000 ha] of forest have been reconstructed, according to official data. The ratio of forest production over 10 years has now exceeded the total area of cuttings. Regrettably, I said that there were illegal logging, which also needed to be made available in the inventory of forests and to have an understanding of the extent to which general plantings were to take place in Ukraine. That's what we're working on right now. With regard to other questions, I am ready to answer your questions. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-03-m0.u3	Thank you, Dennis Anatolyovich. Dear colleagues, let us turn to the Prime Minister's questions from the MP factions and groups. Please sign up for the question. Please, Kozak Taras Romanovich, faction of the political party "The Opposition Platform for Life." Suffritch Nestor Ivanovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-03-m0.u4	I have a question for the Prime Minister of Ukraine. Today, it happened that the Ukrainians were unable to enter Europe because of the high and rapid level of distribution of coronavirus in our country. Please tell us that you have been chosen, including as the crisis prime minister and as a government to deal with the consequences of the pandemic. How come we're in one of the last places at the same level of testing? And after studying the Ministry of Finance's report today, we've seen that out of 64 billion dollars, just over 600 million dollars were spent on testing. How do we know where we have them locally, if we don't test them, we don't see them. And I feel like you don't want to see them. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-03-m0.u5	Regarding the situation with the crown virus in Ukraine. Today, the second day when the number of patients is gradually decreasing, it is still high, but the ratio of those who are sick and those who are sick is quite positive: more than 800 people are sick, over 500 have recovered, the difference is 300 active patients plus. But the situation is next. Over the past few weeks, we have seen a fairly significant increase in Ukraine’s population of up to 1,000 a day. This was indeed an increase we did not have. These were some of the recorders. At the same time, the number of tests in Ukraine, I've already called this figure today in my report, exceeds 20,000 a day. There are days when we do 25,000 tests. We do tests using two methods: PLR method and IFA method. These are two of the most reliable ways to determine disease. This is a methodology that Europe has recognized in terms of how we work in Ukraine on testing. And we don't refuse to test anyone. All those who speak are given the opportunity to protest. In addition, there are categories of people, they are health workers, they are police officers who are regularly tested with a certain period of time because they are working with the threat of coronary disease. Today, after the number of tests Ukraine has passed, I have also reported this to the level of Poland and the Czech Republic. As far as Ukraine is concerned, we are in 35 places in the world with the number of sick people, and we are at the same level as the countries of Eastern Europe. So once again, all the people who need to be tested, they all get this service, they're all going through it. And today we have objective data from the disease. Of course, the task of society today is to use masks, disinfection.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-03-m0.u6	Thank you. Please, Dear Mikolayovich, faction of the political party "Slut of the People."
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-03-m0.u7	Good afternoon, Mr. Prime Minister. Mikola Road, 162 constituency. Question one. I would like to thank the government for responding quickly to the flood and drought situation. I want to tell the Ukrainians that today the budget committee has supported the Act on the Allocation of 2 billion dollars into the contingency fund. Thank you for that. And two more questions. First. Did you know that the Ministry of Economics, in excess of its powers, has made some changes to the statutes of state companies, and this could lead to significant damage to the state? You have received an appropriate address. Have you seen him? That's the first question. And the second. When will the Supreme Council be filing for the relaunch of the Ministry of Economics? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-03-m0.u8	Thank you for asking. You didn't specify which particular enterprises, which changes have been made. I'm going to ask the economy minister to comment on this question right now. If there are specific business names, please give an answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-03-m0.u9	Thank you. We also received an address. And we're going to give the answer in the right order. There everything was done according to the law. And we will give you, Your Honor, the answer to your question. We know you've been very concerned about this company for a long time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-03-m0.u10	What kind of business are we talking about?
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-03-m0.u11	About the Agrarian Fund.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-03-m0.u12	Thank you. Please, next National Deputy Bondar Mikhailo Leontijovich, faction of the political party "European Solidarity".
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-03-m0.u13	Thank you. Bondar Mikhailo, 119 constituency. Please give the word to the Prince's Santa.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-03-m0.u14	Mikola Knieżicki, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-03-m0.u15	Thank you. Dear Mr. Prime Minister, I have questions about not strangers to you, as well as to me, the Lebanese and Ivano-Frankish. How do you personally see the growth of the sick in Lviv, who are constantly among the leaders? This is the inadequacy of city authority, according to the head of the profiling committee, or the inability of the central authority to run tests there, even though in other areas, people do not wait for these tests to be tested? And the second question concerns Frankish and the effects of the flood. Obviously, you realize that the government's spending is a penny. For 11 kilometers or 17 roads out of 110 injured, there is not enough for the bridges. Some roads began to be restored. Some have recovered, some have not. Dembrona and Bistrec are still cut off from civilization, and those who have been restored have temporarily done so. Is it not more appropriate to turn this money over to the roads to take account of the effects of the flood and to help people in Frankish? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-03-m0.u16	Thank you for the two pertinent questions. Indeed, in a number of areas there has been an increase in patients with COVID. We have overcome such a crisis in the region of Chernobyl, the Ternopil region. Today, Lvivska, Ravenska, Volinska are also such anti - rating opponents. There has been a major increase in disease in the last two weeks in the city of Lviv specifically. A large number of people are likely to have contracted the virus as the quarantine measures subsided. Today we see a very gradual slight decline. I hope that the measures that have been taken, including by the number of tests, and by that communication policy, at those adaptation quarantine measures that have been carried out in Lviv, we will soon be able to improve the situation with the patients in the Lviv region. With regard to the situation in Ivano-Frankish and the areas where the natural disaster took place last week. It is a natural disaster, unfortunately not over, and it continues. There's plenty of rivers, there's still water in the area. I've already stressed today, the previous government has been allocated, such an advance of 754 million dollars. We realize that it is not enough. Today, according to previous estimates, there is a need for another 2 billion dollars to deal with these consequences and to remedy the damage caused by the disaster. So we're going to ask Parliament separately to support amendments to the Budget Act for an additional 2 billion in the Reserve Fund so that we can repair the quality of roads, dams, bridges, shores, in addition, bring order and reimburse the people who have lost their homes or.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-03-m0.u17	Thank you. Please, Batenko Taras Ivanovich, MP's Party for the Future.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-03-m0.u18	I'd like to give Anton Yatzenka a word. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-03-m0.u19	Anton Yatzenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-03-m0.u20	Mr. Prime Minister, I have three questions for you. First. Nevertheless, the floods in Western Ukraine are of great concern, and I would like to understand clearly who is the chief cost manager. The second question concerns Regulation No. 777, which provides for assistance in western areas, but for some reason the Ternopil region did not. And the request to give an answer as to why, and yet not to be offended. And the third question we've raised in this room on a number of occasions, and we've talked directly to you about the fact that this year the Sofia National Park is scheduled to apply to UNESCO as a candidate for UNESCO. And it's a big request to fund, because 15 million has been allocated this year, but there's still, I'll, with your permission, then come to you to resolve this question, because, really, an important international action is breaking down. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-03-m0.u21	Thank you. In terms of floods and heathlands. The local authorities will be chief officials. Once again, 754 million of the first tranche, which was taken out of the contingency fund to deal with the results quickly, was distributed as follows: the Zacarpathian government – 30 million dollars, the Ivano-Frankov government – 480 million dollars, the Lviv government – 10 million dollars, the Chernobyl government – 30 million dollars. Next. In the ministries, according to the relevant services, the N.C.P.D., the State Service with an emergency situation (I'll tell you now) has been allocated fuel compensation costs. And according to the Ministry of Environmental Protection and Natural Resources, 122 million dollars have been allocated to the State Department and the State Department. When this ruling was voted out, there was no flood in Ternopolska at that time, so it was not really in this first tranche of the Ternopil region. Today we have all the appeals from the district government, and the Ternopil area, including its accounts, at least 35 million dollars in the Ternopil region have been watered down by several population centres, are submerged by households. The district administration clearly completes these losses, and they will no doubt be released from the reserve fund as soon as possible and transferred to the Ternopil area. As far as Sofia is concerned. I absolutely support that diamonds such as the Sofia Park should be incorporated into UNESCO's historical heritage and should be a worldwide heritage that tourists can admire, and Ukrainians can be proud of what we have. So the work that was started will certainly be supported and completed by the government, including. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-03-m0.u22	Please, Cimbaluk Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-03-m0.u23	Mikhailo Tsimbaluk, "The Fatherland" faction. Please pass the word to a colleague of the Kucherenko faction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-03-m0.u24	Kucherenko Alexei Yuriovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-03-m0.u25	Alexy Kucherenko, faction of Fatherland. Dear colleagues, regarding the flood. I had the honour of working in 2008 in the government of Mrs. Timoshenko, who was then Prime Minister, and we know what it was like to eliminate the effects of the flood that was then, believe me, much more powerful and much more damaging. So in this situation, Mr. Prime Minister, I have specific absolute questions. What you're eliminating and dealing with is traditionally, unfortunately, for Ukraine. Do we really know if anyone is being punished for deforestation? Did you know that the main reason was the illegal construction of the flood, or did you deal with the problem? Is there a hydrotechnological reconstruction program that we started 10 years ago? Have house and land documents been made available? And the last. All of this takes money. In the first place, I insist, NAC Naftogaz has not added 72 billion dollars to the budget. Until we deal with this black hole in the Ukrainian economy, we're going to be patching it up.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-03-m0.u26	Thank you for asking. I'll answer as you asked the question. I also had the honour of working as head of the Ivano-Frankow government from August to January of this year, from August of last year. And it's a very important moment. By adopting the area, of course, there have been problems in eliminating the effects of floods since 2008 and ending those that have been past and past years. More than 600 objects have not even been started, more than 800 objects have not been completed due to the lack of funding for this period since 2008. It's only in one of the Ivano-Frankiv regions. The consequences we've all seen in the last two weeks, when there's actually been overcrowding, and those dams, the shores, the flood-proof buildings, they've just not been made, because the billions of funds that have been allocated in previous periods by the state, they've either been used ineffectively or stolen. This is already a matter for law enforcement. Of course, we will investigate the effects of floods after helping people and eliminating the consequences. It will be necessary to understand and determine what were the main reasons for illegal logging. You can ask the law enforcement authorities, I'm sure they'll give you the answers that the number of civil servants in the State Department, the number of criminals who illegally cut down the forest, has been attracted. That's probably not enough. I agree that the need for a clear forest protection system and a clear punishment for those who are engaged today still has such an emphasis on cutting up Carpathian forests today. So I look forward to working with the law enforcement agencies in this area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-03-m0.u27	Thank you. Please, Sosun Inna Romanovna, faction of the political party Voice.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-03-m0.u28	Please pass the word to Jaroslav Rušišin.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-03-m0.u29	Jaroslav Ruššin, please. Turn it on, please. A gun, yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-03-m0.u30	Thank you. The Voice faction, Jaroslav Ruššin, Lvivščina. Your Honor, I have two questions for you. The first is about the sums that you called the Frankiv region and others. I'm impressed by the amount of money you're spending, because it's probably only enough for one trip from Iltz to Dembarn, it's 5 kilometers and six bridges, and how you're going to prioritize it, because people are hostage to the situation, and they probably won't be able to make it. And the second question is academic morality. Please tell me, what can I tell the students, like the Catholic University, who got their teacher released through plagiarism? This was the first time in Ukraine. I think it's academic morality that has the right to exist when we put on a minister a man who was involved in the theft of intellectual property herself.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-03-m0.u31	So it's about the first part. I repeat, for the fourth time today, the first amount, the first money tranche of 754 million dollars is the funds that have been earmarked quickly to eliminate the immediate consequences. the immediate elimination of the effects that were caused in the first few days, literally. These funds will also be distributed among those who have suffered. So there are four destroyed buildings where people have to be compensated, and we've booked 300,000 dollars -- these are buildings where significant destruction and damage are also needed to support people. People lost their possessions, some lost their money, some lost their clothes. So this sum is a first-line tranche that is requested by the district government, including one that works with these people every day. In the future, district administrations now account for damage, including human damage. There's a clear number of listed households, destruction of infrastructure. According to previous estimates, this is a plus to this sum of about 2 billion dollars that will have to be allocated from the reserve fund to liquidate the effects of the flood. I repeat, the consequences, these are the damage that caused the flood itself: the restoration of bridges, the restoration of roads that were damaged, the dams. In particular, there is a need to talk about the State’s program of fortification, dam building, and flood management. It's a separate question, and the State Department here has the appropriate funds for the government program. Regarding the second part of your question, we are conducting a proper investigation, and plagiarism should be discussed when there is evidence, not when there are voting charges. Let's wait, and Mr. Scarlett personally initiated these things, we'll wait for the results, we'll present and then we'll have a substantive discussion on this subject. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-03-m0.u32	Please, National Deputy Kucher Mikola Ivanovich, MP group "Trust".
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-03-m0.u33	I'd like to give the word to Shah.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-03-m0.u34	Shahov Sergei Volodymyrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-03-m0.u35	Sergey Shahov, Luhanščina, Deputy Group "Trust". First question. My colleagues are talking, and Larissa Bilozer, and Mikola Lushniak, again, for Ternopolish and for Winnitz, there was no money distribution in these areas, and they were sunk, and there was something to be done. So please pay attention to this. The second question. This is a chronic disease in the coal mining, coal miners, miners ’ wages, and the energy security of our nation. You know, the miners spent four days under the President's Office, and I know that you gave orders to pay the wages anyway. But when will this coal - branched vachanal end? When do we know what's going on in the mines in those areas of Lugansk, Donetsk? When we know that miners will still return to our country, and the state will not buy coal from Africa, Belarus and Russia, will we still not buy electricity from the Russian Federation, but will we use Ukrainian? Thank you. Sergey Shahov, Luhanščina, Deputy Group "Trust".
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-03-m0.u36	Thank you. With regard to Ternopolishte and other areas. Once applications have been made from district government authorities for clear-calculation damages, the state’s reserve fund will no doubt be allocated. I've already called it Ternopolska. There's an estimated amount of damage, and it's already coming from the head of the Ternopil government. Thus, the government will allocate additional funds at the nearest meeting, including to the Ternopil region. Winnieck’s appeal did not come at this time. Let's see what the consequences are, whether the Winnitzin flood has affected the numbers that will require intervention and assistance from the state budget. We have to remember, there are also regional commissions of technological safety and emergency situations, there are local budgets, maybe there's enough of our own resources, we'll figure it out. Regarding the wages of coal miners and, in general, the coal industry. The government is extremely concerned about this situation, it's a matter of daily actual control. The Minister of Energy personally participated in the meeting of the visiting committee at one of the state’s power stations, in contact with mining companies, and in direct contact with miners. And this is a very important moment where we share responsibility for the coal situation, including in government mines. And it has to be said that for six months, the government has spent a total of 3.5 billion dollars on coal companies to pay their wages and pay off their debt. Today, there is a situation when. It's one of the first times that the state doesn't have a debt to coal, which is very important, and coal miners also know it and understand it. Business business issues, and the government has taken a decision that actually obliges state Tess and TEC to buy coal from Ukrainian mines, state enterprises.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-03-m0.u37	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the National Parliament, we turn to questions from the Prime Minister and members of the Government from the National Deputies. Please sign up for the question. Please, Papiev Mikhailo Mikolaiovich, faction of the political party "The Opposition Platform for Life."
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-03-m0.u38	Thank you. May I give the floor to the national deputy, Shufrich?
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-03-m0.u39	Shufrich Nestor Ivanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-03-m0.u40	I have a question for the newly appointed Minister of Information Policy. Mr. Tkachenko, Mr. Tkachenko, may I have your attention? Mr. Alexander, you have declared when you were chairman of the committee that if you choose between a regulator and freedom of speech, you will stand for the principle of freedom of speech itself. I ask you to assess the situation that has now taken place on channel "UA:First" in the question of trying to stop speaking and providing content, and the release of the news team of the program "Good morning, Country!" Today, when the collective itself provides funding, when we fight for the preservation of every job and the efficient use of budgetary resources, spending money on a new content and freeing journalists, it is a gross violation of the principles of freedom of speech.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-03-m0.u41	Thank you, Mr. Shufrich. I want to remind you that it is the Supreme Council that is responsible for allocating funds to the social language. Because the Supreme Council has not issued enough funds to the social language, there are certain processes on "UA:First." I would also like to remind you that the public language cannot be involved by the state in the person of the deputies or in the person of the Ministry of Information, more faithfully, culture, information policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-03-m0.u42	Thank you. The honourable colleagues, perhaps if we ask questions, including ministers, we invite the Prime Minister to take his place in the government's bed, so that he is not behind the rostrum, and we continue. I give the floor to the National Deputy Proscetku Eduardo Petrovich, faction of the Political Party "Serve of the People," please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-03-m0.u43	Edward Proschtuk, 85th District, Attitude. Dear Denis Anatoliyovich, I want to thank you for coming, first of all, during the flood on my family's Ascension, and for yourself, to appreciate the magnitude of this great tribulation that was brought about by the flood on the Atonement in particular. I have a question about coping with flood damage. What is the algorithm for compensation for floods? But what's important about people when they can actually get compensation? And I would also like to draw your attention to the fact that we recently made decisions, particularly the government, about the creation of a new Ministry of Environmental Protection, and certain bureaucratic processes now make it impossible to obtain the financial resources that you mentioned, particularly the central authorities, which are subordinated to the Ministry, to the water agency as well. Therefore, the request that the Ministry of Finance be entrusted with these processes rather quickly. Speed them up, especially.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-03-m0.u44	Thank you, Edward Petrovich. Regarding the allocation of funds and the algorithm of their distribution, I have already told you. First of all, today's funds are supposed to be in the treasury accounts of the government. The government knows, they know the algorithm, how to use it, there's already an experience of previous allocations of funds. The distribution of funds, I have today reported, is 200 thousand families of every flood - killing family, three of whom are now confirmed. One person is considered missing. Three hundred thousand dollars is the compensation of a family that has lost a completely residential home. At the moment, four of these housing units are completely destroyed in Ivano-Frankish. 50,000 dollars is the amount of money that is reimbursed for major repairs to buildings. The number of such households is also being calculated. And there's the right amount to compensate for what's called the current repair and recovery of flood-related household losses, these are lost cities, lost farm buildings, and so on. So all of these things are prescribed. The district authorities know and understand clearly how to follow this algorithm. Costs, this advance payment that we talked about, especially 480 million, the first tranche, for John-Francisco. The remaining funds, if necessary, for the submission of a district government administration will immediately be credited by the government to the Treasury to the district government. The district administration further distributes this among the respective communities. Where there's an OTH, it's going to be an OTH, where there's so far an administration through district administrations, the distribution of funds will go through district government administrations. So the algorithm is clear, and it's prescribed. Thank you. Thank you for asking.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-03-m0.u45	Please, People's Deputies of Polackov Anton Eduardoovich, MP for the Future.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-03-m0.u46	Dear Denis Anatoliyovich, I give you my greetings from Montenegro, from the torphobic factory of Smolin. It's a torpedo that's being released, and despite the illegal director of Chernigovtorf, despite Minneergo's desire to spray this plant on scrap metal and sell the land to the rich on peat. I'm asking you to put order in this area and transfer this enterprise to the utility property of the Pottery OTG. These questions are also on the Wall. You are also approached by Montenegrin education about the establishment of a system of teaching for non-distant students in schools not only in rural schools but also in urban schools, as their constitutional right to access to education is violated. Not all students have computers, there is the Internet. And education will suffer, not all students want jobs like putting up a sidewalk tile, etc., but they want to.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-03-m0.u47	Thank you. The answer to the first part of the question. Let us consider your request and prepare and answer your questions about the situation with the peat. In general, in enterprises like Ukrtorf, Ukrburstin, of course, we're setting the order now and we will be. Thank you. Address accepted along with a piece of peat. Let's move on. Regarding the educational process of the fall. The whole world is preparing for a second or third wave of coronavirus, so it's very important to be able in a pandemic that hasn't stopped, that continues and grows in the world, to understand that we have the ability to teach our children regardless of the epidemic and the global pandemic. So the possibility of distance learning is anticipated and we're working on making it more quality, meaningful, and enabling children to learn remotely if the epidemic is at risk. But that's just the power. Of course, no one will cancel or cancel the classical, traditional educational process. It's a priority. We're working on that, too. And in moderation, let's say, the epidemic in Ukraine, of course, is going to start with respect, let's say, for children, for teachers. So this is again the simple three things that we're talking about, the masculine, the remote, the disinfection. These are things the Ministry of Education is working on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-03-m0.u48	Thank you. Please, Ruššin Jaroslav Ivanovich, faction of the political party "Golos".
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-03-m0.u49	Please pass the word to Roman Costenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-03-m0.u50	Roman Costenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-03-m0.u51	Dear colleagues, first of all, I would like today to congratulate the air defences who are celebrating their festival today and wish them all the best, and thank you for protecting our sky. [[Applause]] I have a question for the Secretary of Defense. Minister, look, we're hearing today about the downsizing of the defenses by pulling out of the air force by DBR personnel. Please tell us that we all know that this will have a very negative impact on the defence sector. Tell me, what responsibility will the D.B.I. employees have? And what actions does the Ministry of Defense plan to prevent such actions from happening in the future? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-03-m0.u52	The question is very complex and needs a thorough study. For the time being, and the information I have allows me to draw the following conclusions. Disagreement between military counter-intelligence and other interested entities has led, firstly, to undermine the combat readiness of parts of the air defence, secondly, to create the possibility of a flow of information that relates to the phrasing. I think they're supposed to give appropriate law enforcement, not the Ministry of Defense. All I did was assess how this affected the fighting powers of the Armed Forces. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-03-m0.u53	Please, National Deputy Kucher Mikola Ivanovich, MP group "Trust".
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-03-m0.u54	I'd like to give you a word.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-03-m0.u55	Whitelighter Larissa, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-03-m0.u56	Larissa Bilozer, 15th constituency, Winnitztina, Deputy Group "Trust". Dear Denise Anatolyovich, you know, Ukrainian medicine actually met the pandemic completely disoriented, and we needed to act quickly. A group of anti-crisis deputies, a group was created, and we developed anti-quake bills and predicted there to quickly purchase individual remedies, to avoid ProZorro and to buy fast. But today we have such a situation that there are so many abuses. Overpriced purchases were often made. I want to give you an example of how the MOH purchased glasses, and I got glasses placed on my district, which is the "red" price of 35 bracelets, for 201 bracelets. Next. Now the hospitals are also allowing themselves to buy respirators for 300 bucks when the red price is 100. Please tell me, what is the position of the government in this regard? Now the MPs and I have registered a bill to clean up this one.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-03-m0.u57	So, about the government's position on providing our doctors. I did not hear the end of the question, but I will answer you clearly and clearly. First of all, we are interested in the proper cost of obtaining the means of individual protection of the right, the emphasis, the right quality, because it is a matter of protecting the health and life of our doctors who use it with the hope that they will protect them. It is important, therefore, to buy what is appropriate for the health and safety of doctors. As far as prices are concerned. Of course, today, especially in the first few months, there were speculative things where there were different variations in price protections in the world. If there is evidence of abuse, of course the government will support the work of law enforcement authorities that will reveal such facts. And the people who profited from it, in human misery, must be punished. It's a definite position and it's unreserved. If there is anything to be done, I will also ask the Minister of Health to comment on specific questions about respirators and costumes. We have given these answers many times, but please, Maxime Volodymyrovich, please comment again.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-03-m0.u58	Of course, the provision of personal protection for our health - care workers was question number one. And if you look at it now and compare it to the beginning of April, the end of March and the provision now, it's two very big differences, and it immediately shows up at the level of illness among health workers. If we observed up to 20 percent of all patients in April, this figure is now at 9 percent and continues to decline.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-03-m0.u59	Zabrodski Mikhailo Vitaliyovich, faction of the political party "European Solidarity".
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-03-m0.u60	Thank you. Please pass the word to Alexia Potter.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-03-m0.u61	Alexeiovich Honcharenko, faction of European Solidarity.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-03-m0.u62	Alexei Hotcharenko, European Solidarity. I have two questions. Question one. I'd like to continue with the D.B.I. action, which instead of the State Bureau of Investigation has become a "State Bureau of Repression," and now it's becoming a "State Bureau of Russia," because it's destroying our anti-aircraft defense. And I have a direct question. Did the Ministry of Defense request the crime that took place when the equipment was removed and our sky was opened, and where did the data go according to our equipment? That's the first one. I want a specific answer if you have. And the second question I have is this. On July 1, there was a so - called referendum in the Russian Federation on the anointing of the kingdom of the eternal Putin. And I have the next question. Where is the government's reaction, the hard reaction, the inadmissibility of doing anything like this in Ukraine, I mean, our Ukrainian Crimea, where did they announce that they had 90 percent? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-03-m0.u63	Regarding the D.B.I.'s actions. Once again, we don't, the Ministry of Defense doesn't give a legal evaluation. It's about turning around. For the time being, legal professionals at the Ministry of Defence are studying this issue to assess the possibility of requesting appropriate structures. The Ministry of Defense is not conducting a pretrial investigation, but the only thing we can do is conduct a service investigation. As to where this information went or could have gone, it's not for me, it's for the Ukrainian Security Service. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-03-m0.u64	About the second part of your questions. Take a close look at the web site of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine, where there is an open statement to condemn such acts in occupied areas of Ukraine. We've been talking to our international partners, and since yesterday, international partners have also condemned the holding of such, I don't know, there to name the measures they called the referendum, condemn our international partners. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-03-m0.u65	Thank you. Please, National Deputy Lucnyak Mikola Volodymyrovich, Deputy Group "Trust".
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-03-m0.u66	Good afternoon, I have a question for the Minister of Economics. In February a law was passed, a change to the State Property Rental Act. In March months, normative State acts were repealed, which were adopted by the past government. In May you filed new normative acts. But many issues are not settled today. It is not approved by taking into account the new Law on the Rent of State and Municipal Property of the Typical Contract of State Property Rents, which would be approved by the State Property Fund and registered in Minsk. There is also no new method of calculating the rent for government property, which should have been approved by the Cabinet of Ministers. And it's these misunderstandings and disagreements that today create some kind of chaos, because state-owned enterprises don't know, and including educational institutions, they don't know how to react properly and make new leases.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-03-m0.u67	Thank you for asking. In fact, as you know, the implementation of the State Property Rent Bill has put forth much discussion, and many participating organizations have been involved. And a few weeks ago, the government finally adopted a regulation that regulates the order. You're right to say that we still need to work out normative acts, including the calculation methodology and the default contract. A typical agreement already developed by the economy, perhaps already signed, is that it had to be settled today or the next day. We're going to take another look at it as quickly as possible to speed up and complete all the normative acts so that it can fully function as a rental of state property. So thank you for asking. We're working on it and we're moving as fast as we can.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-03-m0.u68	Please, National Deputy Burmich Anatoly Petrovich, faction of the political party "The Opposition Platform."
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-03-m0.u69	I didn't sign up.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-03-m0.u70	Anatoly Petrovich, you may not have registered, but you're here.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-03-m0.u71	Please pass the word to Coltunovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-03-m0.u72	Coltunovich Alexandr Sergijovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-03-m0.u73	I'm sorry, but we can give Sparkle to Leonidovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-03-m0.u74	No, we can only pass it once.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-03-m0.u75	Just once? Then there will be a question to Mr. Prime Minister of Ukraine regarding the draft budget for 2021. We are interested in the external borrowings of those and the internal ones that we have in this budget and that will be in the next budget. Because next year we realize that we have the same external liabilities, and that draft budget that's going to go bad, it's going to take into account that already hole in the budget of 650 billion dollars this year. So we're interested in long-term or medium-term budgetary planning not only this year, but next year, whether we're going to make budgetary commitments towards health care, education, other budgetary institutions, or whether we have as much as we did at the end of last year, subsidies for socio-economic development and other social obligations of the state. And most importantly, in the 21st year, whether a resource base will be set up to implement your initiatives in 5.6 thousand dollars of minimum wage.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-03-m0.u76	Thank you for your questions. We are really in the process of macro-economic planning, macro-indicators planning and creating a so-called budgetary resolution, although this year the law has been removed in connection with the coronation, but the Ministry of Finance is working. We are confident that we will fulfill all the State’s obligations to the social sphere, to medical personnel, to our education staff. We've clearly calculated the possibilities this year of raising the minimum wage from September 1st to 5,000 dollars. Again, we understand clearly how we will plan and execute the budget next year, including by paying off international and domestic debt obligations, and especially by performing the social functions of the state to Ukrainian citizens on raising the minimum wage, as promised. Since 01.01.2021, the minimum wage is set at 6,000 dollars, and as of 01.07.2021, 6.5,000 dollars. I will also ask the Minister of Finance to complete it.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-03-m0.u77	Ladies and gentlemen, we're actually in the middle of a budget process for 2021. We have a budget deficit this year of 7.5 percent of gross domestic product. The next year we plan to reduce this deficit a little bit. At present, the only thing I can say is that the government debt forecast payments in the following year will amount to approximately 600 million dollars. In an appropriate way, government domestic loans and government external loans will be formed. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-03-m0.u78	Dear colleagues, it's time to ask. The "hours of questions to the government" time is over. I would like to thank Mr. Prime Minister, distinguished government officials. Thank you, Your Honor, time is up. Time's up. I remember a break with a replacement for the performance. I remember everything. Thank you, Mr. Prime Minister. Dear colleagues, a statement came from two factions about a break with a replacement for the performance. Gerasimov Arthur Volodymyrovich. Who? Zbrodsky Mikhailo Vitaliovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-03-m0.u79	Dear colleagues! Mr. Head! Dear people of Ukraine! Regrettably, with the zenith missile festival that was before today, our air defences have been hailed not only by people who have a bearing on them, but by those who care about the fate of our Armed Forces, but also by the experts of the State Bureau of Investigation. There's been a clear report, more specifically, on the Air Force command site that a team of investigators from the State Bureau of Investigation came in yesterday in several parts of the anti-aircraft army stationed at the Hmelnitz station, with appropriate warrants for the conduct of the investigation, such as an examination of the territory of the military and the establishment of certain circumstances. But as a result of this work, among other things, four NHF devices, so-called clistrons, and three other military devices were removed. I can't tell you, nor can I remind you of the beginning of wars and conflicts in the twentieth and twentieth centuries. Thanks to our own experience and political history for the last 20 years, we know this very well, from rocket strikes, with the use of an enemy of the Air Force. We also know well that the ratio of air strikes is clearly not in favor of the Air Force of Ukraine when it comes to our opponent. We are also well aware of the form that we have achieved, especially the air defences of the Air Force in 2014, and we remember how much effort has been made, the cost, by the way, not only of the state, in order to somehow restore this system, which could actually protect our capital and other regions. It's a little liquefied. The PPE of the country is not what protects, it covers only the formation of armies, it is what protects and shields from the means of air attack, primarily the administrative centres and the elements of infrastructure, eventually the civilian population and you. Now I'm going back to these guys who, looking at the movies, probably the Federal Bureau of Investigation, including Agents Mulder and Scully, decided yesterday, contrary to the court's ruling, to take on a few clistons. A few clichrons are some of the unworkable detection, guidance and injury complexes. A couple of clichés, given that they're going to need to be calibrated after they've been decommissioned and placed, as they say, we're back. It's more of an age, it's a hole in our airspace a few hundred miles wide, hundreds of miles high. We demand that the Ministry of Defense, not a flimsy assessment of unofficial investigations, but a clear answer as to who is to blame for what happened. We require the Attorney General of Venice to clearly assess the activities of DBR experts, who have recently been marked only by storms of museums and gross accusations against opposition. We demand that the High Commander make a clear assessment of the actions of officials. The guilty are to be held accountable!
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-03-m0.u80	Ruslan Alexiyovich, ad, if you please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-03-m0.u81	Yes. Your Honor, if you'll excuse me, I'm going to announce a few.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-03-m0.u82	Ladies and gentlemen, please invite the national deputies to the hall. After the announcements, let's move on to daytime issues.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-03-m0.u83	Yes, thank you. Dear colleagues, in accordance with article 60 with the prime - badge I'm reporting to the Supreme Council on the creation of the 9th Interfractional Union for Democratic Belarus in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The national deputy of Ukraine, Gončarenko Alexiyovich, was elected leader of this association. Also in line with article 60 with the prim badge. I report to the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the creation in the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the ninth invocation of the interfractional inter-fractional association of Frank's Graduates. The National Deputy of Ukraine, Tistislav Jaroslavovich, was elected leader of this association. Another announcement. Pursuant to article 60, prime. I report to the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the creation in the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the ninth invocation of the interfractional parliamentary association "Ukrainian Education". The headquarters of this union are the national deputies of Ukraine, Bakumov Aleksandra Sergiyyovich, Grishina Julia Mikolayovna, and Odarchenka Andrija Mikolayovich. And the latest announcement today is about creating interfractional compounds. In accordance with article 60 with the prime badge. I report to the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the creation in the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the ninth invocation of the Interfractional Inter-Parliamentary Union for Equality. The National Deputy of Ukraine, Litwinenka Sergio Anatoliyovich, was elected head of this association. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-03-m0.u84	So let's move on to the day-to-day issues. Sergey Vladislavovich was involved.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-03-m0.u85	Dear friends, I would like to thank all those who did not allow the creation of four star, three-star hotels, if that is eventually the case, who did not allow the hiding and concealing of wealth because of various forms of entrepreneurial activity. Now it's my 1709. What's the point of this? In the first edition of the law, which was much better, it was written that it was not allowed on the Internet. at a casino doing other activities related to Internet clubs, Internet cafes, so there's a completely transparent tax system. And what's surprising to me is that Mr. Marousak, the first amendment, is to suggest that we make this even stronger, and the second amendment, in 1709, he's proposing to take this chapter off somehow. My suggestion is that in no way will this be recorded, otherwise the tax authorities will not be able to control activities that are supposed to be covered up.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-03-m0.u86	Dear colleagues, the position of the committee, then we vote. The confirmation is issued in 1709.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-03-m0.u87	This position provides for a ban on online games to open ground facilities. For online casino operators, open ground facilities. It's in part six of article 30 on online casinos and part seven of article 42 on online poker. So it's taken into account and it's quite appropriate there. You just have to look at the entire text of the law.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-03-m0.u88	I'm betting on the vote number 1709. The committee took her into account. The committee insists on keeping it under consideration. Ready to vote? I'll bet you a vote. Please support and vote. [[11:27:56]] For 199 Edit rejected. Next item. Sobolen.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-03-m0.u89	Guys, I don't know what to do here. 1710 is the same, it's also written, it's counted. If 1709 is broken, well, let's just not comment then, just 1710 confirm that you can't have other activities in the casino territory. Because the chairman was wrong. This is paragraph 14, this is not what you read. Paragraph 14 is taken in which no other type of casino activity can be introduced. Asking her to turn it off, too. Thank you. Don't vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-03-m0.u90	Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-03-m0.u91	The position of the committee to take this into account.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-03-m0.u92	Dear colleagues, I'm putting 1710 to the vote, permission to confirm. The committee insists that it be kept under review. Do I understand the position of the committee correctly? I'm betting on a vote of 1710. Please support and vote. For confirmation. [[11:29:17]] For 214 The decision is not taken. Edit rejected. Yes, Sergey Vladislavovich. The next one, which one?
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-03-m0.u93	Amendment 1804.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-03-m0.u94	1804?
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-03-m0.u95	Yeah. In two places, we cleaned up the rules on the possibility of creating a penalty at four - star hotels.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-03-m0.u96	Wait, wait. It's 1804, it is.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-03-m0.u97	Partially counted, look. Where four star hotels are.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-03-m0.u98	She voted yesterday.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-03-m0.u99	No, it's not.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-03-m0.u100	Yeah.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-03-m0.u101	Well, look, I'll explain again, give me 30 seconds. I'm sorry. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-03-m0.u102	We can't vote those amendments or comment, Sergey Vladislavovich, with all due respect, let's do another one.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-03-m0.u103	Similar adjustments are all broken down, where four - star hotels, with only five - star hotels in the final edition. And here it is, partially counted, so that when the law is being worked out, there are no four-star hotels, casinos. I have a request. In three places, we knocked it out, let's not do it here.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-03-m0.u104	We put her to a vote, I can't put her up again. It voted yesterday, 1804, you know, under the Rules.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-03-m0.u105	Okay. It's okay. It's It's okay, isn't it? It's okay. It's Sorry, 1907. This is so that hotel boundaries are clearly defined. In the first edition of the law, it was clearly written "in the area of hotel buildings," and it continued and added "built territories and other territories". I have a request, if you've already recorded that this is a hotel area, there can be no other territory. Therefore, the request to fail this amendment, which was somehow taken into account by the committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-03-m0.u106	Ready to vote? I'm betting on the 1907 vote. The committee was counted. I'm betting on confirmation. Ready to vote? Please support and vote, 1907. [[11:31:46]] For 217 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. Overruled, I'm sorry. Sobolen.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-03-m0.u107	This is for the hotel’s so - called residents. Well, imagine, there's going to be a very hard way into the casino. And if it's a hotel person or other persons, they have the right to get there without identifying the person, without being able to verify that he's a person in the register, or if he is. So I have a request for 1906 not to confirm. I've got one left. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-03-m0.u108	Again, I'm sorry, number number.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-03-m0.u109	1906.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-03-m0.u110	1906. Dear colleagues, please prepare for the vote. I'm betting on a vote to confirm the 1906. It's counted by the committee. Please support and vote. [[11:33:11]] For 225 The decision is not taken. Edit rejected. Next item.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-03-m0.u111	The latter is directly linked to a very interesting standard.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-03-m0.u112	Number, I'm sorry, once again, insensitive.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-03-m0.u113	Amendment 1930. 1930. What's the point? If you suddenly won something, you had to pay for 10 days. But worst of all, it's not just that this rule goes away and then when it's paid off, it's not known, the scariest thing else, after this law is followed by a second bill in which the casino is taxed at all. This continues to disappear from the FATF control system and other international organizations. Let's not let this happen, and let's at least do something to protect individuals who will be directly involved. Thank you. Asking her to fail.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-03-m0.u114	Please prepare for the vote. Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-03-m0.u115	Committee position. This was taken into account. It has to be counted because it's about 5 million dollars. It's not about winning, it's up to 5 million dollars.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-03-m0.u116	Amendment 1930. The committee is accounted for. I'm betting on her confirmation. Please support and vote. 1930. [[11:35:03]] For 230 Decision taken. Edit is confirmed. Vlasenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-03-m0.u117	Thank you, Mr. Head. Amendment 249. In 2009, when the Government of Timoshenko had taken the initiative of the Supreme Council of Ukraine by more than 300 votes, i.e. by constitutional majority, to stop such a disgraceful phenomenon in Ukraine as Ludomania, by banning casinos, we left the possibility in Ukrainian legislation to engage in only one type of conditional gambling activity – state lotteries. Instead, today’s law proposes that the lottery be excluded from the list of gambling activities. Although in fact the Law on Legal Gambling should only apply to lottery matters and nothing more, as the government of Timoshenko then demanded. Please put 249 on confirmation.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-03-m0.u118	I'll bet you a vote of 249. She was supported by the committee. The committee was supported. Ready to vote? I'm betting on her confirmation. Please support and vote. [[11:37:02]] For 232 Decision taken. Edit included. Vlasenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-03-m0.u119	Thank you, Mr. Head. Regulation 268. I would like to remind you once again that since 2009, in Ukraine, all the gambling business has been banned except for state-owned businesses, and I stress this, state-owned lotteries, which have been used to channel public spending, to ensure that the state needs and what the state lacks money. This was the strategy of the government of Timoshenko, who at that time proposed a different concept for the development of this sector in Ukraine, and this concept was then supported by the Supreme Council of Ukraine of more than 300 people. Now we're being asked to exclude the lottery from the list of gaming businesses. We're being asked to say that the lottery is not a game business, it's something else. I definitely don't agree with that, and I'm asking you to put regulation 268 on confirmation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-03-m0.u120	Ready to vote? I'll bet you the approval number 268. Please support and vote. [[11:38:34]] For 228 Decision taken. The edit remains counted. Vlasenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-03-m0.u121	Thank you, Mr. Head. It's 655. In fact, now that we're adopting this law, they're proposing a completely wrong concept, they're telling us that if the authorities can't secure the ban, then we need to legalize the gaming business. The same logic may suggest that heavy drugs could be legalized. And believe me, that would give the state budget a lot more money than you put in the budget for the gaming business. But it's a totally wrong anti-Ukrainian and wrong position that is now trying to stretch through the entire session hall most in the Supreme Council. Instead, the correct concept is the concept proposed in 2009 by the government of Timoshenko to ban all gaming business except lottery tickets. And you're proposing by law that the lotteries be presented for the parentheses of the gaming business, which is wrong. Therefore, please do not support the amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-03-m0.u122	I'll bet you 655 Vlasta's vote, she's supported, counted by the committee. I'll put her to the vote. Please support and vote. [[11:40:12]] For 229 Decision taken. Edit included. Let's see the factions. Vlasenka's next edit.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-03-m0.u123	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, I would like to stress once again that this law offers little to legalize what is called ludomania, that is, dependency on agrarian games, little to essentially be the practically uncontrollable distribution of gaming establishments and slot machines, little to say that Ukrainian families are going to lose their last money, little to cause tragedy in families, little to lead to the disintegration of Ukrainian families, because people are going to lose the last one as they did before the ban on the gaming business by the year 2000, when people were bringing out of their buildings, the last time they offered us lotteries not to recognize the gaming business and the register of lottery operators. And then I'm going to ask for confirmation of amendment 669.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-03-m0.u124	Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-03-m0.u125	The position of the committee: to take the law into account, because this lottery register is going to be in its basic law, we're not getting it out of this law. There's another lottery bill, and it's all in Transitional Positions. All of these things are, so we're taking them out of this law. Please take into account the revision. The committee also decided that it should be taken into account.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-03-m0.u126	I'll bet you 669 votes. The committee was supported and taken into account. I'm betting on her confirmation. Please support and vote. [[11:42:19.]] For 228 Decision taken. The edit remains counted. Vlasenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-03-m0.u127	Thank you. Your Honor, number 2488. There was a bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-03-m0.u128	1488?
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-03-m0.u129	2488. There was a whole chapter in this bill called "The Order of Release and Conduct of State Lottery," which was regulated by the order of the release of state lotteries, which, I believe, is a kind of gaming business and that was regulated hard enough. To my conviction and to the conviction of the Fatherland faction, to the conviction of the government of Tymoshenko in 2009, we believe that state lotteries are the only kind of gaming business that should have stayed in Ukraine that is not as dangerous as slot machines and casinos. And then I ask for confirmation of the 2488, which cancels the entire chapter of this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-03-m0.u130	I'm betting on the 2488 vote, and I'm betting on it. Please support and vote. [[11:43:53]] For 225 The decision is not taken. Edit rejected. Next item.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-03-m0.u131	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. Just as my 2488 proposal has been supported, I ask you to identify yourself in line 2489, which is similar to the content and which would be logical right now to support. Because once again, the logic of the Ukrainian state has to be very simple: the state lotteries, yes, with strict control, with the allocation of funds for the needs needed by the Ukrainian State, to support culture, to support the unprotected social strata of the population. Instead, the rigid slugbaum and full and ban, as was the case in 2009, on the initiative of the government of Timoshenko, all the other gaming business, such as slot machines and casinos that support the ludomania, which is the basis for the destruction of Ukrainian families, which in today's situation will lead to even greater loss of savings by Ukrainian citizens. Please bet on confirmation.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-03-m0.u132	I'll bet you the license number 2489. It's supported by the committee. Please support and vote. [[11:45:32]] For 231 Decision accepted, correction confirmed. Vlasenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-03-m0.u133	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. In fact, what was confirmed by the previous amendment doesn't mean anything because chapter VII, "The Order of Release and Conduct of State Lottery," is being restored essentially because the 2488 was not supported by this session hall. And the 2496 that I want to talk about right now is about internal regulation in chapter VII and it regulates the conduct of state lotteries. I would like to stress once again that the state lottery is the only thing we should have left in the field of gaming, which is a tool that would allow the state to accumulate extra money and spend it on the necessary needs. It was this ideology that was introduced by the government of Timoshenko and the Supreme Council of Ukraine in 2009, when a constitutional majority decided to ban gambling in Ukraine and gaming institutions. Please insert 2496 for confirmation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-03-m0.u134	I'll bet you 2496 on confirmation. She was supported by a committee. Please support and vote. [[11:47:02]] For 232 Decision taken. Edit included. Edit confirmed, sorry. Vlasenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-03-m0.u135	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. Amendment 2550. I want to point out once again that in fact the law that we're discussing right now is not that much of a business law, it's a social law. Because ludomania is not just a medical disease, as recognized by the World Health Organization, it's actually a social disease, everyone admits it. And then we have to protect the citizens of Ukraine from a disease like ludomania. Because on the background of one disease called COVID 19, we're proposing to Ukrainian citizens to have another disease called ludomania, which is totally unacceptable. In 2009, the government of Timoshenko managed to ensure that gambling is banned in Ukraine and that the institutions that carry out this activity are functioning. We demand that this ban take effect both now and now.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-03-m0.u136	I'll bet you a vote of 2550. The committee's confirmed and accounted for. I'm betting on her confirmation. Please support and vote. [[11:48:35]] For 232 Decision taken. Next item. Sergey Volodymyrovich, do you have much more?
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-03-m0.u137	There's still a little bit left, Mr. Head.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-03-m0.u138	What's the number?
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-03-m0.u139	Amendment 2566. Thank you, Mr. Head. I would like to point out once again that the honourable colleagues, we must treat this law in only one way. Unfortunately, today the Ukrainian authorities are talking about that we have to turn the state into a business, the Crucifixion has to make money, the Crucifixion has to make money. Dear colleagues, in accordance with article 1 of the Constitution, Ukraine is a social state. We should bear in mind that in addition to income, the State must perform a number of social functions, including the fight against social illness such as ludomania. We have to ban the gaming business. We must ensure that this is prohibited by effective law enforcement and that Ukrainian citizens are protected from this social scourge. And the paper.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-03-m0.u140	I'll bet you a vote of 2566. The committee is supported and accounted for. I'm betting on her confirmation. Please support and vote. [[11:50:09]] For 230 Decision taken. Edit included. Next item. It's Vlasenko again, isn't it? Sergei Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-03-m0.u141	Thank you, Mr. Head. Next item is 2584.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-03-m0.u142	Yeah.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-03-m0.u143	Thank you. This amendment applies. Again and again, it's about the possibility of a state lottery in Ukraine. I would like to stress once again that this is the only kind of gaming activity that needs to be severely regulated, controlled by the state, and the costs from which it should go to the state budget of Ukraine. State lotteries should not be made by private organizers; the state must exercise control over this, rigid. This lottery should be fair. People, on the one hand, have to be able to make money to win, but on the other hand, all the public lottery costs should go to cover the social costs of a state that lacks the revenue of the state budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-03-m0.u144	I'm betting on a vote of 2584. Please support and vote for confirmation. [[11:51:41]] For 229 Decision taken. Vlasenko Sergei Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-03-m0.u145	Thank you, Mr. Head. I've got a little bit more, but a little bit. 2597.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-03-m0.u146	There you go.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-03-m0.u147	Thank you, Mr. Head. In 2009, the Supreme Council of Ukraine addressed the issue of the ban on the gaming business. I was then in the Supreme Council session hall and saw how the Supreme Council, by a constitutional majority, almost unanimously supported the ban on gambling in Ukraine. I would like to point out that the government of Timoshenko in 2009 granted a ban on gambling in Ukraine. Unfortunately, from later times, from 2014 to 2015, the state has failed to ensure the implementation of this law, and then we have flourished uncontrollable underground out-of-state casinos and out-state gaming machines salons. Instead of enacting this law, we need the law enforcement system to ensure that gambling is banned, and we need law enforcement.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-03-m0.u148	I'll bet on a vote of 2597 for confirmation. Please support and vote. [[11:53:14]] For 230 Decision taken. Next thing you know, Vlasenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-03-m0.u149	Thank you, Mr. Head. I already have the microphone on before you give me your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-03-m0.u150	But everyone can see.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-03-m0.u151	Thank you. Regulation 2601. I think we should now be in a state to review all the strategies for the development of the Ukrainian state. We have to reorient the Ukrainian state, make it much, much more social, we have to make it more human-oriented. We have to make it so that it, the Ukrainian state, can support the most vulnerable. Instead of discussing flood laws now, the ruling majority of us were involved in the play business bill. And during this discussion, they even want to throw state lotteries out of the category of gaming business. Who's doing this and why is that a rhetorical question? This is probably going to be done over the commercial structure that I want to master in national lotterys.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-03-m0.u152	2601, right? I'm betting on her confirmation. Please support and vote. [[11:54:51]] For 228 Decision taken. Vlasenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-03-m0.u153	Thank you, Mr. Head.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-03-m0.u154	How about a couple of licenses for confirmation right now?
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-03-m0.u155	Maybe a little later. 2616. I'll take your advice, but a little later. Regulation 2616. Dear colleagues, I would like to point out once again that it's not really a game business law, it's a law on how to involve social and medical diseases in Ukrainians. This law on how Ukrainians will have to be involved in slot machines that will stand everywhere without restrictions, as Ukrainians will be involved in casinos that will open up in all possible hotels, as the Ukrainians will have no fuses when they are involved in these gambling. Instead, the only kind of activity that should be regulated by this law, and these are state lotteries, is somehow falling under this law. And then I'm going to ask for confirmation of 2616.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-03-m0.u156	I'm betting on confirmation of 2616. Please support and vote. [[11:56:19]] For 228 Decision taken. Next thing you know, Vlasenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-03-m0.u157	Thank you, Mr. Head. Amendment 2635. In 2009, Timoshenko’s government not only raised social standards, Timoshenko’s government not only did not raise tariffs, Timoshenko’s government not only paid salaries and pensions to budget workers, Timoshenko’s government was concerned about the social and health status of Ukrainian society. And for this very reason, the government of Timoshenko initiated a ban on gaming in Ukraine in the Supreme Council, and the Supreme Council, by constitutional majority, supported this government policy and banned the gaming business. And then, in 2009, the government of Tymoshenko was able to enforce that ban. Regrettably, the current authorities cannot enforce this ban and want to legalize the gambling business except for national lotteries. They may feel that this is not a game business.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-03-m0.u158	Don't you insist on voting? Oh, you insist. 2635. I'll bet you a confirmation check. Please support and vote. [[11:57:55]] For 229 Edit is confirmed. Vlasenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-03-m0.u159	Thank you, Mr. Head. Regulation 3308.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-03-m0.u160	3108?
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-03-m0.u161	3308. 3308. Dear Mr. Head, I want to do this again and again, I want to remind myself of President Greensky's first promise. It was he who wrote in his pre-election program that my first law would be the People's Law, and all the most important issues I would agree with the people. Unfortunately, neither the issue of the sale of agricultural land nor the question of the establishment of a gaming business, which was not in the President's programme, is now the Supreme Council trying to make a decision without consulting the people. I think it would be more appropriate to hold a referendum and from this question, to get people's opinions about whether people want to suffer from mania to get involved in the gaming business or not. And number 3308 please bet on confirmation.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-03-m0.u162	I'll bet you $3308. Please support and vote. [[11:59:24]] For 229 Decision taken. Edit is confirmed. Maybe we should take a break. Maybe you've run out of paperwork. Oh, no? One more. Well, there's time. Vlasenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-03-m0.u163	Thank you, Mr. Head. Before the break. I'll continue after the break with your permission. Regulation 3317. I'd like to take another look at the session room and most of them, and I'm sure President Greensky. If, God forbid, this bill would be adopted, if, God forbid, it would be accepted in such a disgraceful way as it was suggested for the second reading, because before the first reading it was terrible, and before the second reading it became even more terrible, I appeal to Mr. President to apply the veto to this bill. And ask Ukrainian citizens to decide on this bill in a referendum. The Ukrainians actually supported the action of the government of Timoshenko in 2009 to ban the gaming business. There were no criticisms on this point. I personally know a lot of people who've been suffering from manomania who've been happy that the gaming business has stopped. And number 3317 please put on.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-03-m0.u164	I'll put her to the vote. Please support and vote for confirmation. [[12:01:07]] For 228 Decision taken. "Dear colleagues, in accordance with article 13 of the Ukrainian Law "On the Status of the People's Deputy of Ukraine" and articles 59, 60 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, I report my membership in the parliamentary group "Party for the Future" in the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the Ninth Call." Anna Constantine's Speedboat. There's a break until 12:30.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-03-m0.u165	Dear colleagues! Please invite the people's deputies into the hall. I see, Sergey Volodymyrovich, that you are in place, I see. But I understand you didn't even turn off the microphone, I understand. Is there any way we can turn off the Vlasenko microphone? Sergei Volodymyrovich, do you have another one? Two. I heard that an hour ago. Or maybe you'll read them all, and then we'll vote. Do you mind? And that's how I do it.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-03-m0.u166	Thank you, Mr. Head. We continue to consider the amendments. Amendment 3032.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-03-m0.u167	3032?
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-03-m0.u168	3032, yes. I want to remind you that in 2009, the government of Yulia Timoshenko banned the entire gaming business, and this decision was supported by the Supreme Council of Ukraine in the constitutional number.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-03-m0.u169	I'm sorry I kicked your ass. Please tell me you've just gone through 3032. Are you coming back?
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-03-m0.u170	3032. I'm asking for confirmation. So, Mr. Head, this right is about the Internet casino. And in 2009, Internet casinos weren't as widely distributed, so there was no such rigid regulation and there was no way to influence it at all in the volume that it is now. Now this phenomenon has become completely disgraceful, huge, and must simply be banned. Please place 3032 on confirmation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-03-m0.u171	Please invite the people's deputies to the hall. We should wait for a colleague. [[B in m in s a l in]] But I don't deny that there are performances. No, it was Vlasenko, Alexander Rafkatovich, well, what do you say. Let's continue the meeting then, if you're so interested. We need to rethink the 3032, it's an important amendment. Ruslan Alexiyovich still wants to see maybe. Arthur Volodymyrovich wanted to add something, didn't he? You're insensitive. The mask is jamming. I can't hear you. Honourable factions, invite the national deputies to the hall and return to your faction, or you've already crossed over to the Fatherland. Dear colleagues, I'll put it to a vote. Ready to vote? No, you don't have any cards? Yeah, you see, I found it. That's what we're waiting for. You asked me to wait, Arthur Volodymyrovich. All right, we can vote. I'll bet you a vote. Arthur Volodymyrovich has returned. We can vote. I'll bet you I.D.'d. Oh, the position of the committee, really. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-03-m0.u172	Mr. Vlasenko, this right has reduced the price of the online casino license. In the first reading, it cost 12.5 thousand minimum wages. Every year. That's about half a million dollars. In the second reading, a twofold lower price was offered. But if you read the entire text of the law, there's a formula for "three X's" in "transient positions." Until the online monitoring system works, this price was going to be $750,000. In fact, we have generally reduced this price. If at the price of the license, if you won't.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-03-m0.u173	I'll bet you a vote. Everyone's here and everyone's back and the committee's here. There was no one in the room when the committee reported this silence. An important revision really, 3032, I guess. I'm betting on her confirmation. Please support and vote. 3032. [[12:37:09]] For 215 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. Sergei Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-03-m0.u174	Thank you. Your Honor, 3033. In fact, you're lowering the cost of a license to an online casino, you're not allowing an online casino to function in Ukraine at all and, practically without any restrictions, by providing Ukrainian citizens with this shameful thing called "the ability to play casinos and the possibility of being lunatics." It's actually wrong, it's unsocial, it's anti-Ukrainian. When the government of Yulia Timoshenko launched a total ban on gambling in 2009, the Internet casino was not so distributed, but the government of Timoshenko was able to implement a real ban on gambling in 2009. And then I ask you not to reduce the cost of Internet casino services. You have to clean up the Internet casino at all, you have to stop Ukrainian youths from sitting around and losing their parents' money, taking everything out of the apartment. It's completely out of control. Please place 3033 on confirmation and do not support it.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-03-m0.u175	I'll bet you a vote. Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-03-m0.u176	It's about the Internet casino again. Before that, you put all the changes in order to make the lottery gambling again. What's the big deal? If everything comes back the way it is right now, obviously we understand that under the lottery it was just an Internet casino. It's convenient for you to keep things the way they are, and so the slotteries will open up the slots. We wanted to separate it from one. A fly from a cauldron. With your help now. You're doing so that these old 2,000 halls can return to Kiev alone. If the Internet casino is not legalized, then you can run it under the lottery. They'll be running the same gambling. The edit has to be taken into account, and if so, let's do it.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-03-m0.u177	It's counted, it needs to be confirmed. I'll bet number 3033 on confirmation. It's counted by the committee. Please support and vote. [[12:40:13]] For 236 Decision taken. Next thing you know, Vlasenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-03-m0.u178	Thank you, Mr. Head. Well, first of all, I'd like to answer to the committee head. The Fatherland faction for the total ban on gambling, except for state-owned games, I emphasize that state-run lotteries are run by the state, without any commercial element, as is the case in the normal countries of the world. So you don't have to manipulate. If your authority is unable to provide a law enforcement system, then go away, and have another authority come in to ensure that state tasks are carried out. And once again, the government of Timoshenko in 2009.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-03-m0.u179	What's the correct number?
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-03-m0.u180	I'm sorry about what happened in Ukraine. Regulation 3035. The government of Tymoshenko proved that there was a power in Ukraine that could not only ensure the enforcement of the law, but also normal social policy, not only in the payment of wages and pensions, but also in the protection of Ukrainian citizens from social diseases such as ludomania. And I'm asking you to put it on confirmation and not support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-03-m0.u181	Sergey Volodymyrovich, a moment of advertising has passed. The next amendment, I hope, is essentially going to be. I'll bet you 3035. It's supported by the committee. Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[12:41:56]] For 229 Decision taken.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-03-m0.u182	What's the next step, Sergey Volodymyrovich?
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-03-m0.u183	3437.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-03-m0.u184	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-03-m0.u185	At the request of the Head of the Supreme Council, a moment of advertising by President Zelensky, who did not exactly promise the legalization of gambling in his election program. He certainly didn't promise to lower social standards; he certainly didn't promise to delay wages and pensions. He certainly promised to carry out, implement, a human - oriented social policy. He certainly promised not to continue the policies of the previous president. Instead, the bill says that the President does not keep his promises. The majority faction that initiated this bill is doing everything to get gambling and ludomania to return to Ukraine completely uncontrollable, completely. In the most extreme and in the worst form. Once again, the law in the first reading was terrible; in the second reading it became even more frightening. Please insert 3,437 for confirmation and not support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-03-m0.u186	Thank you. Dear colleagues, number 3437 stands for confirmation. The committee counted it, so please support and vote. [[12:43:35]] For 233 Decision taken. All of it. You're done, aren't you, Sergey Volodymyrovich? Do you still have it? Well, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-03-m0.u187	Rule 3449. Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. I would like to point out once again that this law is a reflection of the kind of politics that is being pursued today by the Ukrainian authorities. This policy is directed against Ukrainians living in Ukraine, against prosperity, against social harm, against family peace. On the contrary, this bill is designed to destroy everything I have mentioned above. Instead, the government of Yulia Timoshenko in 2009 was supported by the constitutional majority of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the issue of the ban on the gaming business in its entirety, and the government of Timoshenko was able to ensure the implementation of this law. Instead, today’s law - enforcement system, unable to carry out the ban, tells us that now we will adopt another law and abide by it. No one will follow.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-03-m0.u188	Dear colleagues, I'm betting on confirmation of the 3449. An amendment that is considered by the committee is essentially why I ask you to support and vote. [[12:45:14]] For 231 Decision taken. Sergei Volodymyrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-03-m0.u189	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. On a separate request from the Head of the Supreme Council, my last amendment, which I place on confirmation, is the 3450. Dear colleagues, the government of Julia Volodymyrovna Timoshenko made a historic decision in 2009 to my conviction. He banned, he initiated a ban on the gaming business in Ukraine. The Supreme Council of Ukraine then took a state position and banned the gambling business in Ukraine by constitutional majority. To my deep conviction, it brought peace to Ukrainian families when people didn't argue with each other about whether they needed to spend money on something for the family or whether they needed to be gone and lost. This allowed for the growth of generations of Ukrainians who do not know what ludomania is. Unfortunately, this bill now brings all these troubles back to Ukraine. That's why I'm addressing the President. If this law, God forbid, will be adopted, applied to it.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-03-m0.u190	Dear colleagues, I'm betting on confirmation of the order of 3,450 national deputies. 3450. The committee suggests that we take it into account. Therefore, I also ask you to support and vote. [[12:46:53]] For 230 Decision taken. Thank you, Sergey Volodymyrovich. Yes, please record the European Solidarity Party. Who's there? I can't hear who. Ion's Maria, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-03-m0.u191	Thank you very much. Amendment number 183, where, unfortunately, Mr. Marousak, he excludes electronic auctions. And I want to remind you that on the first reading, we've limited the number of machines. And now with this right, it's going to mean there's going to be an unlimited number of "one-armed bandits" in all the hotels. Why are you taking off these restrictions? And I would like to remind you that there is information in the media that one of President Greensky's chief advisors in the Office of the Greens is Boris Baum, known as the representative of the "ministerial Russian Group", who wants to lead the gambling market regulator. And when this law is passed, will you please tell me that you've already completed the 95th quarter? Are you going to represent and present, and appoint representatives of the aggressor? What's going on? Please place this amendment on confirmation.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-03-m0.u192	Dear colleagues, I'm betting on confirmation of 183 revisions. The committee counted it. So please support and vote. [[12:48:38]] For 229 Decision taken. Is that all right, Mrs. Maria? Thank you. National Deputy Skipper, please. Any more of Ion's? Because I asked, Mrs. Maria, whether you had it or not. One more. Please excuse me, then Jonah, yes. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-03-m0.u193	You know, we'd also like to put amendment 184 on confirmation. Because we believe that state lotteries should also be included and also be included in this law. I'm asking you to place this amendment for confirmation.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-03-m0.u194	Edit 184, right? Dear colleagues, I'll bet you 184 of the bill. The committee suggests that we take it into account. So please support and vote. [[12:49:39]] For 231 Decision taken. Please, People's Deputy Skipper.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-03-m0.u195	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen! First of all, I'd like to put an order of 2279 on confirmation. But at the same time, I would like to address all our colleagues. I would like to ask, are we a parliament or a single playground for the self-piarity of individual political groups? On Tuesdays and Fridays, we hear about how good it was for someone and how we needed to work. Ladies and gentlemen, we have important bills. We have five letters of order. These are bills that apply to the anti-crisis package for the coronavirus. This is, in particular, the Order on the resignation of the Head of the National Bank of Ukraine. We can't look at all of this because we're listening to a banal self-piar. I respect everyone, but let's finally vote on the bill as a whole. Parliament should adopt decisions by voting, not by delaying time. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-03-m0.u196	Dear colleagues, this is 2279. [[B in m in s a l in]] Puts the vote to 2279.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-03-m0.u197	Look, there's a list of rights that weren't there yesterday. 2279 was not correct. Right? I wasn't.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-03-m0.u198	Dear colleagues, she's the National Deputy Strunevich. "Abs 3-6, 8, 9 part 4 of article 41 exclude." It's taken into account by the committee in part. So, dear colleagues, I'm betting on confirmation of the 2279. The committee counted it in part, so please support and vote. [[12:52:17]] For 232 Decision taken. 191th, right? People's deputy Heratchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-03-m0.u199	Ladies and gentlemen, I understand that the lobbyists at Fairmont Hotel are now beating the crap out of this place to make it work not only in the hotel but in the casino. But what I'm trying to say is that the order of the day formed a majority. Dear Ukrainians, these are all former organizers of concerts instead of forming a day-to-day order to put in place laws on the fight against COVID, on the fight against flooding, on the economy, they are now lobbying their families here by the law that they are stretching, so that in all five star hotels that belong to the "slaves of the people," there are also casinos. And so this week, really, when, friends, we should be considering economic laws, they're stretching the country's most important law for Fairmont, so there's actually a roulette, one-handed, and two-legged thugs, a casino and all that. And that's why the "servants" are fighting now.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-03-m0.u200	Can I have the 160 again, please?
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-03-m0.u201	It's a disgrace to the Deputies of Cherkishka.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-03-m0.u202	Edit, please, which one? What's the number again?
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-03-m0.u203	191 revisions. Hey, chercass, look what it's for.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-03-m0.u204	191st. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-03-m0.u205	Irina Volodymyrna, 191 revisions have been made today. She's already been treated. Now wait. As far as I'm Dear colleagues, one minute. As far as 2279. She voted yesterday. It was partially accounted for. Fully accounted for, but not confirmed. I mean, it's still partially accounted for. Right? It's a machine, isn't it? Dear colleagues, let's go straight. "The Fatherland" was. There's still an OCD. No, dear fellows, all of them. Koltunović hasn't spoken yet, Alexander Sergiyovich. Alexander Sergiyovich Koltunovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-03-m0.u206	Thank you. Dear Dmitre Alexanderovich, we have 12 amendments here.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-03-m0.u207	No. No. No, one at a time. No. No.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-03-m0.u208	85th.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-03-m0.u209	Eighty-five?
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-03-m0.u210	85th, yeah. I have a list. These are the ones that are counted, but we want to put them on confirmation. So while you're watching right now, I want to say to the smart guy who was speaking out of "The Servant of the People," that the order of the day that you formed, you want to take down the limit of 10 minimum wages for rents for companies. You want to sell the land of state utility property. Shall I continue this order of the day? So when you go up and say something, look what you're suggesting. And the last. The results of your activity are specific macroeconomic indicators. You've ruined industry, agriculture and everything. So sit back and keep your voice down, and do not tell us what to do with the repairs.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-03-m0.u211	Do you insist on voting? I'll bet you vote number 85. The committee took her into account. Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-03-m0.u212	It's Mama's. She was counted. We have to support her and count her again.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-03-m0.u213	I'll bet you 85 votes. It's supported by the committee. I'm betting on her confirmation. Please support and vote. [[12:57:47]] For 233 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, once again, so there won't be any later. Wait, this is important. Amendment 2279 was put to the vote yesterday and rejected. Right? The hall did not support her, and she was ruined. Yeah? Today, for technical reasons, because the committee may have made a mistake, it has placed this amendment in the list of those who did not vote. So Ruslan Alexiyovich put it on the demand of the people’s deputies once again. However, yesterday’s vote was legitimate, and it was rejected. No questions? Under the stenogram. It's good for everyone, isn't it? Yesterday's decision is the only decision taken by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. We have no right to re-vote. I realize we've made some mistakes, but we're moving on. Nestor Ivanovich Šufrich. No, wait, Coltunovich's not finished.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-03-m0.u214	Excuse me, one more, 89 amendments. Next, Nestor Ivanovich will continue to present the amendments from our party. "The opposition platform is for life" drew attention to the impeccable order of the day. Another issue is the support for electricity production from alternative sources of energy. If we don't understand who this is about, what the oligarch and the founder, the monopolist in the field of energy, ask the profile committee. That's what the Supreme Council does instead of making structural economic reforms in terms of transition to a new technological system, here's how the minimum pension increases by 74 bracelets, here's the result of your activity. Is the circulation of agricultural land needed? Do you need a game business? Is there a need for strategic objects that are not privatized? Obviously, according to your logic, yes, but you have to bear the responsibility and responsibility accordingly. I'm asking you to make an amendment, and my colleague Shufrich will continue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-03-m0.u215	I'm betting on vote 89, it's been counted. I'm betting on her confirmation. Please support and vote. [[13:00:38]] For 235 Decision taken. Edit is confirmed. Definitely Nestor Ivanovich, next plenary meeting. Let's move on to the query reading. Olena Konstantinovna Kondratjuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-03-m0.u216	Thank you, Mr. Head. Thus, during the plenary week, you, the distinguished national deputies, have been asked 165 MPs. Of these, to the President 1; to the Supreme Council 3; to the Cabinet 82; to the heads of other state authorities and local authorities 74; to the heads of enterprises, institutions and organizations located in Ukraine 5 parliamentary requests. Dear colleagues, distinguished national MPs, we have a single motion to the President of Ukraine. Please prepare for the vote. So it's about the previous, the open roll-call vote, the support of Sergio Demchenk's request to the President of Ukraine to repeal President of Ukraine's decrees on the liquidation of local courts and the establishment of district courts. Please prepare for the vote. Please vote. [[13:02:37]] For 233 Decision taken. So, colleagues, vote on the decision to send a previously supported request to the President of Ukraine. Please vote. [[13:03:04]] For 256 Decision taken. Show me the factions, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-03-m0.u217	Dear colleagues, announcements. Can I have your attention, please? The signatures of the Ukrainian National Deputies were issued with the request to hold an extraordinary meeting today at 2 p.m. In the near future, the head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine will be in charge of an extraordinary meeting. I'm warning you right now, everyone. I can't hear you. The day will be ordered by the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to convene an extraordinary meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-03-m0.u218	Ladies and gentlemen, I continue to read the questions, please, if I may, at least a little less quietly, because these are your requests. You talk loud, I'll stop reading them. So the questions. Nina Yužanina and Stepan Kubeva are responsible for the duties of the Director of the State Bureau of Investigation, the Head of the Security Service of Ukraine for causing significant damage as a result of unprofessional management and the threat of the safe use of nuclear power cells. Mr. Mikhail Kryčka to the Attorney General, Acting Director of the State Bureau of Investigation, on the groundlessness of the closure of a series of criminal conducts, the need for their renewal and the full and comprehensive investigation of Sergey Larin to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the appeal of the head of the Novomirgorod District Council regarding the proposal for the administrative and territorial structure of the Kirovograd region. Alexia Zmerenecki to the Attorney General of the Zakartat district for the provision of information on the possible illegal movement of a shipment of high value goods across the customs border of Ukraine. Irina Konstankevich to the Minister for Environmental Protection and Natural Resources of Ukraine, Prime Minister of Ukraine, for granting permission to develop a project with regard to land collection to the Tsuma Desert National Park of Kivertsev. Irina Konstankevich, head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the organization of government, local self-government, regional development and construction, Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Community Development and Ukraine for the completion of decentralization reform. People’s Deputies (Tachchenka, Odarchenka, and others) A total of 20 deputies) to the Prime Minister of Ukraine to create the right conditions for the activities of the Danube Institute of the National University of Odessa Maritime Academy. John Shinkarenko and Alexander Tkachenka to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine regarding the need for a comprehensive review of the appeal of Natalia’s many - child mother Ponomarenko in order to protect her social and labour rights. Alexander Tkachenka and John Shinkarenk to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on the need for a comprehensive review of the appeal of residents of the Tatarbunar district of Odessa for violations of legislation by the management of the National Natural Park "Tuzlovský lianas". Alexander Tkachenka and John Shinkarenk to the Ministry of Health of Ukraine regarding the use of effective measures to address the issue of the exercise of the right to free medical care for citizens of the Tatarbunar district of Odessa. Alexander Tkachenka and John Shinkarenk to the National Police of Ukraine for the creation of the right conditions for economic activity in the Odessa region. John Shinkarenk and Alexander Tkachenka to the Kyiv City State Administration on the use of effective measures to provide adequate housing and utility services. Irina Heratschenko and Maria Ionova headed by the State Agency for Road Traffic in Ukraine for an inappropriate response to the MP's request to provide additional information on the state of implementation of the "Great Building National Project" of 10.06. 2020 Alexander Bakumov to the Minister of Infrastructure of Ukraine, the head of Kharkiv District State Administration, Kharkiv City Head, head of the State Agency for Roads in Ukraine for the determination of the proper balancemaker and the non-acceptance of further destruction of the Žjoorski Pathway. Anton Yatzenka to the Umman City Council to provide information on the alienation of municipal property in Uman. Anton Yatzenka to the Umman City Council for information on the size of wages, bonuses, material aid and other payments to officials of the Umman City Council during the 19th to 20th years. Anton Yatzenka to the State Property Fund of Ukraine for information on the fact that a 100% statutory PRET Hotel "Dnipro" is 12 000,829 square meters away from the city of Kiev, Kreštátík Street, 1/2. Igora Kolyhayeva to the Minister for the Development of the Communities and Territories of Ukraine regarding the failure to provide the MINREGION of information necessary for the conduct of parliamentary activities. Igor Kolyhayeva, head of the Herson District State Administration, on the issue of the selection of projects (actions) that can be implemented by subsidies for socio-economic development. Mr Jaroslava Dubnević to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister for Economic Development, Trade and Agriculture of Ukraine, Minister of Health of Ukraine for the introduction of national legislation into EU legislation in part of the Technical Regulations on Medical Products. Jaroslava Dubnević to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Veterans of Ukraine, Minister of Defence of Ukraine, Chief of General Staff, Commander of the Armed Forces of Ukraine for the granting of the status of a participant in combat to medical volunteers of the First Voluntary Mobile Hospital of the name Pyrogov. Alexander Gerega to the head of the National Commission, which regulates national energy and municipal services in the areas of discrimination against natural gas consumers who do not temporarily use gas supplies. John Shinkarenko and Alexander Tkachenka to the Ministry of Justice of Ukraine for the transfer of property to municipal property for the creation of a historical and cultural park. Vasila Petyevka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the restoration of the course of the Kiev-Rakh train. Groups of National Deputies (Peterovka, Lunchenko and others) to the Prime Minister of Ukraine regarding the allocation of additional funding to the Zacarpathian Region for the elimination of the effects of the flood. Veacheslava Rublova to the head of the Ukrainian State Audit Service for the verification of compliance with the requirements of legislation during the public procurement of DP "Service of Local Roads in Volinsk Region". Veacheslava Rublov to the head of the Ukrainian Antimonopoly Committee on the Verification of the Conditions of Protection of Economic Competition during the State Procurement of DP "The Service of Local Roads in the Volinsk Region". Groups of National Deputies (Grantenka, Moroz and others) to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the critical situation that has arisen in connection with the shortage of drinking water supply in the Donetsk region because of the lack of funds, which can lead to extremely negative social consequences. Valery Gnatenka to the head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the organization of government, local self - government, regional development and urban development, the Minister of Finance of Ukraine, the Minister of Public Development and the territory of Ukraine on the critical situation that has arisen in connection with the shortage of drinking water in the areas of the Donetsk region because of the lack of funds that may result in extremely negative social consequences. Michael Bondar to the head of the Bousky District Council of the Lviv Region, head of the Lviv District Administration for violations of actual legislation in the field of beekeeping in the street of Bicken Shevchenka in the city of Busk Lviv district. Michael Bondar to the head of the Bus District Council of the Lviv Region, the head of the Lviv District Administration for financing and carrying out street lighting work on Bicken Shevchenka Street in the town of Busk Lvivsk. Maksim Zariski to Prime Minister of Ukraine, head of the Czernovetsk District State Administration for the opening of the international pass points "Krasnoylski-Vikovo-de-Sus" and "Shepet-Isvoarele Suchevay". Maksim Zariski to Prime Minister of Ukraine on the use of urgent measures to allocate additional funds to eliminate the consequences of the disaster in the Montenegrin region. Anton Kisse to the Prime Minister of Ukraine in support of the agricultural sector under drought caused by the absence of rainfall in the winter-summer period 2019-2020. Alexander Litvinov to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the settlement of the issue of the right to obtain a driver's license. Vasile Nimchenk to the Minister of Culture and Information Policy of Ukraine on the use of measures to preserve the memory of the dead soldiers who protected the village of the Irkleyi region of Cherkas region during the Great War of 1941-1945. Victor Medvedchuk to the Minister of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine on the inadmissibility of interference in the internal affairs of the U.S. Embassy through funding and grant competitions that have signs of national hostility and intolerance depending on ethnic origin and language. Victor Medvedchuk and Vasil Nimchenk to the Attorney General on the verification of the propaganda of the national socialist (Nazi) totalitarian regime by individual officials of the state, local self-government bodies, in particular the local head of Harrison, political parties and the involvement of those responsible. Sergey Ljowczina to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the deepening of crisis trends in the real economy of Ukraine. Alexia Zmerenecki to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the sublegal regulation of the reconfiguration of means of transport. Alexia Zmerenecki to the Attorney General for attracting the investigator Rekalo S.A. to be responsible for violating legislation when criminal conduct is closed. Paul Melnik to the Minister of Infrastructure of Ukraine, Prime Minister of Ukraine, State Security Service of Ukraine for Transport, Head of the Zaporozhye District State Administration, Head of the State Road Agency of Ukraine on the need for comprehensive measures to preserve the N-30 national road from the city of Vasilovka to the city of Berdjansk. Paul Melnik to Deputy Prime Minister, Minister of Digital Transformation of Ukraine, Head of the National Council of Ukraine for Television and Radio Affairs on the low level of coverage and quality of mobile communications, such as the provision of mobile Internet services in the city of Primorsk and the settlements of the Primorski district of Zaporez. Marina Bardinau to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the State's guarantees of enforcement. Mikhail Zimbaluka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the provision of comprehensive flood protection for population sites and agricultural arrangements in Lviv. Alexander Kunicko to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the non-admission of the merger of the NCC "Institute of Metrology and DP "Harkivstandardmethrology". Groups of National Deputies (Shincarenka, Tkachenka, Slavicka) to the Ministry of Health of Ukraine regarding the provision of an essential natural and unbreakable right to health care and timely medical care by authorized public authorities. Alexander Tkachenka and John Shinkarenk to the Ministry of Social Policy of Ukraine on the use of effective measures to protect labour and socio-economic rights in the city of Tatarbunari Olga Mikhaylov. Alexander Tkachenka and John Shinkarenk to the National Anti-Corruption Agency for the full verification of declarations. Jury Zdebski to the Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine - Minister for the Reintegration of Interimly Occupied Areas for the Integration of Persons Missing under Special Conditions of Military Service of the State Border Service of Ukraine. Groups of National Deputies (Korowchenkova, Kriworukina, Zacharychenka) to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the need to realize the right of citizens to pension insurance. Groups of National Deputies (Korowchenkova, Kriworukina, Zacharychenka) to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the need to ensure the rights of citizens to a safe functioning transport infrastructure and safety of work People’s Deputies — Drought, Ducks, and Others A total of 77 deputies) to the Minister of Social Policy of Ukraine, the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the change to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on the National Strategy for Reforming the Institutional Care and Raising of Children for 2017-2026 and the Plan of Action for the Implementation of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine from 9 August 2017 No. 526 in part of the change in the individual provisions of section “Expected results” on the cessation by 2026 of all types of institutional care and education of children and the inadmissibility of the closure of special schools for children with blindness or deafness, teaching and rehabilitation centres for children with complex/combined violations. Oleg Bondarenko to the National Forest Resources Agency of Ukraine on the report on illegal logging, published by the Earthsigh NGO. Victor Myalik to the Minister of Health of Ukraine, head of the Ravenna District State Administration for the opening of the Hemodialysis Department in a townlike village called the Yearly District of the Plain region. Igor Goose to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the non-admission of Bill No. 3679, which provides for the release of AT "Ukrzaliznica" from the payment of land taxes for the land of rail transport. Igor Goose to the Minister of Culture and Information Policy of Ukraine regarding the allocation of financing for restoration, with a view to preserving and adapting under the museum, the building of the Branicky Palace (a monument to the architecture of national importance) in the city of Luboml Volinsk. Groups of National Deputies (Podgorna, Leonova and others) A total of 19 deputies) to the Minister of Culture and Information Policy of Ukraine, head of the Odessa District State Administration for the creation of the Municipal Cossack Theatre in Odessa. Taras Batenka to the Minister of Health of Ukraine to find additional ways to finance the Lviv District Psychiatric Hospital. Tarasa Batenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, temporarily acting as Minister of Energy of Ukraine, Minister of Community Development and Territory of Ukraine for the settlement of individual issues in the area of housing and utility services and technical services for inland gas supply systems, contractual arrangements for the provision of municipal services. Taras Batenka to Minister of Health of Ukraine, Prime Minister of Ukraine for State Support for the Treatment of Progressive Musculoskeletal Dystrophy of Duchen. Solomonia Bobrovsky to the Head of the Ukrainian Security Service for the lifting of the ban on the entry into Ukraine of Russian actress and TV - watching Barnabas Catherine Volodymyrna. Oxana Savchuk to the Minister for the Development of the Communities and Territories of Ukraine on the inclusion of the purchase of medical equipment for the municipal non-commercial enterprise "City Clinic No.1 of the Ivano-Frankow City Council" and the municipal non-commercial enterprise "Central City Clinic of the Ivano-Frankow City Council" in a list of projects that can be implemented in the allocation of subsidies from the state budget to local budgets for the implementation of measures for the socio-economic development of individual territories for the 20th year. Oksana Savechuk to the Minister for the Development of the Communities and Territories of Ukraine to include the construction of an integrated sports field with fields for playing sports in Simonenka Streets, 3v-Vovčinecka, 202 cities of Ivano-Frankivsk in a list of projects that can be implemented in the distribution of subsidies from the State budget to local budgets for the socio-economic development of individual areas for the 20th year. Bogdan Kitzak is headed by the Zitomir District State Administration for the development of project and cost-saving documentation for the construction of the road in the city of Berdichev. Bogdan Kitzak, head of the Ukrainian State Road Agency for the Inventory of Property of the Berdichov rajautodor branch of the Žitomirski oblovtodor DP. Alexia Mouchcana to the Minister of Environmental Protection and Natural Resources of Ukraine, Head of the Poltava District State Administration, Head of the State Service of Ukraine, Head of the State Environmental Inspectorate of Ukraine, Head of the State Geology Service and Head of the Ukraine on the prevention of the construction of ecologically hazardous plantations in the village of the Kremenchuck district of Poltava. Alexia Mouchcan to the Minister for Environmental Protection and Natural Resources of Ukraine, Attorney General for the misconduct of the Chief of Regional Water Resources Office in the district of Tarahkalo O.V. Yuri Pavlenko to the Acting Director of the State Bureau of Investigation, Attorney General, for the conduct of investigations into the actions of the officials of the District Council. Jurya Pavlenko to the Minister of Health of Ukraine, Prime Minister of Ukraine, for the protection of the rights of children with orthonic diseases to medical care and special feeding. Vladimir Timothychuk to the Prime Minister of Ukraine about the allocation of funds to eliminate the consequences of the disaster. Lorded Nekludova to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the restoration of the soleprosy on the basis of the State Enterprise "Genice Solezavod". Governmental Nekludova to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the award of the Honourable Literacy of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the landmark marks of the employees of the separate departments of the "TOWER KUEL" on the occasion of the professional festival – the Day of Mines. Vladimir Aresonkova to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the establishment (change) of the borders of the city of Ovruja Žitomir. Alexander Kunicko to the Attorney-General on illegal restrictions on access to water objects in the territory of Žuralovi Hydropark, Kyiv district of Kharkova, and systematic violations of legislation by T.O. "Contact Plus" and associated persons in connection with activities in the territory of the Žuralovi water shelter. Anatolia Kostucha to the head of the Zacarpathian District Administration for the activities of the children’s summer camps in the Zacarpathian region. Anatolya Kostucha to the executive responsibility of the head of the Ukrainian Railway Association Association for the work planned to be carried out in the Zacarpathian region. Ladies Bullach to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the implementation of the State Drug Policy Strategy for the period up to 2020, approved by the CMM Order of 28 August 2013 No. 735. Vladimir Ivanov to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, temporarily acting as Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine, head of the Herson District State Administration on the need to review mechanisms for determining the network of full secondary education facilities in rural areas. Vladimir Ivanov to the Minister of Health of Ukraine, Prime Minister of Ukraine, for ensuring the proper functioning of children’s health facilities (camps) in the Hersonian region in conditions of adaptive quarantine. Roman Gritchcock to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the introduction of legal and regulatory acts by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine in accordance with the Ukrainian Higher Education Act. Roman Grishchuk to the temporary duty of the Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine to build housing complexes in the territory of higher educational institutions. Anton Polakov is under the temporary responsibility of the Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine as to the legal basis for conducting educational activities by the Kyiv School of Economics. Dmitry Nalotova to perform the duties of Director of the State Bureau of Investigation to verify the legality of the investigation of criminal conduct against the head of the M.M. Dmitra Nalotova to the Director General of the Poltava District Council of Poltava for information on the sewage system of Poltava. Alexia Zmerenecki to the Bhutan City Council of the Kyiv Region on the decision to transfer citizen Antonov S.V. Land. Sergei Vlasenka, head of the government of the National Shareholders Association of the National Shareholder Company Naftogaz Ukraine, acting as the head of the Ukrainian Railway Association, Director-General of the Public Shareholders Association "Krošta" for possible violations of legislation during payment of wages (other rewards) to management, members of supervisory boards and representatives of implementing bodies of companies, one hundred percent of whose shares belong to the State. Tetsyana Placzkowa to the Attorney General, Acting Director of the State Bureau of Investigation, Head of the National Police of Ukraine on the need to investigate an emergency maritime incident with the "DELFI" tanker and on the inaction of officials during the lifting of dangerous property that sank. Larissa Bilozer to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the allocation of inter-budget transfers from the State budget to the budget of the Tomaspil village united territorial community to cover the deficit. Larissa Bilozer to the head of the State Agency for Road Traffic in Ukraine on the immediate repair of the roadways of general use of the state value T-02-12, T-02-22, T-02-33. Oleg Kulinić to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the inclusion of the National School of Fine Arts of the I-III University of the Academy of Arts in Opišna. B. Krechevsky before the list of institutions that are not covered by the Ukrainian Ministerial Cabinet Decision No. 710 of 11.10.2016, as well as the funding arrangements for the College of Arts for 2020 required for the protection of the Internet (KECW 2111 - 175.0 thousand dollars, KEKV2120 - 38.5 thousand dollars) and for the completion of the reconstruction of the building (KEKV 3142 - 716.3). Dmitry Travel to Head of the State Geology Service and Nadr Ukraine for the production of hydrocarbons in separate areas of the Lviv region. Mr. Black to Prime Minister of Ukraine, temporarily acting as Minister of Energy of Ukraine, Head of the National Commission for State Regulations in the Field of Energy and Municipal Services for the Restoration of the Gas of the Housing Multi-Apartment House, addressed: Freedom Boulevard 31, Yellow Water City. Groups of National Deputies (Zinkevich, Bondar and others) A total of 21 deputies) joined the Director of the State Bureau of Investigation, the Attorney General, in refuting the prosecutor’s claim announced during the trial of the Pecher District Court of Kiev on November 1, 2020. Groups of National Deputies (Zinkevich, Bondar and others, only 22 deputies) to the Attorney General regarding the legal evaluation of the answer c.o. Director of the DBR for the parliamentary address of the Ukrainian National Deputies Group. Irina Herashchenko and Maria Ionov to the Minister of Interior of Ukraine, the Attorney General, for the provision of an objective, comprehensive, prompt and impartial investigation into the criminal investigation of the murder of Marchuk O.S. Natalia Pippa to the Minister of Culture and Information Policy of Ukraine on the violation of article 50 of the Ukrainian Act "On ensuring the functioning of the Ukrainian language as a national" in part of the application for the post of Commissioner for the Protection of State Language. Natalia Pippa to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the financing of the Lviv Criminal Experimental Enterprise of moving and prosthetics. Natalia Pippa to the head of the Lviv district government regarding the forest area and the detailed plan of the area near Lake Winnik. Roman Lozinski to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Health of Ukraine, First Deputy Head of the State Water Agency of Ukraine, Head of the Montenegrin District Administration, Head of the Zacarpathian District Administration, Head of the Ivano-Frankov District Administration, Head of the Lviv District Public Administration, Head of the National Police of Ukraine, Deputy Head of the State Service for Food Safety and Consumer Protection, Head of the National Road Agency of Ukraine for the Control of Development and Implementation of the Emergency Responses to Flood Management. Julius Ovzitnikov to the head of the State Service of Ukraine on geodesy, cartography and cadastre to solve the problems of conservation of valuable natural areas within the projected regional landscape park of the Kurgan Valley. Ulya Ovzinovovov to the Minister of Environmental Protection and Natural Resources of Ukraine, State Forest Resources Agency of Ukraine, for changes to forest management materials. Julija Ovičinkova to the Attorney General, Head of the National Environmental Inspectorate of Ukraine, Head of the National Police of Ukraine for the Conservation of Lands of the Natural Command Fund. And Paul Melnik's final request to the Minister of Infrastructure of Ukraine for repairing the roadways of general use in the Wessels and Mikhail district of Zaporozhye. Dear colleagues, these are all parliamentary questions for today. Thank you for your attention. And I think we can move on to the question of "Crazy." People's deputies, please prepare and sign up for the "Virgin". Please sign in. It's a recording. That's how we invite Dirdin, the "Serve of the People" faction. Please, Jaroslav Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-03-m0.u219	Good afternoon, distinguished voters! I have the honour to represent the north of Mikolayevščina, 132 constituency. During the February month, in conjunction with the employees of the Ukratrans Security Company, measures were taken to control the cargo of vehicles on roads of national importance that passes through the city of Pervomaysk. This city takes an important position in the logistics of the southern region of Ukraine, as it passes through key transport routes. The goal was to install a mobile HVC in the most suitable location, and such a land area was found. It has a good location because it is on its way to a city from which the roads are branched and does not require significant financial investment. There is no better place to raise the complex, and there is no alternative to city authority. But it turns out that it has an illegal gas filling station and a legal person called Dniproregiongas is implementing the gas. Consider: Since 2012, no rent for land has been paid to the local budget. This information came to be known from the last regular session of the city council of Pervomaysk. I was shown the position of the Pervomayan City Council, which allowed long-term use of this area without legal documents by a law firm. Moreover, the city’s officials stood up to protect the work of this filling station, which pays nothing for renting the land to the local budget. Unfortunately, neither my written address nor my speech in the session nor the speech by the head of the Mikolai region's security in the city's session on the allocation of the land for its weighty complex have they found support in officials and in parts of some city deputies, and the vote for an important project for the community has been lifted. And so from this rostrum, I'd like to officially call on the tax service and law enforcement agencies to take appropriate steps to verify the legality of the actions of the public council officials and the economic activity of the legal person in the area of Pervomaysk Mikolai district. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-03-m0.u220	Thank you very much. And Jaroslav Ruššin gives the word to Roman Kostenko. Please, Mr. Roman.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-03-m0.u221	Dear fellow citizens! Many Ukrainians today are concerned about the risk of increased Russian aggression. The Russian Federation's decision to conduct the Caucasus-2020 training, particularly at the borders of Ukraine, was a matter of such concern. More importantly, this announcement was made shortly after the Russian Federation stated that some countries had left the Soviet Union, taking over land that did not belong to them. Such outright political blackmail and intimidation are typical methods of the Kremlin. We should not engage in Russian provocations, but by allowing ourselves to be intimidated by our society. To do so, however, we must have a strong foundation for the ability to resist the invader. As long as he's gone, Russia will continue to establish military-political escalations. That's the basis I think strategic targets should be rockets -- medium-range missiles that can reach critical infrastructure objects, up to. And have a distance of up to 2,000 kilometers. We have to stop worrying about that. Such weapons can be an effective deterrent to an aggressive neighbor. Ukraine has not only technology but also highly qualified experts for the development of such missiles. However, one year after the President's appointment, we have not yet approved a new edition of the National Security Strategy, which depends on the development of a whole set of military and security planning documents, and this inhibits the development of all types of weapons and military technology. So I call for a national security strategy to be approved by now, with the provision of a military missile development programme. We need to get to work on this program as soon as possible, because today's challenges make us ready not to go to war with so-called DNRs, LNRs, but to contain the enemy's aggressive ambitions, including the ability to do preventive symmetrical damage to its key management, economy, infrastructure. As long as we avoid these questions, we have long established targets for our missiles in Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-03-m0.u222	Thank you, Mr. Roman. Mr. Andrey Lopushanski is invited to the floor. Passes the word Alexia to the potterenko. Please, Mr. Alexia. I understand you have it.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-03-m0.u223	Three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-03-m0.u224	Yes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-03-m0.u225	Thank you. Alexei Hotcharenko, European Solidarity. Dear friends, today the Supreme Council of Ukraine has announced the creation of the Interfractional Union for Democratic Belarus. This union has been joined by national deputies from the factions of European Solidarity, Voice, For the Future, non-fractional, today people who will join the Fatherland faction. I think this union is going to grow. What is the purpose of this union? The goal of this union is democratic freedom of Belarus, our brotherly country, our largest neighbor. During the August months in Belarus, presidential elections were to take place, and for the first time in many years the people of Belarus had the hope that democratic transformations could take place in their country, and the country could become a democratic path for development. And then there were widespread repressions in the country: repression against opposition, bloggers, people, all those who have a different perspective. Right now, there's a candidate for the Presidents of Belarus, Victor Babariko, a famous blogger for Tihanovski, another candidate for the presidents of Tepkalo, simply prevented the election and in fact destroyed the very hope of democratic Belarus. I don't think we can stand outside. I want to remind us all of Michael Žiznevsky, a Belarusian who was one of the first to give his life in Maidan for Ukrainian freedom, for our independence and European choice. And I think that Europe is not only to appeal to Europe and to try to be part of Europe, but also to act as Europe, helping those who want to take a democratic free path. More so, our brotherly country of Belarus. Now I want to turn to the Belarusians. Dear friends! We lived with you for a thousand years, along with you Rus, and we lived with you in the great Principality of Lithuania. Along with you, we defended our lands from the hordes and worked together. And today you and I have one common enemy for two is the Kremlin. And today we want to help you. We want your country to become truly free and independent. What he depends on us, we will do it, and we want you to have courage and strength. We believe in democratic Belarus. And I want to finish with the words of our great poet Taras Shevchenk, who was translated into Belarusian by your poet Yank Cupala: "Hold your arms and stand up, you parvet chains! Ukraine does not throw its brothers into trouble. Your country must be free, democratic, independent and European! We'll help you with that." With Independence Day! Alive Belarus! Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-03-m0.u226	Heroic words! Thank you, Mr. Alexia. And we're invited to the presentation by Arsenius Pusharenko, the "Serve of the People" faction. Please, Mr. Arsenius.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-03-m0.u227	Thank you. Dear Chairman! Dear colleagues! Dear Ukrainians! This Wednesday, I spoke about the situation in the State Department, and I urged the government and the minister of Roman Abramowski to withdraw from the post of Mr. Zablotsky, whom I personally consider to be a part of the fires that took place in Zitomirsk. Why? Because, as I have noted from this rostrum, the order for the preparation of forests for fires was signed at the end of winter, which is unacceptable. And this was actually the first time in the history of the State. And we got the result. So the government heard my speech, the government heard the position of the people's deputies, and Zablock was thrown into Lithuania. Of course, we have a competition ahead of us and a new Head of State, but again, I would like to stress to me from this rostrum that there is a systemic problem in forestry. You know, you and I passed the Law and the President signed it on a national inventory of forests. It hasn't happened since 2001, and it's been waiting for us. Of course, this is a big deal because there is a very difficult situation in the woods today. And we don't understand what resources we have, we don't understand the forest recovery strategy, and we see how systematically in those areas -- Zitomirski, Cherniewski, Ivano-Frankivsky, Zakarpatski, where we have significant forest reserves -- as illegal logging goes today. And unfortunately, we understand that this is primarily a security system that breaks it down. We are awaiting the adoption of Law 3526 on increasing forest protection, preventing fires. Like the National Forest Inventory Act, and this law, initiated by Oleg Bondarenko, the head of the former committee, is the law that he initiated, is in fact the unanimous support and co-authorization of the entire community of the former committee, many of us, honourable colleagues, national deputies. And these are the very laws that will allow, along with a beautiful new one, I hope, a specialist at the head of the Ukrainian State Department to bring about a system of forest management. And I would also like to say that you know that today's working group is headed by Mr. Monastirsky, the head of the law enforcement committee, Mr. Bondarenko, the head of the former committee on the situation, the fires that took place. We already had our first working group. 9 numbers we're going to have a working group meeting in Olewsk, where we're going to get to know each other directly. Dear colleagues, I have been known to be entrenched in this district for more than a week in the fires. And we're going to get our respectable colleagues of committee heads to familiarize ourselves with the situation on the spot, and we're going to communicate with the foresters. And I think that by working together with the legislative and executive authorities, we will be able to bring about a system of forest management. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-03-m0.u228	Thank you, Mr. Artem. And I would like to invite Alexia Hotcharenko again. He gives the word to the high priest Mary Ionova. Please, Mrs. Maria. Haven't heard from you in a while.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-03-m0.u229	Thank you very much, Mrs. Helena. In fact, it is a sad thing that the vast majority of our colleagues are not in the hall. I don't really want to be raising a fellow member of parliament again, but I'm going back to the subject that sounds pretty loud all week. And I want to make the most of it. Because in this stream of jokes, very inappropriate statements by MPs, and rather strange conduct by the President. We're losing the point, and it's both the humiliation and the objectification of women, it's unacceptable in a society that wants and wants to be democratic. I've been working in politics for quite a number of years, and all this time, my colleagues and I have really followed the principle of solidarity and women in politics, and the support of women's political leadership. I thank Irina Heratchenko and Oleni Kondratjuk who created the IFF "Equal Opportunities" in 2011. All together, we have been upholding the principle of equality between women and men, protecting quotas for women in political parties and ensuring the principle of equality and guarantees of equal opportunities in the defence and security sectors and their presence in all authorities and at all levels of decision-making. During the presidency of Peter Alexiyovich Prashenko, the first woman general was appointed. And there was a lot of work going on between women in the army. The level of political representation of women that we now have in Ukraine and the placement of women in high public office and their involvement in local self-government shows that society is a positive political woman. And women themselves feel worthy, professionally and responsibly in power. And this is also the result of the joint work of the IFF "Equal Opportunities" of previous years. Obviously, cave sexism and gender stereotypes and prejudices in politics are not yet overcome, but the reaction of society and political exploitation to such incidents must be increasingly severe. We call on women from the parliamentary majority to solidarity. We, the deputies of various factions, from the European Solidarity and the Voice and the Fatherland, to the future and others, are for not to be afraid to talk about oppression and humiliation, because that is how we can only protect one another and combat this discrimination. Keep your mouth shut, and do not deceive yourself in the first place. You're here, in particular, and in order for a woman's voice in an area, a district, a city or a village where there is a word not so loud because of dominant discrimination and gender oppression, to be heard. Finally, this is our responsibility. I would also like to encourage the care of my own dignity and of my own deputies. Do not be humiliated because you underestimate your colleagues in the Supreme Council, and you underestimate Parliamentarianism as such. And he was, he was, and he remains, a resistance to statehood. We must be stronger on the inside, not allowing the country to be rocked. There's a lot of external and internal challenges. You follow the form, the image, the video, and you compete for the content. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-03-m0.u230	Heroic glory! Thank you, Mrs. Mary. And I would like to invite Mr. Michael Cimbaluk, the "Fatherland" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-03-m0.u231	Mikhailo Tsimbaluk, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear national MPs, dear voters! Last week, when we were in the western regions of our nation, we met with those people who were affected by the flood, by a severe flood, we promised people that it would be Tuesday in the Supreme Council that the principle of working with the government would begin on how to eliminate the consequences of this disaster. And really, people are calling. What happened that Tuesday's main and first bill was game business? Actually, if you say so, you really need to set things straight. And we believed that it would happen as promised by the President that this law would apply to casinos in five - star hotels. And when we saw to the second reading that there is a completely different, that the game business returns in the worst forms in three-, four- and five-star hotels and not only. At that time, we began a really principled discussion of revisions, and some of them were put on the stand for confirmation. And when someone says, well, when this bill says that it's closer than 500 meters to a school, you can't install a slot machine, I have a question for the authors. How about 502 meters to school? And 505 meters to the school are good slot machines? Another thing. There is European judicial experience as to how such gambling can be organized. You can even take the experience of Batumi. But worldwide, there is no state in which cash can be used in such places. Our bill stipulates that. And then we'll talk about warnings from European partners about money laundering. This too should be noted. Next. It's a very unpleasant thing that we didn't take statistics on the criminal crimes before 2008, which were collapsing around the gaming machines and in those rooms. We're told to legalize. Yes. Then, by your logic, let us legalize prostitution, because it also exists, drug addiction, because it also exists. Dear colleagues, before it's too late, we still need to do what today, thanks to this hall and the professionalism of colleagues Sobolev and Vlasenko, has managed to make some adjustments, as they say, harshly repealed in order for the law to become more professional. The Fatherland faction will not vote for such grief.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-03-m0.u232	Thank you, Mr. Michael. We invite Mrs. Irina Vereschuk, the "Serve of the People" faction. I can't hear you. Paul Melnik, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-03-m0.u233	Good day, dear chairman, distinguished colleagues, dear Ukrainians! I want to draw the Parliamentary's attention to the renewal of the funding of Ukraine's Drinking Water budget programme, the funding of the measures that have been suspended from the State budget since 2015. Although such measures are foreseen for 2020. I will point out that about 80 percent of Zaporozhye’s groundwaters do not meet sanitary standards. In particular, in Primorsk, in Tokmak, in Yakimovtsa, Mikhailovac, as well as in most of the inhabited areas of Primorski, Mikhailovsky, Priazovsky, Yakimivsky, and Yakimiv district, local residents use drinking water that does not conform to hygiene standards and appropriate sanitary and chemical indicators. As a result of the long-term operation without the necessary maintenance of the water supply system, most water - management farms in the area and the designated areas are in poor technical condition, and they are getting worse every day, and some are even in an accident. To date, the problem of improving the quality of drinking water in the country is solved through the implementation of regional targeted programs. In Zaporozhye, this is a regional target program called Drinking Water of the Zaporozhye Region, whose funding is insufficient to solve the problem. At the same time, the initiative and support of the Committee on Integration of Ukraine to the European Union, where I am also the head of the subcommittee, was adopted by the Law on the Ratification of the Framework Agreement between the Government of Ukraine and the Government of the Kingdom of Denmark on General Conditions and Procedures, Organization Arrangements and Financial Conditions for the implementation of the Danida Business Finance programme in Ukraine, which allowed for the initiation of investment procedures for the construction of water supply facilities in the Kirilovka district resort, as well as other projects aimed at improving and modernizing the existing water supply and water supply system in the Zaporak region. However, not enough measures have been taken, and the depth of the problem is very serious, since the lack of quality drinking water in population areas, including the Zaporozhye region, has led to serious health problems and a reduction in the lives of local residents. I call on the government to develop a budget programme for Ukraine's Drinking Water 2020-2030 and to submit to Parliament an appropriate draft law with the necessary calculations. Also include in the draft State Budget Act for 2021 the funding of the programme. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-03-m0.u234	Thank you. We invite Mr. Dmitri Black, "Serve of the people." Please, Mr. Dmitri.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-03-m0.u235	Dmitri Black, 34 constituency. Sadly, our fellow citizens sometimes have to deal with unkind people and organizations that for their useful and deceptive purposes are not scratching anything, even the cynical and open - minded manipulations themselves. Usually, you can see these combinations in any area of our lives. But the assumption that gas suppliers would resort to banal and shameful blackmail was even difficult to imagine. At that time, the gas stations decided to use the so - called gas blackmail method, where bureaucrats take apartment houses along with their residents. The last such situation took place in my family’s Yellow Waters. Similar situations are now taking place throughout the country. Disgusting practice of shutting down entire dwellings from gas supplies under emergency conditions. And then it's all the same when the owners of the apartment buildings are asked to select a representative to continue signing the act of demarcating and collecting the pipelines into their balance sheet. And that is, regardless of the quarantine and the absence of debt in the population. Thus, gas suppliers terrorize people by trying to relieve themselves of responsibility in the event of an emergency. In other words, gas monopolies want to bring their activities to the following formula: money -- to them, and problems to people. You see, colleagues, the situation is unacceptable in either the position of conscience or the legal aspect. This is an open - minded abuse, where common people are treated as fortitudes that have nothing but responsibilities and no rights. Personally, I am deeply saddened that innocent people continue to suffer from such presumptuous and wrong actions. And we, as parliamentarians, have no right to ignore this kind of deceit and to treat such shameful things loyally or formally. The situation is completely and completely on the conscience of the gas monopolies, who seem to be completely indifferent to the fate of the common people, their concerns, and their problems. And I'd like to point out separately that there's a particularly clear trend in the emergence of these things before the local elections, so it's not hard to figure out who's comfortable with it. So once again, I stress that the problems of ordinary citizens are our first problems. After all, there are thousands of ordinary people behind every parliamentarian who have given their voice in the hope that their rights will be protected and protected at the right time. People should finally see that their interests are safeguarded by the institution of parliamentaryism, which exercises the rule of law, not by the rule of celibacy, hypocrisy, irresponsibility and blackmail. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-03-m0.u236	Thank you, Mr. Dmitri. And when Olga Stefanisin is invited to the floor, Mary Jonah gives her the word. Right? Thank you. Please, Mrs. Olga, the Voice faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-03-m0.u237	Marina and Mikhail from Mikhailovka District have ten children and have served all their lives with a doctor who did not like it, a local doctor constantly prescribed antibiotics and hospitalized children without need. When the medical transformation began, Marina had the opportunity to select a pediatrician for her children. Today, the entire family is served by a family doctor who provides quality medical care free of charge. A family doctor observes them in different situations, knows their family. 70 percent of Ukrainians are satisfied with the quality of primary health care because of medical reform. There's another story, a story about the Rundak family in the Lviv region. The family became the first family of FOPs to discover medical practices and enter into medical reform. Their daughter spent her life learning foreign languages to leave the country and provide medical care abroad, along with her husband, a medical doctor. But today they are working at a small medical center in the Stry Lviv region and have not migrated from Ukraine, and they receive a decent salary and work to provide quality medical care to Ukrainians. All these positive changes were made possible by the Ukrainian Law on State Financial Guarantees for Public Health Services, which was adopted in October 2107. But today we have learned that on July 23, the Constitutional Court of Ukraine will consider the application of the constitutionality of this law. Colleagues, if the Constitutional Court decides negative, this law will simply fail. Thus, in one day more than 30 million Ukrainians who today receive high - quality medical care from their family doctors will lose this opportunity. Some 23,000 health - care workers, who today receive more than 20,000 dollars instead of the shameful 3,000, will lose the opportunity to earn a decent salary. About a thousand hospitals all over Ukraine, including oncocentres, maternity homes that received more funding this year than they did last year, will lose that money, and you and I will lose hope of quality medical care in Ukraine. In particular, I would like to point out that the authors of this submission are ex-regulatory Bachchev, who headed the National Health Committee for Yanukovitch, as well as other ex-regulators who wanted to bring about medical reform in Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-03-m0.u238	Thank you, Mrs. Olga. And I take it we have our last performance, this is Dmitri Costuck, the "Serial of the People" faction. Please, Mr. Dmitri.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-03-m0.u239	Good afternoon! Please consider my statement a request to the Prime Minister of Ukraine and to the Minister of Defence. My first speech from the Supreme Council rostrum in September was about the problem of a military hospital in Novograd Wallinsky. The military hospital, which was closed in the 13th year, was even the TSC in the last Supreme Council, which was dealing with how the Ukrainian army had been destroyed in recent years, especially in the last two defence ministers, who were Russians, budget cuts, and all of them military hospitals, and our military equipment was sold out at no cost. It was clear that the Ukrainian army had been deliberately destroyed. At the same time, I would like to emphasize that the military hospital in Novograd Wallinsky existed in 2012 when funding for the entire ministry was 12 billion dollars. Now we have, and we've accepted the budget, and you and I have raised the funding of the Ministry of Defense, in general the cost of defence and security for another 40 billion dollars, and that's a total of 240 billion dollars -- the largest funding in all spheres. Costs would appear to be, and hospitals and military support are not yet available. In 2013 they closed. The need was seen earlier, the war began, the Novograd Wallinsky, the military city, where on every exit from the city, the military forces, where the legendary 30th individual mechanized brigade, one of four went straight to the front of the first days of the war. Many soldiers didn't see their children, they were born and grew up there in a year or two, and they didn't even see them, they couldn't come back from the front, because from the first days they were there. Finally, these soldiers return. There are thousands more ATOs in the city and district, and there is nowhere to be treated. I ask the Minister of Defense, the Prime Minister, to come with me to the county, to look into the eyes of those people, a particular invalid of war, who, without a leg, has to travel periodically to other locations, to confirm the disability group, as if his leg would grow up, instead of being treated in the city, passing every day by this military hospital, which in the recreational zone is a river, a forest, and he thinks: Has no one taken this land? Maybe someone decided to take her? And those thoughts that I can't even deny, because I've been fighting for months and I can't resist the need for this hospital to be launched. If we can't get the hospital back, let's maybe do some rehabilitation work for our military. Then young people see how we treat our own veterans and what it might be like to go to the army to serve in Ukraine when they see that we do not support those who have won. Please help me in this regard. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-03-m0.u240	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the time taken for presentations on various issues is exhausted. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed.
