ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-30-m0.u1	Good afternoon, dear fellows! Good afternoon, media officials! Please prepare to register. Are you ready to register? Dear colleagues, are you ready to register? Please register. I'm reminding you that registration takes place by clicking on the green pros button. Please register. [[10:12:42]] There are 282 Ukrainian national deputies registered in the hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear colleagues, last week you and I celebrated the anniversary of the Constitution of Ukraine. Dear colleagues! Last week, you and I celebrated the anniversary of the Constitution of Ukraine. It's not just a book, it's not just a text, it's the main law of our state. Ivanchuk! Andry Volodymyrovich, I'm sorry to bother you. Aren't you interested in the Constitution? But everything we accept in this room is primarily based on the Constitution. We must remember this, we must act exclusively within the limits of the powers vested in us by the Constitution, and each of the national deputies must always remember that we must protect the interests of all citizens, protect the Constitution, and not allow anyone to violate it, and not violate it in the first place. Once again, everyone with a holiday. And to the execution of the National Anthem of Ukraine, I ask everyone to stand up.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-30-m0.u2	Please sit down. Dear colleagues, on June 25, 2020, the Central Election Commission registered the National Deputy of Ukraine, who was elected to the election of Ukraine's national deputies on July 21, 2019 in the state-wide multi-mandatory constituency, Eutuska Sergio Mikolaiovich, who was included in the election list of the political party "Universal Union of the Fatherland". In accordance with article 79 of the Constitution of Ukraine, a Ukrainian national deputy takes an oath before the Supreme Council of Ukraine before taking office. To make an oath to the rostrum, the national deputy of Ukraine, Sergey Mikolaiovich, is invited.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-30-m0.u3	Dear people of Ukraine! I swear allegiance to Ukraine. I undertake to defend Ukraine’s sovereignty and independence by all my actions, to ensure the welfare of Ukraine’s homeland and well - being. I vow to abide by Ukraine’s Constitution, Ukraine’s laws, and to carry out my duties in the interests of all fellow countrymen. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-30-m0.u4	Congratulations again. Honorary colleagues, the Conciliation Board of Deputies and Groups introduced and supported a proposal to change the working order of the Supreme Council at this plenary week on Tuesday and Thursday and Friday. It is proposed to hold one plenary meeting on Tuesday and Thursday with the following schedule: from 10:00 to 12:00 – plenary meeting, from 12:00 to 12:30 – recess and from 12:30 to 3 p.m. – extension of the plenary meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. On Friday, from 13 a.m., take up to 30 minutes to announce parliamentary requests and the rest of the time for speeches by national MPs on various issues. Is there no objection? We need to vote on this proposal. Please prepare for the vote. Ready to vote? I'll bet on the vote on the above-mentioned proposal. Please support the vote. [[10:19:37]] For 293 Decision taken. According to article 25 of the Rules on Tuesday, we have 30 minutes for the presentations of authorized representatives of the MPs and groups with proposals, announcements, statements, and messages. I'd like the factions to sign up for the performance. Please sign up from the MP factions and groups. Vasilchenko Galina Ivanovna Juršin Jaroslav Romanović.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-30-m0.u5	Good afternoon, dear fellows! Good afternoon, distinguished voters! Today we have the opportunity to talk about one of the most important things that distinguishes a democratically developed society from the totalitarian societies that we are trying to move away from, is justice. The justice that judges do. And I'm going to tell you why we have justice, not human justice, but the wolf, I'm going to give you a few examples, actually, of judges who, despite having their violations documented, recorded, discussed, still continue to do "justice." "Justice," of course, paws. Judge Kyiv's Court of Appeal, think of it as a special secret pocket called "for bribes." This was recorded, in fact, on a bribe, when this judge restored a license for waste processing that was not carried out. In fact, we were poisoned in Kiev. The judge found this but was not motivated by justice at all, but by this secret pocket, justice continues to be done. The Supreme Council of Justice, which should have taken away the entire process, cannot take it away for four years. Another case. The judge found a case in Winnitz, a city court in Winnitz, where a driver in a state of drug abuse almost knocked people down. Thank God I didn't. This is documented, all evidence in court. The judge believes that this happened only because the driver ate the poppy. And there are so many cases like this. Do you know why such judges have been doing justice for years? Because the Supreme Council of Justice does not take them away. Because the Supreme Council of Justice, which has not held any competitions, leaves Judge Vuka, who has actually tried Lucenka and now judges those who have not reformed the judicial system. And now the President is going to the Supreme Council of Justice, registering Bill 3711, which you are now invited to consider in the turbines. He deprives people of justice, he introduces a "wolve" court. What's a "wolve" court? The wolves kill the weakest. They unite to destroy those who are weaker. On the contrary, people protect the righteous. And that's why our task is a real judicial reform, not the one that Zelensky is now proposing, giving away the GWP's concessions, but what we promised society and our international partners.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-30-m0.u6	Vadim Zinović Rabinovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-30-m0.u7	Gentlemen, first of all, I'm addressing most of this room, last week finally proved that you're no longer "servants," you're already ladies. One of the leaders of your party, the head of the profile committee, reported that people who did not earn much should be sterilized, and they should not have children. Gentlemen, I understand that you want only you to reproduce, but no one in our country has ever used more fascist and nasty terminology. If she stays in this room and remains head of the committee, in the Ukrainian Parliament, it will not just be a disgrace to the Supreme Council, a disgrace to Mr. Razumkov, it will ultimately prove that you are like her, and you share her views. I apologize very much, but those who share fascist views are fascists themselves. But these are not all manifestations of fascism that have unfortunately dominated our country. This week, they beat up Michael Rozhenko's opposition Party representative, who disagreed with the central authority. Beats, you hear it or not! In every area, nationalists have been marked by the marches of our party and other opposition forces that disagree with the nationalists, the fascists, and your authority. Man at death, the whole country is in shock. And you keep your mouth shut, the President will keep his mouth shut. Your philosophy was clear: what difference does it make to servants who have become masters, what happens to hooves in general? You betrayed your constituents, betrayed your country, and you will not be forgiven. You will see the results of your actions in the local elections. Ukraine does not like fascism in its vast majority, and you will see it. And one more thing. Victor Medvedchuk and I were in Moscow in search of peace. And there, in the presence of Russian television-led correspondents, we said that Crimea was Ukraine. This is the basic thesis that we were asked to remember from the mouth of our party. And here in Ukraine, the President, greeting the people with the Day of the Constitution, forgets about Crimea. That's not the kind of crime you're opening. You sell land, you destroy thought, you kill television channels. You kill people, and everyone has to keep quiet. You're killing a country, and everyone has to keep quiet. We won't keep our mouths shut! We'll give you an answer in the election. And you'll see what that is. I urge everyone to see what's going on. Don't build any more illusions and give a clear, real answer to the "servants" who at the moment became masters. Ladies don't take advantage of us. And to you, madam, who is not pleased with my speech.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-30-m0.u8	Thank you, Vadim. Timishenko Julia Volodymyrna.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-30-m0.u9	Dear colleagues, I think as a minimum, everyone in this room knows that there has been a natural disaster in Western Ukraine. You know well that flooding is the strongest in all time. And it's no secret that 14 and a half thousand houses in Western Ukraine are being submerged. This affected tens of thousands of people who stayed in a home that was not fit to live there. These include the destruction or damage of 700 miles [700 km] of roads, 360 bridges, and dams. I can tell you that more than ever, agricultural crops have been destroyed. Filled markets where small businesses were owned. Dear friends, when we came to the Conciliation Council today, and we didn't see any papers in the Supreme Council, no bill on budget changes that could compensate people for everything they lost, and we started immediate work restored. I want to remind you that in 2008, when I was Prime Minister, we had the same disaster. And then, think about it, we've allocated billions of dollars to help people and to rebuild infrastructure. That's half what the IMF gave today. We compensated people from $200 to $5,000 in advance for the loss of property for the ruined dwellings. And after people restored their agriculture, they paid back to what people actually spent. And in each of the settlements, special commissions were created from the people themselves, who live in these settlements to give them honest government assistance. We held an emergency session and accepted all the documents. We have compensated all those who work in markets, to the full. They compensated all those who lost their cities for their agricultural crops. Everyone was compensated for 100 percent of the loss. There's nothing today. And so we insist that we immediately invite the government to the Supreme Council. Our team introduced a bill on budget changes in the weekends to immediately allocate 20 billion dollars. Where are we going to get them? We registered this law, 3754, where to take the money. At NAC Naftogazi, money is worth more than 20 billion. And they borrowed money from the budget. Take them away and give people the opportunity to feel that the state has not abandoned them. Otherwise it would mean that neither the government nor the state are capable. Do it now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-30-m0.u10	Thank you. Three - year - old Galina Mikolayevna
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-30-m0.u11	Dear Ukrainians, distinguished national MPs, distinguished presidency, congratulations! We're doing the right thing on the Social Policy Committee. We're protecting the social protection of the population to the social protection of the Ukrainians. We create conditions to ensure that funds directed at social protection are not stolen from persons who do not have any rights to receive State aid. And the socially vulnerable population must be protected by the state. In this direction, the reform of the Social Insurance Fund, the pension reform, the reform of the subsistence minimum, the taxation of households, all of these reforms are key. I'm running a systematic paid-for campaign against me. I have enemies. And we need to understand that it's not just my enemies, it's people who want to keep their sources of personal wealth at all costs at the expense of another Ukrainian. They want the system to remain as independent as it is for 30 years, so that the system will continue to provide them, their children, their grandchildren, and the luxury of living at the expense of the people. The dirty campaign only shows one thing: our team and I have personally set the tail on the interests of influential people. We need to understand that as a result of these reforms, we are cutting off financial flows and transferring them to the state budget. Who are these enemies? The Ukrainian Federation of Trades and Trades. Representatives of the old elites who in their time formed these streams know exactly how to prevent auditing, control, testing, change of direction, and so forth. That's what they were afraid of. That's what they really brought up this scandal. Another factor is geopolitical. I recently joined the Tripartite Contact Group in Minsk as a representative of Ukraine. You know that Europe has just extended sanctions against Moscow. They oppose the sound of a clear pro-Ukrainian position in Minsk: moving to peace under Ukrainian conditions. The information campaign against me is immoral and absurd. The term "children's quality" is not mine. Even though I used it in the public domain, I apologize to all the Ukrainians and those who took it so that I somehow didn't want to protect the Ukrainians. It's not my deadline. He's mentioned in Gary Stanley Becker, a Nobel laureate. We need to know what world science is thinking, how to solve social issues, and we need to use them. Whether this term exists or not, it'll decide the time. All the children are beautiful. All children are God’s gift. And Ukrainians know how to protect their children. And it's not about poverty, it's not about poverty that you're manipulating. The point here is that social policy should be directed, not from the poor to the poor, but from the rich to the poor. And what you're doing is unworthy, inhumane behavior. No information keeler can convince me of the reverse. We really do.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-30-m0.u12	Vadim Evgeniovich Ivchenko, there was no sign of him. Are you selling it? I just didn't get it. I asked if you'd be able to speak. It's not in a bad way, I just remembered. [[B in m in s a l in]] No, he can't sell the sign, I'm sure. Princess Mikola Leonidovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-30-m0.u13	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-30-m0.u14	Wait. Dear colleagues, one minute. Please tell me, you know the Rules well, don't you? Can you put art like this in the hall? Either way, please tell me. May I? Thank you. Princess Mikola Leonidovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-30-m0.u15	Thank you. White Oslava, Black Stream is the name of the village where we came from with Peter Alexiyovich Prashenko. I'll call the other villages: Zembrona, Zelene, Horozovo, Brežnica are Ukrainian villages that are actually cut off from the world. This is a village where bridges were taken away, where houses were demolished and submerged. It's a village where none of the state's representatives have ever been. They're villages where people don't know how to live. What are we looking at here, "Igorka"? Consider again how to raise wages for prosecutors and judges. And that's what we do in our agenda. Let's invite the Prime Minister, invite the government, ask how much 480 million dollars have been allocated to Frankish, where 110 kilometers of roads, 90 bridges have been destroyed, and I'm not saying how many shores have been damaged, how many families have lost their apartments. How do you do it for this money? Zelenski told the long - rangers that a million miles [1 million km] of roads cost. The 17 km of roads can be repaired at all costs allocated to Frankish. And in Lvivščina, Chernivěčina's money went to zero, and Ternopilščina to zero. Where's the government? We took the funds from the fund, sent them to COVID. The International Monetary Fund, society has taken the lead because of the way that money is used. Are they used for COVID? We still have a disease, Lvivšina the first. Nobody buys test labs to test the sick, people isolate themselves, and they work industry, and they spit because they have to manipulate and steal money, steal and lie, steal and lie, and then they throw some of that money on the road. Let's give this money to the Carpathians. President Zelensky said that he wants to support the Carpathian country, let's rebuild the roads and help people who have lost their homes. It's not hard to do that. Because the way we redistribute these funds, it's terrible. We needed to see the eyes of these women and children who were crying as we approached them when we brought them pumps, because there was nothing from the state. It's supposed to work there today. People have to work there today. But more important to us, I understand, is political persecution. And when the European Union imposes sanctions because of Russia's failure to implement the Minsk Treaties, we judge Dustenk for signing the Minsk Treaties and for Tomos, we're after Sternenko because he's Ukrainian. Not embarrassing? It seems that this hall is not a parliament of Ukraine, but of another country. The Prime Minister here, the government here, and the report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-30-m0.u16	Please, National Deputy Shahov Sergey Volodymyrovich, Deputy Group "Trust".
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-30-m0.u17	Sergey Shahov, Luhanščina, Deputy Group "Trust". Dear colleagues, the time of reckoning has come. But why should millions today be responsible for the crimes committed by the ten? Today, they spoke from this important rostrum for the flood of Carpathians. But today the country is covered by an avalanche of ecological and technological catastrophes, not only in Zakarpat, but also in the Black Sea, where oil spills and pollutes completely the seas, water, and in mines that do not show what is happening today, where cell water, where chemical water goes, falls into wells, falls into rivers, and all of us drink this water today — both your children and children of the whole country. Today, he could be at the funeral of a friend of mine, who was almost 52 years old, and two children left. He's not a politician, he's a businessman who's been paying taxes to this country. And why? He died of cancer when he was 52 years old. And too many people, thousands of people die of cancer in our country. Because there's a coronavirus in the heads of officials that needs to be eradicated today. Who today authorized the construction of roads that had gone down, 150 km, into which billions of dollars of human money had been invested, paying taxes to the state budget? Who gave permission to support walls that also endured? Death every year, every day in our country. In 28 years, no one is responsible. Not only does the Prime Minister need to be here in the rostrum, let us first hear the head of the DSNS, which other technological catastrophes must be expected in Ukraine. Sailors stand under parliament today, not paying wages, but no one speaks for the ecological and technological catastrophe right where the underground rivers endure everything. The disaster in the yard isn't today, it's now. Yesterday and yesterday. And we need to make an immediate audit of the forest farm, which has been completely cut off. It's the lungs of our state and it's a cancer tumor that's in Ukraine today, it's up to every official who's sitting in the office and breaking the law. Today, all businesses that have been completely destroyed in 28 years, mine audits, auditing of all chemical enterprises, and allowing people today to see that justice exists. We need to rebuild trust in the country today through Parliament.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-30-m0.u18	Constankewicz Irina. Batenko Taras Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-30-m0.u19	Good afternoon, dear fellows! Dear friends, the MP's Group for the Future points out that we don't need to beat ourselves in the chest, speaking of the critical situation that has arisen because of the environmental disaster, because of the flood in the western areas of Ukraine. We need to understand that this situation can happen again, it can happen every five to seven to ten years. This situation, which is now, is particularly acute because such a flood has not occurred in the last 50 years, but we should also remember who should be responsible. It is the responsibility of this previous authority and of today's authorities that must be held accountable, because any phenomenon needs to be preceded, must be beaten in advance, but not in the post-factum when this tragedy occurred. And we need to ask ourselves how many in recent years and in the last year in advance of such an environmental disaster have been built in these areas of dams, bridges, how many forest managers have been planted, which have actually been attached to deforestation, which has deepened this ecological disaster. Along with this, we, the "For the Future" MP group, and the entire Ukrainian society is concerned about the government's struggle with COVID-19, which is actually taking very active turn in Ukraine today. We remember a statement by the Prime Minister of Ukraine from this rostrum last plenary week that said that the government actually took control of the COVID situation and actually overcame the situation. Then we saw terrible statistics, and this statistics, even scary statistics, do not believe in the World Health Organization and do not believe in international society. We believe that the Prime Minister of Ukraine should report from the rostrum of Parliament at the expense of the COVID-19 fund. 34 billion dollars out of the 64s that were in this fund because we think it's kind of a waste of money, and it's probably a misappropriation of these funds. Another question that is important today, which is now in the order of the day society, is the issue of judicial reform. As we know today, we will include this issue in the agenda, Presidential Bill 3711, as a result of the actual lifting of the reform proposals proposed by the President, the Constitutional Court. We believe that the promises and realities of the winners of the last elections last year are quite different, and this is primarily reflected in judicial reform. We see that, in fact, the Supreme Council of Justice continues to define the policies of the courts and the Supreme Court of Ukraine, further covering corrupt judges. And not to mention the words of the President of Ukraine that the authorities did everything they could to ensure that the judges depended solely on her. Let's do everything we can to make sure that this judicial system remains independent of this authority, which is still trying to govern it, the judicial system. And I think that we should radically reform the judicial system, not just on paper, but in reality, as required by Ukrainian society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-30-m0.u20	Thank you. A statement came from two MP factions and groups. I'm sorry. Alexander Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-30-m0.u21	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs, distinguished Ukrainian people! Edward Proschtuk, 85th constituency, Attitude. For over a week, the country’s attention has been confined to western areas, where hundreds of settlements and thousands of human homes have been submerged because of overcrowding. Stichia caused great damage to communities, ruined numerous infrastructures, submerged and damaged farm conditions, farms, tourist facilities, schools, hospitals, and gardens. Hundreds of families were left homeless. Unfortunately, there are victims. During the past week, I was communicating with the victims of the disaster, and I saw places where there was little left of the homes. My colleagues, I'd like to draw your attention to the numbers and the situation in my native Prikarpatha. At this time, nearly 300 settlements have been submerged, 130 of which remain submerged. This is about more than 13,000 housing units, over 18,000 substations, over 6,000 basements, and 17 Feldshere points. 93 bridges have been destroyed, over 200 km of roads, over 80 km of shores, 250 more bridges and 600 km of roads damaged, and there is limited transportation to 16 locations. I'd like to point out that these numbers are only from Prikarpathy. Flood levels and damage from previous estimates are already above 2008, and this is not the end of the year, for unfortunately, there is an excessive rainfall. Lifeguards, Nazgwardiya, police, volunteers, and all caregivers work around the clock. Thank you all very much for the work. I am grateful to the President and the Prime Minister, who personally came to the Atonement and saw the effects of the flood. Thank you for the local self - government that has been mobilized and has been operational in places. But we all expect concrete action. The 700 million dollars allocated today to deal with the consequences of the disaster are just the minimum that the state is now able to finance. Estimates of natural loss are still in progress, but the previous analysis shows that these resources are not enough; they are billions of dollars. Convinced that no outcome is every 10 to 12 years to deal with the consequences, we need to work systematically on the front. We expect the government of a special program, strategies to combat damage and to avoid the effects of massive floods in the future. We are ready to initiate the creation of a working group on the legislative provision of a strategy for flood management. Once again, it is very difficult to cope with flood damage, so important preventive action. So I summarize. We, as members of the interfractional association, are demanding (and people expect) compensation for damaged persons for the reconstruction of destroyed infrastructure, the development and adoption of a strategy for flood management, the conduct of annual preventive measures. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-30-m0.u22	Thank you. Dear colleagues, prepare for the vote, please. Dear colleagues, please invite the national deputies to the hall and prepare for the vote. Now a few technical questions are: this is the vote for the draft Order on Change in the Order of the Day of the Third Session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the Ninth Call and Vote for the inclusion in the agenda and for the shortening of the deadlines. For reasons, it's only a matter of discussion. Maybe from the procedure? Oh, the procedure. Vadim Evgenovich Ivchenko, of the procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-30-m0.u23	Yvchenko, Fatherland. Dear Dmitry Alexanderovich, we would like to stress to you that 64 drafts of "The Fatherland" are not in this decree again. You ignore the opposition and the laws of the Fatherland. That's the first one. The other one. We immediately demand the Prime Minister for the situation in Western Ukraine, after the disaster that is taking place. That's two. And the third. Dmitry Alexanderovich, today, when he comes out of the "Serve of the People" faction, the head of the Social Committee of Trelyakow, I want to tell you, today was a warning action by the trade unions. They went against a few things. The first is to stop the raiding of the trade unions, and the second is the resignation of the Trinitarians. That's why I'm betting.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-30-m0.u24	Tell me, what procedure is this, Vadim Evgenovich, if you'll excuse me? What procedure, Vadim Evgenovich?
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-30-m0.u25	64 bills.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-30-m0.u26	No, I'll tell you again, do you know how much in this decree for your authorship of drafts? You know? 7, you're a co-author. No, wait, we don't have a speech, Vadim Evgenovich. The speeches were, the speeches from the rostrum of distinguished national MPs, the procedure, clearly defined what the procedure is. If you wish to speak, you have the right to speak, but according to the Rules. Thank you. No, dear colleagues, what's the procedure? Like Yvchenka or the procedure? Irina Volodymyrna's character.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-30-m0.u27	I'll make you a note first, my dear colleague. You comment on the opposition and have never commented on your colleagues, including sexist expressions. And we demand the response of the Chief of the Supreme Council to dominating sexism, which is in the ruling party, and discrimination. Now for the procedure. Our political power will not vote in favour of this draft decree, because, as always, here the opposition is discriminated against, our bills do not include in the order of the day. In particular, it's a tax bill for the capital. In particular, the medical insurance bill, not the farce that the ruling party has adopted, which none of the infected medics who are fighting COVID today have been able to get paid. And we also demand that the Prime Minister of Ukraine immediately appear to the Supreme Council of Ukraine and report on what is happening in the Western regions of aid. It's very important. It's also our order of business this week after the flood. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-30-m0.u28	Thank you. Irina Volodymyr. I won't comment. I can just give you the answer, right? First. It's not a procedure either. This time. Two. You can also contact the Prime Minister, and you have the right to do so as the National Deputy of Ukraine. Thank you. Let's go to the vote. Papiev Mikhailo Mikolaiovich. Out of procedure or like everyone else?
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-30-m0.u29	Thank you. Dear Mr. Head! Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine! Dear citizens of Ukraine! Mr. Head, it's from the procedure. You know that Ukraine has chosen a European choice, although, well, it can be treated differently. But in the Supreme Council of Ukraine under, by the way, your headship is headed by a mission of the European Union led by Mr. Five Cox. I emphasize once again, I point out the 6th paragraph of the Recommendations of this mission of the European Union, which foresees that the formation of the order of the day takes place in proportion to the number of factions. The Opposition Platform for Life faction is composed of 44 Ukrainian people's deputies, i.e. one-tenth of Parliament, more than one-tenth of Parliament. So 1 out of every 10 bills should be based on our authorship. And I would ask you very hard to make sure that the order of the day session is reflected, if you have 100 bills, then 10 should be from our faction. These are laws about peace and human laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-30-m0.u30	Mikhailo Mikolaiovich, I absolutely agree. I don't remember the opposition platform for life this week, but, of course, there's usually a lot of bills where you're co-authors. This time. Two. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to remind you just when part of the rule of procedure that was related to the rights of the opposition disappeared. Yeah, we can remember what times and what political power, but I don't think it's worth it. Can we get to the vote? Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, this is not a procedure. We either go into discussion, no, or it's not a procedure. Look. Are you sure about the procedure or not? That's right, I can see that. Juršin Jaroslav Romanović.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-30-m0.u31	The Law on the Simulation of Judicial Reform 3711 has so far disappeared from inclusion, and that is correct because the committee has reached a new conclusion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-30-m0.u32	Let's go to the vote, dear fellows. Ready to vote? I would like to place a vote on the proposal for the adoption of the entire draft Order amending the agenda for the day-to-day third session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the ninth call (registration number 2835-18) Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[10:55:57]] For 242 Decision taken. Let's see the factions. "People's Servant" – 221, "The Opposition Platform for Life" – 0, "European Solidarity" – 0, "Fatherhood" – 1, "The Future Party" – 0, "The Voice" – 0, "The Trust" – 17, "the Non-Factional" – 3. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the next question. It's a question of including in the agenda of the day session and shortening the deadlines for the submission of alternative bills without considering the bills that we're going to be talking about. Can we put it to the vote now? In turn, every bill, yes. This is a bill amending the Ukrainian Higher Education Act (registration number 3734). It is proposed that the bill be declared urgent and that it should be reduced by half by the time of the introduction of alternative bills in accordance with Article 101. Huh? I can't hear you, Ivan Grigorovich. This is a reduction in the feed time, 3734. Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[10:57:39]] For 313 Decision taken. The next question is the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Executive Conduct concerning the implementation of the electronic form of the implementing document (registration number 3707). We need to put this issue in the order of the day session first. I'll put this motion to the vote. Please support and vote for inclusion in the agenda of the 3707 session. [[10:58:25]] For 268. Dear colleagues, is it the committee's decision to include him? There's no committee decision, either? 3719 is the committee's decision to include Sergei Vitaliyovich? And it's included in our daily schedule, about shorter periods. Dear colleagues, I am voting on the proposal to define a bill as urgent and to shorten the deadlines for the introduction of alternative bills, the draft Act amending section X, paragraph 3, of the Law "Transitional and Final Positions" of the Law "On complete general secondary education" on the expansion of the possibilities for the transformation of the educational network (registration No. 3709). Sorry, 3719. Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[11:00:36]] For 281 Decision taken. The next question is draft registration number 3720. Is there a committee decision, Sergey Vitaliovich, to include? Yes. You don't? The committee's decision on inclusion is there? It's not about the agenda, it's about inclusion and shortening. Look, dear fellows, I don't want to comment on anyone. We can remember how it used to be. Yeah. So let's not get any better. Dear colleagues, a statement came from two MP factions and groups replacing the break for the performance. Now, one minute. Yeah. Then it's going to be 2285-d.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-30-m0.u33	Dear colleagues, today we finally have the President-designated prime law again. Because it's not Parliament that makes up the agenda, it's not the government that makes up the day's work of the Supreme Council, it's the President's administration that's in charge of the President. And today, the country's highest priority law is defined, and we don't have any other problems – it's the Act on the Playing Business. So we don't have a bill to counter the effects of floods, there's no change in the budget to help people against flood. We have absolutely nothing to do with the protection of doctors, educators. Today, we have unions under the Supreme Council fighting, and we cannot go to the Supreme Council to explain what is going on. But against the backdrop of the complete collapse of government, budget failure, the breakdown of social assistance for people today as the first priority is being placed in the final reading of the Act on the Gambling Business. I want to ask you, what are you doing and why are you doing this? They said the budget would be 4 billion dollars from the gaming business. What, are you out of your mind? And you don't know that in order to get 4 billion dollars into the budget, we need our Ukrainians to lose 40 billion dollars in gaming halls, casinos and so on. What, you did not notice a lie when the president of all the rostrums said that only five - star hotels would be playful or in separate territories. And now this law has created such conditions that it will be possible to play and lose in every backdoor. And so I want to ask, who needs Ukrainians to get their last cents out of their pockets like that? Our faction has brought hundreds of rights to this immoral, anti - Ukrainian, anti - Ukrainian law. And we know that once this law is passed, people will end their lives by suicide. You've forgotten that the World Health Organization has recognized a mental illness from a gambling business called ludomania, worse than drug abuse and worse than alcoholism. Do you not know that in the world, 1 in 10 people in general suffers from these diseases in one way or another? I think it's just in this room and the President's Administration that there's crazy. To help people, to support them in the coronavirus, in the flood, in our difficult lives, people through the game business will take the last. I urge everyone who has a conscience to vote against the legalization of the gaming business.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-30-m0.u34	Dear colleagues, a statement came from two MP factions and groups replacing the break for the performance. Rudik Sergey Jaroslavovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-30-m0.u35	Dear friends, today in Ukraine and in district centres, and in the capital, there are warning actions by the Federation of Ukrainian Trade Unions in order to prevent us from adopting antisocial, anti-professional bills with you, the key of which is 2681, introduced by the "Serial of the People" faction. As representatives of the union in the Supreme Council of Ukraine, we are authorized to state and read out a letter to the Head of the Supreme Council, the heads of factions, the national deputies from the Federation of Ukrainian Trade Unions and the Federation of Employers concerning anti-social legislative initiatives that could lead to the collapse of the social insurance system and the removal of social security workers. The Ukrainian Trade Federation and the Ukrainian Employers' Federation have been forced to state that there has been a systematic violation of the principles of social dialogue in shaping social insurance policies and ignoring the rights of workers and employers. In principle, the partnership between power and society is widespread in the countries of the European community, to which Ukraine wants to be aligned, and the social partners remain outside the process of solving problems that directly affect their interests. In particular, this is about Bills Nos. 2275 and 3115 as the head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Social Policy and the Protection of the Rights of Veterans of the Third and Other Deputies of the Political Party 'Serve the People's Party'. The amendments proposed by the bill are intended solely to eliminate control and influence the decisions of the governments of the funds by the representatives of insured persons and employers, which can create conditions for corruption risks. In doing so, social insurance costs are provided exclusively for the state budget. Since 2001, Ukraine has introduced triangular administrations of a system of compulsory state social insurance, which has fully justified itself when, in times of crisis in the new Ukrainian history, this system, unlike the socialist system, provided full and timely social protection to insured persons. The proposed changes are not in line with the interests of society and the standards ratified by Ukraine by the International Labour Organization Convention No. 37, 39, 102, and the recommendations of the International Labour Organization, which highlight the need to strengthen the social dialogue of the three parties. If we adopt these bills and refuse to pursue a coherent and effective social policy, we will have to stop all representatives of the Social Insurance Fund and the National Social Insurance Fund in case of unemployment of the representatives of the employers of the unions." From the Federation of Employers, Dmitri Olijnik, from the Federation of Ukrainian Trade Unions.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-30-m0.u36	Thank you. Dear colleagues, announcements. According to the statement and in accordance with part three of article 60 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, we report the entry of the Ukrainian National Deputy Rudik Sergio Jaroslavovich, Mootak Igor Fedorovic, Labazuk Sergey Petrovich and Polakov Anton Eduardoovich to the "For the Future" MP group. Is that right? Dear colleagues, let's move on to the next issue of the agenda, this is the draft of the Act on State regulation of activities in the organization and conduct of gambling (registration number 2285-d). You're welcome. Oleg, will you? Dear colleagues, there's an offer to go after the right-wing authors, so it'll be faster. Is there no objection? Royal Natalia Yuriovna. Amendment number one. Are you going to insist on all the adjustments, or are we going to find a way to unite?
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-30-m0.u37	Yes, Mr. Speaker, I will insist on all regulations. Dear fellows, the honourable ones are present! Well, the land has already been sold under quarantine, and the people in slavery are about to be surrendered because Mrs. Tretlyakow proposed such a bill. Well, you know, I just came back from Donetsk, and people deep down resented that in our country most families are now beyond poverty. And when Parliament today, and most parliaments believe that children of low quality are born, we believe that this issue cannot be kept silent. And we demand the official position of Parliament, the President, the Government with regard to such statements and the treatment of people. And we categorically deny today the question of game business.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-30-m0.u38	Do you insist on voting?
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-30-m0.u39	Please put to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-30-m0.u40	I'll bet you to vote number one of the Queen's. She was rejected by the committee. Please identify and vote. [[11:11:47]] For-65 The decision is not taken. Amendment number 5, Royal.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-30-m0.u41	Dear colleagues, the country is in a rather difficult state, and today it is very important in this room to make decisions to protect people who would help people today to survive quarantine, to survive the poverty in which they all found themselves. Unfortunately, however, there is no concern in this Parliament for the people, there is no concern that the fighting continues in the east, that every day almost a thousand people enter a hospital with a coronavirus, that a completely paralyzed industry in the country, and that the decline in five months of this year is record - breaking. You don't have anything to do with it, you only want to do one thing today -- open a casino and collect people's last cents that they have left to survive. That's why "The Opposition Platform for Life" requires that the bill on the game business be removed from consideration, and there is no way that it is not supported. Please put to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-30-m0.u42	I'll bet you vote number five. The committee's dismissed. Please identify and vote. [[11:13:19]] For-72 The decision is not taken. Amendment number 14.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-30-m0.u43	Dear colleagues, "The Opposition Platform for Life" requires no further action. Not only to continue banning the gaming business in Ukraine, but also to step up the fight against illegal gambling today. My colleagues, well, you all understand very well that today we need to work together to support small businesses, support industry, support our farmers, develop a program to stimulate the economy and protect people from poverty. What are you doing? Today, you offer to allow the opening of gaming halls to almost every corner of our country. You're trying to ensnare the country with one-handed bandits today. Why are you doing this? Today the country needs help, today it needs to protect people, not create conditions when people become completely poor. Therefore, we strongly insist on the removal of the consideration and non-admission of the Act on the Gambling Business. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-30-m0.u44	I'll bet on the vote number 14 of the Queen. The committee's dismissed. Please identify and vote. [[11:14:54]] For-76 The decision is not taken. 563 revisions, Royal.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-30-m0.u45	Ladies and gentlemen, I understand that everyone else has withdrawn their rights, and we understand that there is already a conspiracy in this room to make a decision in order for the gaming business to return to Ukraine to occupy all the rooms today with one-handed bandits and playrooms. Ladies and gentlemen, please think about the future of the children! Well, if you understand when your colleague claims that children of low quality are born in the country, what right do you have to support her words even to return to Ukraine's casino? "The Opposition Platform for Life" requires the political and legal responsibility of Mrs. Tretjakeva, who has allowed such statements to be addressed to the children of Ukraine. We insist that by no means do we allow the opening of casinos and slot machines in Ukraine today. Please put to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-30-m0.u46	I'm betting on a vote of 563 Royals. Please identify and vote. [[11:16:26]] For-73
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-30-m0.u47	The decision is not taken. Next line 622. Please, Natalia Yuriovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-30-m0.u48	Dear colleagues, well, Ukraine already has an anecdote that you, the "ministers of the people", have opened up the land market and have not raised wages and pensions in the 2020 budget so that, after opening the game business market, people will sell their land and go to the casino immediately. Well, prove it wrong. Well, as you can, first sell out Ukrainian land, then you're trying to destroy Ukrainian trade unions, and we're supporting the protest of Ukrainian trade unions that today demand responsibility from this parliament, and now you're asking the question of returning the game business to Ukraine as a matter of priority. "The Opposition Platform for Life" clearly denies and requires the repeal of this bill today and the adoption of a programme to protect people from poverty, not the opening of a casino. I'm asking for confirmation.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-30-m0.u49	It's 622 people's deputies to the Royal. Please identify and vote. [[11:17:58]] For-78 The decision is not taken. Next issue is 638, Royal People's Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-30-m0.u50	Dear colleagues, maybe that's enough. I'm going to insist on editing. I'll remind you a hundred times that you can't, you can't open a gambling business in our country. Today, when one part of the country suffers from flooding, when fighting continues in the East today, and in the sixth year, no family living in war has received any State support, but at least respect and protection. Today, when most people in our country are beyond poverty. Today, when there are officially more than five hundred thousand unemployed in Ukraine. And at that time, instead of adopting an anti-crisis plan, instead of supporting people today, protecting them from poverty, you're considering returning casinos and slot machines to Ukraine! We strongly deny, we demand that this amendment be made for confirmation.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-30-m0.u51	I'm betting on a 638 vote, not supported by the committee. Please identify and vote. [[11:19:36]] Z-71 Is there an answer yet? 648 Royal Amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-30-m0.u52	Dear colleagues, we're addressing you, please stop. Selling the land, taking credit to the IMF, putting the country in the foreign administration, assigning a completely unprofessional government today instead of listening to the Prime Minister's replies today, "The Opposition Platform for Life" requires the resignation of this non-professional government today. Instead of forming a professional team that could quickly make the official and professional decision that you're making, you're going back to the game business. And so the country is on the verge of banditry, and you're still strengthening it by bringing the Mafia back to the country. We demand to stop and not pass this law on the gaming business. But to strengthen the illegal control of today.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-30-m0.u53	I'll bet you a vote on 648 Royal. Please identify and vote. The committee's dismissed. [[11:21:13]] For-80 The decision is not taken. 697 revisions, Royal.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-30-m0.u54	Dear colleagues! Ladies and gentlemen! "The opposition platform for life" requires this parliament to call on the government urgently to hear the situation in the country. We have a fall in industrial production. Unemployment is increasing rapidly. We have most people in the country today outside of poverty. We have wild debts on wages and housing services. Dear colleagues, there are many questions today that people are waiting for us to unite and resolve. "The Opposition Platform for Life" prepared an anti-crisis plan, and we registered a package of bills in Parliament. But you're not putting our bills on the table today. You do not accept relevant and substantive laws to help people. Instead, you want to return the game business to the country today. We are definitely against it. And we need to ask this question for confirmation.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-30-m0.u55	Natalia Juryovna, please tell me where the anti-crisis plan of "The Opposition Platform for Life" is in line 697. I don't think so. And let's not do politics. By way of permission, you are essentially entitled, please comment, if you do not object, in accordance with the Rules. That's why I'm betting on a 697 vote. This reminds me of the earth’s market. 697 law. The committee's dismissed. Please identify and vote. [[11:23:10]] Z-77 The decision is not taken. 795 Royal Amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-30-m0.u56	Dear colleagues, if in fact, today Parliament should first consider the political responsibility of "ministers of the people" who think that we have low-quality children in the country somewhere. That's essentially what it is. In fact, today we had to listen to the Prime Minister, who has been quarantined for a third month and does not make any responsible decisions. In fact, we need to unite today in order to make decisions about the Minsk process and the return to a country of peace. And you're essentially suggesting today that instead of bringing peace back to the country, you go back to the game business. That is why that is not the case with our country today. We have a major issue: to remove this issue from the agenda and bring the country back to the current agenda, not to look at projects that today will lead the country into complete banditry and ignorance. Thank you. Please put it in.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-30-m0.u57	Natalia Yuriovna! Natalia Juryovna, if you don't go along with the revisions, standing here with the important questions that are reflected in 795, unfortunately, we can't give you a statement simply because it's meant to be. No, no, they're actually respectable. Dear colleagues, in fact, of the amendment. This is necessarily her constitutional right, and she can do so. But if we're voting for something, we need to understand what the author meant. Unfortunately, it's hard to tell what the author meant if he knew the 795. I'll bet you a vote. Please identify and vote. Seventy-seventy-five. [[11:25:16]] For-73
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-30-m0.u58	The decision is not taken. Next issue is 899, Royal People's Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-30-m0.u59	Well, if that's essentially how you want it, it's going to be every correction, essentially. The point of this amendment is that you're creating an additional organ, and you're giving this body unlimited powers today to open casinos and slot machines in our country. In fact, we demand that there be no gaming business in our country. And it's enough to spend money on creating other organs that are going to get dirty in corruption and that are going to make money on people being poor. That's why we're asking you to withdraw this bill. We are addressing all MPs: by no means will we support the return of the gaming business to our country today. People will never forgive you for this, because it is a terrible evil. We demand that this amendment be made for confirmation.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-30-m0.u60	I would like to vote on amendment 899 of the Royal People's Deputy. The committee proposes to reject it. Please identify and vote. [[11:26:45.]] For-72 The decision is not taken. Next order is 938 of the Royal People's Deputy, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-30-m0.u61	Dear colleagues, this amendment applies to the same thing that you create an additional body in our country that you give authority to regulate the game business. We demand: enough to create different organs, enough to spend government money. We need to review the state budget today. Today, we need to accumulate resources to recalculate people's pensions in order to pay people social support to count today's payments at the birth of a child, to protect a child. To give people the opportunity that floods have brought today and those who live in the east a binding national guarantee. We demand that you make social decisions today, not create other organs for corruption. I demand that this amendment be made for confirmation.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-30-m0.u62	The only one, not for confirmation, but for the vote. There is a 938 amendment of the Royal People's Deputy. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[11:28:11]] For-72 The decision is not taken. Next amendment 980. The Royal People's Deputies.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-30-m0.u63	Dear colleagues, here you are offering us the openness of the activities of the authorized authority for the distribution of casinos in our country. Well, that's actually bullying people. Well, today you decided not to create jobs in industry, not protecting agriculture, not supporting small and medium-sized businesses, but you decided to create state-owned casino distribution authorities in Ukraine. Today, you decide to employ people at casinos and casinos. Stop, please. The red lines have not yet been crossed. And today there is still a chance to unite our efforts to make responsible decisions. It's not a casino to create, it's to protect people to give real support to the real economy today. We demand that this bill be submitted for confirmation and removed.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-30-m0.u64	It's 980 votes for the Royal People's Deputy. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[11:29:41]] Z-70. The decision is not taken. Next issue is 1,000 of the Royal People's Deputies.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-30-m0.u65	992, I'm sorry, please read the next line. Regulation 992 refers to the financing of the activities of the authorized authority. Colleagues, can we still fund the recalculation of our pensions to our pensioners? Why don't we raise the minimum wage? Why don't we still consider how we're going to pay our debts back? Why not consider how we have the tariffs reviewed in the country and the opportunity to survive? Perhaps we will still consider how we can actually create jobs today? And today you're proposing to create a government agency for the casino and finance it. Colleagues, "The Opposition Platform for Life" strongly opposes the return of casinos and "one-handed" bandits to our country. We demand that this bill be removed. Please bet on confirmation.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-30-m0.u66	Natalia Jurijovno, I can see that this is an issue that is taken into account. You don't want her to count the hall? How? To confirm your claim. I got it. Dear colleagues, the position of the committee, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-30-m0.u67	The position of the committee to support this amendment as it does. This is about financing the activities of the authorized body. It was about where to get the money to finance it. Since it's only going to be financed from the budget, and there were different ways of opening different funds, your amendment was taken into account because it was appropriate here. And please support, and take into account Natalia Juryivna's revision.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-30-m0.u68	Dear colleagues, come on, this is such a strange situation, it's taken into account, the author asks you to count it again, the committee doesn't deny it. Then it's the confirmation of number 992. Please support and vote. [[11:32:15.]] For 208 The decision is not taken. You broke yours. Next line is 1,000. Please, Natalia Yuriovno.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-30-m0.u69	Dear colleagues, here today have been examples of how you today protect people from flooding when you ask them online to explain what happened to them. So you also want to set up an online casino monitoring system? You guys would've gone online by now. Could it be enough to put experiments over the country, over online monitoring, online help? Now people already have online food because there's nothing to eat, and people only see on TV and on pictures how to feed themselves and how to heal themselves. So "The Opposition Platform for Life" requires, not online monitoring, but banning the gaming business. We demand not to consider this bill and not to return casinos and slot machines to the country. Today, we demand that the removal be confirmed.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-30-m0.u70	I'll bet you a vote of 1,000, Royal. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[11:33:54]] For-76 The decision is not taken. Amendment 1034, Royal.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-30-m0.u71	Dear Dmitry Alexanderovich! This is about the task and function of the online monitoring system. "The opposition platform is Life" thinks we've gotten to the point that most people in the country today live beyond poverty, that our government is working exclusively in online regimes and doesn't understand what's going on in the country, that our parliament is also in online mode, and it's not making the decisions that people need in our country today. We demand that bills be put in place to protect people rather than create conditions for online casinos and online monitoring of this criminal corruption activity. We demand that this amendment be approved and that the bill on the gaming business be removed from consideration and adopted in no way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-30-m0.u72	I'll bet you 1034 votes, Royal. Please identify and vote. [[11:35:21]] For-73 The decision is not taken. 1124. It's a royal one.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-30-m0.u73	No, 1073, fellow believers, this article 14 of the bill, and it relates to the Foundation for the Support of Medicine, Sports, and Culture. You know, this is already this low when you create a casino to support culture. Colleagues, stop, well, you can't afford health, the lives of our people, the cost of taking the last penny from people, for this money, by covering up the Foundation for Youth Support, Culture, and Physculture, now bullying people and returning casinos. So we strongly deny that casinos and slot machines are coming back to our country at all. You're demanding that this bill be removed from consideration and not supported in returning the casino to Ukraine. Please place this amendment on confirmation.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-30-m0.u74	1073? The committee's amendment was counted, please vote 1073, it's confirmed. [[11:36:54]] For-129 Edit rejected. Amendment 1024. 1124, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-30-m0.u75	Dear colleagues, this is article 15 of the bill, and it applies to the requirements of the gambling organizer. And you know, if the first version of this bill, well, there was some power to limit the possibility of distribution of gaming halls and casinos, we got to second reading to lobbyists of the gaming business, when in almost every home, in every house, in every city of our country you offer to open casinos and casinos. And all this responsibility is for the poor, because in the country we always have the poor in charge of the law, and those who keep these casinos will never be held accountable for anything. We demand that this bill be submitted for confirmation and removed from consideration.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-30-m0.u76	1124. The committee's dismissed. Please identify and vote. [[11:38:27]] Z-77 The decision is not taken. 1188, Royal.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-30-m0.u77	Dear colleagues, we return to article 16 regarding the responsibility of the gambling organizer. I believe that the responsibility should be solely in the state. And the duty of one is to protect one’s people, to come with support and help when people find themselves in difficult circumstances. Not when most people in a country today are outside of poverty, and the "ministers of the people" think that these people are having low-quality children. Not when you are today considering how to return a casino instead of really showing your responsibility and uniting all our efforts to support people to protect employers and trade unions today in order to protect civil servants and peasants in order to protect every family in our country today and the state’s approach to showing people. That is why we demand confirmation of this amendment and withdrawal.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-30-m0.u78	1188. The committee's dismissed. Please identify and vote. [[11:40:01]] For-79 The decision is not taken. 1259, Royal.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-30-m0.u79	Dear colleagues, article 17 of this bill is "Victors in Combating Game Addiction (Ludomania) and Public Control". Well, you're making fun of people! Well, you admit that ludomania is a terrible disease, that ludomania is always accompanied by countries where there are casinos and slot machines. And you, in this bill, prescribe conditional restrictions and public control. Look, why are you doing this? Well, why are you pushing our country into another disease today? Do we miss the Coronavirus? Do we lack the poverty, tuberculosis, and other diseases that have gripped the country? Is that how you're still bringing crazy people into the country today? We demand that this bill be submitted for confirmation and removed from consideration.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-30-m0.u80	1259 were rejected by the committee. Please identify and vote. [[11:41:28]] Z-70. The decision is not taken. 1351, Royal.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-30-m0.u81	Dear colleagues, article 18 of this bill refers to the identification, verification of the player and the visitor. Well, you all understand very well, in our country, the highest level of corruption, and you all understand very well that it's impossible to verify those people, and here half of this room will run to the casino to clean up its corruption revenues. You all understand very well that the children who will be dragged into these casinos will never be verified, and all of this is revenge to push this bill forward today. So if you want to play the casino like that, come on, play at home! Well, why throw a country into a frenzy? We demand that this bill be withdrawn, that there be no return of the gaming business to the country, and I demand confirmation.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-30-m0.u82	I'm willing to vote 1351. The committee's dismissed. Please identify and vote. [[11:42:57]] For-72 The decision is not taken. 1425, Royal.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-30-m0.u83	Dear colleagues, article 19, this article refers to the player’s requirement. And we're continuing this cynicism because you're suggesting that a player can be an exclusively physical person who is 21 years old on the date of the game and who is banned from taking bets and paying the winnings to persons under 21 years of age. Ladies and gentlemen, you understand very well that this standard will never be met and no one in our country will ever control it. We demand to ban and not allow casinos and casinos to be opened, and today we want to make efforts to ban and close where illegal casinos and slot machines are still operating. Today, the country does not need these entertainments. Today we need to fight poverty and protect our country. Please bet on confirmation.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-30-m0.u84	It's not for confirmation, it's not a count of 1,425. I'll put her to the vote. Please identify and vote. [[11:44:30.]] Z-71 The decision is not taken. 1494.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-30-m0.u85	Dear colleagues, article 20, "Victors for Visitors and Employees of Gamblers". Well, you're going to continue this circus that you're going to have some kind of requirement there, some rules that someone will then follow. Well, you and I understand very well that our country is one of the best constitutions in the world. And it's very well written about how to protect a person who has rights. What's really going on? That we have won ten decisions of the Constitutional Court, and they have not been implemented in our country for a third year. We don't have the Constitution, we don't have the laws of Ukraine, and you're writing to us about how you're going to control the game organizers. That's a lie! And that's why we're demanding that we ban and reinstate any game business in the country, and remove this bill from consideration.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-30-m0.u86	1494 was rejected by the committee. Please identify and vote. [[11:46:02]] For-66 The decision is not taken. 1515 law.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-30-m0.u87	Dear colleagues, here you continue to write, article 21 of the Rules of Gambling. My colleagues, once again, I want to remind you that we had the Constitution Day two days ago, and we all welcomed the world, with the Constitution Day. And in fact, the Constitution in the country is not being implemented. In fact, even the decisions of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine are not being implemented. In fact, when your colleague makes a statement about the low quality of children in our country, we don't hear a reaction from the President or from the government or from Parliament. Colleagues, this is a violation of the Constitution. And we're confident that no one's going to comply with this law, and we're going to have a casino country, not an independent country and a lot of it. So I demand that you ask this question for confirmation.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-30-m0.u88	I'm betting on the 1515 vote. The committee's been rejected. Please identify and vote. [[11:47:31]] Z-71 The decision is not taken. 1560, Royal.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-30-m0.u89	Dear colleagues, article 22 “General Rules for the Visit to the Gambling Foundation. ” You keep going, the rules of going to the casino, you know, the key word here is that they have to be composed in national and English. Do you think that if you make rules in English for going to a casino, they will work honestly and will not deceive and rob people without forcing the last few copies out of the house? It's all a lie. So "The Opposition Platform for Life" requires you to stop and not consider this bill, in any way not to return to our country of gaming institutions, and by no means allowing casinos and "one-handed bandits" to take the country. We're asking you to step up and shut down those illegal casinos that work somewhere else. I'm asking for confirmation.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-30-m0.u90	1560, Royal, rejected by the committee. Please identify and vote. [[11:49:02]] Z-71 The decision is not taken. 1567, Royal.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-30-m0.u91	Colleagues, the circus here you continue in the bill -- the requirements for gaming equipment. If, at least previously, there were regulatory requirements for gaming equipment, in this bill you give the authorized authority the right to establish an "exclusive list of gaming equipment" and beyond the text. I mean, we're going to have a big authority that's already so corrupt that we can't, I don't think we can go around or go around. There's probably half-breeds running around here to work in that authorized body, which will also have the equipment requirements to be posted, and the requirements to be placed in the casinos, and to give you the right to open them, and the licenses. Well, why are you doing this? Why are you creating corruption centers today, and so much corruption in the country? Why are you creating our Ukraine as a garbage disposal today for all of Europe? We're asking for confirmation and not to accept this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-30-m0.u92	I'll put it to a vote of 1567. Please identify and vote. [[11:50:29]] Z-71 The decision is not taken. 1634.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-30-m0.u93	And we also have Mr. Koltunović asking for his amendments to this bill. So please give us that right.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-30-m0.u94	No, dear colleagues, we agreed on the blocks, according to the authors. Now one author, then, when Mr. Koltunović is in office, he will make a statement. A lot of law enforcement, I understand. But important. But it's so complex that you see the author's position on everything. 1634.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-30-m0.u95	Dear colleagues, article 24 of this bill is "Special requirements for organizing and conducting online gambling." Special requirements for organisation and online gambling are also another manipulation. Because you and I are very well aware that no one will be able to control it. And all of these requirements are complete fiction. So not only are you going to distribute halls, deploy machines all over the country, you're going to let people play casinos all over the Internet. Then why don't we just raise some of the pension? Why don't we cut the tariffs a little bit today? Why don't we create some jobs for people? Shouldn't we just focus on creating a casino today? We strongly insist that this bill be withdrawn from consideration, that the law on the distribution of casinos in Ukraine should not be adopted. And I demand it.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-30-m0.u96	I'll bet you 1634. Please identify and vote. [[11:52:25]] For-79 The decision is not taken. 1790.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-30-m0.u97	1771, colleagues. Article 26, "Victims for the Promotion of Gambling." What do you say, well, that's right. I propose to advertise gambling and right into the law to assign "ministers of the people" and casinos. But let's do it at the same time and advertise how the People's Servants made the best offer to our people and created a casino for them. Because probably when the Prime Minister told us about the creation of hundreds of thousands of jobs there, he probably meant that when he created the casino, it would be jobs. We therefore strongly oppose the return of casinos and casinos to our country today. We definitely don't want people to take the last cents. We demand that this bill be removed and that any advertising, games, casinos, anything in the country, gambling, I mean. Please bet on confirmation.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-30-m0.u98	1790. The committee doesn't count. I'll put her to the vote. Colleagues, let's get this confirmed, and let's put the revisions to the vote at the end. Are you insisting? Yeah, yeah. You insist. Yes, but then we can vote them, we will certainly put them up, Natalia Yuriovna. 1771, right? Okay. 1790 law.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-30-m0.u99	Dear colleagues, I demand that every claim be submitted for confirmation because it is a regular rule. Then why put them all together for confirmation? There is a rule, and obey the Rules. Well, if you want to start a violation of the Constitution from not putting a claim on the author's request at all, then there's nothing to do, because my right to amend it. And now it's about organization and casino gambling. We demand that we prohibit and do not reinstate gambling facilities and casinos and Ukraine. "The Opposition Platform for Life" requires increased control and banning, and closing down all illegal casinos and slot machines. We're asking you not to sell our country to the mobsters who are hiding this casino today. Please bet on confirmation.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-30-m0.u100	We will surely place it on confirmation, but at the end of 1771. 1790 now, Natalia Yuriovna? I'm betting on a vote of 1790, not counted by the committee. Please identify and vote. [[11:55:49]] For-79 The decision is not taken. 1874.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-30-m0.u101	Honorary Colleagues, 1874, are the special duties of gambling organizers at casino gambling facilities. Colleagues, well, what special duties are these? Well, you can't put gambling back in the country today. We're with you today. We have almost two weeks left before the end of this session. And today, you and I would have had the opportunity to consider bills that would support people: budget changes, protection of our doctors, pension review, consideration of living minimums, protection of families with children. Although you hate children in Ukraine, today we would have a chance to really support these families. To pay people back, to support the quarantine period and the coronavirus. Instead, do you suggest that the casino be returned so that the children can run to those casinos in search of a happy fate? That is why we demand that this amendment be approved.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-30-m0.u102	1874 was rejected by the committee. Please identify and vote. [[11:57:20]] Z-77 The decision is not taken. 1889, Royal.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-30-m0.u103	Dear colleagues, article 28 “Victory to the casino casino. ” The casino’s organizer starts his business with the organization and gambling of the casino casino after receiving the license to organize and play gambling at the casino. Colleagues, well, you and I understand very well that we're not going to see money in the state budget, and we're going to see children, and families that are poor, who are going to look for their last hope, or maybe they're going to win, and we're going to see them in these casinos. Well, why are you doing this? Today we have the opportunity to support industry and create high-tech jobs, attract investment, create conditions for our internal investor and our internal manufacturer to hear the support of the state, not the casino to create. I'm asking for confirmation. Yura, come on, sit down, please. Oh, I'm sorry, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-30-m0.u104	I'll bet you a vote. Was that an amendment, too, Natalia Yuriovna? I'm betting on the vote in 1889. The committee's dismissed. Please identify and vote. [[11:58:57]] For-74. The decision is not taken. 1924, Royal.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-30-m0.u105	Dear colleagues, article 30, "According to the cost, payment of the prizes, and reimbursement of the money that players have made for gambling in casino casinos." Well, who has the money left in the country today? Either someone in power or someone who's already stolen that money. Because the real economy is not working today. Sadly, today our entrepreneurs and industry are making ends meet. Today, the question of how to pay off wages is how to sell their products, how to start their industrial production. Today, it's not a question of how to get into a casino and leave money there. Why are you creating conditions today to deploy your regular RRO equipment so that today you can continue to abuse small and medium-sized businesses and force them to run to casinos? I demand that this bill be submitted for confirmation and removed from consideration.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-30-m0.u106	I'm betting on a vote of 1924. The committee's been rejected. Please identify and vote. [[12:00:31]] For-69 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. There's a break until 12:30. Please don't be late.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-30-m0.u107	Dear colleagues, back to the matter of order of the day. 1940, Natalia Yuriovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-30-m0.u108	Dear colleagues, few people are here, but I would like to appeal once again to your conscience and to the fact that today you can't go back to the game business. And I would also like to quote you from the conclusions of the General Legal Authority and the comments made on the front page by the General Legal Authority. First. "The various provisions of the bill do not comply with the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine, nor do they take into account the legal position of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine as set out in the relevant decisions.".. Colleagues, this is very symbolic because we celebrated the Day of the Constitution, and after a period of time, we began to violate the Constitution. We're talking to you, let's put these bills aside and not let the casino go back to Ukraine. Please bet on confirmation.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-30-m0.u109	1940. I'll bet you a vote. Please identify and vote. [[12:31:24]] For-23 The decision is not taken. 1971, Royal.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-30-m0.u110	Dear colleagues, this is the 1967 Amendment to Article 32 "The Personality of Conducting Poker Tournaments." Colleagues, you and I are now discussing a matter that, in the conclusions of the General Legal Office, violates the Constitution of Ukraine. And that's why the Opposition Platform for Life consistently advocates that the Ukrainian Parliament has no right to make decisions that question our country's main document. We call on you to implement the decision of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine to return the benefits and compensation to the people who have protected our Fatherland in various years. We're talking to you, we don't need to make decisions today about returning casinos and casinos to Ukraine. Let's make state decisions. Please bet on confirmation.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-30-m0.u111	I'm betting on the 1971 vote, the committee's dismissed. Please identify and vote. [[12:32:53]] For-36 The decision is not taken. 1996, Royal.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-30-m0.u112	1993, article 34, Bookmaker Regulation. My colleagues, once again, we ask you that today, by covering up European integration and international standards for developing Ukrainian bookmaking, you are trying to return casinos and casinos to Ukraine. Today, there are a lot of challenges in our country, and above all, the fight against poverty, this fight against corruption, and most importantly, what we have today is an armed conflict in eastern Ukraine. And we need to unite our efforts today and spend time protecting Ukrainian citizens in order to support these difficult times of our people rather than create conditions for temptation when people are forced to go and spend at least some hope of making money. I demand confirmation and withdrawal from this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-30-m0.u113	It's 1993. We will surely place it on confirmation. 2010 readjustment.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-30-m0.u114	No, 1996.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-30-m0.u115	Yes, there is.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-30-m0.u116	"Obligations of Bookmaker Organizer." Dearly beloved, you prescribe the responsibility of an organizer, you conduct exclusively those kinds of couples that meet the requirements of this law and so forth, and so forth. You understand very well that no one will ever do anything when Parliament itself sets an example of how to violate the Constitution, how to fail to enforce laws, how to offend Ukrainian citizens, calling them children people of the wrong sort, and not take any responsibility for it. Fellows, why are you today creating additional conditions for corruption, additional conditions for human abuse? Do you think that people have not survived enough in recent years? We demand that this bill be withdrawn. We demand that no casinos and bookmakers with slot machines return to Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-30-m0.u117	I'll put it to a vote in 1996. Please identify and vote. [[12:35:36]] For-48
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-30-m0.u118	The decision is not taken. Next issue, 2010. Natalia Yuriovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-30-m0.u119	Dear colleagues, article 36 on restrictions that can be applied by bookmakers. "The opposition platform for life" requires one restriction. The limit is that when there is no casino in our country, there will be no casinos, there will be no human abuse. Today, the main constraint that we must accept in this room is the limitation on what the government has been doing and on what is not being done in our country today. We're asking you to look at people's protection issues, about the size of pensions, about the indexation of real pensions to social benefits. We demand to support small and medium-sized businesses today, and above all, we demand that we do everything we can to implement the Minsk Accords in order to stop people from dying. Well, that doesn't apply today to your desire to create a casino in our country. I demand confirmation and withdrawal of this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-30-m0.u120	I'm betting on the 2010 vote of the Royal People's MP. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[12:37:07]] For-54 The decision is not taken. Next item 2024. Natalia Yuriovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-30-m0.u121	Dear colleagues, article 37 of this bill is "Paying for the results of the couple, the return of the bet." Colleagues, well, what bets are paid today? Today we have to settle the main payout, that's the size of the living minimum. Today, the state doubles its citizens when it does not count or set a real subsistence minimum when it does not index pensions and social benefits to people when it does not create any conditions for people to have jobs. So the main constraint that should be today is to put this government away. And we urge you to unite your efforts and send the government of Smigal to retirement and to create conditions in the country today for people to live and not to create casinos and casinos. Please bet on confirmation.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-30-m0.u122	I'm betting on the vote of 2024 National Deputy Royal. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[12:38:32]] For-54 The decision is not taken. Next issue is 2054, Royal People's Deputy. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-30-m0.u123	Dear colleagues, article 38, “Forms for Bookmaking. ” Ladies and gentlemen, once again, I would like to ask you that the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Chief Legal Authority has suggested to you a point where they clearly tell you that the individual provisions of the bill do not comply with the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine, nor do they take into account the legal position of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine as set out in the relevant decisions. Why are you today after Constitution Day raping our Constitution and making an unconstitutional decision? We demand that we postpone this bill as unconstitutional and not consider it in a second reading and not accept it in any way. Today's job is to protect people, not protect casinos. Please bet on support.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-30-m0.u124	I'm betting on the 2054 vote. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[12:39:54]] For-59 The decision is not taken. Next line is 2060.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-30-m0.u125	Dear colleagues, article 39, Bookmaker activities at bookmakers. Well, why don't we talk with you about employment in our country, repayment of people's wages, tariff review and debt restructuring, which has reached 60 billion dollars in housing and utilities? Why don't we talk to you about how a person can live on a pension of 600 dollars? Why don't we go back to the reality of life with you and not make decisions today to create the best conditions for bookmaking at the bookmakers' points in Ukraine? Do you see the future of Ukraine as a playground, like a garbage dump, where all the equipment from around the world will come? Why are you doing this? Please bet on confirmation.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-30-m0.u126	I'll bet you 2060 votes for the Royal People's Deputy. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[12:41:13]] For-58 The decision is not taken. Next line is 2178. Please, Natalia Yuriovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-30-m0.u127	Dear colleagues, article 40 of this bill is "The Conduct of Bookmaker Activities Through the Internet". Well, we all heard you have a digital country. We've all heard about how things are going to be in the smartphone, the state in the smartphone. Well, now at least we got your answer that we're just going to have a casino in a smartphone, and that everyone can sit in a casino all the time, do nothing and play. Well, just because people don't have money, what do you suggest they play for? Maybe the organs sell their own, maybe sell their own "inadequate," maybe something else? What are you doing? Why do we need a state like that in a smartphone like a casino? Why are you creating all the conditions of poverty in our country today? We demand that this bill be removed from consideration and that this amendment be made for confirmation.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-30-m0.u128	I'm putting Amendment 2178 to the vote. Please identify and vote. [[12:42:33]] For-58 The decision is not taken. The next amendment is 2202. Natalia Yuriovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-30-m0.u129	Dear colleagues, the 2202 amendment, article 41, "Organization and Gambling on Gambling Machines". Well, that's most interesting, because you and I are very well aware that almost 10 years ago, almost every kindergarten, at every school, we used to open casinos, set up slot machines. Then society was indignant, and Parliament decided by more than 300 votes to ban the gaming business in Ukraine. Then, despite all the lobbying in politics, there was still enough spirit to make responsible political decisions. What about today? Is it true that all of you have been bought to vote to have a casino return at such difficult times in our country that at such difficult times you create conditions for children and young people to return?
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-30-m0.u130	I bet the vote on Amendment 2202. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[12:43:57]] Z-62 The decision is not taken. Next amendment 2417, Royal.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-30-m0.u131	The next 2345 is an amendment. It also applies to article 41.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-30-m0.u132	Next 2417, 2345 counted. And we agreed on the ones that are included, we're going to end up, Natalia Yuriovna. 2417.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-30-m0.u133	Well, what, I demand confirmation to bet 2345. Well, then, 2345, we'll talk later. 2381 amendments, I also require that I speak to her separately.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-30-m0.u134	It's also counted. 2417, yes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-30-m0.u135	2417, article 44, “Special duties of gambling organizers on slot machines. ” Colleagues, if you had any conscience before and offered to put slot machines in five-star hotels, there was no limit to cynicism in this bill, they sold them all anyway. And you're allowed to put 3 star hotel slots, 4.5 with at least 25 numbers. This can be done in almost any home.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-30-m0.u136	I bet on the vote of Amendment 2417. The committee didn't support it. Please identify and vote. [[12:45:28]] For-61 The decision is not taken. Next amendment 2435.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-30-m0.u137	Dear colleagues, article 45, "General requirements for a gaming machine room." I'd like to draw your attention again. Under this bill, you propose gaming areas of slot machines to be located in any hotel in any populated area of more than 10,000 people, to place these gaming machines in hotels with at least 25 rooms. My colleagues, well, you understand very well that without certification, without today putting the anti-corruption requirements and other challenges on the table, you place slot machines all over the country. Well, if that's how you want to play, please play here in the hall. You keep your eye on the buttons all day long without understanding what you're voting for. So why are you dragging people into this crazy thing today and creating these conditions? I'm asking for confirmation.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-30-m0.u138	Amendment 2435 is put to the vote. Please identify and vote. [[12:46:50]] For-64 The decision is not taken. Next issue is 2469.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-30-m0.u139	Dear colleagues, article 46 of this bill is "Acquisition of funds, payment of prizes" and reimbursement of funds made by players for gambling in slot machines." My colleagues, well, you do realize that today people don't have the money, they don't have to spend walking around halls and slot machines, going to casinos. Today, every family thinks about how to feed their child, how to heal their parents. Today, every family thinks about how to survive. Why did you choose to make a living today? This slogan, "The End of the Age of Poverty and the Beginning of the Age of Casinos," you're doing in this room today. You can't put a country on the brink of disaster in order to have a gambling facility here. Please bet on confirmation.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-30-m0.u140	I'll bet the vote on 2469. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[12:48:14]] For-66 The decision is not taken. Next amendment 2659. Natalia Yuriovna, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-30-m0.u141	I'm asking 2490, 2534, and then I'm going back to them. 2573, these are the corrections that are included, 2584, 2597.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-30-m0.u142	We agreed that we would all be in the end.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-30-m0.u143	I'm under the stenogram. 2616, 2635, 2659.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-30-m0.u144	We're at 2659 right now. Please, Natalia Yuriovna. It's very interesting of you to think about this.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-30-m0.u145	Article 54, "Organization and Gambling in Poker." Fellows, well, we have poker here all the time in the hall, because as far as you can, people, you have kids, you have parents, most of you have gone to major districts. You might ask your voters just once, even once, if you call anyone in your district and ask them to open a casino in their neighborhood today instead of creating a factory to build a farm there to open a casino there. Ask them.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-30-m0.u146	I'll put it to a vote of 2659. The committee is not supported by an amendment. Please identify and vote. [[12:49:42]] For-64 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. 2676.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-30-m0.u147	Dear colleagues, article 55, "Restrictions that can be applied by the organizer of the poker game." Colleagues, you know, when you're looking at a bill today that clearly states that a number of bills do not conform to the constitutional principles of the rule of law and is defined by Ukraine of the rule of law in articles 1 and 8 of the Constitution of Ukraine as one of the fundamental conditions for the implementation of which is the legal definition. The principle of legal certainty presupposes, first and foremost, the quality and clarity of the legal principles, the absence of internal conflicts in legal acts and compliance with other laws. And that's true. Further, on many pages, the Chief Legal Authority clearly explains to you that an anticonstitutional decision cannot be taken. So we demand that this bill be removed from consideration and put on confirmation.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-30-m0.u148	I'll bet you 2676. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[12:51:14]] For-64 The decision is not taken. 2723.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-30-m0.u149	2700, then we'll go back to confirmation. As for 2723. This is article 58, "See licenses." You know, cynicism itself in this bill is that they create a separate government body that will create licensing conditions, determine wages, carry out certification. Well, this body is going to be running our new green country casino. Because it violates the Constitution, it violates all the laws of Ukraine. We demand that we do not take advantage of people, that we do not rob people of any of the leftovers that some people have left behind. We're asking you to withdraw this bill from the review and never return the casinos and casinos to the country. Please place this amendment on confirmation.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-30-m0.u150	We'll end up with confirmation. 2723. Turn on the microphone. No, she was talking about 2700, dear colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-30-m0.u151	Yes, dear colleagues, 2752. Article 59: Authorization of the Authorized Authority in the field of licensing. I remind you once again that the Constitution of Ukraine is not being implemented in our country. And it's happening right now in this room in violation of Ukraine's main law, which is confirmed by our Chief Legal Authority, which insists on "The Opposition Platform for Life." That you're doing anti-constitutional actions right now. And we're asking you to stop, you can't make illegal decisions about violation of the Ukrainian Constitution. You can't call a casino today, and you can't create one big gambling area in our country today. Please place this amendment on confirmation.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-30-m0.u152	I'll bet you 2752. The committee's been rejected. Please identify and vote. [[12:53:58]] For-67 The decision is not taken. 2768.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-30-m0.u153	Article 60, "Documents submitted to obtain licences." Colleagues, well, if you've at least offered to limit the number of licenses and clearly regulate the territory, the number of hotels where this might be located, today you're proposing to remove any restrictions. Well, it's probably what you want to do here in the hall to make yourself such a little playground. So I remind you that you're treating our country like you're playing a casino and you're not solving government issues. We insist that this bill, the anti-constitutional bill, be withdrawn from consideration so that we can go back to solving people's issues today. Please place this amendment on confirmation.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-30-m0.u154	What's for confirmation? It's not counted, so it can't be confirmed. I'm betting on 2768, not supported by the committee. Please identify and vote. [[12:55:30]] For-67 The decision is not taken. 2835, Royal.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-30-m0.u155	Dear colleagues, article 61, “Licensing conditions. ” Look, well, what are the license terms? Well, what are you talking about? Well, why do you want to fool society again? At first, you sold the land and told us that foreigners would not be able to buy it. And now it's clear to everyone that this is a complete fiction. Then you offered us a loan to the IMF, and the IMF signed those conditions that will account for more than one future generation. And now you're giving away another part of the independence, the spiritual independence of our country. We understand this is a plan, a global plan to put the country in external management. Because we're going to see here a trash can of these slot machines, these foreign companies that are going to make money on our citizens' poverty. We demand that this bill be removed from consideration.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-30-m0.u156	2835, rejected by the committee. Please identify and vote. [[12:56:57]] For-64 The decision is not taken. 2852, Royal.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-30-m0.u157	Dear colleagues, I very much hope that in many of my speeches you may have heard that, although some of you have heard that today you are creating an extra latrine, through which they will return to the Ukrainians' pocket, that 60 percent of the Ukrainians today are against the restoration of the gaming business in Ukraine. If that's not the case, then you've adopted the People's Law, so let's hold a referendum and ask people, and they want to have casinos open in their homes. So what's the question? You said you would hold a referendum on every important issue. We asked you to hold a referendum on the land market. Now we're asking you to hold a referendum on the gaming business. If people decide, please. But people are against it, and we think it's evil. I demand you put on.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-30-m0.u158	2852, rejected by the committee. Please identify and vote. [[12:58:26]] For-66 The decision is not taken. 2976.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-30-m0.u159	Colleagues, article 63, "The Issue of Licenses and the Order of Payment". And you know, today is going to be a big test for our Supreme Council, who has entered into a corruption conspiracy and has already agreed on how much he will have from these licensing conditions, and those who very well understand that the way to create a gambling zone from our country is not the way of success of Ukraine. Today this Parliament will be tested for adequacy, for the adequacy of those who think about the future and who realize that at our poverty level today, we cannot launch international speculators who will elect our people into casinos and casinos. And those who understand the need to protect the country by making wise decisions to create professional teams to implement the Minsk Accords today. So we approach you, let us unite and send this bill to the trash and make responsible decisions. Please bet on confirmation.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-30-m0.u160	2876. Please identify and vote. [[12:59:56]] For-65 The decision is not taken. 2889.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-30-m0.u161	Dear colleagues, “Requirement in the Issue of Licenses, ” article 64. We have a chance with you today to deny everyone who lobbies this bill, the right to create a great gambling area in the country, to turn Ukrainians into beggars today, to drive people into social debt. Today, you and I have a chance to join forces and say no to casinos and slot machines in Ukraine. Yes, 10 years ago, he was able to do the Ukrainian Parliament. Let us, too, today put aside our political ambitions, unite in order to protect our country, to protect our country from disease, from mania, from debt, and to protect our beloved Ukraine, not to create conditions for foreign speculators. Please reject these bills.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-30-m0.u162	I'm betting on the vote of amendment 2889 of the Royal People's Deputies, and the committee is proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[13:01:24]] For-63 The decision is not taken. The next amendment is 2903. Natalia Yuriovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-30-m0.u163	Dear colleagues, article 65, "Cancellation." You and I understand very well that all of the safety nets in this bill have been written by those people who understand very well that they need to make Ukraine a great gaming area. You understand very well how we lose our independence every day, we give up the land first, then we take large loans internationally that we can't account for. You now grant foreign companies the right to come here from casinos and slot machines, turning Ukraine into a beggar country. So, colleagues, let's now make a responsible decision and think about Ukraine's future as an independent country, not a country of casinos and slot machines.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-30-m0.u164	I bet on the vote of amendment 2,903 of the Royal People's Deputies. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[13:02:47]] Z-70. The decision is not taken. The next amendment is 2949. Please, Natalia Yuriovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-30-m0.u165	Honorary colleagues, article 66, “Pay and period of licences for the organization and conduct of gambling in casino casinos and gaming licenses”. Colleagues, you realize that our independence, our children, our future has no price today, you can't view them as the price of a game table, you can't judge them as the price of a slot machine, you can't make that decision today. You don't have children, you don't have parents, can you just call them and ask them how they feel about that? Do we not have today as a parliament to demand that law enforcement agencies put order in place and lead the illegal gambling business out of Ukraine forever? And you and I can get back on our feet without the casino and without the slot machines.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-30-m0.u166	I'll bet you a vote of 2949 people's deputies. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[13:04:14]] For-65 The decision is not taken. Next amendment 3027. Natalia Yuriovna, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-30-m0.u167	Article 67: "Payment and duration of the license to organize and conduct casino gambling through the Internet." Fellows, I'm addressing you again, there's no price we can pay for Ukraine's future. We have no right after the anti-constitutional decisions have been made on the sale of Ukrainian land, on the withdrawal of banking independence, on the financial independence of the country, after you've made a very unfavourable loan to the International Monetary Fund for the country, and after that, as a cherry for cake, you've offered to return the casino and the slot machines. Colleagues, please stop, do not treat your people that way and your country that way. Please don't make all the money, you have to make another decision today.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-30-m0.u168	I bet on the vote of Amendment 3027. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[13:05:41]] For-61 The decision is not taken. Next amendment 3050, Royal.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-30-m0.u169	Dear colleagues, article 68, "Payment and duration of the licence to organize and conduct bookmakers' activities, Bookmaker's fees." My colleagues, I'm talking to you again, well, there's no pay for Ukraine's future, well, we can't go down with you to that level to fill Ukraine's budget, to hope for that, because all of you know very well that the budget from this isn't going to be filled, that it's going to be illegal to work, that it's all going to be corruption revenue. But why discuss Ukraine’s payment for the gaming business today? Do we understand that you may be pressured by international speculators, perhaps they demand or are already in cahoots with them? But, well, after all, you're national deputies, you've been chosen by people! Let's put this bill aside.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-30-m0.u170	I'm betting on the vote for the amendment of 3050 of the Royal People's Deputies. Please identify and vote. [[13:07:06]] For-66 The decision is not taken. Next amendment 3088, Natalia Royal.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-30-m0.u171	Honorary colleagues, article 69, "Pay and licenses for the organization and conduct of gambling in the slots and the license for the slot machines." Colleagues, do you really think that some money can compensate for the health and future of our children, our people? Do you really think our people have so much money left to take away? Well, why are you doing this? Well, today you and I have a chance to make the decisions that people need. You and I have money in the country that we can focus on looking at the minimum of living and pensions today, and we have the opportunity with you today to create conditions for our industry to develop today to protect our peasants, to protect those who protected our country in different years. Why are you putting the country into gambling and casinos today? Please put it in.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-30-m0.u172	I'm betting on a vote of 3,088. The committee does not support this. Please identify and vote. [[13:08:32]] For-61 The decision is not taken. Next amendment 3143, Royal.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-30-m0.u173	Dear colleagues, article 70, "Pay and duration of licences for the organization and conduct of gambling." Colleagues, well, it's stealing, it's stealing, when the last money you have in people you want to take away by infecting people with mania, by creating conditions for casino development today and creating jobs there. And people from the dead went there to support their families in some way. Colleagues, well, you seem like smart people. We demand that this bill be postponed today, not decided to return the casino to Ukraine. We're addressing you, "The Opposition Platform for Life" has prepared an anti-crisis plan, and we can give you a road map today to raise the economy and protect people. Well, you don't have to build casinos and casinos. Wise decisions are needed.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-30-m0.u174	3143, not supported by the committee. Please identify and vote. [[13:09:59]] For-67 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. Natalia Yuriovna, do you insist on others? Oh, no? Oh, you insist. 3183.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-30-m0.u175	There's still a little bit left, but we still have, you know, hope dies last. And yet we hope that we will be able to reach the hearts of today's parents who are in this room, people who don't think that we have children of low quality in Ukraine, that we can put them into slavery at the casinos, people who understand that today's future of Ukraine is not a gaming zone, that the future of Ukraine is a restoration of our industrial power. It's the restoration of our planes, the restoration of our space, the restoration of our shipbuilders, it's the restoration of our farmers, it's the transformation, it's the creation of extra value, it's the future of our country, it's one of the best and most powerful in the world. And this is certainly not the way to create casinos and casinos. And we address you, Your Honor. Please, there are a few minutes before this decision is made, think!
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-30-m0.u176	I'll put it to a vote of 3183. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[13:11:33]] For-65 The decision is not taken. 3198. It's a royal one.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-30-m0.u177	Dear colleagues, article 73, Financial responsibility for violating the requirements of this law, and we propose to introduce political responsibility for violating the terms of today's law. What will happen to those who vote today, who will receive their own, perhaps their rewards? Those who say our country is a country of casinos. What will then be your responsibility? And we're talking to people. Please study the list of those who will vote for our country today, as a country of casinos and slot machines, for a country where children do not have schools, or sports courses create, or index, or help families, and for a country where children of low quality are considered to be a country of casinos and slot machines. Please bet on confirmation.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-30-m0.u178	I'll put it to a vote of 3198. The committee's dismissed. Please identify and vote. [[13:13:00]] Z-70. The decision is not taken. 3241. It's a royal one.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-30-m0.u179	Dear colleagues, article 74, "Responsibility for violating the legislative requirements of advertising gambling and gambling organisers." My colleagues, can you hang a Green Party commercial for gambling here in the hall? Can anyone clearly tell us what he's going to do by name for every casino? What kind of ad are you talking about today, which casinos you're talking about when kids today don't know how they're going to go to school on September 1, when half the families are paralyzed and can't go to doctors? And you're shutting down most of the medical facilities today while you're continuing this medical reform of Suprun, when you're dissipating people further in language. And do you think you're going to unite the country today with casinos and casinos? He's calling for this bill to be removed.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-30-m0.u180	I'm betting on a vote of 3241. Please identify and vote. [[13:14:26]] For-69 The decision is not taken. 3259.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-30-m0.u181	3248.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-30-m0.u182	48, yes, there is.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-30-m0.u183	Yes, article 75 “Guarantees to Gamblers. ” Colleagues, it's a good thing that you're offering guarantees to gamblers, but you don't guarantee people to receive the education that we have proposed and defined in the Constitution. You do not guarantee people access to health care, but you offer guarantees to gambling operators. Colleagues, maybe, that's enough? Well, they surprised the little ones, they made up a little bit of people, well, very bad people are living today. And we need to make a decision to guarantee a decent pension and a decent salary, a guarantee of access to work, a guarantee of children's education, not a guarantee for those who benefit from it.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-30-m0.u184	I'll bet you a vote of 3248. Please identify and vote. [[13:15:54]] For-67 The decision is not taken. 3256.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-30-m0.u185	Dear colleagues, well, we've already reached Chapter XI with you and we'll go to the Transitional Regulations. This bill is almost to be considered. And it is very sad that there were no people in this room who would stop the discussion today. But you and I have a chance, there's a chance not to vote for this bill, there's a chance to prove to people that the issue of protecting people for you is the most important thing, that the issue that needs to be considered today, protecting our country, is still the first priority that you haven't been elected to Parliament to return the casino, sell the Ukrainian land and hand over the financial independence of Ukraine to the hostages of the international speculators to get credit and go away. Well, not for that, I hope you've been chosen. That's why we're asking you not to vote for this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-30-m0.u186	I'll put it to a vote of 3256. Please identify and vote. [[13:17:17]] For-64 The decision is not taken. 3496.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-30-m0.u187	Dear colleagues, these are the last three amendments to this bill. Dear colleagues, please think now about the future of our Ukraine. For the future of our country as an independent state. For the future of our Ukraine, where children want to be born. Children who would feel secure in the future. Children who would know that the State would always protect them, that the State would carry out its duties in relation to them, that the State would never offend them and say that they were not of that quality. Let us unite our efforts not only to speak but also to prove to our whole country that there are adequate people in this Parliament who can make responsible decisions, there are adequate people who will not allow their country to be sold out.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-30-m0.u188	I'm betting on a vote of 3496. Please identify and vote. [[13:18:46]] For-67 The decision is not taken. 3498, last edition of Natalia Jurijovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-30-m0.u189	Dear colleagues, this is the last draft of this bill, and this is the last minute that our country remains free from casinos, casinos, speculatives and mobs behind it. Please refer to your family and loved ones. Remember those who chose you, remember that we have a common goal with you to protect our country. Well, you can't when there's a war in the country, when people are in a natural flood disaster, when there's a coronavirus, when our country is in a difficult economic situation today, when it's time to give up people, give up their independence, give up our country's future. We don't vote in favour of this bill in any way, please. Today, we want our country to rise from its knees.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-30-m0.u190	Thank you. Do you insist on voting for this amendment? Don't insist. Let's move on. Thank you. Magera Sergey Vasilovich. Is he insisting on the papers? What kind of papers do you insist on?
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-30-m0.u191	Please pass the word to Victoria Greeb.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-30-m0.u192	What adjustments will you insist on?
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-30-m0.u193	[[Unheard]]
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-30-m0.u194	It's a deal. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-30-m0.u195	Dear colleagues, we have heard a great deal from Natalia Juryovna Kraljevska today. Well, you know, attention, I take it, they didn't pay much attention. Because it wasn't all of them. I'd like to go to you right now first of all so that you and I can think about where we're going to get the 4 billion that we're offering today at the expense of the gaming business to contribute to our budget? Now, imagine, this 4 billion is going to have to multiply by 10 more, and that's 40 billion dollars that will go out of our people's pockets with you. Where will they take them? Please tell me. I think that's exactly the kind of money that's going to come out of the house today just to pay off the last one. And, colleagues, I understand this is not interesting, but think about it. It's a great sin. And the tears of mothers, children, wives will all be on your conscience -- the conscience of those who vote for this bill today. Yes, it can no longer be removed from the agenda. But today, each one of you will depend on how our country lives now. Would it be up to you to have such performances as, do you remember, Mrs. Olga Belkova? When a person with tears in his eyes spoke of having such a serious problem in his family. And if she has failed to cope with this problem, do you think others will be able to deal with it? Yeah, some people here say, by one sin, you know, less than one more. But I want to tell you that this is the kind of sin that you can take on yourself today, it can put the last point in how we all live with you, how our country will develop. And when we're talking about that it's just legalization of what's in the shadows today, I don't agree with that. Because today, if we understand that this is illegal and yet it does exist, it will exist tens of times more in the future. So let's just stop today, hear each other and still not vote for this bill. Thank you all very much. And again. I understand that we all have things to do, and now we're talking about anything to not listen to the voice of the heart, the voice of the mind. Let's think about it. And I also propose to the chairman of the committee now to make the final decision and to invite everyone in this room to vote against this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-30-m0.u196	Thank you, Victoria Alexandrovna. The next speaker is Sobolev Sergey Vladislavovich. Are you going to insist on all of this? Amendment number 3. Sobolen.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-30-m0.u197	Dear colleagues, first of all, I'd like to proceed with the procedure. Well, you see, complete absurdity. No one's listening. No one understands what they're doing. Moreover, it is very difficult for the authors to identify themselves because they are correcting different chapters. We broke the rules. Using article 48, paragraphs 3, 4 and 5, I would like to bring us back to the legitimate regularity of the matter. We cannot continue to consider such an important issue because, in fact, we are jumping over dozens of lines that are unrelated, and those that are connected, if any of the amendments pass, dozens of other unknowns fly. So I'd like to start with that. I'd like to, since we didn't vote, it was your vote. For example, I am one of those who does not agree with this procedure of consideration and who continues to follow the rules. And my first amendment is about the name. I don't think the state lottery is a casino. In this.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-30-m0.u198	Sergey Vladislavovich, this proposal was made by no man in the room. Dear colleagues, next time we put her to the vote. Amendment 3, do you insist on voting? I'm betting on vote number three, please identify and vote. The committee is not supported. [[13:26:19]] For-83 The decision is not taken. Amendment 13, Sobolev.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-30-m0.u199	I point out once again that unfortunately, or fortunately, this is a requirement of the Rules. And Parliament may step down using the ad hoc procedure, but such a procedure has not been proposed. So I ask you to go back to the legal regulation and vote for the amendment. Then there will be at least a logic to be considered. My second amendment to number 13 concerns almost the same regulation. I propose to set clear limits for state lotteries, where all income goes directly to the state budget. Everything else, the bookie business, the casino, the casinos, the casinos, it's all going on a completely different pattern, the shadow scheme that's worked around the world, no one can stop them. And if anything at least gets from this, in my opinion, criminal activity of the state budget, I have very much doubt about it. So first, we go back to the Rules, and then we go back to the procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-30-m0.u200	I'm betting on the vote number 13 Soboljeva, please identify and vote. [[13:27:49]] For-86 Amendment number 24, Sobolev.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-30-m0.u201	Dear Head, I understand that you have the key lobbyists behind you. Yes, point out that everyone understands who is pushing the country into this abyss of crime, corruption, the shadow market, murders, suicides. Bring it in and see, you don't even listen to me. But I'm going to talk to you for the third time. There are 48 articles of the Rules, paragraph 3, paragraph 4, and paragraph 5, which clearly sets out the procedure for dealing with the matter. Please change, put to the vote, use the ad hoc procedure. And in fact, this right over here, this right over here actually defines the terms. And I'm proposing to separate state lotteries, 100 percent of the revenue that goes to the state that is in every country of the world. It's a transparent market, and it's a completely transparent procedure for counting and recalculating funds into the state's budget. And the shadows.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-30-m0.u202	I'm betting on a vote of 24 Soboljeva. It's rejected by the committee. Please identify and vote. [[13:29:30.]] For-83 Sergei Vladislavovich, essentially the question. Colleagues from the committee came forward, offered, and it was noted that the right authors had agreed with the proposal. Because on the block, the right-wing author can better reflect his view of one or the other suggestions. Dear colleagues! Dear colleagues! I'm looking, I'm not really interested in what's on the block, what's on the order. So this proposal came to me at the beginning of our session when we discussed the matter, and no one opposed it. However, if there is such a position, and you insist on voting for a change in the procedure for dealing with the matter, namely, a block away from the rights of the Ukrainian national deputies, fine. We are now, and we are allowed to do so by the Rules, right, to put this question to a vote. 150 votes, that's a procedural decision. Right? That's right. I'll set it up now. No, it's a procedural decision, it's a procedural decision, it's possible. Alexander Sergiyovich, you know the Rules. Okay? Is everyone okay? Is there no objection? I'm betting on the vote on how we're looking at the regulations that we're going not in the order of amendments, but in the blocks, according to the right-wing authors, as Natalia Juryovn did now. See, this is a procedural decision, article 119. Mikhail Mikolaiovich, we've talked to you about this in person. Let's not be, you know it's not worse than me. I didn't hear. Socecon for Papiev, has he gone to the Majority? Ready to vote? I am now voting on the proposal that the proceedings will be considered by the authors, not in turn, as proposed by the committee representatives, and no one has objected. Maybe Oleg, you said, Oleg Anatolyovich, but with all due respect, it wasn't heard. Vlasenko's procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-30-m0.u203	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. In this case, you put to the vote the procedure of ad hoc, which is different from the procedure provided for in the Rules, and then it needs 226 votes in favour, not 150. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-30-m0.u204	No, it's not. Sergei Volodymyrovich, no, because the 119th article, where the second reading of the bill, is 150. I'll bet on the vote on the above-mentioned proposal. Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[13:33:30.]] For 228 The decision has been made in any case. Right? No objection, Sergey Volodymyrovich? None. Thank you. Decision taken. We're continuing our work. It's number 32. No, it's not. Edit the number. No, there are no procedures. There is no motive for the second reading, but you know the Rules well, John Ivanovich. Sergey Vladislavovich Sobolev, 32.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-30-m0.u205	Thank you. Unfortunately, my procedural proposal was not supported, and now we're going to leave, breaking down the actual vote, but we're going to do this. You set that tone of the game. Okay. What's going on with my 32 revisions. It is directly related to a key definition, and what is casino gambling? If we don't define it according to what I've suggested, in fact, we're going to have these so-called casinos at three-star hotels, these so-called casinos in the night-to-night incomprehensible clubs where accounting is not possible at all. They will continue to pay the children of officials who take bribes. Because you understand who loses most of the casinos, you don't want to settle it through cards. Bank cards -- and no questions will be asked about shadow money laundering. I'll see which bank cards will be officially at the casino.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-30-m0.u206	I'm betting on a vote of 32 Soboljeva. She was not supported by the committee. Please identify and vote. [[13:35:22]] For 111 The decision is not taken. Amendment number 40, Sobolev.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-30-m0.u207	I worked very well with someone who is a reporter for this law today. A number of rights are small, so the key changes have not been considered. One of them is the regulation of bookmaking. I don't quite understand how this can be brought under this law. There has to be a separate regulation, because this is a particular type of activity where the shadow sector is the most active, and what they're trying to hide by general standards, and just taking a stand-alone risk -- bookmaking, in total, is going to be a budget loss, it's going to be an increase in the corruption component, and I'm actually surprised by our anti-corruption committee. Do you not see that every norm in this law, especially that prepared for the second reading, is a complete threat and a risk of corruption in the country, its prosperity? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-30-m0.u208	I'll bet you 40 votes. The committee proposes to reject it. Please identify and vote. [[13:36:48]] For-103 The decision is not taken. Next line is 47th. Sergei Vladislavovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-30-m0.u209	Unfortunately, we jumped again, and again in my direction I have to report what I agree with completely with other colleagues. If their revisions had been made, I would have removed my amendment. What are we talking about? Asked to introduce to a single notion of "key" firm style, name, logo, and this to involve all kinds of activity, including a state lottery, which I confirm is in the whole world, this is a substantial revenue of the state and the state budget, and all other activities where "dirty" is washed away money. So I'm asking you to divide this, and this is exactly what my revision is about: state lottery is one regulation situation, all other species is another situation, and that's why it has to be done, obviously. Unfortunately, I don't think many of my colleagues can even relate to how you can jump from a bookie to that activity. But I'm afraid so.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-30-m0.u210	Please bet on the vote 47 revisions. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[13:38:16]] Z-71 The decision is not taken. Next line is 53.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-30-m0.u211	53 readjustment brings us back to bookmaking. In fact, in this direction, I propose to clear up a point where there is no regulation at all and what is actually a bookie. What is it? How will you keep an account there? How will you control it? How are you going to test what's going on there? I understand that everyone or someone else is playing there, and they're winning some, in the end, we realize that this is the Russian slogan of that company that's being represented in Ukraine right now, and that goes through all the channels of television as a key commercial, it's scary, what gets us involved in other corruption schemes. I understand that in this room the lobbyists of these corrupt schemes, they want to conduct them. But I think common sense should win. And that's why I'm asking you to support my amendment and to throw this item out clearly, because it doesn't define the order of such activity and such.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-30-m0.u212	There is a vote of 53 members of the People's Parliament, Soboljeva. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[13:39:44]] For-83 The decision is not taken. Next line is 72. Sergei Vladislavovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-30-m0.u213	This also applies to the same chapter, but I would like to use other arguments. Look, right now in the country there's not just underground casinos, underground legal bookmakers offices, other types of people being robbed, you don't know that today, tens of thousands of pensioners have gone under interesting Russian lotteries, where you get "happy letters," that's what virtually all pensioners know about, on a nice paper. They tell you what you're going to get if you buy this book, which is worth 10 dollars, and you pay 200 for it. Then you win millions. Everyone knows the legality of this existence. I'm going to Smilinski, where there's an official network of pensioners involved in this terrible disease. We don't regulate that. We're trying to regulate the shadow market by shadow methods. That's why I'm here to support my work.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-30-m0.u214	It's the vote of 72 people's deputies, Soboljeva. The committee proposes to reject it. Please identify and vote. [[13:41:12]] For-75 The decision is not taken. Next issue is 82 national MP Sobolev Sergija Vladislavovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-30-m0.u215	This amendment is about the quintension of what you think is a winner. I would like to emphasize once again, if this is clear and clear in national lotterys, no one can go left, everything goes to social programs, directly paid into the budget. And all that's proposed is a money-laundering scheme that's offered through virtual casinos, electronic casinos, and all the other schemes of fraud actually have nothing to do with mathematics or higher mathematics, because what's proposed is some kind of ephemeral numbers and formulas that even logic doesn't have. The logic in one is how to cheat and how not to pay taxes. That makes sense. That's why I'm asking. In fact, I'm determining very clearly with the copyright team how to avoid shadow schemes. Unfortunately, the committee did not support this. I'm asking you to back me up.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-30-m0.u216	I'm betting on a vote of 82 amendments to the People's Deputy Soboljevo Sergio Vladislavovich. The committee proposes to reject it. Please identify and vote. [[13:42:40]] Z-91 For 82, no decision is taken. Oh, 91, I'm sorry, it's not a decision. Next amendment to the 90th People's Deputies, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-30-m0.u217	This is a revision that applies directly to key terminology. So what lottery tickets are allowed? My position. I looked at the position of the tens of national MPs who filed the papers for this chapter -- the state lottery. That's exactly what I'd like to call it. Let us mention the slogans with which the political powers went to the elections. But if in a terrible dream the electorate could imagine that the key question right now is the question of the lottery, it's the question of money laundering through so-called casinos and everything else, I think for the electorate it would be the discovery that turns out to be the key programming principle of the President, his party and those who support it in this session room. I'm not talking about the medical aspects, the mental and psychological aspects, the diseases that are. We'll talk about it later. I have a great request to support my regulation.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-30-m0.u218	90 revisions, rejected by the committee. Please identify and vote. [[13:44:11]] For-76 The decision is not taken. 97 redundancies.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-30-m0.u219	My offer here is simple enough. I propose to exclude this paragraph, which regulates the issue of payment. Because, as this is settled in this law -- and then I propose how this will be resolved in the following articles -- this is actually a possibility of legally legal tax avoidance. This is an opportunity to circumvent our international commitments to fight corruption. I wonder why the anti-corruption committee is silent, why the head of the anti-corruption committee is silent, who clearly sees these risks. You look at the warnings that are made by science and expertise, you see what warnings about this made by professionals in this market that are regulated in other countries, but in a completely different way. My suggestion is to rule it out and keep going back to this chapter that's going to go, and there the amendments of colleagues are also very good. But unfortunately, no one's listening to anything right now, there's an instruction and that's it.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-30-m0.u220	I'll bet you 97 votes. The committee's dismissed. Please identify and vote. [[13:45:39]] For-75 The decision is not taken. 104.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-30-m0.u221	It's a major amendment, it's true, maybe tens of thousands of our citizens, and maybe hundreds of thousands of our citizens who've planted on this terrible disease, or those who think losing a million a night is nothing. What are we talking about? The authors suggested so - called restraints and self - control. So you lose a million dollars a night, you lose five million dollars a night. If they're not yours, if they're corrupt, if it's a bribe that's brought to another state institution, then what's the problem? My offer is completely different. If you already want to make a limit, it can't be a limit. It must be a completely legislative procedure that doesn't allow you to let the last apartment down, then the children will be expelled, because it doesn't work if you lose, God forbid, the casino, the underprivileged father or mother.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-30-m0.u222	104. The committee's dismissed. Please identify and vote. [[13:47:10]] For-84 The decision is not taken. 107th Amendment, Sobolev.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-30-m0.u223	This amendment applies to the same regulation, which is the payment of the financial transaction. I want to look at the logic of something. Well, look, it's done, it's good, with restrictions, but unfortunately, it's still a wild market for land sales. Well, it's clear that whoever gets it, and now everyone realizes that for pie man won't get more than a thousand conditional units, and then there's an offer -- go and lose that money at the casino. My proposal is absolutely clear, we have to settle this market so clearly, and my proposal and this one, and the next one is that we don't in any way give a splinter to those who are currently losing illegally earned money to corruption, and then to those who, through schemes, are going to draw and not pay taxes. My offer is to support this. There's a proposal from other authors, it'll be good.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-30-m0.u224	107 Soboljeva. The committee's dismissed. Please identify and vote. [[13:48:40]] For-83 The decision is not taken. 110 axles, Sobolev.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-30-m0.u225	This edit is directly related to the so - called virtual game. This is something that will be impossible to control at all. The server in Russia, further legitimized by a third country, then these funds are paid in Ukraine, but they're coming to Russia, and they're going to continue to cost the aggressor who's killing our citizens. And you're legitimized, you're consciously legitimized. You're doing it consciously. You're doing this to make sure that someone in this room and outside of it, dozens of people get profits from this criminal activity. I think these schemes should be stopped. This article is very important; it allows either to legitimize these schemes or to stop them once and for all. There are tens of other rights in the process of being amended, which are my colleagues, including the majority faction. Sadly, there was a completely different procedure. I propose to support my work.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-30-m0.u226	110 Soboljeva. The committee's dismissed. Please identify and vote. [[13:50:06]] For-98 The decision is not taken. 113th Amendment, Sobolev.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-30-m0.u227	This readjustment reminds me of the automatic distribution of cases in our courts. It's kind of strange that it's, like, automatic, but the "fat" cases themselves get to the same judges. Although there are dozens of people working in the courts. That's about the same thing. Random numbers generator is actually what I think should necessarily be in licensing conditions. Because the generator can be set up in such a way that the casino or the casino wins 99 percent, and 1 percent goes for everything else. You're legitimizing it. You're doing it consciously. I think the authors of these second-reading rights, because the first reading was much better, and then we have to go out on the field and show them, these are the authors that legitimized this procedure that made this principle. I'm asking you to support my work. If you're going to do this, at least under licensing conditions, say it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-30-m0.u228	Thank you. 113. I put her to the vote, she was rejected by the committee. Please identify and vote. [[13:51:38]] For 105 The decision is not taken. 126th Amendment, Sobolev.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-30-m0.u229	Who has the right to play? For 21 years, a person who does not have limited access to gambling facilities is not in the Register of those who will be admitted to the casinos. When the decryption begins and what an ineffective person is, you will see that it is made possible for even ineffective individuals to play formally. I'm not talking about the psyche of a 21-year-old person that you're going to break. And virtual casinos, when they use your father's card or your mother's, and then this tragedy in the family will be, I don't say at all. So this right here is about correcting this terrible situation, so that young people don't get caught on this scary hook, because unfortunately they're not going to lose their money. They will lose either their parents ’ money, or the money they earn dishonestly on bribes.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-30-m0.u230	126 readjustment, rejected by the committee. Please identify and vote. [[13:53:08]] Z-85 The decision is not taken. 136.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-30-m0.u231	Why did you teach this period when the gambling business was outside the law? In my opinion, they went on a terrible scheme. Instead of fighting those who are opening illegal casinos, who are opening illegal bookmakers offices, who are opening illegal casinos automatically, they decided to follow the pattern of how to wash them. And in my opinion, what happened more than 10 years ago, when every employee of the Ministry, including the minister, has a prosecutor's office and a B.S.A., that's where you should have shown how you can work. Does anyone believe that such an institution can work legally in a city, in a village, or in a village? No, it's not. We decided to go on the road when all of this could be legalized. Therefore my suggestion is, "Don't make trouble, for then calamity will strike you." Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-30-m0.u232	136 readjustments, rejected by the committee, Soboljeva. Please identify and vote. [[13:54:37]] For-80 The decision is not taken. 167 law.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-30-m0.u233	What exactly is a playground? Remember the first reading. It's just a five-star hotel, it's a specially selected place, it's going to be a place where no one has a right at all. And how did this end? And then it ends with a total vacchanal. Anyone will be allowed to open anywhere, there's no control. In fact, there is no control over any principle of such activity. And this, unfortunately, even appeared on the second reading, not on the first reading. Again there are authors, there are people who lobbyed it. They're mostly people from the Presidential faction. If this is President Greensky's program, the flag is in your hands, make money like that, only you don't make any money in the budget. And you'll see that in the first year of this so-called law. So our proposal, if you want to legitimize it, is legitimize it.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-30-m0.u234	There is a vote of 167 people's deputies, Soboljeva. The committee proposes to reject it. Please identify and vote. [[13:56:06]] Z-85 The decision is not taken. Next line 192. Sergey Vladislavovich, please,
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-30-m0.u235	It's actually another amendment where "Paternity" clearly regulated how to prevent all these things. Unfortunately, this correction is also rejected. You read my report. It allows for a clear regulation of the position of the exclusive state lottery. "Paternality" has always insisted on this, and we ask that we support this in order to make it impossible at all for the corruption component that is included in this bill. Clearly, we will not vote for him in that way. We're going to be preparing a separate bill that deals with the regulation of state lotteries, which will allow real revenue to be budgeted, not the reflection and laundering of dirty money. That's why my edit allows me to stop it right now. At least for the third reading or the second reading, make the adjustments that will allow you to settle exclusively state lotteries, giving up everyone.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-30-m0.u236	I'm betting on a 192-seat vote of the People's Deputy Soboljeva. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[13:57:35]] For-83 The decision is not taken. Next amendment 199. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-30-m0.u237	The next revision is the same from the same section that regulates "cassage as the place where the sale takes place" and so on, according to the text. In fact, once again it's an unadapted room, it's that it's actually legalized by a shadow scheme of money laundering, allowing it to go further, further. In fact, this is going to be a complete collapse and anarchy of the possibilities of any kind of control. Uncontrolled business is legalized. That's why the Fatherland faction, it's not me, it's not me, it's me, it's me, it's me, it's me, it's me, it's me, it's me, it's me, it's me, it's me, it's me, it's me, it's me, it's me, it's me, it's me, it's me, it's me, it's me, it's me, it's me, it's me, it's me, it's me, it's me, it's me, it's me, it's me, it's me, it's me, it's me, it's me, it's Unfortunately, whether the original team of the first law, or those who prepared the second reading rights, see only one possibility of avoiding responsibility, because it will now be legalized, and the possibility of legalizing all these shadow schemes. That's why Motherland offered to do everything she could to make sure it didn't happen. If you support this, it opens the way to that.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-30-m0.u238	I'm betting on a vote of 199 amendments to the People's Deputy Soboljeva. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[13:59:07]] For-75 The decision is not taken. Next amendment to 237th.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-30-m0.u239	The next amendment likewise proposes to rule out this shadow market, which is legalized here. And what's more, I've looked all over the line, and those who submitted the Fatherland, and those who submitted the other MPs, they're allowing a clear definition and order of the future existence of the state lotteries themselves. Unfortunately, this is the next line of events where the bookie wins, it's going to go back to legalizing those shadow schemes that work anyway. You're going to legitimize them now, and now no member of the force structures can even go to the threshold to check it out, because it's a legal scheme, it allows you to avoid taxation. What's the point? If I had seen the logic, it would have been clear that there was something that could be corrected. It doesn't make sense. That's why "Fatherland" is against the whole logic of the law. Please support my amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-30-m0.u240	There is a vote of 237 amendments to the People’s Deputy Soboljeva. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[14:00:33]] For-84 The decision is not taken. Next amendment 244. National MP Sobolev.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-30-m0.u241	Dear colleagues, what will happen next year during the electronic declaration, is what this article sets out. What's the point? They want to legitimize the laundering of any illegal income through these kinds of activities: casinos, bookmaking, and everything else. My offer. We've joined the relevant international organizations where we've made commitments now with the kind of rights that you're trying to make for the second reading and against which the Fatherland stands, you're trying to actually cross out the electronic declaration itself, you're trying to cross out the legality of the income that was easy to track. And now it's impossible to do that, because these winnings, read an article that's on second reading, these winnings actually legalize all the shadow schemes. So keep my paper, we've put it in a very clear way, and that'll give an answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-30-m0.u242	I'll bet you 244 votes. It's not supported by the committee. Please identify and vote. [[2:02:04]] Z-85 The decision is not taken. 254 axles.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-30-m0.u243	Now we're going to actually go to a section that regulates certain kinds of activities that are actually my editing and laid down. This is the beginning of how you start to control this type of activity. If this is an error, you have to correct the errors. But of course it's not a mistake, it's a conscious system of money laundering by the authors. It's deliberately set up by the copyright team, and it's particularly impaired by the second reading system, where you can actually legitimize any money laundering schemes. That's why I'm asking you to go back to the paper that I've introduced, and it matches four other colleagues' rights. If we do that, we can still at least control how this issue will be considered. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-30-m0.u244	Thank you. I'll bet you 254 votes. The committee's dismissed. Please identify and vote. [[14:03:27]] For-78 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. 259 Sobolev.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-30-m0.u245	I think it would be interesting to do statistics right now. But not just statistics, there, 6 percent of the citizens are suffering from man - made disease, that is, gambling addiction, but statistics on the fate of people. The last name is, man hangs himself when he loses his last money in so-called establishments; his last name is, man takes his last money out of the house, feeds his kids nothing; his last name is, like, a lost apartment, a house where a many-year-old family lives; his last name is like that. And I wanted to put everyone on a table because it's very easy, it's a lot harder to love all of humanity when you're in the district, you're in a city or a town where these tragedies happen every day, and now you're legitimizing these tragedies. Now this person, even or her family, can't go anywhere, because it's all going to be at the state level.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-30-m0.u246	I bet on the vote of 259 the amendment of the People's Deputy Soboljeva. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[14:04:58]] For-75 The decision is not taken. The following amendment is made by the 276 People’s Deputy Soboljev.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-30-m0.u247	Amendment 276 regulates licences. Some people think we're going to put a big license, put something in the budget, maybe. So it's going to take away any shadow patterns and everything will be fine. Unfortunately, in this version, which is given for second reading, the license conditions generally allow you to follow the dirtiest path of money laundering. If that's what the ruling coalition is for. Well, I don't know how to do that! Our proposal is absolutely clear: it's the licensing conditions that rule out any possibility of tax avoidance, any possibility of illegal activity, any possibility of tax evasion. In fact, the budget is going to be undercalculated by the amount you're supposed to have invested in the budget. Although we are well aware that there will be no such funds. So I'm asking you to support the amendment I've made.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-30-m0.u248	I'll bet you 276 votes. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[14:06:27]] For-86 No decision taken, no correction counted. 570 lashes.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-30-m0.u249	I'm sorry about the repetitions that are going to go on in the four revisions, but these four adjustments apply to the online casino. I think it's the worst and worst standard ever set against everyone else. This rule will actually legitimize any kind of activity that is now recognized by all authoritative international anti-corruption organizations as a direct way of laundering "dirty" money. This web is stretched to Ukraine to do it here on our land as a key principle that will actually allow the Internet casino to wash away everything. You don't control absolutely anything, and it's going to be the scariest norm that's going to work along with other scary norms. I have a proposition on this side, I'm going to continue to comment on each of the following, and I'm going to rule that out.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-30-m0.u250	I'll bet you 570 votes. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[14:07:53]] For-84 The decision is not taken. 580 lashes.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-30-m0.u251	The question is not that an amendment is supported or not supported, the question is that, well, everyone weighs for themselves, there are some advantages from the bill, but there are some losses. I would like to hear at least one advantage from such a bill. I think the only advantage that exists everywhere is 4 billion dollars. Well, a lot of people have already told us what these 4 billion dollars are going to cost in our citizens' pockets -- 40 billion lost revenue. But there are other things -- things that are somehow related to other terrible consequences of legalizing it. I understand that you want to facilitate the work of the Ministry of Public Prosecutions, the D.B.I., the other organs, the D.B.I., who are not supposed to investigate it now, because that's the legal way. But if we follow that logic, well, let's legitimize murder, let's legitimize other sins. I think it's the scariest thing that.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-30-m0.u252	I'll bet you 580 votes. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[14:09:24]] For-82 The decision is not taken. 589 revisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-30-m0.u253	This is the same regulation that regulates the same rule, and I'm going to try to use other arguments if the previous one doesn't get there and they don't get it. The key is what gambling is for, and in what form they exist. In fact, we are returning to the dreaded 19th century without realizing that we have been in the courtyard for the 21st century. Without realizing that the transparency of these markets is now so simple and simple, just don't lay down these standards in the law you have laid down. But you're not interested. You are interested in meetings with Russian casino owners who will now be legalized in Ukraine. You are interested in meeting with bookmakers who will be legalized in Ukraine. You're interested in negotiating with them, what they're going to be, how they're going to share: in the shadow scheme, no. That's why.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-30-m0.u254	589 Committee revisions are not supported. Please identify and vote. [[14:10:52]] Z-77 The decision is not taken. 617 law.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-30-m0.u255	The 617-direction proposal: delete this section because it mixed everything up. Here's what you can do for the so-called gambling game, and you'll actually find it here. In addition, in fact, even completely sporting things like billiards, such as other things, are actually mixed up here, and they're plunging up to make it look like there's a gallows, a beautiful hanging. Conducting competitions, creative competitions, any other competitions, is an opportunity to avoid it. But I can see how the right-hand people are glowing in their eyes. They think they blew someone up here? Do they think they've blown up millions of Ukrainian citizens? But it's going to end very badly. Because now all of our citizens who have fallen under this addiction, or those who have just begun to play it, have not stopped.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-30-m0.u256	617 revisions, not supported by the committee. Please identify and vote. [[14:12:23]] For-79 The decision is not taken. 636 lashes.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-30-m0.u257	This is a very important norm that proposes to actually legitimize the scheme: everything provided for in this law, and there are other laws, now applies exclusively to the law. But these are the norms that I'm talking about, dozens of legislative initiatives. There are very good standards that do not mix gambling, sports. You're trying to actually put it under one ridge. If this is the position of your faction, if this is the position of the President, then I'd like to hear one in favour. And so it turns out that after the ban, instead of including all the power structures once and for all, you want to play in other countries -- go ahead, but don't let the Ukrainian youth get maimed, don't let the Ukrainian citizens get crippled -- that's not what's going on.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-30-m0.u258	636 revisions, rejected by the committee. Please identify and vote. [[14:13:50]] For-94 The decision is not taken. 639 axle.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-30-m0.u259	Read the 4th article “The Objective and Principles of State Policy in the Organization and the Conduct of Gambling. ” What State Policy? State policy to plant hundreds of thousands more citizens on this hook of dependency -- government policy? State policy on money laundering for bribes is government policy? State policy is to legitimize virtually all shadow tax avoidance schemes? If it's government policy, then tell me what the Mafia is. I don't think the state and the mafia are exactly the same. Because the authors of these initiatives for the second reading, unfortunately, have mixed up: you fought organized crime there, you fought "poisons in the law," but now you're making new "poisons in the law," you're sorry for slang. Everything you do is actually creating a whole range of gangs that will control it.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-30-m0.u260	639 axle. The committee's dismissed. Please identify and vote. [[14:15:15]] For-80 The decision is not taken. 649.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-30-m0.u261	My readjustment is perfectly clear and understandable. Well, what state regulation, registration? I have an offer: to clearly identify the state register of organizers so that this register will allow all violators to be identified immediately. Regrettably, what is proposed in the article itself is still being deciphered in the paragraphs, is actually the possibility of legalizing the worst, most dirty schemes. Is that the purpose of this bill? Couldn't they have come up with anything better? That's why I'm asking you to support my work and stop it.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-30-m0.u262	I'll bet you 649 votes. The committee's dismissed. Please identify and vote. [[14:16:17]] For-80 The decision is not taken. Seven hundred and ninety-two.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-30-m0.u263	Well, think about it, it's proposed to create another regulator. How many rooms do you have to put under it? Regional authorities will say the following. They'll say we need a car. They'll say we need full security if there's a Ministry of Finance. Well, it's natural for the Ministry of Finance to control these kinds of activities. No, it's not. Why doesn't it work? Because I think there's a very clear pattern. As it was created and tried to establish shadow schemes for the so-called sale of confiscation, the same is happening here. First they'll throw billions into a vertical management system, and then this management system will not even provide itself, and in each budget they'll say, "Please give the money for its functioning." That's why we can't let that happen.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-30-m0.u264	I'll bet you 792 votes. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[14:17:44]] For-97 The decision is not taken. 796 lashes.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-30-m0.u265	I think the next step is to create a casino ministry. Because the logic set out in all the following articles is actually the transfer of powers to this body and the selection of them into the natural body of the Ministry of Finance, where there are appropriate professionals, where there is appropriate training. To that end, it's probably designed to continue to legitimize not the process itself, but also the "college" when they agree on how to regulate all of this. If that's the logic of the controlling faction, well, I don't think they've gotten to that level. It seems to me that this amendment should settle once and for all one situation, everything about income types -- it should be regulated by the Ministry of Finance and there should be appropriate units to follow up. A different organ could not be created.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-30-m0.u266	I'll bet you 796 votes. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[14:19:10]] For-82 The decision is not taken. 900 lashes.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-30-m0.u267	In fact, it's a regulation that regulates the same thing, and who's going to be directly in control. Our proposal is absolutely clear and understands how the Ministry of Finance will control any process. I hope that this norm will be broken in part of gambling, even though I see the negotiations actively going on in the hall and how actively in the hall then those who shouted that we were against the casino would, by lowering their eyes, forget what they said a month ago and actively vote. I take it there are proposals they can't give up. I think there should be a very clear position here: such control should be under the Ministry of Finance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-30-m0.u268	900 committee revisions are not supported. Please identify and vote. [[14:20:22]] For-96 The decision is not taken. 939 correct.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-30-m0.u269	Similarly, regulation of a key organ. So is the matter of the Ministry of Finance. Where are the factions that have been lobbying similar bills for decades? They're on a political history trash bin. It was possible for those who created the majority today to resolve these issues. Sadly, though, the laurels of their predecessors do not allow them to live in peace. Today, just today, and tomorrow, we're not interested. That's why the "Paternity" faction clearly insists that there be responsibility for such woe-and-law projects and for such revisions to the second reading, and now they're trying to push them out as a law. Our position is clear: State regulation should be through the Ministry of Finance and State Lottery. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-30-m0.u270	939 committee review rejected. Please identify and vote. [[14:21:46]] For-89 The decision is not taken. 982.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-30-m0.u271	This is an amendment to the so - called openness of the activities of the Authorized Body. What openness is in today’s conditions, we see clearly. So our proposal is. It's absolutely clear: if you want openness, it has to be no non-authorized body, and it has to be the Ministry of Finance. My proposal is this. So you counted my next 995. That's good. But these adjustments are being made. If you're counting the next one, how could you not count this one? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-30-m0.u272	982 revisions, not supported by the committee. Please identify and vote. [[14:22:51]] For-79 The decision is not taken. 1003.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-30-m0.u273	Since "Paternity" has been against market regulation from the very beginning, which is to drive into the mind and mind of banning such a gaming market, all the changes are just about to turn it back to give the authorities authorized to do so, and to the Ministry of Finance, and to the force organs, to give the weapons they can fight. Not fines that are currently covered in seconds by illegal incomes, and then you can share with the force that is not happy, you can continue to share with other government officials, and everyone will close their eyes. The proposals of the Fatherland faction, you're still going to listen to more than one of my colleagues' finesse, which is exactly what they are to prevent this kind of criminal activity. Unfortunately, you don't want to hear it. You're looking for other loopholes that made this bill even worse for the second reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-30-m0.u274	1003, not supported by the committee. Please identify and vote. [[14:24:20]] For-80 The decision is not taken. 1033.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-30-m0.u275	03. Excuse me, 33. It's just another regulation of online monitoring that would at least allow you to track down all the dirty operations. What's written here, and compare it with what's proposed in my article, is just a suggestion of "The Fatherland," how to control any possibility of avoiding taxation. Unfortunately, though, what the ruling faction and coalition have offered is actually legalized how to circumvent taxation. And that is how an article is now being conducted as an article so that it is not even possible to be held accountable. That's why Fatherland is taking a firm stand against this system of so-called control. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-30-m0.u276	Amendment 1033 of the People’s Deputy Soboljeva is put to the vote. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[14:25:37]] For-76 The decision is not taken. Next amendment 1146. Sobolen Sergio Vladislavovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-30-m0.u277	This amendment regulates the order of statutory compound capital that is being formed. Now, think about it, this amendment, for example, does not prohibit the introduction into Ukraine of "dirty" funds from offshore and semi-shore jurisdictions. But the whole world is struggling with it, and Ukraine is legitimizing it. Because, you see, that's how the governing coalition and the President need it. If you read this law carefully, read my law. Let's add to the list of items that are, too, offshore jurisdictions that can't have "dirty" and "washed" costs here. You don't want to do this. Why? Who's that for? I think it's a very interesting and important article. If that works for you, most of the time, I don't think the Fatherland faction and the other factions will do it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-30-m0.u278	I bet on the vote of 1146 People's Deputy Soboljeva. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[14:27:01]] For-82 The decision is not taken. Next amendment 1236.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-30-m0.u279	You know, when the logic of this article, which went to second reading, is that it turns out that online control will allow you to stop all unauthorized operations. And I have a question: well, unsanctioned, and "dirty" transactions after laundering the "dirty" money will stop or not stop it. So in my view, my edit is absolutely clear on this issue, not just to stop any such operation, but also to track down the entire chain where it leads, what offices are running these dirty transactions where dirty costs are washed away. And I think this is as important as the previous one. And I have a request to support her. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-30-m0.u280	I bet on the vote amendment of 1236 People's Deputies Soboljeva. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[14:28:15]] For-79 The decision is not taken. The next amendment is 1283.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-30-m0.u281	A very interesting article. The owner of the future gambling facility launched a person who had no right to do so. In the end, the parents who lost their apartment, the land that is now to be built will find out. I think that there in the law, this rule was set up for nothing about the so-called market of the earth, the norm that allows us to establish, including under the gaming business. We'll soon have the casino owners you're going to be the biggest latifundists in Ukraine. My suggestion is to stop this practice from taking root, not then post facto fine the casino owner at the parents' request. But the casino owner's gonna come to his house, tell him how to behave, and I'll see who's gonna make the application. My proposal regulates this and does not allow it.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-30-m0.u282	I'm betting on the vote of the 1283 People's Deputy Soboljeva. Please identify and vote. [[14:29:42]] Z-85
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-30-m0.u283	The decision is not taken. 1315 the next line.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-30-m0.u284	1291. My 1291, it's said to be accounted for essentially, but I'd like to set it up.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-30-m0.u285	1291, right?
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-30-m0.u286	Yeah, it's something that's written, it's taken into account essentially, although unfortunately, those who were preparing the bill for second reading probably didn't understand the fact that the point is not to legitimize the shadow market of the gaming business, but the point is to stop it and give weapons to our forces that could stop it, to give weapons to our courts that could stop it then, to give weapons to all those who want to fight this shadow market. That's why I'd like to do it the way I did, because you counted one part, you didn't count the other part. Please vote in my writing.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-30-m0.u287	1291, it's partially accounted for, right? The author insists on taking this into account. I would like to place my vote on the above-mentioned motion, please identify and vote. [[14:31:16]] For-93 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. 1315.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-30-m0.u288	My last two accounted for, thank you. But unfortunately, the point remains the same, and we need to continue to fight this shameful phenomenon that you're trying to legitimize, and with which Fatherland and Timoshenko have always struggled. So what's the point of this? It is about not allowing us to avoid taxation through the special administrative procedure that is laid down here. My 1315 is precisely allowing the administration to see all of these operations and stop them immediately, without then leading to trials and all of them, because I imagine someone who will own a billion-dollar market, how they will corrupt our courts and power structures and try to distribute carpets to the left and to the right. And here's my administration system, which I passed and which, by the way, coincides with six other regulations, doesn't allow that to happen.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-30-m0.u289	I'm betting on the vote number 1315. It's rejected by the committee. Please identify and vote. [[14:32:47]] For-80 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. 1335.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-30-m0.u290	That's a very interesting piece of work. It offers three years of time when either the silk will die or the paditha. But in three years, it's going to happen that it's impossible to dig up this chain and untangle this chain of these shadow schemes. That's why my proposal is clear: no distractions on such things where the budget will lose billions, where the law enforcement system will actually be corrupt, where you can't protect your family, or your unhappy child, or perhaps the happy child that you planted. Because the landing patterns on this are very simple and understandable, it's a drug plantation. They search for richer families, they give them free, they start on tours, and then they end up losing apartments, homes, cars, and citizens’ incomes.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-30-m0.u291	I'll bet you 1335. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[14:34:17]] For-84 The decision is not taken. Next issue is 1365.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-30-m0.u292	It's very original how to make a six-year-old guy go into a casino to play. It's very simple. You know what happens to us with the only registers, how do these data go to the left and to the right, and how do they change into the only registers? What the authors suggest: Once you have entered, shown your passport, you are over 21 years old, and accordingly you go through the register. People, what are you doing? That's how you want to be legal. legalize the entry of minors? Should children benefit from parental legal acts when they enter such a casino? Or should we go in through the Internet casino that you're legitimizing? You're in terrible trouble in the country! Listen to anything! I understand it doesn't bother you until it hits you until you feel what a junkie son is, what is it.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-30-m0.u293	I'll put it to a vote of 1365. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[14:35:48]] For-96 The decision is not taken. 1372.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-30-m0.u294	The same amendment applies to the same regulation. In fact, how did the person who entered the so - called one. She will continue to visit such gaming facilities. I don't say anymore, something happened to the person, she lost a crazy one, like a sum or an apartment, and, sorry, she then turned to a psychiatric hospital, which is a fact, and a repeated fact. This person is ineffective. And once you bring it in, you'll keep turning. Does that suit you? Do so if you have no conscience or shame. My paper won't let you do that. Every time you identify a person, every time you identify a person who is ineffective for any reason. And unfortunately, you're legitimizing it! Who's doing this? The author, give it to me!
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-30-m0.u295	I'll bet you a vote of 1372. The committee's been rejected. Please identify and vote. [[14:37:12]] For-98 The decision is not taken. 1382.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-30-m0.u296	Listen, well, when they're offering virtual signatures in the online casino that they're going to sign up with. Well, look at "One House-2," how you can drop your father's card even in the most famous hotel brands. Look at any other movies that tell you about things that you're legitimized here. Well, do you have a conscience or not? Why are you doing this? You're talking about 4 billion revenue. No, I think you're thinking about other incomes -- your own income, so you're going to be cheating on anything. Those who control the Russian casino network around the world today have come to you and settled everything. Were they at the President's Office? I don't know. But this law will make it clear whether they went there or not when we see the President's signature under this bill. Stop!
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-30-m0.u297	I'll bet the vote on 1382. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[14:38:38]] For-83 The decision is not taken. 1391.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-30-m0.u298	Okay, you went through someone else's document and through someone else's signature or a fake signature. They further say that you are obliged to present another document on the Internet when needed. People, what are you talking about? How to get past this, a six-year-old will tell you who can use the Internet pretty well. I think it's all set up here with one goal: to raise funds for minors, to legitimize it, to make it possible. Because what are our lousy state registers? When pensioners come to you today and say, "You've got a good pension, come on, we're offering you a great game." Where are our law enforcement agencies that don't see it? All Russian companies belong here. It's called "Our Manor" and everything.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-30-m0.u299	I'm willing to vote 1391. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[14:40:11]] For-80 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-30-m0.u300	Next line is 1400. National MP Sobolev, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-30-m0.u301	You know, it's a unique edit. At first, they're allowed to go around this norm and allow teenagers to play casinos and then they're like, "Now we're taking responsibility for it." What is your responsibility? For what you've legitimized? That's why "Fatherland" said from the very first day that you first open a small hole, and then into this little hole, it licks up all the junk, all the dirtiest schemes, all the dirtiest ones who control this world market. I think you're doing this on purpose. There are no mistakes. I've carefully studied your entire structure of the bill, I've carefully learned what you've done and why you've done it. And no matter how greedy you are right now, drinking water in the government stands, it won't help you. You'll have to answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-30-m0.u302	I'm betting on the vote of 1,400 National Deputy Soboljeva Sergia Vladislavovich. I ask you to identify yourself and vote. [[14:41:39]] Z-85 The decision is not taken. Amendment 1413. Sobole, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-30-m0.u303	That's about the same thing. Think about it. I understand you don't have a text in front of you. First you let go of everything, and now you say, "The gambling organizer is obliged to put in place a procedure, even a policy that enables you to identify (verifies), establish data, age of the player." Oh, you guys, is he going to go to court on his own? First you set the fines for it, and then you say, "You fool, you missed the baby at the casino, and now you set it up, you go out, you pay a crazy fine and you tell me you let it happen." People, at least you don't abuse yourself. You're reading the bills you're drafting, you're reading the papers you're filing? How do you know what's scary? If you look at what was on the first reading, it wasn't there -- there was a completely different standard. Why did it appear on the other side?
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-30-m0.u304	I bet on the vote amendment of 1413 People's Deputies Soboljeva. The committee's offering to reject it. Please identify and vote. [[14:43:08]] For-86 The decision is not taken. The next amendment is 1417. Please, Sobolev.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-30-m0.u305	And now we have a state in the country because of this point. In fact, you make a gambling organizer a state institution because it is obliged to identify the person, the personal data, and now it will be the owner of this personal data. And you say, "But he's bound to stick to the Act on the Inability to distribute the identity of personal data." So he'll cut himself? What are you doing? I think it's done consciously again. The smiles on your faces will come to an end very quickly. As always, the shoe will count in autumn, and you will see how this law, like the attempt to sell out Ukrainian land, will end for you. I think there's going to be a very clear responsibility here: first.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-30-m0.u306	I'm betting on the vote for amendment 1417 of the People's Deputy Soboljeva. Please identify and vote. [[14:44:36]] For-82 The decision is not taken. The next amendment is 1418.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-30-m0.u307	And now, in general, it's a unique situation. They've chosen the player. They took the last one. We moved a large family out of our apartment. And now it is said that the player is responsible for the authenticity of the documents given. But he is a sick person, for what is he responsible? If he's setting up his last apartment, his parents' car, if he's betting everything you say, what's this person's responsibility? After that, you will put him in prison because he has violated the relevant article of the Criminal Code. Well, he's not responsible for his actions. You made it that way. Just you. And that's how you try to legitimize it. And you will double punish such a family. The family will lose their property. Then the family will lose the person who, unfortunately, suffers from such an incurable disease. You know that this disease is incurable. This is going to be the worst disaster ever.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-30-m0.u308	I bet on the vote of Amendment 1418. Please identify and vote. [[14:46:01]] For-83 The decision is not taken. The next amendment, 1427, is the National MP Sobolev. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-30-m0.u309	You see, when I read the following paragraphs of this article, "persons who, according to the legislation, have the right limitations," "persons who are in a state of drug or alcohol abuse," "persons who are recognized by the administration of the facility as undesirable," and so on, and so on, and so on, I always think, here are the future casino owners or those who will get the rugs out of it, what will you hit by yourself? Are you going to punish yourself? If you've already launched a non-convinced person and you identify this, you'll continue to punish yourself and turn to the appropriate regulator: punish me, fine me, punish me, impose on me a punishment that can't be? Why are you doing this? So you want to plant these people next door from the casino offices on drugs, alcohol and everything?
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-30-m0.u310	I would like to vote on the amendment of the 1427 People's Deputy Soboljeva. Please identify and vote. [[14:47:25]] For-81 The decision is not taken. The next amendment is 1432. Sergei Vladislavovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-30-m0.u311	This is actually a sequel to the same story that the casino owner doesn't allow, and the list is actually the same. I think it's very easy to do that. If we do this according to legislation, all the previous articles actually protect such a woeful owner. All previous articles make it impossible to hold him accountable. All previous articles make it actually legal for such persons to be present because it is a question of the owner who should identify them. Why are you doing this? In order to hide all the ends finally in the water, to make everyone forget about the author of the legislative initiative or the authors, the one who will sign his last signature, the president of the country? I don't think you'll be forgiven for that.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-30-m0.u312	I bet on the vote of amendment 1432 of the People's Deputy Soboljeva. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[14:48:52]] For-82 The decision is not taken. The next amendment is 1433.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-30-m0.u313	It's a law that last tries to change the approach of this law. Once again, we offer to settle issues of exclusively state-owned lotteries from which the income goes exclusively to the state, which are transparent, which are controlled around the world, which can be accounted for, which can be clearly laid. I think that's where it's going to be. Why did this bill actually involve state lotteries or any lottery? To then cover with a fig leaf the disadvantages of this bill? Is this done for one purpose: to hide those shadow schemes in fact? "Paternality" is taking a firm stand against this scheme that's set up here. Because it's a scheme that's going to lead to a terrible disaster in the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-30-m0.u314	I bet on the vote amendment of 1433 People's Deputy Soboljeva. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[14:50:15]] For-78 The decision is not taken. The next amendment is 1439. National MP Sobolev, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-30-m0.u315	These are the duties of the player, the person that Keith Basilio and Lisa Alice dragged into the casino and thought that this would continue to suit him. Think about it. The bill is designed in such a way that the owners of casinos, casinos and casinos are responsible, and that they translate all responsibility into the person who entered this gambling facility. When a controller allows a person who is not known to be 21 years of age to pass. The controller allows you to pass through a person who clearly does not match the photo portrait that came out while you were passing through a tourniquet. A person who will in fact continue to be responsible for all sins, except that he loses all he can, his or her parental or family. I'm suggesting it's completely different. It's the owners who have to do it.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-30-m0.u316	A vote is taken on amendment 1439 of the People’s Deputy Soboljeva. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[14:51:45]] For-78 The decision is not taken. The next amendment is 1448. National MP Sobolev.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-30-m0.u317	Similarly, it is actually what the Fatherland warned of. You're actually guilty of someone you've picked once. And in this way, you will try to take on the responsibility of this person if he prevents the organization and the organization of gambling. I want to see you when, God forbid, your loved one comes and tells you that he's lost, how you act. At least try to open your mouth, you will be visited by murderous guards who will tell you what to do in this situation. And you're deliberately legitimizing all of this. You think you're going to profit from this? No, it's not. You'll be crying with bitter tears, not understanding what you're getting the country into instead of controlling it instead of asking the muscle here. This is where the force should be.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-30-m0.u318	I'm betting on the vote for the amendment of 1448 People's Deputies of Soboljeva. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[14:53:15]] For-79 The decision is not taken. The next amendment was made by the 1452 People’s Deputy Soboljeva. Please, Sergey Vladislavovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-30-m0.u319	This is an amendment that brings out a whole category of people who will have the relevant, sensitive information about how algorithms are based on how to bypass the system. My readjustment is quite clear. All who are in a working relationship, all who are regulators of this process, you write: people who have information about the result of an agrarian game. That is, we're not going to have a choice, and we're going to have access, and we're going to win it over and over again, just like we did in our recent history. They're going to legitimize their assets, they're going to start winning the lottery, or the casino at the casino wins, because they have access to the algorithm, and you're not cleaning it up. Why don't you clean up? The question, I think, is rhetorical. Because you're being set up by these schemes. "The Fatherland" is against it.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-30-m0.u320	I'm betting on the vote of Amendment 1452 of the People's Deputies Soboljeva. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[14:54:43]] For-75 The decision is not taken. The next amendment is 1454. Sergey Vladislavovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-30-m0.u321	This is the same law that applies to the number of these individuals. I ask by no means to leave the standard that is now. Look, we have logic from Fatherland, when we wanted to ban it at all, and to regulate exclusively state lotterys, it makes sense to control all of this very clearly. You're getting it out of control. I have a request to support my work.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-30-m0.u322	I bet on the vote amendment of 1454 People's Deputies Soboljeva. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[14:55:37]] For-79 The decision is not taken. Next amendment, 1533 People’s Deputy Soboljeva. Please, Sergey Vladislavovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-30-m0.u323	No, I do. Oh, yeah, stop, it's accounted for. I'm sorry. 1533, right. While it has been considered that it appears that the casino owner will not provide information about the suspects. So that he does not blackmail these suspects, not anticorruption. This revision regulates the rules of gambling that are in the so - called innovative edition. My suggestion is that this should be clearly settled, and no language knowledge would then allow us to talk about what happened, because, according to this procedure, the person was actually being exaggerated. That's why "Fatherland" is absolutely against this record and it's my right to settle it.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-30-m0.u324	I bet on the vote of amendment 1533 of the People's Deputy Soboljeva. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[14:56:57]] Z-77 The decision is not taken. Next issue 1605, National Deputy Sobolev Sergey Vladislavovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-30-m0.u325	That's a very interesting piece of work. This amendment actually lobbies clearly some one or two structures that will benefit from it. Someone has already prepared money to buy new equipment for casinos. This amendment suggests that everything that was before 2019 is not possible since 2019. In addition, only the buyers require one. And I suggest, let's make all these bets through the cards, and then it'll all be clear. The minister of the Greenwich government came to play the casino. Where do you get that kind of money when you say you can't even feed a child? The head of administration came with this. Where'd you get this stuff? And immediately, the card identifies this person. And you're offering bills, bitcoins, something else to identify at all.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-30-m0.u326	I bet on the vote of amendment 1605 of the People's Deputy Soboljeva. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[14:58:27]] For-78 The decision is not taken. And the final amendment of the People's Deputy Sobolev, 1643. Please, Sergey Vladislavovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-30-m0.u327	With this right, we try to settle, clearly, everything can't be settled anymore, because "Paternality" is definitely against the adoption of this law. And instead of increasing the responsibility of illegal casinos, illegal gaming establishments, instead of inviting the Home Secretary, the Attorney General, the Head of the D.B.I., to ask what you lack. Well, it's not a needle in a haystack that you can hide, it's your employees who cover it up. Why do they continue to serve as regulars, debuters, prosecutors, emvestors? You don't want that. You want another one, you want to direct these streams to the authors who have led such crazed standards into this law. That's why Fatherland won't vote in favour of this law. The authors of other legislative initiatives from our faction will still be able to speak. That's why I think.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-30-m0.u328	Thank you, Sergey Vladislavovich. I'm putting to the vote the amendment of the 1643 People's Deputy Sobolev, which is from his authorship the last one for today. The committee proposes to reject it. So please identify and vote. [[15:00:06]] For-86 The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, 15 hours, I declare the morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine closed. Thank you.
