ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-14-m1.u1	Dear colleagues, good evening. Please prepare for work, take your seats. Prepare to register. Dear colleagues, please prepare for registration, and invite the national deputies to the hall. Dear colleagues, are you ready to register? Please register. [[16:05:46]] There are 306 Ukrainian national deputies registered in the hall. I declare the evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine open. Dear colleagues, you have been invited to consider the draft decree to suspend the mandate of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Venedic Irina Valentinovna. It is suggested that this issue be considered in a simplified manner. Please support and vote. Timely termination of the authority of the Ukrainian national deputy. Please support and vote. [[16:06:35]] For 255 Decision taken. The report is given to the head of the Committee on Rules, MPs, and the organization of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Sergio Vitaliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-14-m1.u2	The Honorary Presidium, the distinguished National Deputies, the Regulatory Committee at its meeting today reviewed the statement made by the National Deputies, a member of the Political Party 'Serve of the People's Party' of the Venezuelan Irina Valentina, regarding the early termination of its parliamentary powers in connection with the appointment of a temporary Director of the State Bureau of Investigation. The committee decided to submit to Parliament a draft decree on the early termination of the powers of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Venedic Irina Valentinovna, and to recommend to the Supreme Council that it be accepted as a whole. Please be supportive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-14-m1.u3	Thank you. Dear colleagues, is this a matter for discussion? All right, write it down: two in, two in, two in. Black Dmitry Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-14-m1.u4	Please pass the word to Bujanski Maxim.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-14-m1.u5	Again, who?
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-14-m1.u6	Bujanski.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-14-m1.u7	Buzansky Maksim Arkadyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-14-m1.u8	Dear colleagues, why this farce? We need to support the release of Irina Venedictova and the deprivation of her mandate. Please be supportive. We don't have to waste time, we still have work to do today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-14-m1.u9	Thank you. Sergei Vladislavovich Sobolev.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-14-m1.u10	Irina Valentine's Day, get back to the committee. What we've been building on the committee for the past two days is such a shame the Committee on Legal Policy didn't know in all 29 years of independent Ukraine. We are very grateful for the work you have done, not simple, on a committee where lawyers are not simple, but at least the committee has always considered everything in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and the Law. Unfortunately, for the past two days there has been a violation, and despite Mr. German’s titaniumic efforts, the committee cannot resume its work as a legal committee. Therefore, such losses cannot be borne by Parliament. We must do everything we can to ensure that a worthy candidate is represented as head of such a committee. And we thank you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-14-m1.u11	Thank you. It's a Southern. Irina Volodymyrna's character.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-14-m1.u12	Dear colleagues, when it comes to the management of power structures, the important requirement of society is that these structures be independent. We already have a precedent when the President of Ukraine said that he had a hundred percent of his prosecutor when the President of Ukraine took part in a press conference with the prosecutor, where he declares the guilty, appoints the guilty volunteers and veterans in the case of the resonance killing, which gives his prosecutor instructions by which the article should start the case of the beaten Boeing, and then we are told for a week that Ukraine knew that he was beaten, but was ordered by the President, his 100 percent of Henprocuror, the case of failure. Now the president needs another hundred percent of his D.B.I. leader. But the question is another, that this assignment of executive responsibility took place with gross violations, and for three weeks we had a national MP's complicity, who was the head of one of the key power organs that we created in the previous parliament as an independent one. Moreover, it is because of the imperfections of this assignment that today call into question the announced competition of the deputy leaders of the DBR. We will remind you that the information that the contest is being announced has appeared one day, and the next, this competition has ended, even though it takes more time to gather on holiday days. So it's clearly a gross violation, just like the appointment of the Head of the DBR does not correspond to the findings of the Constitutional Court to the further changes to the Constitution proposed by President Greensky, voted solely by the monopoly on the first day of your work, and which are declared unconstitutional. That's why we demand that we bring the Constitutional Court's recommendations into line with the DBR Act itself, and our political faction has registered an appropriate bill. We're asking you to set it up.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-14-m1.u13	Thank you. Dear colleagues, let us not mislead anyone. Venedictova applied for the following, if not mistaken, day after her temporary assignment. At committee meetings, she did not participate as a national deputy, but she immediately took up her duties. In the first plenary meeting. On the first day of the Supreme Council's work, when it's possible to announce the establishment of powers, we do. Let's be correct about our colleagues. The word is given to Nestor Ivanovich Šufrich with motives.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-14-m1.u14	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. Dear colleagues, indeed, Mrs. Irina made a claim that everything was irreprehensible. But we must also have a normal attitude toward our colleagues, because Mrs. Irina worked very well in the chair of the committee, and this is acknowledged by both the opposition's representatives, yes, hopefully, and the colleagues of her own faction. According to tradition in the Supreme Council of Ukraine, considering that its position is yet to be approved at the contest, there are 60 days. I'm surprised why we're in such a hurry now that, in other cases, Sundays and sometimes months pass, we can't figure out the personnel issues in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. This is where everyone wants to get rid of Mrs. Irina so quickly. I support Mr. Sobolev and invite her to return to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And by the way, I insist, Mr. Sobolev mentioned the German name, please give him a minute. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-14-m1.u15	I think it's very interesting that you came up with an interpretation of the Rules. Or let's go to the vote. Dear colleagues, it was Irina Valentinovna who insisted and appealed to me and asked you to settle the matter of her delegation as quickly as possible, so that there would be no further insinuation around her co-existence. So I think this position should be respectful. Thank you. Let's go to the vote. Please prepare, take your seats, national deputies. I am voting on the proposal for the adoption of the entire draft Ordinance on the permanent suspension of the powers of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Venedict Irina Valentinovna (registration No. 2731). Ready to vote? Ready? Please support and vote. [[16:15:23]] For 340. The decision is taken, the decision is taken as a whole. I wanted to really thank Irina Valentine for working at the Supreme Council of Ukraine, head of the committee. And I hope that it will also perform its functions effectively in another position. Thank you. Show me the factions, please. The People's Servant Party – 219, Opposition Platform – Life 20, European Solidarity – 26, Parenthood – 19, Future – 15, Voice – 18, Trust – 11, non-fractional – 12. Thank you, Your Honor. Dear colleagues, you have been invited to consider the draft Decision repealing the Decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of 20.12.2019 on the adoption of the whole draft Act amending Chapter I, "The Final and Transitional Positions" of the Act "On Amendments to Certain Laws of Ukraine concerning the Reloading of Power" (Registration No. 2572-P). This question is being considered by a simplified procedure. The word for the report is given to Ukraine’s national deputy, Heratchenko Irina Volodymyrni.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-14-m1.u16	Dear colleagues, this is about, in principle, a technical bill, a more faithful law, which should have been determined by the same person who defines the salaries of officials – the Cabinet decree or the Supreme Council of Ukraine law. And unfortunately, despite the denial of our faction, this law was passed with gross violations of the Rules on the basis and in general. And it's about the fact that the law defines the salaries of lovers of this power -- the NABU, the Anti-Corruption Court, but there are no others, such as the Supreme Court, the Constitutional Court and the National Deputys of Ukraine themselves, who are still assigned to the Cabinet of Ministers by decree of the Cabinet of Ministers. And in fact, we protested, but you probably wanted to get these wages, which are now written as a disgrace, our voters, and tie them to the Cabinet of Ministers' salaries. It's actually a technical decision, and now we're asking you just to cancel it because you accepted it with violation. But much more discussion is needed by the Wakhanalia, which is taking place in the country’s degree. Because there are no imbalances, such as in Ukraine between doctors, teachers, between military and law enforcement agencies, their leadership, ministers, and members of the supervisory boards of state enterprises, which are sometimes damaged, in no country in the world. It's not normal for a teacher to get 5,000 dollars, a military for an advanced 15,000 dollars, and a minister for a non-remuneration, for a premium, to write 200 thousand dollars, and some for a supervisory board of 500,000 dollars. Can you imagine what's going on here with this imbalance? And that's why our faction is proposing a bill that requires restrictions on these salaries. And we call on the government to provide accurate information on the level of bonuses that were issued in December and January of this year.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-14-m1.u17	Thank you. The report is given to the head of the Committee on Rules, MPs, and the organization of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Sergio Vitaliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-14-m1.u18	The Honourable Presidium, the Honourable People's Deputies, the Regulatory Committee in its session today reviewed the draft Supreme Council Order on the annulment of Parliament's decision of December 20, 19 on the adoption of registration number 2572 (registration number 2572-P) as a whole, which proposes to repeal the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of December 20 on the adoption of this law as a whole. According to the provisions of part eight of article 48 of Parliament’s Rules of Procedure, the regulatory committee shall draw up a conclusion on the appropriateness of the draft regulation or the rejection of the draft regulation. The committee confirmed this conclusion, and it was handed over to the national deputies. Following parts three, five, six, eight, article 48 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the regulatory committee adopted the conclusion of the draft regulation (registration number 2572-P), it decided to recommend to Parliament that a vote be taken on the adoption or rejection of the draft decision. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-14-m1.u19	Thank you. Dear colleagues, is there a need for discussion? Please register: two in, two in the opposite, from factions. Irina Volodymyrna's character.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-14-m1.u20	I ask you to pass the word to the co-head of the faction of Arthur Gerasimov. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-14-m1.u21	Arthur Volodymyrovich Gerasimov.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-14-m1.u22	Mr. Chairman, distinguished colleagues, respected Ukrainians! You know, we're now looking at a question that really concerns a lot of people today, and, frankly, I personally and members of our faction, we're getting dozens, if not hundreds, of calls from people who are outraged by that information that's about the salaries of officials, ministers and the power block today. For example, do you know what salary will be paid to the Attorney General today, to the Ukrainians, more than 300,000 dollars a month, and I would like to emphasize that you will not be told. Do you know what the salary will be for the procurator general? More than 200-250 thousand dollars a month, respected Ukrainians. Do You Know the Wages of Ministers? Starting at 200-250 thousand dollars. These people haven't worked in jobs in a few months. And, first of all, I don't mind having any government official's work paid according to his achievements. But, excuse me, in a country where 4,000 dollars of teachers' salaries have already been silenced, military salaries are not rising, the frozen increases, the salaries of doctors are not rising, the vacchanal that exists today with the salaries of ministers, officials, prosecutors and D.B.I. including, and N.A.U., I'm sorry, it's unacceptable. That's why I'm asking you now to support this ruling, which is made by European Solidarity, and to support the same opposition from the Supreme Council, I would like to say, the vacchanalia that is happening today with the high wages of prosecutors, officials and ministers. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-14-m1.u23	Thank you. Alona Ivanovna's starch.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-14-m1.u24	Once again, good day, colleagues! Alona's splinter, Fatherland faction. In fact, I think if there's anything we can do to teach us about this debate that's going on in Parliament right now, which is just the beginning of it, it's because we have to finally start implementing the State Service Act. The State Service Act, which was adopted in 2015, states that a bonus can't be more than 30 percent for a civil servant. Today, unfortunately, we have an additional 300 - percent, 400 - percent, 500 - percent, compensation and a variety of supplements. While our European requirement and our very own treaty on the construction of a state signed with the European Union, for which we are being helped in reforming the government, tells us that if we want to raise wages, we have to raise them proportionally to the level of GDP growth in the country in general, before KPIs are being implemented "for specific reasons", and we have to increase their salaries, not the 300 per cent premium. But this bill, my friends, isn't even about that. This bill, which we are currently considering, is that there have been huge mistakes in the chaos of the turbine. Because this rule, which is trying to amend this bill, was in the Law on the reintroduction of power. The Law was adopted on September 16 in absolute turbulence when no one could read it. The Fatherland faction, I personally didn't vote for it, it was Bill 1066. And today, Mr. Monastery and the Committee on Pro-Profession Law have been trying to correct those huge mistakes that have been made in the Law on Re-establishment of Power. And it is clear that they were trying to correct them before the beginning of this year. But, guys, it's got to tell us once again that we don't have to adopt bad laws in the area, then correct them ourselves, and then again, attack the same rakes again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-14-m1.u25	Coltunovich Alexander Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-14-m1.u26	Thank you, Reverend Dmitri Alexanderovich. Dear colleagues, of course, the faction of "The Opposition Platform-- For life" will support this draft decree. We've already heard at the beginning of our plenary session that there are wild wages in Ukraine that are in no way correlated with the incomes that Ukrainian citizens receive, the vast majority in any case. What do we propose? And actually, we already have some draft laws that limit and limit this kind of payoff. If we're talking about top officials or representatives who get millions or half a million dollars in held businesses, and we know their names. We can quietly change our legislation and limit it, for example, and this is an initiative called the Opposition Platform for Life, the size of ten minimum wages. So any minister or any other official can't get more wages than, for example, ten minimum wages. Is that a normal number of 47,000? It's absolutely appropriate for most Ukrainians. The next moment, what do we have in Ukraine? We have an income tax of 18 percent. It's that tax that pays absolutely all the income, minimum wage, and so on. On the other hand, we have social injustice, we have 5 percent -- it's a dividend tax on shares. And that doesn't even rule out common sense, because we take 5 percent from a rich person, and 18 percent from people with minimum fixed income. So we ask you to support, including our initiatives of 24,44, and certainly to support this draft decision in order to resolve and move away from these abnormal processes, when some get a few million wages in the country, while others get a minimum or even less. Because we know that there is also a need for a settlement. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-14-m1.u27	Thank you. Ustenko Aleksei Olegovich. Out of place, please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-14-m1.u28	I won't be long. I just have a question about the political power, during which five years of government, these crazy wages and wages have been set up for the Attorney General in the size of a hundred thousand dollars, and the supervisory boards that you basically appointed. So when you criticize, first of all, you criticize yourself for having started the practice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-14-m1.u29	Thank you, Your Honor. We can go to the vote. Dear colleagues, I am voting on the proposal to adopt an entire draft Decision repealing the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of 20.12.2019 on the adoption of the whole draft Act amending Chapter II, "The Final and Transitional Positions" of the Ukrainian Act "On Amendments to Certain Laws of Ukraine concerning the Reload of Power" (registration No. 2572-P). Ready to vote? Please identify and vote. [[16:28:37]] For-84 The decision is not taken. Let's see the factions. Dear colleagues, let's move on to the next issue of the agenda. You are invited to consider the draft Decree (Registration No. 2732) amending the Supreme Council of Ukraine Decision on the Election of Heads, First Deputys, Representatives of Heads, Secretaries, Members of the Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the Ninth Call. It is suggested that this issue be considered in a simplified manner. Please support and vote. [[16:29:25]] For 241 Is there a handout in the hall, Your Honor? Surrendered. Surrendered, reverend. Is she in the hall, your honor? Surrendered. Dear colleagues. We have come to consider the matter, fellow believers. Now let the committee head know. The word is given to the Head of the Committee on Rules, Deputy Ethics and Organization of Work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Mr. Calchenk, Sergio Vitaliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-14-m1.u30	The Honourable Presidium, the Honourable People's Deputies, the Regulatory Committee at the meeting considered the proposal of the deputy faction of the political party "Staff of the People" to change the personal composition of the Committee on Legal Policy, which proposes to elect the head of this committee, Kostin Andriy Evgenović, by exempting him from the duties of deputy head of the Committee on Legal Policy in connection with the submission of a personal application for the permanent suspension of the powers of the national deputy as head of this committee by Venedict Irina Valentinovna. The committee noted that on 29 August, at the suggestion of the MP's "Serial of the People" party, the National Deputy was elected as the head of the Committee on Legal Policy, who had submitted a personal application for a permanent suspension of its mandate in connection with the appointment of a temporary Director of the State Bureau of Investigation, and that Parliament had suspended its mandate on a permanent basis. The committee supported the proposal by the deputy faction of the People's Party to elect the head of this committee, Kostin Andriy Evgenović, who relieved him of his duties as deputy head of the committee, and the national deputies, members of the Committee of Regulatory Procedures, introduced a draft decision recommending that the Parliament should take it as a whole after the decision to terminate the mandate of the Ukrainian People's Deputy for the term. I'm also informing the people's deputies, as well as the committee's decision, and the draft decision was handed down to all the people's deputies before the opening of the evening meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-14-m1.u31	Thank you. The camera reports it's on the site. [[B in m in s a l in]] Irina Volodymyrno, come here, please. Please come. You've been asking questions. Come here. It's on the site. Please, you're being shown. Please come. Please approach Irina Volodymyr. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, I don't have a website, I have a website of the Supreme Council. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, let's move on to the discussion. The committee head reported. Is there a need to discuss the matter? [[B in m in s a l in]] He's not on the site! What a discussion! The "ES" has already discussed its question. Please register: two in, two in, two in factions. Nesterenko Kirilo Alexanderovich. Someone's using Word broken. Is he going to report?
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-14-m1.u32	No, it's not.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-14-m1.u33	Zbrodsky Mikhailo Vitaliovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-14-m1.u34	Thank you, Mr. Head. Please, the word Irina Heratchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-14-m1.u35	Irina Volodymyrovna Heratschenko about a decision she doesn't have.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-14-m1.u36	Dear Ukrainians, I think we're already dijitalizing in such a state that everyone can now open the page first, main, Supreme Council of Ukraine and see the following. New bills, the latest bill on the front page of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, which includes every citizen, including the Ukrainian National MP, show that the last law that is registered here is 2730. And there is no decree number 2732, which has not been given to the Ukrainian people's deputies. That's how your site works. So please bring your site back to normal so that it will be on the front page. That's not funny. The second question. Similarly today, we want to put an exemption requirement in this case and the heads of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, which we have been waiting for for for two months. And here, you know, it doesn't work either. Question three. We have Ukrainian national deputies, both non-factional and our faction, such as Vladimir Vitatrović, who are not assigned to their place of primary work -- the committee, this question is not referred to the session hall. And now it's a key story. Similarly, three factions have registered a draft ruling on the situation surrounding the Boeing crash in Iraq. At first, she was refused registration at the secretariat, this decision. And then when we recycled it and assigned it to 2733, it's not actually registered today, it's not posted on the website to avoid putting it to a vote. If there is no decision today, and the Head of the Supreme Council tells us that it is not yet registered, we cannot take it to the session hall, we demand 2733 to put it in the same way in the block with a statement prepared by the committee head. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-14-m1.u37	Thank you. Irina Volodymyrna, you must have meant Iran. Thank you. Alona Ivanovna's starch. Sergey Vladislavovich was involved.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-14-m1.u38	Dear colleagues, we have an offer. Unfortunately, we have a number of outstanding organizational issues. This refers to the appointment, the release of the heads of committees, and this refers to the introduction of the National Deputies into the committees. And I wanted this not to be a selective approach, but we could look at all these issues and make separate decrees, as the Law on the Rules requires, and adopt appropriate decisions on all the changes that should take place. Our faction believes that it is unacceptable to continue to select decisions that are made or that are not made. We would ask Parliament’s leadership now because of what has arisen the more misunderstood situation of registration, not the registration of the bill, whether it is on the site or not, to postpone the decision. Consider in the complex all the issues that Parliament owed to organize the work of the relevant committees. And then it's the right decision to make. This is the position of our faction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-14-m1.u39	Suffritch Nestor Ivanovich. Then we go to the vote. Please invite the national deputies to the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-14-m1.u40	Thank you. Dear Chairman, dear colleagues, in the course of the speech of my colleague who spoke before me. Well, we are, indeed, somehow very strangely approaching the issue of human resources decisions in our Supreme Council of Ukraine. I see that many of my colleagues from different factions are now my thinkers, regardless of even the fundamental political views of many things. But respect for herself should dominate this room. Please tell me, what about the personnel issues on another committee that the whole world is looking at? This is already a disgrace to our Parliament. And I want to say to our majority that this is your question, this is your quota. Despite what I think about Irina Venedict, a quick decision was made now because she had two months to define. And we know that there's a tough question about the contest and the recognition of its results. But the mandate, even at her request, has been deprived of the right decision. Why don't you tell me why another decision isn't made so quickly? Many national deputies are not really employed; they are national deputies of Ukraine, but they are deprived of the right to work on committees. So I think that the decision that will now be voted on, we support it, because we respect your right of the "Serves of the People" faction to resolve this issue. We support him. But in general, the Supreme Council, from the point of view of personnel issues, looks very, very sad not to say otherwise. Therefore, we request a regulatory committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-14-m1.u41	No, Nestor Ivanovich, with all due respect, but we agreed not to take 10 seconds. As far as I know, the other human resources issues you mentioned will be the solutions for this week. Nestor Ivanovich, are you gone? Can't you hear me? I'm saying that the other personnel issues that you mentioned will be resolved this week, as far as I know. Dear colleagues, let's go to the vote. Please take your seats, prepare for the vote. Ready to vote? I would like to vote on the proposal for adoption in the entire draft Order amending the Supreme Council of Ukraine Decision "On the Election of Heads, First Deputys, Representatives of Heads, Secretariats, Members of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the Ninth Call" (Registration No. 2732). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[16:42:18]] For 296 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, I welcome Andrey Evgenovich for his new position of responsibility and wish you success on it and constructive work on the committee. Thank you. By factions, please show "Serve of the People" – 232, "Responsible Platform for Life" – 29, "European Solidarity" – 0, "Fatherhood" – 1, "For the Future" – 14, "Voice" – 0, "Trust" – 12, "non-factional" – 8. Dear colleagues, please don't break up, we are now moving on to a decree on the death of passengers on flight PS-752. Yet two factions asked for a performance, a break with a replacement for the performance. Who's it gonna be? Peter Alekseiovich Poroshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-14-m1.u42	Honorable Presidium, dear colleagues, why is it necessary to make a wrong decision? The subject of our statement is much broader than the investigation of disaster, the role and place of our state in today's world, our relationship with key Western partners, our relationship with the Russian Federation, how domestic diplomacy can protect the national interests of the state and how the security system functions in the country, and what conclusions must be drawn from this collapse it has demonstrated in recent weeks. Yes, Iran acted more decently than Moscow, which killed hundreds of people and cynically denied its responsibility and its guilt for six years. Being on duty does not deprive you of punishment either. Imagine that your wife or daughter was killed, God forbid, and the wrongdoer apologized and paid for the money. The one who shot down the Ukrainian plane with a Russian missile must be internationally and legally responsible. Too little recognition of Iran’s guilt is needed to find and prove the answers to an extremely important question. Not just who pressed the launch button on a rocket that was in combat, Iranians or foreign instructors. Who, and why, gave the order whose production was the weapon? And admitting Iran is not the finale of a tragic history, and this is the beginning of a long-term investigation and responsibility, which is not just about financial compensation to the families of the dead, but about the honour and dignity of our country of Ukraine with you. This process, as the experience of MN-17 teaches, is difficult and long-lasting. There may be shocks, such as the decision to give Russia a key witness in proving the crime of the Russian Federation, it is about Cemah. That's why the content of our statement, honourable national MPs, is very important. It should not be a memorical and ritualistic character; it must demonstrate with all its contents the strong Ukrainian position of power and opposition, our strong position. So we ask that our version of the statement be placed in the agenda of the Supreme Council and that we support this statement. Thank you for your attention. And the glory of Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-14-m1.u43	Dear colleagues, just to be clear, yesterday at the Conciliation Council, I asked the committee to hold meetings and discuss the draft decision on this tragedy. This meeting took place yesterday. And what colleagues are talking about today. It passed through the committee, it was approved by the committee. And what colleagues say is that there's some kind of alternative. Regrettably, article 90, paragraph 9, of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules does not provide for alternative regulations or such. So there will be other proposals, I think the committee will consider them if necessary. Coming out. Your proposals were made at the committee meeting, and I think as far as possible it was taken into account. Dear colleagues, I suggest we move on to the next issue of the agenda. That's it. Dear colleagues, please take your seats. This is a draft decree on the application of the Supreme Council of Ukraine in connection with the tragic death of passengers on the flight of PS 752 by the International Airlines of Ukraine as a result of its defeat by the Islamic Republic of Iran (register No. 2726). Dear colleagues, please take your seats. We need to vote and put this draft ruling into order. Please take your seats, prepare for the vote. Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[16:48:34]] For 366 Show me the factions, please. Dear colleagues, we need to apply the ad hoc procedure to the consideration and decision-making of this plenary session. Please support and vote. [[16:49:01]] For 365 Decision taken. It is suggested that this issue be considered in a simplified manner. Please support and vote. [[16:49:23]] For 330. Decision taken. Who's going to report it? Reported to the head of the Committee on Foreign Policy and International Cooperation, Yaremenko Bogdan Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-14-m1.u44	Dear colleagues! I think so. I am grateful to my colleagues from most of them. I think the applause is now inappropriate, and we are discussing the loss of lives of Ukrainian citizens and citizens of other states, the loss of a plane, the loss of Ukraine's very serious moral and material damage. Colleagues, yesterday the committee at its meeting reviewed the draft statement and endorsed it, approved it after a substantive discussion and the result of the submission of rights by all factions. This statement not only expresses compassion, it is in no way ritualistic and memorable, it carries out a moral mission of the Supreme Council to be on the side of its citizens, to remember them in difficult moments. It is carrying out a mission of the Supreme Council to communicate with the rest of the world, which has also suffered in this catastrophe. But, of course, this statement refers to Iran’s authority for full confession of its guilt, which should include not only an apology but also compensation to the families, of course, before the affected nations, before the airline. This statement, the draft statement, contains solidarity with the airline that lost its colleagues, lost its aircraft, calls for a transparent investigation that will allow the world to change procedures and rules that will avoid the recurrence of such disasters in the future. Colleagues, since the investigation is continuing, I ask your approval of the committee's secretariat to bring legal proceedings, if necessary, of a technical nature. The point is that the list of countries whose citizens could have been the victim is unfortunately still being clarified. I'm asking you to support me in this way as well.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-14-m1.u45	Thank you, Bogdan Vasilovich. Honorable Colleagues — Is It Needed to Discuss a Decision? Please sign up: two for, two for the factions. Lubinet Dmitry Valeriovich. Batenko Taras Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-14-m1.u46	Dear friends, dear colleagues, when discussing the matter, we first want to say that you will not bring back human life, but the truth about these events is that families need it and all of us, friends who are present in this parliament, the whole of Ukraine, need it. That is why we support the decision on the application. We think we can't pry in any way on these issues, on any political party, whether it's powerful or opposition. This is a question that the Ukrainian Parliament is supposed to consolidate. That's the first one. The other one. I can't agree with the previous reporter who's making an alternative statement, an ex-president who's measuring the integrity of a larger or lesser Russian or Iran. The issue of morality and integrity cannot be present under the terms of the terrorist act that was applied to Ukrainian citizens. So in this case, we want to hear the minister of foreign affairs. And yesterday we raised this question to the Conciliation Council, so that on Friday at the "government hour" among other ministries Mr. Pristajko spoke and answered all the questions that concerned Ukrainian society in the event of this terrible tragedy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-14-m1.u47	Thank you, Taras Ivanovich. The word is given to Pauline Yuri Alexiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-14-m1.u48	Please pass the word to Elijah Kiwi.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-14-m1.u49	Ilja Volodymyrovich Kiva.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-14-m1.u50	I believe that in the current situation of death. [[B in m in s a l in]] I believe that in the current air crash situation in Tehran.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-14-m1.u51	Ilja Volodymyrovich, Ilja Volodymyrovich, well, let's respect the Rules and colleagues. Come on.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-14-m1.u52	The Head of the Ukrainian Security Service, who was obliged to warn the situation, was not at the mountain resorts. [[B in m in s a l in]] It's okay, I'll finish. I still have time, so I can finish. That is why I believe that this tragedy is the responsibility of the Head of the Security Service of the country of Bakanov, who has been in the mountain resorts all the time. The Ukrainian Security Service had to warn and close the sky to use Ukrainian aircraft. So I'm going to demand Bakanov's presence and responsibility as the person responsible for this tragedy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-14-m1.u53	Thank you. Pippa Natalia Romanovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-14-m1.u54	Please pass the word to Svetoslav Vakarczuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-14-m1.u55	Svoslav Ivanovich Vakarczuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-14-m1.u56	Dear colleagues, as a whole, we discussed the content of this statement on the committee yesterday for quite some time, and in general, most political forces support, of course, the idea of this statement, the spirit of this statement and most of the things it says. However, it is very important that we, as the Supreme Council, respond to the facts that have been seen by society during the days that followed the tragedy. And those incomprehensible explanations, and the wrong things that appeared on the site, and the things that led to the deception of the Ukrainians, should not be repeated again in the future. That is why we urge the application to include words that the Supreme Council calls on the relevant state authorities to inform the Ukrainian society in a timely, professional and professional manner about the course of the investigation and other matters related to the tragedy. It's a principled position. I'm asking that we vote for it in this particular editorial. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-14-m1.u57	Thank you. Zbrodsky Mikhailo Vitaliovich. Heratchenko Irina Volodymyrna
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-14-m1.u58	Allow me once again to express my sympathy to all the families of the dead, the crew, all the citizens of all the seven countries that have suffered this terrible catastrophe. And we're actually discussing a subject that's so sensitive and delicate that it also requires delicacy from us, starting with who's representing this topic in the Supreme Council, and ending with our behavior with you right now. And in fact, yesterday was the first time that a very professional Committee of Foreign Affairs took place that lasted six hours, and where all the factions present, including the opposition, joined in discussing and improving this statement. And we're not just supporting it in general, we're improving it. And we thank you for taking most of our proposals into account. At the same time, if Ukraine itself fails to draw lessons and conclusions from these organizational and communication errors that have been made by the authorities, it means that we do not respect the memory of the professional crew, who were initially accused of its guilt, both the memory of the victims, and the relatives who today expect the bodies of the dead to be delivered. And in fact, the whole problem is not an alternative statement, but that the opposition (and I thank very much the representatives of the three factions of Parliament who signed this) is asking one of you to have the following phrases in this statement: "The Supreme Council of Ukraine refers to the Cabinet of Ministers, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Office of the President of Ukraine, other authorities of the State on the need for timely professional general and honest information from the Ukrainian society on the causes of the disaster of the Ukrainian plane Boeing 737." This is our respect with you, the Supreme Council of Ukraine, for the crew that died, for their memory, for the victims, and for, after all, the image of the country. And unfortunately, it wasn't supported by the people's servants on the committee yesterday. We are now very much asking to hear about three opposition factions here, more.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-14-m1.u59	No, dear colleagues, we agreed, according to the Rules. Dear colleagues, the time for discussion is up. Let's go to the vote. Valentin Aleksandrovich, Fatherland, with motives.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-14-m1.u60	Dear colleagues, citizens of Ukraine, Fatherskina faction, Átnajchenko. We propose during the vote that the Supreme Council should be in charge today when it adopts this statement — to help Ukrainian citizens, relatives of the victims of this plane crash. Therefore, in paragraph 6, paragraph 6, of the draft declaration must state that the identification of each deceased person, then the return (this is to the coauthors of the application) and then compensation payments by the Iranian side of each family, the relatives of the victims of the plane crash and the Ukrainian air carrier. Unfortunately, there are no definitions in the text of the project. Therefore, the Fatherland faction suggests that the Supreme Council also show a position: we are protecting our citizens, we will certainly seek compensation and for the relatives of the victims and the Ukrainian air carrier. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-14-m1.u61	Thank you. Dear colleagues, let's go to the vote for that project. Dear colleagues, we don't apply, we don't make proposals out of a voice, it's all discussed on the committee. All the suggestions you mentioned were that there was an expert committee, most of the proposals were taken into account. So let's go over the text that's given to everyone in the room. Dear colleagues, I am voting on the proposal to adopt as a basis and on the whole of the draft Decision on the application of the Supreme Council of Ukraine in connection with the tragic loss of passengers on the flight PS 752 by the International Airlines of Ukraine. Ukrainian Airlines as a result of its defeat by the Islamic Republic of Iran (register No. 2726). Please prepare for the vote. Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[17:02:05]] For 368 Decision taken. Show me the factions, please. "People's Servant" – 232, "The Opposition Platform for Life" – 27, "European Solidarity" – 27, "The Fatherhood" – 20, "For the Future" – 15, "The Voice" – 17, "The Trust" – 14, "the Non-Factional" – 16. Thank you. Let's move on to the next question of order of the day. Dear colleagues, you have been invited to consider the draft Law amending the Customs Code of Ukraine and some other laws of Ukraine in connection with the implementation of administrative reform. — Registration No. 2318-1. Reported to the head of the Committee on Finance, Tax and Customs Policy, Danilo Alexandrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-14-m1.u62	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear colleagues, which is now under consideration by the Supreme Council for the second reading of Bill 2318-1, which has been introduced by the People's Deputies as an alternative to the Cabinet of Ministers bill on the creation of a single customs legal person to complete customs reform and transform it into an effective, effective institution that conducts customs handling for better examples of European countries. The bill proposes, in addition to changing the customs structure, to provide for certain rules that regulate the special status of customs, which regulate the special order of their appointment, release, and material and technical security. The bill contains 116 rights, most of them included. Please support this document, which is recommended by the committee for adoption by the Supreme Council in second reading and in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-14-m1.u63	Thank you, Danilo Alexanderovich. We're going straight, my dear fellows. Will everyone insist on their work? They will, won't they? Okay. Amendment number nine, People's Deputy Getmantsev. Will you insist, Danilo Alexandrovich? No, it's not. Thank you. Amendment number 10, People's Deputy Trukin. Will you insist? It won't. Amendment 13, People's Deputy Kunayev. Will you insist? It won't. Edited number 14, National Deputy of the South. Will you insist? Nina Petrovna, I can't see you. Yes. Please, a word. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-14-m1.u64	Dear colleagues, you must all realize that we are now giving green light to a reform that is in much conflict with the Constitution of Ukraine. And unfortunately, for the second reading, the table is again prepared with significant violations. This was noted, direct comments, by the legal authorities of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And I think that if you haven't responded to the committee, and if we don't respond now, there might be a line to the Constitutional Court. And imagine, all customs actions within the framework of this law will be abolished, what effect this could have on the State and on the payer as a whole. Please don't put the amendment on confirmation, but this is a remark that all MPs should be aware of about the consequences of this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-14-m1.u65	Thank you, Nina Petrovna. Nina Petrovna, are you going to insist on any of the following amendments? Thank you. Then it's the 15th amendment, and it's yours.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-14-m1.u66	It's 52nd of mine.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-14-m1.u67	What's that? 52nd. Thank you. 16th is yours, too. 21st National Deputy Kunayev. Don't insist. 25, National Deputy Batenko. I don't see the people's deputy Batenko. Please step away from the company. Don't insist. Thank you. Are you going to insist, Taras Ivanovich? Okay. 26, Kunaev. Don't insist. 27, Kunaev. Don't insist. Twenty-eight, Batenko. Don't insist. 29, Kunaev. 30, Batenko. Don't insist. Dear colleagues, Taras Ivanovich, who will you insist on? All right, let's keep going. 31st of you. 35th of yours. Kunaev, 36th. 37th, Kunaev. 38th, Batenko. 39th, Batenko. 40th, Batenko. Kunaev. 42nd, Eugene. The Gethmans. 43rd. Danilo Alexandrovich, will you insist? Okay. Thank you. 44th, Kunaev. 45th, Kunaev. 46th, Kunaev. 47th, Trukin. Trukin doesn't insist either. The Gethmans are accounted for. 50, Kunaev. 53rd. Eugene, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-14-m1.u68	Dear colleagues, so I would like to inform you once again that instead of 25 individual customs officers, individual legal persons who have to perform the functions of the State in respect of customs policy, we have one legal person with 15 separate structural units located in different territories, but they will be without the status of a legal person. And imagine that this amendment refers to the fact that the authorization of these separate structural provisions will be governed by a customs clause that will be created individually by Mr. Nepheod and passed on a set of actions, i.e. to carry out customs procedures, as he wishes. It can't be like that for a tax payer, or for any natural person, everyone has to know that this kind of review of customs procedures is to the fullest extent, and equally, all customs are passed on to regionally separated units, not legal units.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-14-m1.u69	Nina Petrovna, will you insist on confirmation? Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-14-m1.u70	Dear Nina Petrovna, we have discussed this issue with you on the committee, and we have agreed that these are different views in general that deny each other the structure of customs. The Cabinet of Ministers and, in fact, the State Customs Service is really proposing that we create a single legal person and allow the customs director to determine how and by what authority regional customs will be given. This is what he will regulate by coming out of these tasks that he puts in place, ensuring the management of regional customs. Your amendment is that we determine all of this in advance and deprive him of that right. But it's a completely different essence and approach that we don't support. Thank you. Decline, committee proposal: reject.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-14-m1.u71	Thank you. Dear colleagues, vote number 53 of the national MP of South Nina Petrovna. The committee proposes to reject the request for identification and voting. [[17:10:02]] For-60 The decision is not taken. Next issue is the 57th National Deputy of South Carolina. Nina Petrovna, are you insisting? You insist, yes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-14-m1.u72	Dear colleagues, this is the second block of incorrigible errors that we will be with you, I'm sure, to correct only later. This is because now, without waiting for this law, the new head of the State Customs Service issued an order that is very hidden from him. Even at the request of the National Deputies, number 25 on customs zones. By violating the administrative and territorial units that exist in our country, he created, like, 15 customs, which are now in the status of a legal person, we have to get them out of the legal status. Do you have any idea what this colleague is doing right now? Your "ministers of the people," 8 deputies, have addressed Mr. Head of the Supreme Council with the fact that, for example, a customs officer is so indignant that she was the most effective, effective one among the rural and the Polish, and she is now eliminated, and connected to two other regions. Why the local budget was severely damaged.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-14-m1.u73	Committee position, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-14-m1.u74	We're proposing to reject the above-mentioned amendment because, in fact, 16 customs duties have been created today. Again, the essence of this reform is for customs to be created in several regions, allowing customs procedures to be optimized and again ensuring customs management in general. That's why we're proposing a rejection.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-14-m1.u75	You're demanding a vote, Nina Petrovna, right? Vote number 57 of the national MP of Southanina is put to the vote. The committee suggests that the amendment be rejected, please. Excuse me, request to be identified and voted. [[17:12:20]] For-67
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-14-m1.u76	The decision is not taken. No. 60. National Deputy Kunayev, do you insist? Don't insist. 61st, Eugene. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-14-m1.u77	Dear colleagues, so in order to optimize customs, as the committee head has just said, we send taxpayers 125-130 kilometers from our duty point. Do you have any idea what we're doing for the tax payer, where this optimization is for the state? What should the payers do now? And what you said, a list of customs clearances and procedures cannot be carried out by a central apparatus, they must be handed over to customs in the same way. So you don't have to get confused right now, you guys get out of here first, Mr. Head. You cannot grant one customs officer the right to conduct five procedures and another ten. Where do the other five go? Going to the city of Kiev? You are now making irreparable mistakes that will be very bad. will also lead to a fall in the amounts that may now allow themselves to engage in entrepreneurial activities, and in general to chaos, no one will know on which customs to carry out a number of customs procedures. Please, everyone.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-14-m1.u78	Thank you. 62nd. Are you insisting? Yeah. Amendment No. 61 of the People’s Deputy of Jujanina was rejected by the committee. Please identify and vote. [[17:14:13]] For-73 The decision is not taken. Amendment No. 62 of the People's Chamber of Skrum. Are you insisting? Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-14-m1.u79	Alona's splinter, Fatherland faction. Colleagues, I will insist on almost every correction I make. Because, unfortunately, I was not heard by the profile committee, but I was not invited to a committee meeting yesterday on the subject of my amendments, although I have many. And unfortunately, I have to say that all my amendments are not about customs procedures or customs, namely the destruction of the State Service and the State Service Act, because in fact these amendments for today that you have rejected are created by a parallel public service, i.e. all government officials are equal, except for the public officials who work on customs. All the heads of state service and all the heads of government are equal, except for the leader who runs the new customs office. It can't be, then we just have to get out of the public service, shut down the State Service Act in general, and the public service itself. So this is my amendment, it has to be counted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-14-m1.u80	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-14-m1.u81	Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-14-m1.u82	Thank you for your correction, Mrs. Schrum. Yesterday we had a committee meeting where we were looking at an additional table. an additional table to the previous table. And we've actually had a discussion with you, we've heard your arguments, we've heard the arguments of the Cabinet of Ministers, and we've made decisions in favor of the arguments that the government has given us. What's the matter? We are indeed predicting the characteristics of the public service for the customs office. This approach is in agreement with our foreign partners, and it meets the goals we set today before customs reform. We think that the tax collector should be provided with an appropriate salary, materially and technically, and also have special features about, let's say, contracts that deal with it. So we suggest we reject this amendment, Mrs. Schrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-14-m1.u83	I'm betting on the vote number 62 of the People's Chamber of Skrum. She was rejected by the committee. Please identify and vote. [[17:16:49]] For-100 The decision is not taken. Amendment No. 63 of the People's Chamber of Skrum. Don't insist.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-14-m1.u84	He insists. I will insist on almost all my amendments, colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-14-m1.u85	Mr. Mandji, Sergey Volodymyrovich, I understand that your broad back is a bit closed by colleagues, but please, so that you can see them. Alona Ivanovna, or maybe we're going to get together, aren't we? Are you going to insist on everyone? Turn on the Scrum microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-14-m1.u86	Colleagues, I have to insist on the amendments when the government doesn't hear me, the committee doesn't hear me, the head of the customs can't hear me, and the colleague can't hear me. And these amendments apply to collective. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-14-m1.u87	Okay. Amendment No. 63 of the People's Chamber of Skrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-14-m1.u88	Thank you. These amendments, I repeat, apply exactly to the Public Service Profile Act and were to be considered, including by the Public Service Committee of Local Government, which I belong to. Unfortunately, our committee has not seen these amendments, and our committee could not support the creation of another state service on customs. This amendment refers to the fact that today there is the possibility of contracting public service in all public authorities. But according to our international commitments, in agreement with the European Union, we have determined, in agreement with the government, that the number of people who can work in the contract public service is only 7 percent of all government officials in the body. And just on customs, for some reason I don't understand, there could be more than 100 percent of them. That's not right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-14-m1.u89	Thank you. Amendment No. 63 of the People's Chamber of Skrum. It was not counted by the committee. Please identify and vote. [[17:18:41]] For-98 The decision is not taken. Amendment number 64 of the People's Chamber of Skrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-14-m1.u90	Thank you, colleagues. Alona's splinter, Fatherland faction. Mr. Hetmantsev, Commissioner, said that he believed that customs officers, customs officers and civil servants should be provided with normal wages and working conditions. I totally agree with that. Moreover, I believe that all government officials in the country should be provided with normal working conditions, both material and technical, and financial. And here we have to say honestly, or we're reforming the entire public service, the state administration, raising the wages of those who work decently, releasing those who don't work effectively, reducing the functions and expenses of the public service at the expense of inefficient public authorities, or we're creating individual castes, for example, such as customs. At the customs office we give 10 extra bonuses, we give extra money, we give you the opportunity to work on a contract, we give you the opportunity to exclude from the public service, which contradicts all common sense standards, and all the other 180 or 190 thousand government officials -- work as you do now. I don't think it can fly, it's not a systemic approach and it can't work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-14-m1.u91	Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-14-m1.u92	Dear Mrs. Skrum, we, personally, are convinced that you and I will carry out a reform of the State Service, we will complete it, and indeed all civil servants will receive a decent salary. And then maybe we'll go back to reviewing the status of the customs. Today, however, customs are an authority that is a budgetary authority, and you and I understand that a person who receives 7,000 or 8,000 wages is no longer able to perform his duties properly. It's about money. And in terms of contracts, 7 percent and the temporary nature in accordance with article 34 of the State Service Act does not meet the requirements that we face. We believe that the customs officers of the primary chain, or the lowest inspectors, should have KPIs, should have contracts, should be responsible for the concrete results of their work. Thank you. Discard the amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-14-m1.u93	Do you insist on voting? Don't insist. Amendment No. 65 of the People's Chamber of Skrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-14-m1.u94	64 is what it was.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-14-m1.u95	I said, "Do you insist on voting?"
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-14-m1.u96	Of course.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-14-m1.u97	I'm betting on the vote number 64 of the People's Chamber of Skrum. It's rejected by the committee. Please identify and vote. [[17:21:39]] For-103 The decision is not taken. Amendment number 65, Scrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-14-m1.u98	Thank you, colleagues. Alona's splinter, Fatherland faction. This is precisely the case with the possibility of contracting with government officials. While all other government officials in all the country’s national authorities can account for only 7 percent of the government’s contract service from the total number, it is suggested that the customs office should say that this could be 100 percent. Fellows, you have a majority today, you have a government that you've formed today, you can make changes to the public service today, and you can say that in every public authority, if necessary, you can make contracts for all 100 percent. But I don't understand how to lobby, it's totally in the worst sense, lobbying certain requirements for government officials in one body -- customs and all the other government officials in the country, government officials in the Supreme Council, government officials in the Cabinet of Ministers. Please change the general law, change your government strategy where you haven't prescribed it, and change it systematically. This chaos and these mistakes are just making more mistakes, more disagreements, which you're then correcting in three months. And I think that's what's going to happen, unfortunately. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-14-m1.u99	Are you insisting? The amendment of 65 national deputies by Schrum was rejected by the committee. Please identify and vote. [[17:23:13]] For-103 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. 66, Schrum. Don't insist. 67th. 68th. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-14-m1.u100	68 The law specifically refers to the amount of premiums and allowances to government officials on duty, colleagues. Now, please consider what the government and head of customs are proposing today, and unfortunately, it is supporting a profile committee. "In addition to the salary for salaries paid to customs officials, the allowance for special appointment of customs officials, the allowance for additional workload in connection with the duty of temporary absence, the allowance for the performance of particularly difficult work, the allowance for personal qualifications." What is it, colleagues, explain it to me. It's not there, not even a definition, not in the State Service Act, not in the Cabinet's grant regulations. What's this, what's this, what's this settled, where's the definition of this term? "Command Award," what's that? "Significant Personal Achievement Awards"? Colleagues, the fund doesn't go up, so you don't spend more money on customs. All of this could be settled by increasing, for example, one compensation allowance. Why are you creating corruption absolutely?
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-14-m1.u101	Thank you. You insist, don't you? 68 A People’s Deputy’s Amendment was rejected by the Skrum Committee. Please identify and vote. [[17:24:57]] For-143 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. Edit the number. The Hetmans, don't they insist on what they're doing? 70th Amendment, Nina Petrovna Jujanina.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-14-m1.u102	Dear colleagues, to your understanding, almost most of the rules in this bill are without calculated consequences, all built on trust, which they want to give to the new head of the State Customs Service. What if he does exactly the same? And as to what I have warned all of you to hear, there are a list of customs procedures that are required to carry out external economic activity. And what if he doesn't even know what customs he's doing these procedures in, because customs will be given completely different powers. You can imagine what we're doing for business right now. We're just creating a new nightmare. So, I think I'd like to emphasize again, please read the comments of the Chief Legal Authority. It seems to me that you are in a hurry to accept such changes. They need to be made on a permanent basis. Not only under the new Head of State Customs, you may need to change it tomorrow.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-14-m1.u103	Thank you. Nina Petrovna, are you insisting on your right? Amendment No. 70 of the People's Deputy of Jujanina. The committee didn't count it. Please identify and vote. [[17:26:46]] For-95 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. Edit 71, Jujanina. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-14-m1.u104	Dear colleagues, this is the last amendment I'm going to insist on. Because I see that most, the majority, don't understand what they're going to do now, so it doesn't make sense. But I would like to point out that once again, because these norms violate the Constitution of Ukraine, these standards can be removed from the favored subjects who will appeal to the Constitutional Court. I will be sure to register the order to revoke the decision you have taken if so decided, given that the procedure has been violated, the Rules for second reading of the table and the amendments that were voted on yesterday by an additional table. Thank you for your attention. And I will no longer insist on repairs, Mr. Dmitri.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-14-m1.u105	Thank you. This too we can not put, yes, on. We put this to a vote. Amendment No. 71 of the People's Deputy of Jujanina. She was rejected by the committee. Please identify and vote. [[17:28:08]] For-100 The decision is not taken. Amendment number 72, Scrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-14-m1.u106	Thank you, colleagues. Alona's splinter, Fatherland faction. You know, I'd love to have some common sense, and we've heard each other. I'm going to repeat what the amendments you're making today, including my authorship and other colleagues, are doing. Today, on the day when there is a scandal over the fact that in the Ministry of Culture, young people and sports, 300,000 dollars per December are paid to substitutes, 250,000 dollars per year, and it is not clear what they are doing. Today, by supporting this law in the way it was supported by the committee, you give seven additional bonuses and allowances to the salaries of government officials on duty. For this reason, it is not clear what work, by which criteria, can be obtained by any government official in the country other than a customs official. This is totally unacceptable. There are other mechanisms under which we can be encouraged today in a legal way. You're still not increasing the fund, which means someone's going to get an allowance of 300,000 dollars, and someone's going to get a flat salary of 8,000 dollars. And I will continue to follow this when the law is done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-14-m1.u107	Thank you. Do you insist on voting? Amendment number 72, Skrum, was rejected by the committee. Please identify and vote. [[17:29:45]] For 122 No decision taken, no correction counted. A hundred lashes, Schrum. Are you insisting? 101st. Andrew Ivanovich? Thank you. 102nd, Scrum. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-14-m1.u108	Thank you, colleagues. I now insist on the changes that make, think about the State Service Act. It's no longer the Customs Code, it's no longer a customs issue, it's the State Service Act, through a non-professional committee, a committee that's actually from local self-government, government building, government service, it's not seen and probably wouldn't agree. I think it's time for us to put an end to this shameful practice when, through some laws, we make explicit changes to other laws and set separate rules and exceptions for ourselves. I offered an alternative, including Mr. Nephrodov and Mr. Hetmansz, and a profile committee. I would suggest that if customs officers are no longer able to work within the public service and are unable to show results within the public service, I think we just have to completely exclude customs from the public service. It's also an option. Let them work under the Labour Code, so I understand that a new Labour Code will be created today and, ‘ Okay, let this happen. ’ But destroying the public service, balancing it and making caste equal, and some more equal, is not possible, and more so is contrary to our international obligations. I'm going to lead this to ours.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-14-m1.u109	Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-14-m1.u110	We're actually making changes to the State Service Act, but it's only because there are certain customs regulations that don't extend the law or extend it to those rules, those restrictions that are in the Customs Code. So there's nothing wrong with these changes, they're dotive, and they're not distorting the entire text of the basic law. Thank you. Decline.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-14-m1.u111	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I'm voting on the motion for amendment number 102 of the People's Chamber of Skrum, which was rejected by the committee. Please identify and vote. [[17:32:42]] For-119 The decision is not taken. Line 103, Schrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-14-m1.u112	Thank you, colleagues. Mr. Hetmans, I'm afraid you're being misled, because I respect you very much as an expert, you're doing a lot better than I am in tax law, but still with your amendment 104 you're amending the State Service Act, which does not apply to customs. Look right now in my hands, you're making changes about the release, the possibility, the government officials in all government bodies without consent to the unions, as it is done, within what time period, in 30 calendar days of the warning and all that. The question is that such things cannot be done in a law that is unprofessional. And here I think we agree with you. And I'm asking you not to do that, and I'm asking really these things to be removed from this law at all, because there's a committee of public buildings and public services that's working on these issues, which wrote a profile law that's already adopted amendments to the State Service Act. And to make changes that don't even apply to customs is not right, probably inappropriate and not very beautiful. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-14-m1.u113	The committee will now take a stand.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-14-m1.u114	I'm taking a position now. I'll explain now, this standard is in line with Law 2260, which is now under review at the President's Office, on the President's signature, it fully duplicates the standard that is there. And it's about that decision that your committee made, too. So this standard completely duplicates your decision. Thank you. The offer is rejected.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-14-m1.u115	Amendment No. 103 of the People’s Chamber of Skrum was rejected by the committee. Does it conform to Law 2260? Okay. 103. Please identify and vote. [[17:35:52]] For-136 Okay. Next line is 105, Batenko. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-14-m1.u116	Dear colleagues, Amendments 105 and 106. You know, we are deeply convinced that the laws that we adopt, we write these laws not under specific officials, for whom fast-moving positions, but for present and future generations to live under these laws. So in this case, this amendment is about being released from the civil service of civil servants. We find it unacceptable to introduce amendments to Ukraine's legislation on the whole system of government, not just customs. Then the substance of the bill in this section does not correspond to the subject of the project, since it is a matter of exemption from the public service at the initiative of the subject, without agreement with the elected body of the primary professional organization. Dmitri Alexanderovich, we're actually completely ignoring the unions as such, we're throwing our civil servants out as unprotected on the street, it's not about the governing bodies, it's about the private officials of the public service, and, more than that, we know about it. I can do more.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-14-m1.u117	One minute, Taras Ivanovich. Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-14-m1.u118	This is the same law that we have discussed so far, and we have already adopted it in Law 2260. It's an absolutely agreed position on release. Simplification of the release of state officials, supported by Parliament. So I'm going to ask you to reject the amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-14-m1.u119	Daniel Alexanderovich, if she's in another law?
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-14-m1.u120	The law did not take effect, the law on the President's signature and will be rejected.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-14-m1.u121	The amendment of 105 National MP Batenka is not supported by the committee because it duplicates norms in another law. Please identify and vote. [[17:38:58]] For 111 The decision is not taken. Edit 106, Batenko. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-14-m1.u122	I don't see anything wrong with this amendment about the protection of government officials by professional organizations being reflected in this current law, especially as it applies to the entire system of government, especially as we understand that in those amendments that apply to the Labour Law, which is to replace the Labour Code, such a concept as unions in general. is deprived of the ability to protect its members. Let's protect our citizens and our civil servants and reflect it in this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-14-m1.u123	Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-14-m1.u124	Discard the amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-14-m1.u125	Amendment 106 of the Batenka People's Deputy, not supported by the committee. Please identify and vote. [[17:41:18]] For the 180. The decision is not taken. Edit 108, Schrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-14-m1.u126	Thank you, colleagues. Alona's splinter, Fatherland faction. You see, unfortunately, what chaos happens when we don't actually hear each other, and in one law we make changes, in another law, we balance, unfortunately, the whole state administration and the state service in the country. We make mistakes in the turbines, then these mistakes have to be corrected. This edit was just trying to give you an alternative. And this right here says, let's say, if the new head of the new customs says that he's being hampered by the rules of the state service, which are in agreement with our European partners, who are actually living with the entire civilized world, my proposal was to get the customs officers out of the state service, just to get them out. Not to destroy the public service, but to get them out of the public service, to allow Mr. Nephrodite to manage the customs as he wishes, as the National Bank does today. And it won't be a big deal. But the question is, that's not what the customs director wants, because then he has to be governed by the Labour Code. Colleagues can't or won't be governed by the Labour Code or governed by the State Service Act. You can't be so special, it's just, well, it's just a fairy tale.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-14-m1.u127	Alona Ivanovna, the committee doesn't take the board into account. Put it to a vote, right, 106? I'm betting on a vote of 106. It's not counted by the committee. I'd like to make up my mind. Oh, sorry, 108th, yeah, 106th we already voted, 108th. Please identify and vote. [[17:43:15.]] For 135 The decision is not taken. Edit 109, Schrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-14-m1.u128	Thank you, colleagues. The good news is that this is my last piece of paper that I'm going to insist on. And again, I'm going to repeat that if you're going to adopt this law now in the way that it's worked by the committee, without regulating all of my amendments and amendments to my colleagues, unfortunately you're going to be creating new corruption opportunities. Perhaps not for this authority, but for the next. When you create an additional seven bonuses and seven allowances, absolutely unconfirmed, not approved in the government's decision that no one else in the public service will be able to do, just the customs, and today the customs manager will decide who to give a bonus of 500, 300, 400, 200 thousand dollars and for what achievements, and who to leave a flat salary of 6-8 thousand dollars, I think that's absolutely wrong. I offered an alternative, I tried to listen, I offered to take the customs out of the state service and leave it to the Labour Code. Unfortunately, all these alternatives have not been heard, and I'm sure this will have very negative consequences for the country.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-14-m1.u129	Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-14-m1.u130	Dear Mrs. Skrum, dear colleagues, we suggest that we make provision for public service in the customs service. And this includes the contractual form of employment relations between the customs office and the service to which these bonuses are to be foreseen and the basis for counting them. This will not depend on the will of the individual manager, but will be determined by a written contract, a contract concluded between the two subjects. So given that this is the last amendment, I ask my colleagues to support this bill, which is in agreement with our foreign colleagues and is in line with the purpose of customs reform. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-14-m1.u131	Dear colleagues, please prepare for the vote. And I have a big request. Dear colleagues, if possible, a moment of attention while the hall is being assembled. Dear colleagues, and "Trust" as well. Oleg Ivanovich, good afternoon! Dear colleagues, let's write the laws like that. And David Georgiyovich did the same thing. Let us write laws in a way that fully corresponds to what we write there, not when we have laws that conform to other laws that we have already adopted. I think this is going to reduce time, and it's going to be more of a quality job. Let's go to the vote. Please prepare for the vote. I am voting on the proposal to adopt, in the second reading and in general with the necessary technical and legal regulations, the draft Law amending the Customs Code of Ukraine and certain other laws of Ukraine in connection with the implementation of administrative reform (Registration No. 2318-1). Please prepare for the vote. Ready to vote? Ready? Please support and vote. [[17:47:19]] For 275 Decision taken. Show the factions, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-14-m1.u132	"People's Servant" – 229, "The Opposition Platform for Life" – 0, "European Solidarity" – 0, "Fatherhood" – 1, "For the Future" – 9, "Voice" – 16, "Trust" – 15, "non-factional" – 5.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-14-m1.u133	Dear colleagues, let's move on to the next issue of the agenda. You are invited to consider the draft Ukrainian Law amending the Ukrainian Law on State Service on the Status of Workers of Deputies (Deputy Groups) in the Supreme Council of Ukraine with proposals by the President of Ukraine dated 04.11.2016 (Registration No. 0970). A representative of the President of Ukraine at the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Ruslan Alexiyovich Stefanchuk, reports.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-14-m1.u134	Dear Mr. Golovo, honourable colleagues, adopted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on 20 October 2016 by the Ukrainian Act on Amendments to the Law on State Service on the Status of Workers of the Secretaries of Deputies (Deputy Groups) in the Supreme Council of Ukraine (Registration No. 0970) was not signed by the President of Ukraine, leaving the following. The law that has been signed provides for the appointment of members of the secretaries of the parliamentary factions and groups in the Supreme Council of Ukraine to be assigned to the positions of the guardian service, which will result in the non-proliferation of the basic provisions of the Ukrainian State Service Act. At the same time, they are part of the public ministry. Without denying the need to resolve the issue, the President of Ukraine drew attention to the need for a comprehensive approach to improve the provisions of the National Service Act, which took effect on May 1, 2016. The practice of applying it shows that there are inconsistencies, gaps, and contradictions in legislation. Thus, in the provisions of the law there is an irregularity in the determination of the terms and procedures of the complaint with the contestants of the decisions of the competition commissions, the contradiction of its provisions with the rules of the Law on the Cleanse of Power concerning the time periods for the verification of the validity of the information on the application of the prohibitions. The stated, in fact, makes it impossible for the relevant subject to decide on the appointment of the public service in a 30-day legislative period. In addition, the law lays down requirements for persons who claim to be in positions "A" and "B", particularly with regard to their internships, their work experience. At the same time, a comprehensive list of documents submitted to candidates for such posts does not require a copy of a workbook or other work experience certificate, which in turn does not allow the applicant to determine the qualifications of the requirements. Also, the law does not provide clear answers to the question of the head of the public service, which is the highest-level public authority that a competition commission is to be formed. Given that the list of issues related to the practical implementation of the Ukrainian State Service Act is not exhaustive, the Head of State considers that regulating issues in the relevant sphere requires a comprehensive approach rather than a point of change. In addition, I point out to you that on 19th September 2019 the Supreme Council of Ukraine had already adopted the Ukrainian Act "To Change Certain Laws of Ukraine on the Reloading of Power" No. 117-IX, in which these issues had already been resolved, to which the Head of State had been paying attention in his proposals. In this regard, there is no need for a re-examination by the Parliament of the Law amending the State Service on the Status of Workers. In view of the foregoing, therefore, the President of Ukraine proposes that the law that came upon the signature be rejected. Please consider the proposals made by the President of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-14-m1.u135	The word for the report is given to the head of the Committee’s subcommittee on the organization of state authority, local self - government, regional development, and the construction of the city of Kornjienk Aleksandr Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-14-m1.u136	Dear colleagues, it's brief. Our committee considered, at its meeting on October 30, the President's proposal for the Ukrainian Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on the Status of Secretaries of Deputies (Groups) in the Supreme Council of Ukraine (Registration No. 0970). The committee notes that this law has become obsolete today, since the question of the appointment of members of the secretaries of the MP factions (groups) in the Supreme Council of Ukraine to the positions of the guardian service has already been regulated by another Act on certain changes to certain laws regarding the reintroduction of power, so called 1066, which we adopted on 19.09. 2019. He's like the 117th Law. Therefore, the Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority concludes that there is no need for this law to be re-examined and adopted by Parliament. In view of the above, the Committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council, in accordance with part one of article 135 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Rules, that it support the President's proposals to the Ukrainian Act on Amendments to the Law on State Service on the Status of Deputies' Secretaries' Workers (Groups) in the Supreme Council of Ukraine (Registration No. 0970) and to reject the adopted law as a whole. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-14-m1.u137	Any more questions for the reporter? None. Dear colleagues, I suggest you proceed to the vote. I bet. Dear colleagues, please take your seats, prepare for the vote. Ready to vote? Dear colleagues, I am voting on the proposal to support the proposal of the President of Ukraine and the rejection of the Ukrainian Act on Amendments to the Law on State Service on the Status of Workers of Deputies (Deputy Groups) in the Supreme Council of Ukraine, with proposals by the President dated 04.11.2016 (Registration No. 0970). To do that, we need 226 votes. Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[17:54:43]] For 330. Decision taken. Thank you. Let's see the factions. "The Servant of the People" – 208, "The Opposition Platform for Life" – 27, "European Solidarity" – 25, "The Fatherland" – 15, "For the Future" – 13, "The Voice" – 15, "The Trust" – 15, "The Non-Flocked" – 12. Dear colleagues, on December 12, 2019, the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopted a second reading and, in general, a bill amending article 265 of the Code of Laws on the Work of Ukraine (registration number 1233). In accordance with article 131 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules, we need to remove some disagreements in certain provisions of the law. Suggestions for the settlement of disagreements are given to you. If there are no questions or objections, I will put this document to the vote for adoption. Is it? Scram. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-14-m1.u138	Colleagues, respectable colleagues! Alona's splinter, Fatherland faction. I'd really like to quote our Mr. Speaker, Mr. Razumkov, and completely agree with him in that he said, "You have to write laws so that the laws' names are consistent with what's written in the law itself." What happened to this law, colleagues? It was in this law. The law was entitled "To amend article 265 of the Ukrainian Labour Code." But two laws that were not supported by the committee, but were supported in the hall, changed other laws on the dismissal of workers, again without agreement with the unions and so on and so forth and so on and so forth. And now you have to change the name of the law and remove the disagreement to change the title of the law to fit the content. I don't think that's exactly the legal beauty of the Supreme Council we have to go to. And here, unfortunately, I absolutely agree with Mr. Speaker -- the title of the law must correspond to what is written in the law, so that it doesn't have to be eliminated then and changed after the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-14-m1.u139	Dear colleagues, this issue is not being discussed. I can give you a motive or a procedure. It's a motive. Please turn on the microphone. Hot plate, turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-14-m1.u140	Alexei Hotcharenko, European Solidarity, Clothing. Dear friends, see what causes troublemakers. So we've passed the law, we've already voted in the second reading, and then it turns out that it's absolutely in the title of the law about one thing and in the text about the other. The law is that it can't be signed by a speaker or signed by a president, it's just not a law, it's a smile. And that's why we now have, once it's been a month since it was adopted, to make changes, to correct inaccuracies, to inadequacy, to make this law, really, law, something similar. That's because it's a small law. That's actually the one that's the real thing that's the stupid thing that makes Parliament a laughing stock. Stop all this nonsense so people don't laugh at us anymore. From you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-14-m1.u141	Yeah, there's no clown form here. Let's go to the vote. I would like to vote on the proposals that have been tabled for the elimination of disagreements in the text of the adopted Ukrainian Act on Amendments to Article 265 of the Code of Laws on the Work of Ukraine (registration No. 1233). Please prepare for the vote. Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[17:59:13]] For 270. Decision taken. Let's move on to the next question of order of the day. Dear colleagues, you have been invited to consider the draft Law on Amendments to Certain Legislative Acts of Ukraine (Registration No. 2494). It is suggested that we consider it as a simplified procedure. Please support and vote. [[5:59:49]] For 254 Decision taken. The report is given to the Minister of Social Policy, Sokolovska Yulia Sergiyovni.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-14-m1.u142	Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for the opportunity to present a government bill. You're always so noisy, aren't you? The purpose of this bill is to help families who find themselves in difficult situations. This bill refers to orphans, children deprived of parental care, families of underprivileged and elderly citizens who have reached the age of 80. In fact, in this bill we help, if you support, we can help 42,000 orphans, children deprived of parental care, who are in custody. We're proposing to raise the payout from two to two and a half living minimums, that's about a thousand dollars. And especially important, it's also raising payments for families with children with disabilities, that's 2,000, 600 dollars more and 3,300 dollars more. In fact, these people serve as a nation, bringing up their children in their families so that their children do not go to boarding schools. In this way we can stimulate families and help caregivers. The bill also introduces changes in the program to low-income families, we have already budgeted payments, but at the same time we are doing incentives for low-income programmes so that people of working age who are not currently working have the opportunity to work, and we are introducing active programs. And we also introduce help to care for older people over 80 years of age, about 600 bracelets, which are lonely, and which we will help in this way at an advanced age. And I realize that these may be the first steps, but they still lay the foundation for our social policy, to help people in difficult situations, to overcome these circumstances. So I'm asking you to support it as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-14-m1.u143	Thank you. For reasons, First Deputy Head of the Supreme Council, Ruslan Alexiyovich Stefanchuk
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-14-m1.u144	Dear colleagues, I want to address both the minister and the government at all. Dear friends, there are questions related to regulatory technology. I'm asking you very much, the names of the bills also refer to what we need to understand what this bill is about. There can be no such thing as a draft law amending certain laws of Ukraine. So I ask the government and other subjects of the legislative initiative to take this into account, what we need to understand is what classification criteria of legislation we should refer to in your projects. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-14-m1.u145	Thank you, Ruslan Alexiovich. I think that's a very good point. Let us respect both our work and the work of our colleagues. The word for the report is given to the deputy head of the Committee on Social Policy and Veterans’ Rights.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-14-m1.u146	At its meeting, the Committee of the Supreme Council on Social Policy and Veterans’ Rights considered the bill and supported it before. take as a basis and as a whole. But we want to point out that before the second review, we're going to fix the technical and economic adjustments in part of the name. Please be supportive. By the second reading, we'll be correcting the technical and economic adjustments.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-14-m1.u147	Thank you. I think it's from the place then. Next time, well, really, you just don't feel comfortable, then we'll turn it on. Okay? Well, we're uncomfortable with the microphones on the stand, well, really, that's the problem. Dear colleagues, do you need a discussion? Please register: two in, two in, two in factions. Belkova Olga Valentinovna. I can't hear you? Cymbaluk? Cimbaluk Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-14-m1.u148	Dear Lord Chairman, dear colleagues! In fact, the law is extremely necessary, and I thank the First Vice-Speaker, Representative of the President of the Supreme Council for his significant remarks. By the way, the Head of the Supreme Council also drew attention to the title of the bill. We prepare them, more faithfully, the initiator here is the government, and then we make changes. And when we say that we really need to support families that have children to support them, especially with disabilities, with disabilities from birth, or those who care for older people, we have clear legislation to anticipate all conditions. Regrettably, the government in this bill says that the order of appointment will set up the government, not the law. Moreover, the bill stipulates that local authorities, or local officials, will determine who has the right to receive and who does not have the right. And we authorize local officials to exercise control over the property status of those to whom this assistance is intended. I want to go back to what I started with: the law is absolutely necessary, but let us work together on our committee to allow it to protect those people who are waiting for help. And those who have a share in the family care for relatives who themselves cannot cope. The Fatherland faction is ready to support it, but it's not like that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-14-m1.u149	Thank you. Katchura Alexander Anatoliyovich. Out of place, turn on the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-14-m1.u150	Alexander Kachura, "Serial of the People" faction. Well, let's just make sure the Cabinet of Ministers doesn't remember exactly what they call bills. Absolutely. Let's do it the fourth time. This isn't the first time: it doesn't match the legal technique of drafting bills. Yesterday he discovered, and I'm looking at what this bill is not clear about -- about the introduction of other legislation. So, in terms of the bill itself, it's good, but it needs to be worked out clearly, because the minister said it should be accepted as a basis and as a whole. No, you don't. I have a few questions. For example, I have a question before article 9 of the Ukrainian Act, which amends, "For State Social Assistance to Lowly Families". It says: “The involvement of unemployed workers in the temporary work that is provided for in the new edition is free of charge. So this isn't about how they're involved, that it takes the consent of this person, because at this point, as a person gets involved, the result might be, for example, that a person doesn't learn at this time, he uses time, he can't get any counterfeits for a salary, he doesn't get a new job. So the bill is correct, it needs to be accepted, and at least on one side of the state it helps low - income families, it helps older ones, but it needs to be worked out, friends. And please hand over to the Cabinet of Ministers, so he doesn't call the Bills that are coming into the Supreme Council again, as was the case this time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-14-m1.u151	Zinkevich Jan Vadimovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-14-m1.u152	She's Zinkiewich. Please pass the word to Rostislav Pavlovka.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-14-m1.u153	Rostislav Pavlovenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-14-m1.u154	Thank you, Dmitri Alexanderovich. Your Honor, your colleagues, you know, there are some really positive positions in the law that the reporter stressed. But the devil is in detail, and the details here are very important. Because this bill actually proposes for most of the basic social positions, it refers to both low-income families and families that have children, and in general the purpose of any social assistance to be transferred to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. The legal guarantee of social security is virtually eliminated, and these functions are handed over to officials, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, and the local authorities. We have to ask our question whether it's really a protection, whether it's a birth, including a corruption risk, and whether it's a chance for officials to determine by hand, not just in the turbulence, but in the hand-to-hand circuit, whether help will be provided or not. And then it will be possible for officials to write down the large wages that have been discussed many times today. So, honourable colleagues, I urge you to be vigilant, I urge the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine to abandon the practice of handing out social payments and not to submit any more bills that do not fit the meaning, and where good things hide such antisocial initiatives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-14-m1.u155	Thank you. Batenko Taras Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-14-m1.u156	Dear friends, Reverend Dmitri Alexanderovich, I think this is a precedent for us, I think this is the first and last time, I will not repeat myself, with this agreement all the factions, when we consider a bill with that name, with such approaches blindly in fact. I think that the secretariat or the Supreme Council's apparatus should simply not put us on the agenda, or even register such bills with such names. Obviously, the good objectives of this bill could be supported because the project foresees a slight increase in the amount of assistance for children who are being cared for or cared for. And the same is true of caring for single people who have reached the age of 80. But this bill should also be cleared so that many families cannot lose the right to receive state social assistance. And for many families, such changes could lead to a decrease in the size of aid in general. And I obviously have to point out once again that there's an article in this bill about the inclusion of non-working persons in the free work of a temporary nature. What is it? This can actually lead to, it can be used by social protection authorities to force such persons by threatening to be deprived of the right to receive State social assistance. Obviously, such free activity will not improve the well - being of low - income families in connection with their indemnity. So I think that this bill, at best it should be worked out, worse -- we should send it all the way to the committee for work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-14-m1.u157	Thank you. Babenko Mikola Viktorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-14-m1.u158	Dear colleagues, there have been a lot of comments on this bill, but I would like to point out that today we have talked a lot about the Constitution of Ukraine. It says in the Constitution that Ukraine is a social state, and it's not one of the first bills that we've actually raised social standards for the first time. This is especially true of orphans and children deprived of parental care. Trust Group will support this bill, and I urge everyone to support it. Perhaps we can refine it in a second reading, and we now support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-14-m1.u159	Thank you. Pavlenko Yuri Alexiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-14-m1.u160	My dear colleagues, Madam Minister, I would like to point out that this is an example of a good one where there are other stupid things that show the mode in which the Cabinet of Ministers is working today without fully understanding the policy they are pursuing. Unfortunately, this situation concerns the most vulnerable category: orphans, children deprived of parental care. This law and I are already late because according to orphans deprived of parental care, which in foster families, DBST, payments have already been increased to 2.5 living minimums. In this case, the language applies to children under the care of the child. Who will pay the children who are under care for the month of January? That's why, taking into account other norms that are in this law that do not apply to children, and raising children who are cared for by children with disabilities is necessary. may not be voted in general, although it was very necessary to vote in these rules yet.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-14-m1.u161	Yuri Alexiyovich, no. No, it's not.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-14-m1.u162	I'll give you a call.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-14-m1.u163	I got it, but... I'll pass on the offer if you don't mind. No, it's not. Ten seconds. Then, just so it's not too easy that someone turned off the microphone again for 35 seconds. Dear colleagues, the discussion is over. Let's go to the vote. Please invite the national deputies to the hall. I'll bet on it. Look, there's a committee proposal on the ground and in general. No, it's not. Based on that, that's good. Dear colleagues, I propose that the draft Law amending some of the Ukrainian legislative acts (registration number 2494) be adopted as a basis for voting. Please take your seats, prepare for the vote. Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[18:16:21]] For 276 Decision taken. Dear colleagues. So, short-term? Dear colleagues, there is a proposal to shorten the preparation period for the second reading and giving of rights and offers by half. Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[18:17:04]] For 269 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, announcements. According to article 147 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Rules of Procedure, I report that the Supreme Council of Ukraine has reached the conclusion of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine that the requirements of articles 157 and 158 of the Constitution of Ukraine of the bill (registration No. 1027). In accordance with part nine of article 147 of the Rules, you have been given the determination of the Constitutional Court today. I ask the Committee on Legal Policy to consider the conclusion of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine at its meeting. 1027 - regarding the termination of the term of office. It's about the law. Let's move on to the next question of order of the day. You are invited to consider a draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation aimed at improving the availability of medical supplies, medical devices, and other goods purchased by a person authorized to purchase in the field of health. — Registration No. 2538. Dear colleagues, we need to vote on the inclusion of this bill in the agenda. Please prepare for the vote. Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[18:19:05]] For 280 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, it is proposed to apply the ad hoc procedure for consideration and decision-making at this plenary session. Please support and vote. [[18:19:30.]] For 274 Decision taken. It is suggested that this issue be considered in a simplified manner. Please support and vote. [[18:19:51]] For 256 The report is given to the Head of the Committee on National Health, Medical Care, and Medical Insurance of Raducci Mikhail Borisovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-14-m1.u164	Mr. Chairman, I inform you that I am presenting this bill as the author and as a co-reporter from the committee. So please give me five minutes to perform. Your view is on the proposal for a bill amending some Ukrainian legislation aimed at improving the availability of medical supplies, medical devices, and other goods purchased by a person authorized to purchase in the field of health (registration number 2538), whose authors are more members of the National Health Committee. This bill is designed to create an active national public health procurement system in exchange for the purchases made today through international specialized organizations. Its aim is to create a transparent and conducive environment for timely and uninterrupted care of the needs of patients with medicines and medical devices and the efficient use of funds allocated by the State for these purposes. It proposes to introduce a series of following money: a reduction in the time limits for the registration of medicines that will be purchased at the expense of the budget, the purchasing agency of the Ministry of Health, which will extend to the domestic manufacturer. The other one. The ability to react quickly to the deterioration of the population in Ukraine. In the absence of the necessary medicines in Ukraine, the Cabinet of Ministers may allow such medicines to be imported, but only if they are allowed to be used in countries with strict jurisdiction, such as the United States, Switzerland, Japan, or the European Union. In addition, the bill provides for the possibility of a negotiated procedure in public procurement that will ensure that our citizens have access to innovative treatment. The adoption of this bill will allow: the full implementation of procurement procedures, the timely provision of free medicines and medical supplies to patients purchased at the expense of the state budget. And last but not least, remove the practice of discrimination against a national producer. GNEU commented on the bill, but they may be included in the second reading. The adoption of this bill is supported by the Ministry of Health, the Association of Employers of the Medical Industry of Ukraine, and national manufacturers of medical devices. On the other hand, the committee is prepared to take into account a number of suggestions they have made in preparation for the second reading: including legal clarification of the rules on the extension of the reduced registration procedure to the national manufacturer; clarification to ensure that the simplified registration of 7 days is extended exclusively to products registered and implemented in countries with a rigid regulatory field; and removal from the simplified registration procedure of medicines that have undergone the retraining of the World Health Organization. It is also legislative to establish a minimum term for medical supplies of at least 70 percent if purchased at public expense. Only in certain cases, such as an epidemic or another emergency, can the MOH be granted the right to make exceptions to this standard. Dear colleagues, the committee at its meeting on January 13, 20th, reviewed Bill No. 2538 and recommended to the Supreme Council of Ukraine that the draft bill be adopted on the basis of the first reading. The Committee also recommends that the Supreme Council, in accordance with part two of article 116 of the Supreme Council’s Rules of Procedure, shorten the deadline for the submission of legislative proposals and amendments to draft a bill for second reading by the subjects. Please support the committee's proposal. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-14-m1.u165	Thank you. Dear colleagues, do you need a discussion? Can we do so without discussion? No discussion. Dear colleagues, please take your seats. I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Law on Amendments to certain legislative acts of Ukraine aimed at increasing the availability of medical supplies, medical devices and other goods purchased by a person authorized to purchase in the field of health (register No. 2538). Please take your seats. Prepare to vote. [[B in m in s a l in]] You just don't see everyone in the faction, I'm waiting. Not all of them. I don't think they all are. We're not gonna make a call. Dear colleagues, ready to vote? Let us, however, make it possible for national deputies to carry out their duties more qualitatively. This is for all the heads of factions. Not all of them. Not all of them, colleagues. Ready to vote? Ready? Please support and vote. [[6:26:11]] For 278 Decision taken. Show me the factions, please. "The Servant of the People" – 198, "The Opposition Platform for Life" – 2, "The European Solidarity" – 27, "The Fatherhood" – 19, "For the Future" – 8, "The Voice" – 17, "The Trust" – 0, "the Non-Factional" – 9. Thank you. Next question, dear colleagues. You are invited to consider the draft Act amending the Law on Social and Legal Protection of Military Servants and Members of Their Families (Registration No. 2343). It is suggested that this issue be considered in a simplified manner. Please support and vote. [[18:27:07]] For 238. Decision taken. Dear colleagues, there is a proposal without discussion of this bill. Oh, no? Reports the head of the National Security, Defence, and Intelligence Committee of the Committee. And then we can just write down the factions that want to speak. If you don't mind, it won't take long. Beresine.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-14-m1.u166	Reverend Head, distinguished national MPs, respected friends and enemies! Your opinion is proposed by the Ukrainian National Deputies Berezin, Besugola, Kasej, Zdebski, Tretlyak and other Ukrainian National Deputies, the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on Social and Legal Protection of Military Servants and Members of Their Families (registration No. 2343). The bill is designed to regulate issues related to the provision of leave to military personnel. Clarification of specific issues regarding the implementation of the right of military personnel to housing. Bringing the terminology of the Ukrainian Act on Social and Legal Protection of Military Servants and Members of Their Families into conformity with the Ukrainian Education Act, the Higher Education Act and other Ukrainian laws. Clarification of the source of financial security for measures related to the implementation of the rights and social guarantees of military personnel provided for in the Ukrainian Act on Social and Legal Protection of Military Servants and Members of Their Families. The main scientific and expert office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine made its remarks to the bill and noted that the first reading of the bill could be adopted on the basis of the following comments made to it. The Ministry of Finance of Ukraine, the Ministry of Defence of Ukraine, the Ukrainian Security Service, the Ukrainian Foreign Intelligence Service, the National Guard and the Ukrainian State Border Service support the adoption of the bill and send their proposals to it. The bill of 15 November 2019 was considered at a meeting of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on National Security, Defence and Intelligence. As a result of the discussion, the Ukrainian National Deputies adopted a decision: as a result of the first reading, they recommended that the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopt a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on Social and Legal Protection of Military Servants and Members of Their Families (registration No. 2343). At the stage of drafting the bill for second reading by the committee, the proposals will be processed, which is already.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-14-m1.u167	No, it's not. Thank you, Maxim Yuriovich. Dear colleagues, do you need a discussion? Sign up for those factions that want to speak, two minutes, and we'll go to the vote. Petty Officer Valentin Aleksandrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-14-m1.u168	Dear colleagues, honourable Ukrainian citizens, distinguished Ukrainian military officials, protectors of our Fatherland, we as a faction insist that in this bill Parliament take a stand and uphold the primary right of military personnel, as well as members of the families of military personnel, to housing. This time. We suggest that the bill lays down for the government the primary responsibility that the salary, the military salary, and so on be bound and reconciled according to the minimum wage or the minimum wage. Then, for the Ukrainian Armed Forces, we propose that Kabmin should not have the right to set less than four subsistence minimums, but, by military title, two such subsistence minimums. And from this we count, count, and pay, and pay, and pay, and pay, by title, and emphasize, the housing of military personnel. The other one. The bill narrows down the rights of our defences to take a vacation, to obtain a right to compensation if leave has not been granted in time, and to be released in time from the ranks of the Ukrainian Armed Forces. We believe that this is a serious observation, they should be complemented by experts, and the Armed Forces of Ukraine, each military officer, must finally receive from the new Supreme Council new guaranteed payments of housing security and the right to both service and exemption from the ranks of the Ukrainian Armed Forces. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-14-m1.u169	Thank you. Lubinet Dmitry Valeriovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-14-m1.u170	Dear colleagues, the "For the Future" MP will support, vote in favour of the bill. But I would like to draw the attention of all the national MPs that the Chief Expert Office concludes on the basis of the comments made. These remarks were made by the previous speaker, and I would like to point out that it is appropriate to review certain provisions of the bill that do not comply with the requirements of part two of article 22 of the Constitution of Ukraine. The point is that when new laws are passed or changes are made to existing laws, it is not possible to narrow the city down and the scope of existing rights and freedoms. In particular, the bill states that the bill excludes the social legal protection of military personnel and members of their families, the provision for the granting of early release from military service, the shortening of the time needed within Ukraine to arrive at the place of leave and back. So we want all these comments to be accepted when preparing for second reading. And if we are in war conditions, the protection of military personnel must be at the forefront of the Ukrainian Parliament. Let us not worry about words but, indeed, the adoption of fine laws about our military personnel. That's why we support it, but the second reading, when you go to the members of the committee, remove all of these differences, which are clearly prescribed by the General Scientific and Scientific Administration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-14-m1.u171	Thank you. Eugene Nina Petrovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-14-m1.u172	Please pass the word to Irina Fries.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-14-m1.u173	Irina Vasilovna Fryz.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-14-m1.u174	Thank you. "European Solidarity" in view of the cloudy wages that are being paid today by members of the supervisory boards of state-owned enterprises, as well as representatives of the Cabinet of Ministers who are trying to increase their wages, I support the positive direction of this bill. In particular, the protection, social protection, and legal protection of our military and family members are the priorities of both our party and our faction. In view of this, the faction "European Solidarity" will support the draft legislation in the first reading. But like the previous speaker, I would like to highlight a number of comments that have been made by the Chief Scientific and Expert Authority, which needs to be removed in the bill so that it does not conflict first with the valid articles of the Constitution, secondly, with other legislative acts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-14-m1.u175	Bacunec Pavel Andryovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-14-m1.u176	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished colleagues, distinguished Ukrainian people! The draft of the Law on Social and Legal Protection of Military Servants and Members of Their Families, first of all, regulates a number of issues relating to the leave of military personnel, as they are given the possibility of additional leave and are allowed to replace part of the annual leave with compensation. Secondly, it clarified the issue of the realization of the rights of military personnel to provide housing. Thirdly, it also increases military salaries. And so, as a representative of the largest military Javorov region, the legendary 24th Brigade, I urge all of you to support this bill and all legislative initiatives aimed at improving the social status of our military personnel, our defenders who have fought, fought and fought until victory in our country's eastern lands. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-14-m1.u177	Thank you. Bobrovska Solomija Anatoliyevna
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-14-m1.u178	Thank you very much. The Voice faction will support this bill in the first reading. But, sorry, I couldn’t help but overhear the wishes of the United Nations military personnel. But it is about selecting at one end those soldiers who serve in a peaceful territory and in the operation of the United Nations, because it is about infrastructure when we, from Berdjansk, can travel to Volin for about a half an hour and a half, so the same situation from Mariupol. Please take these changes into account by the profile committee, and we will also give them to ourselves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-14-m1.u179	Thank you. Dear colleagues, let's go to the vote. Please take your seats. I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on Social and Legal Protection of Military Servants and Members of Their Families. Please take your seats, prepare for the vote. While colleagues are meeting, please tell me, if this bill is adopted as a basis, maybe we'll cut the deadline by half? There's no objection. Ready to vote? Ready? Please support and vote. [[18:38:15]] For 340. Decision taken. Show me the factions, please. Dear colleagues, in accordance with part two of article 116 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules, I am voting on the proposal to cut back half the preparation for the second reading and submission of rights and proposals. Please support and vote. [[18:38:51]] For 270. Decision taken. Dear colleagues, you have been invited to consider the draft Law amending the Criminal Procedure Code of Ukraine for the conduct of criminal conduct before the court of the first instance by a college of judges (registration number 2456). It is suggested that this issue be considered in a simplified manner. Please support and vote. [[18:39:27]] For 263 Decision taken. Ukrainian National Deputy Yatzik Yulia Grigorovna reports.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-14-m1.u180	Thank you. Dear fellows, distinguished national deputies, presiding lord! Sadly, today, the trial of criminal cases before the courts of the first instance is years long. This is largely true of criminal cases involving serious crimes. serious and particularly serious crimes. What quality can be discussed when a college is unable to meet for several months to hold a judicial hearing? And the reasons for this are objective. So far, you and I can remove this gap. At this time, the Criminal Code provides for mandatory, non-alternative, collegiate delinquent criminal proceedings for which a penalty of more than 10 years is imposed. Let me give you some dry figures. 62 percent of the courts are those courts, the local courts of the first instance, where the composition of the court is calculated by three or fewer judges. As a seed, 1 in 10 cases is referred to the court of another territorial court jurisdiction. Every year less than 27 percent of cases are handled by the courts of the first instance. This is an increase in the number each year. Therefore, we suggest that local courts be dismantled from an excessive number of court cases, introducing the possibility of collegiate deliberation in crimes that involve more than 12 years of imprisonment for the accused. Why 12 years? It is because of the fact that out of 422 convicted persons, only 12 in the past year were sentenced to 10 years of imprisonment.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-14-m1.u181	Thank you. Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss this issue, or can we proceed to the vote? Let's go. Dear colleagues, please prepare for the vote. The committee's proposal to take it as a base is given to all of you. Have a seat, please. Honorary colleagues, I am voting on the proposal to adopt the draft Law amending the Criminal Procedure Code of Ukraine for the conduct of criminal conduct before the court of the first instance by a college of judges (registration number 2456). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[18:42:46]] For 312 Decision taken. Thank you. Dear colleagues, the next issue of the agenda is the draft Act amending certain legislative acts (for the deterrence of the market for metallurgical raw material and metallurgical transactions) (registration number 2426). It is suggested that this issue be considered in a simplified manner. Please support and vote. [[18:43:23]] For 245 Decision taken. Reported by the National Deputy of Ukraine, Kisilevski Dmitry Davidovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-14-m1.u182	Good afternoon, dear colleagues. Your opinion is proposed a bill on the removal from the shadow of the metal market. This sphere, like amber, and alcohol, and the gaming business, is a traditional dining room for corrupt officials and rapists. All of these spheres we have to bring out a little of the darkness into the world. The shadow circle of the metal market is 16 billion dollars a year. Just imagine what 16 billion dollars of cash looks like, 80 percent of the market. This bill creates preconditions to get these 16 billion out of the shadows. How will we do that? We're going to remove five artificial barriers and the legal colossals that make this market in the shadows. It seems that special Ukrainian legislation is written so that it cannot be implemented. A simple example: Criminal responsibility is for carrying out metallurgy operations if you are not included in the register, but it does not exist. I mean, he just started doing something, and he's already earned a criminal article. How does this benefit the State? The government will get about 900 million dollars of extra taxes per year because this market will come out of the shadows. Secondly, this law needs Ukrainian industry, because metallurgy is a raw material for metallurgy, and factories that work legally suffer from this shadow market. The adoption of this law will also contribute to reducing the theft of metal, which is very important. Why? Because now those who are supposed to fight metal theft are hiding this illegal business. If we remove these artificial legal coalitions, everything will come back from the head, everyone will do their job: chefs will make metal scraps, and the muscles will actually start to control this business, so that they don't buy what they stole. The sponsors of this bill are 22 national MPs, including members of the Interfractional Economics Union. "NOW." It's not a political bill, it needs a Ukrainian industry, it's important. Please, Your Honor, support him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-14-m1.u183	Thank you. Reported to the head of the Committee on Economic Development, Nataluh Dmitry Andriyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-14-m1.u184	Dear Mr. Speaker, colleagues, once again a few figures, I'd like to spell out just what you've just heard. 80 percent of the area is in the shade. For a monetary equivalent, it's at least 18 billion. It was just sounded by a colleague of mine. And these are the indicators of 15,000 reception sites across the country that are actually outside the law today. 15,000 items are additional jobs that are not officially created, which do not generate revenue to the state budget, which actually paralyze and provide funding for crime. But not only does this affect the budget, but it is said that it is a metallurgical industry. As to how this could be removed, my colleague just told and told me, in my opinion, absolutely complete. That is why the committee considered draft Law 2426 at its meeting and the results of the discussion reached the following conclusion: to recommend to the Supreme Council the adoption of draft Law 2426 in the first reading on the basis. That's why I'm asking you to back me up. Thank you, colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-14-m1.u185	Thank you. Dear colleagues, do we need to discuss this? Please sign up: two in, two in, two in, two in. Pippa Natalia Romanovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-14-m1.u186	Please tell Ironman Jaroslav.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-14-m1.u187	Again, who?
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-14-m1.u188	Iron.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-14-m1.u189	Ironborn Jaroslav Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-14-m1.u190	Dear colleagues, while saving the time of the speech, let me be clear that this bill was not just drafted by the authors who signed and introduced this bill, it was a long work that was done by the Ministry of Economic Development in the past and the past. I thank Stephen Ivanovich Kubeva and Julia Klimenko, who then participated in this, and many of the co-workers of the ministries who worked to actually help our industry and simplify it, and to bring out the element that we need in order for our industry to get its raw material. We have a lot of lobbying initiatives in this room, unfortunately, to support the industry. But this bill is an example of just when normal initiatives to support industry can support and improve, say, both business climate and reduce corruption. So our faction will support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-14-m1.u191	You son of a bitch, Alexander Ljubiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-14-m1.u192	About? Oh, sorry, that's a mistake. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-14-m1.u193	Aren't you going to perform?
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-14-m1.u194	Error.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-14-m1.u195	Gerasimov Arthur Volodymyrovich. Stephen Ivanovich of Cuba.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-14-m1.u196	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues, I want to say that this bill, thank you colleagues, has, indeed, been through a painful timeline for a long time. Our political power of the European Solidarity Party will support it on the basis. I want to thank both the head of the committee and the drafter for the work they've done. The strengths of this bill are very important. First of all, by continuing the committee's head figures, I want to say that the decrease in shadow costs, the increase in revenue, that's going to carry on with the extra currency coming. Currency gains are likely to increase by $340 million. When we talk about currency comings, we're talking about additional investments. This is the possibility of involving more than 1 billion dollars of investment in the sector. Additional impulses will be provided for adjacent markets, such as paper, plastic, glass, and others. I want to say that the goal is to be achieved through cooking by cancelling the need for a documentary testimony from the person who gives the scrap metal at the point of production. Both video surveillance and electronic circulation have been proposed, and the process of describing methodology has been reduced. But I'd like to take three positions. Position one. That this bill between the first and the second readings can be fully supported. And to change certain necessary documents that will present and bear witness to the person. The other one. It's the surrender of those other parts of the monument, the communication, the fences, they have to be minimized. We've been through this before. And the third. Amendments to the draft draft legislation should be made, even if an association should be invited. The Ministry of Economic Development has a deputy minister present, and we can clearly endorse the bill in our second reading. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-14-m1.u197	Thank you. Coltunovich Alexander Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-14-m1.u198	Thank you, Mr. Head. Dear Ukrainian National Deputies, I would like to point out that the Opposition Platform for Life will not support this bill and we have our own important or important reasons. Because, unfortunately, we remember the sad experience of the 1990s, when, in fact, a lot of companies went to metal, and some of the standards of the draft law are just cultivating certain processes. What are we talking about? The first and the most important norm, if you look at a comparative table, is that we have a consumer and industrial or domestic, more specifically, and industrial metallurgy. So each of you as a physical person, I can bring you some industries. metal production, electricity lines and so on, and it's going to be considered, I'm now going to have the right to give up this kind of metal scrap. That's absurd, isn't it? That's right. One second. We have an entirely adequate and logical view of the draft law, and the authors of the draft law have just come out of the good intentions of detining the market because, as the committee has already said, 80 percent of it is in the shadow. But what we do see is that this is where they're reintroducing or, more precisely, they're returning to cash calculations, and from experience, we know, in many areas of activity, that it's just deepening and it's causing a shadowing of those processes that are being implemented, because when there's cash-free calculations, we see all of these moments. I would also like to draw attention to the fact that it has already been said that there will actually be a number of refined norms for second reading. I'd like to wish the authors of the draft law that they would take into account the fuses and not just legalize the process that exists today, but, in fact, regulate it so that we don't steal power lines, many other things, hatches and so on, sewers, and so on, so that they don't use them as household goods and in the future don't go to our country's harm. Thank you for your attention. And yet.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-14-m1.u199	Thank you, Alexander Sergiyovich. Dear colleagues, the discussion is over. Let us proceed to the vote, please take your seats. Dear colleagues, I am voting on the proposal to adopt a draft Law amending certain legislative acts (for the detinction of the market for metallurgical raw materials and metallurgical transactions) (Registration No. 2426). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[18:54:26]] For 313 Decision taken. Let's go to. Show me the factions, please. The People's Servant Party – 226, "The Opposition Platform - For Life" – 0, "European Solidarity" – 24, "The Fatherhood" – 12, "For the Future" – 11, "The Voice" – 13.4 – "The Trust", non-fractional – 14. Dear colleagues, the next issue of the agenda is proposed to you for consideration – the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation (reserving cultural values) (registration number 2187). Tkachenko Alexander Vladislavovich, head of the Committee on Humanities and Information Policy, reports.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-14-m1.u200	Good afternoon, dear colleagues, evening, more specifically. This bill deals with occupied territories, more specifically, the preservation of Ukrainian cultural values in these areas. Ironically, today the state is unable to protect the values that are there because it cannot appoint the directors of these cultural institutions. In fact, this law is designed to enable the Ukrainian Ministry of Culture, Youth and Sports to participate in the appointment of these directors. This will at least allow us to protect these cultural values in international courts. As a result of the consideration of the bill, several amendments were made to the committee. The vast majority of them were involved in transferring the bill to the Final Provisions of the Ukrainian Culture Act as a prescription for a temporary nature. Because of the regulations, however, such changes are not possible. Thus, these amendments have been rejected, but the vast majority of amendments have been taken into account. Please consider this law and vote in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-14-m1.u201	Thank you. Let's move on to the right-hand side. Edit 6, Batenko. Are you going to insist on your work? Thank you. Yvchenko, number eight. Don't insist. Don't you insist? Thank you. Amendment number 10, Yvchenko. Are you insisting? No, it's not. Won't you insist? Thank you. Dear colleagues, please invite the national deputies. Princess Mikola Leonidovich. On two exams? Okay. Two minutes, Mikola Leonidovich Knieżicki. And then we go to the vote. Please invite the people's deputies to the hall. Please turn on the Prince's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-14-m1.u202	Thank you. Dear colleagues, this law is not about protecting cultural values, it's about assigning Mincult beyond the competition of culture leaders who are now in temporarily occupied territories. Perhaps that was the case in Mincult’s case. But obviously, we, European Solidarity, have criticised this bill, and all our amendments are related, they really apply to one another. We believe that the rules on the appointment of temporary-occupied leaders are temporary in nature, and therefore should be regulated not by the body of the law, but by the Transitional Positions. We cannot legislate as a law of stable law provisional norms. Temporary standards are always mentioned in Transitional Positions, where they set the time they work. In our case, this is before the occupation is complete. In view of the temporary nature of the occupation of Ukraine, the relevant rules on temporary features should be translated into Transitional Positions. In the Committee's consideration, representatives of the European Solidarity faction held a vote. Now, in general, given the need to protect Ukraine's interests, the Ministry of Culture's arguments for the return of cultural values will be supported by this bill. But we want to pay attention to the need to avoid the practice of transferring standards that are of a temporary nature into the body of laws as acts of stable legislation. Thank you. We do not insist on further revisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-14-m1.u203	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-14-m1.u204	Thank you, Mikola Leonidovich, for your solidarity.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-14-m1.u205	Let's go to the vote. Please take your seats. I am voting on the proposal to adopt a second reading and, in general, with the necessary technical and legal rights, the draft Law amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine (for the preservation of cultural values) (registration No. 2187). Please be prepared. Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[18:59:32]] For 304 The decision is adopted, the law is passed in general. Show me, please. "People's Servant" – 223, "The Opposition Platform for Life" – 10, "European Solidarity" – 25, "Fatherhood" – 20, "For the Future" – 11, "Voice" – 0, "Trust" – 4, "non-factional" – 11. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the next question. You are invited to consider the draft Law. Please don't break up. Draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the System of Innovation of Ukraine (in terms of software policy and distribution) (Registration No. 2521). We need to include this issue in the agenda, so we need 226 votes in favour of the Ukrainian people's deputies. Please. Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[19:00:42]] For 240 Decision taken. It is suggested that the ad hoc procedure be followed for consideration and decision-making at this plenary session. Please support and vote. [[19:01:05]] For 234 Decision taken. It is suggested that this issue be considered in a simplified manner. Please support and vote. [[19:01:29]] For 235 Decision taken. The word is given to the Ukrainian national deputy Poturayev Mikiti Ruslanović, a member of the Committee on Humanities and Information Policy.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-14-m1.u206	Honorable Chairman, Honorable Presidium, Honorable Colleagues! The committee at its meeting on December 18, 19th, considered a bill amending the Ukrainian law on the system of innovation of Ukraine (in terms of software policy and distribution) (registration number 2521). The current nature of the proposed amendments, according to the authors, is based on the need to address the urgent problems that currently make it impossible to implement effectively the tasks ahead of the Ukrainian innovation system. First of all, this refers to providing access and additional opportunities to obtain relevant information on the socially significant events in Ukraine and the world to Ukrainian citizens who are forced to reside in the occupied Russian Federation of Crimea, in the territories occupied by the Russian Federation of Donetsk and Lugansk regions, as well as in border areas with the Russian Federation of areas affected by a powerful informational influence by the aggressor State. The proposed changes to Ukraine's law relate to the addition of part one of article 7 to the agreement of the authorized authority of the state-owned enterprise's "Multimedia Innovation Platform in Ukraine". In addition, the authors propose to expand the list of language channels provided for in article 7, part three, by giving the authorized body the right to speak through the channels of broadcast terrestrial analogue and digital television and cable networks. It's important, colleagues, because, unfortunately, we can't use all the channels of communication, sending a signal to our citizens today, and not just our citizens. I'll finish. The committee examined the proposed amendments to the bill, the comments made to them and decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine to include a bill to amend the Ukrainian law in the agenda and to adopt it as a basis for consideration in the first reading. I want to point out that there is still a major change that might raise questions. We do.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-14-m1.u207	Thank you. Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss? Is it? Please sign two in, two in, and two in factions. Dirdin Maksim Evgenovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-14-m1.u208	May I have the floor to Kravchuk?
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-14-m1.u209	Knotchuk Eugenia Mikhailevna
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-14-m1.u210	Dear colleagues, Mr. Head, the issue of national information security is now in such a way that we need to fight for people who live in temporarily occupied areas informationally. In actual legislation, unfortunately, we've lost this fight, because there wasn't even really a technical ability to reach people, particularly in the Syrian zone and in the temporarily occupied territories. The current law on innovation only includes the use of satellite, electronic, and Internet channels. Thus, terrestrial analogues and digital speech and speech in cable networks are carried out exclusively outside Ukraine. The changes to the Innomination Act remove this barrier and clearly establish that we can distribute all technical means throughout Ukraine, including temporary occupations and, more importantly, to the border. We also remove language restrictions. It can be not only an English language that is now listed 50 percent, but also a Ukrainian and any other language that is appropriate for a particular audience. Please support this law, it will enable us to advance the Ukrainian position in the temporarily occupied territory and the border area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-14-m1.u211	Thank you. Victoria Petrovna Sumar.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-14-m1.u212	Honorary Presidium, honourable colleagues, when we were building the architecture of the information space of Ukraine, we were talking first of all about that there should be no internal state regulated television in Ukraine, because it is actually the influence of the state on the minds of people. We talked about what we have to have a social speaker, we talked about what should be commercial channels, and what is innovation, because of the same name, it has to be directed abroad or, of course, into occupied territories. If we're talking about border talk, it was natural that the norm, by the way, was introduced by Mrs. Helena Condratuk's vice-speaker in the past, by 50 percent of the English language of the product. What's going on now? We're now being asked to replace the phrase "about the creation of Ukrainian language as well as other languages in the case of relevance," which, in principle, we can predict will mean the relevance of Russian language, first of all. But English, if it's not foreseen at the level of law, it's actually going to be excluded from innovation. What an innovation this will be, we can talk. Well, and the direction of this channel itself is determined by the occupied territories, but also by all the border regions of Ukraine. So it's actually about creating an information channel in Russian, including one that will be governed by the state. It's a government channel and it's unacceptable things after the reforms that have been made. I am now asking very carefully to go to the vote for this bill, because it clearly needs to be sent for work, because we can get, really, a monster led by the state in the country's information market. To protect Ukraine’s interests today and to speak in these territories abroad has a social language primarily, and these tasks.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-14-m1.u213	Thank you. Cabal Volodymyr Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-14-m1.u214	Samantha Bobrowski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-14-m1.u215	Samantha Anatolyevna Bobrowska
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-14-m1.u216	Good afternoon! Dear colleagues, for all of us not only opposition and non- opposition factions have raised a question before this bill, and why is there such haste in acceptance, rather than speaking not only within the committee, but also inviting others who might be present and who might be interested. But a few moments that immediately raise questions. The bill sounds like amendments to the Ukrainian Innovation Act. But it's obvious that any Ukrainian will have a question: are we still looking at temporarily occupied territories today as areas for which we need, in fact, foreign language, against which we are fighting and talking about what the state of Ukraine should be talking about, and it's only temporarily occupied territories. That's the first one. The other one. And why don't we mention the struggle and our own publicity of information, the use of our channels, especially the First, is a social one, and the UA:Donbas, which is not a single year, and we're not talking about increasing networks, altitudes, and so on, not only in the temporarily occupied territory, but also in the border area? In particular, I'm talking about a notorious situation with an information situation in the Odessa region, which is listening to the Russian Federation's language not only on the western border but also on the southern side. The second question. Can you hear the strategy of this channel in general and the content of the changes to this bill? What do we want to accomplish? Really, another monster, where we're going to see only entertainment channels, entertainment content, and we can assume what content is going to be released, is that really going to be the language of the state of Ukraine? The question was, why wasn't it worked out, or did it even cancel, reject, sell, in particular, the TV "UATV" to sell to another owner who could still work on private grounds? That is why we will not support and still recommend the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-14-m1.u217	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the discussion is over. Let's go to the vote. Please invite the national deputies to the hall. I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the System of Innovation of Ukraine (in terms of software policy and distribution) (Registration No. 2521). Please prepare for the vote. Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[19:11:50]] For 231 Decision taken. Show the factions, please. "Serve of the People" – 223, "Responsible Platform for Life" – 3, "European Solidarity" – 0, "Fatherhood" – 0, "For the Future" – 0, "Voice" – 0, "Trust" – 0, "non-factional" – 5. Thank you. Decision taken. Dear colleagues, we've moved on to ratification issues. You are invited to consider the draft Law on the Ratification of the Protocol to Amend the Agreement between the Government of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Singapore on the avoidance of double taxation and the prevention of tax evasion in respect of income taxes (Registration No. 0016). Can we vote without discussion? I'll bet you a vote. That's what it is, it can only be in general. Dear colleagues, I am voting on the proposal to adopt the Protocol on the Ratification of the Amending Protocol to the Agreement between the Government of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Singapore on the avoidance of double taxation and the prevention of tax evasion in respect of income taxes (Registration No. 0016). Please support and vote. [[19:13:25]] For 328 Decision taken. Show me the factions, please. Dear colleagues, the next question is also the ratification of 0017. Can we vote without discussion? I would like to vote on the proposal for the adoption of the Protocol on the ratification of the Protocol between the Government of Ukraine and the Government of Georgia amending the Agreement between the Government of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Georgia on free trade of 9 January 1995 (registration No. 0017). Please support and vote. [[19:14:11]] For 328 Decision taken. Show me the factions, please. Dear colleagues, the next ratification is the same, 0018. Can we vote? I am voting on the proposal to adopt the whole draft Law on the Ratification of the Development Cooperation Agreement between the Government of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Turkey (Registration No. 0018). Please support and vote. [[19:14:52]] For 335 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, the next question is also ratification, 0020. Can we put it to a vote? I am voting on the proposal for the adoption of the entire draft Law on the Ratification of the Treaty between Ukraine and the Federal Republic of Brazil on mutual legal assistance and legal relations in civil matters (registration No. 0020). Please support and vote. [[19:15:35]] For 332 Decision taken. Show me the factions, please. Dear colleagues, the next question is the draft Parliamentary Hearing Order. Can we vote without discussion? Registration number 2468. Okay. I would like to vote on the proposal for adoption in the entire draft Resolution on Parliamentary Hearings on "Problems for Ukraine to implement decisions of the European Court of Human Rights" (March 25, 2020) (registration number 2468). Please support and vote. [[19:16:26]] For 338 Decision taken. Show me the factions, please. Dear colleagues, the next question is parliamentary hearings. Can we put them the same way? I'm voting on the proposal for adoption as a basis and as a whole of the draft Resolution on Parliamentary Hearings on "Organization of the Anti-Ballistic Struggle in Ukraine. Problems and ways to solve them" (12 February 2020) (registration number 2377). Please support and vote. [[19:17:14]] For 344 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, the next question is the draft Order amending the appendix to the Supreme Order. Wait. To whom should I give my word? Turn on the Aryan, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-14-m1.u218	Mr. Chairman, there was a report that during the vote in favour of the Nomination Act, a card was voted in favour of the national MP, Andriy Derkač, who was absent in the room at this time. Please give the order to the regulatory committee to examine this fact, to determine whether Mr. Andriy Derkac, a national MP, was absent from the room and to take a decision on this bill and to vote on it accordingly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-14-m1.u219	There is no voting procedure. The decision as to whether or not there was a National Deputy in the Hall, I'm really, I'm going to the Committee, I'm asking you to study this question. Procedurally Nestor Ivanovich Šufrich. Please turn on the Shufric microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-14-m1.u220	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. During the 2187 vote, my vote was in favour, and I voted in favour. Please take this into account. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-01-14-m1.u221	Nestor Ivanovich, with all due respect, but this is done in writing and without statements. I think we can write and necessarily pass it on to the Presidium. However, as an experienced national MP, you know that the results of the vote are such that the oral statement, in writing, is not affected at all. Thank you. So your vote is as numbered as it is. Dear National Deputies, the next question is the draft Order amending the appendix to the Supreme Council of Ukraine Order on the Definition of Memorial Dates and Jubilee in 2020 (registration No. 2542). Do you want to talk about it? I am voting on the proposal for adoption as a basis and as a whole of the draft Order amending the appendix to the Supreme Council of Ukraine Decision on the Definition of Memorial Dates and Jubilee in 2020 (registration No. 2542). Please support and vote. [[19:20:07]] For 327 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, the next is the Order (registration number 2541) "Security of Journalists in Ukraine". Can we vote without discussion? I am voting on the proposal for adoption as a basis and as a whole of the draft Parliamentary Hearing Recommendation on "Security of Journalists in Ukraine: Status, Problems and Ways of Resolution" (Registration No. 2541). Please support and vote. [[19:20:55]] For the 320. Decision taken. Dear colleagues, the next question is the same as the Parliamentary Hearing Recommendations on "The Priorities of Environmental Policy." Can we vote? I am voting on the proposal for adoption in the whole of the draft Resolution on Parliamentary Hearing Recommendations on "Priorities of Environmental Policy of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for the next five years" (registration No. 2573). Please support and vote. [[19:21:42]] For 334 [[B in m in s a l in]] We voted out of motive, so there can be no motive. Dear colleagues, no. Dear colleagues, no, there can be no more motive. Dear colleagues, we have exhausted the order of the day. We had another decision, but we are not considering it today. Thank you all. I declare the evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine closed.
