ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-13-m1.u1	But wait, please. Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for registration, because as the Heads of the People's Servant and Voice have been addressing us, That's exactly what we're gonna do right now. Please prepare for registration. Are you ready to register? Please register. [[19:34:15]] There are 306 national deputies registered in the hall. I now declare open the plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Dear colleagues, in accordance with article 83 of the Constitution of Ukraine, part of the eighth article of article 19 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, we are today holding another, the second consecutive plenary meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, requiring 156 national deputies of Ukraine. The question I raise is, with all due respect to my colleagues, I don't fully understand because 17 members of the National Security and Defence Council have made decisions on sanctions. Now this decision awaits the President's decree. There is the appeal of the people’s deputies and the determination to consider it. I can't deny it, but with all due respect, it's not an area of responsibility and competence of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. But, dear colleagues, if you want to join the agenda, your esteemed colleagues, prepare for the vote. You are invited to consider the draft Ordinance on Approval of Proposals for the continuation of the period of application of personal special economic and other restrictive measures. We need 226 votes to put this into the agenda. Please support and vote. It's an order of the day's session, a session, yeah. [[19:36:15]] For 267 Decision taken. It is suggested that this issue be considered in a simplified manner. Please support and vote. [[19:36:36]] For 252 Decision taken. No discussion? No, colleagues insist. The word for the report is given to the Ukrainian national deputy, Lozinski Roman Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-13-m1.u2	Dear colleagues, dear Ukrainians! Winter of 2013-2014. You and I are building barricades on Maidan. At the time, the Russian Yandex shows that the blocked bridges from the left bank of Krestatik, which is also a lie, are also a lie to the Ukrainians. 2015, The Carpathian Blednergo. Russian cyberattack using Mail.ru . 2017 The Minister of Defense of the Russian Federation clearly states that "information troops" have been created in Russia. And it's very true that three years ago, in 2017, sanctions were imposed on one and a half thousand legal, physical persons in Vkontakte and Odnostniki social networks, Mail.ru , which is nothing but Russian weapons in the hands of the invader. April 8, more than a month ago. Mr. Razumkov, more than a month ago, there was a decree on the continuation of sanctions, long before the decision of the MPO. More than a month ago, we contacted the Ukrainian Security Service, and these decisions began to be prepared. When does the sanctions end? The sanctions end in one day and four hours, which is the time left for the President to sign. We need to unite in this room right now. 156 deputies from all the factions and groups, except one, signed an appeal for us to make that decision. I thank you that all the factions and groups have joined the initiative of our team, and now we're together with the S.B.I.O.B., all of them together should put a fat dot in this story. We must take away their cyber weapons from Russia, we must continue sanctions on Russian social media and other Russian services. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-13-m1.u3	The word for the report is given to the head of the National Security, Defence, and Intelligence Committee, Alexander Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-13-m1.u4	Honorary colleagues, in accordance with the commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Committee on National Security, Defence and Intelligence at its meeting on 7 May 2020, reviewed the draft Decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the approval of proposals for the continuation of the period of application of personal special economic and other restrictive measures (Sanctions) (Registration No. 3319) submitted by the Ukrainian National Deputies to Lozinski and others. The draft decision proposes approval and consideration of the RNB by Ukraine of the proposal to extend the time limit for the application of the relevant restrictive measures (sanctions) to such persons. The adoption of this decision will not only create preconditions for the decision of the National Security and Defence Council of Ukraine to extend the period of application of these sanctions, but will also contribute to reducing the real and potential threats to national interests, information security, sovereignty and territorial integrity of Ukraine. The National Security, Defence, and Intelligence Committee recommends that the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopt the draft Decree (registration number 3319) as a basis and as a whole. Thank you for your attention and for your support.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-13-m1.u5	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we need to talk, don't we? Please sign up for the performance. Arjev Vladimir Igorovich
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-13-m1.u6	Russian laundromats on social networks were not just informational weapons. They recruited fighters to fight Ukraine on the occupied Donbassa. And we are proud that Peter Poroshenko, the fifth president of Ukraine, and our team have closed these information laundries. Just as they blocked the work of information TV washers in Ukraine. We then listened to the same heat and sophistication of the fifth column of the Kremlin in this session hall. But then ours followed this same initiative and ours followed the example of other countries in the former post-socialist camp. What's going on now? It's not just a creeping rematch, but it won't just be on the TV channels of the Fifth Column of the Kremlin, we now have Pklonska, who has a direct bearing on the arrest of a member of our faction Ahtem Chigoza, who's handing out intel not just on YouTube, but also on television channels, taking quotes from there. This is your responsibility, Servants! It's your responsibility to allow today's "Star" television channel to climb Midan, Russian television washers, to demonstrate on our television channels. And if you're talking about what the PNB signed today, you've made that decision, why doesn't Greensky sign it? Because the anniversary of his reign is the destruction of all that the Fifth President of Ukraine has done. You broke a key rule: nothing about Ukraine without Ukraine. In Berlin today, Ukraine is being discussed without Ukraine in Minsk, which is what we are talking about. That's why Parliament has to accept this decision from Voice and European Solidarity and give it to anyone who can come here and win, we won't let ourselves be defeated in this informational hybrid war.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-13-m1.u7	It's a slogan.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-13-m1.u8	Please pass on Rachmanin's word.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-13-m1.u9	Rachmanin Sergey Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-13-m1.u10	Dear colleagues! First of all, it's very nice that there are things that unite, it's also happened in the National Security and Defence Committee, where almost unanimously the committee has supported the extension of sanctions on Russian resources, and in the Supreme Council Hall, where completely all the factions, except for one faction, who for all the obvious reasons did not do so, have supported the signatures in order to convene an extraordinary meeting, to vote for it. The question is whether it's topical or irrelevant. You know, I think that if there wasn't an initiative, I'm not sure that the National Security Council would have met so quickly and so quickly solved this issue that could actually be solved very long ago. And about whether or not this procedure makes sense. You know, what happens to Russian networks is that it's not the hygiene of information -- I'm telling you, as a 30-year-old informant. When we wash our hands with disinfectors, we remind ourselves from time to time that hygiene rules should be followed. Today, voting with a green button for this decision is a demonstration of how many people in this room follow the rules of information hygiene. I strongly urge everyone to support this decision. Thank you very much to all who have joined in.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-13-m1.u11	Nestor Ivanovich Šufrich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-13-m1.u12	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. I was really surprised and excited when you said that this issue was not the mandate of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, and that is the truth. Because the situation reminds me of Stupid and Even Stupider. The Supreme Council has long since made a decision, sent a corresponding draft decree. It's the same thing as May 9th we're talking about May 13th, even though we were meeting May 7th. And I'm wondering where we're going to go again so that someone can fight. Look, after that decision on 14th year, GDP dropped twice, my colleague Danilo will confirm it. And I have, of course, the question: maybe we should find our economic pragmatic national interests there? And it turns out that we have Russia as one of Ukraine's two biggest trading partners, both by export and by import. So let's define. We have sanctions. Either we're fighting or we're selling candy, I don't understand. Peter, how's it going to go? So I want us to respect ourselves, first of all. This, first of all, is not a matter of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Secondly, open up, all the news has already written that the relevant draft decree is already in the President's Office. I ask that we respect each and every one of us as a deputy, and that we respect the Supreme Council Institute as an institution, which is enshrined in the Constitution, a legislative higher body, not make us puppets, ridiculers and clowns. So I'm in favor of sound national pragmatism for every Ukrainian, whatever language he speaks, and whatever language he thinks about. And what we're doing is catechism. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-13-m1.u13	Thank you. Katchura Alexander Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-13-m1.u14	Alexander Kachura, "Serial of the People" faction. In fact, you know, colleagues, I've just checked the information, and I've already sent an appropriate request and draft papers to the President of Ukraine. I would like to remind you that the power of Parliament does not include the adoption of any such regulation. We don't have that kind of authority. We will definitely support any decision of the President, whatever it is, but let's still vote on the bill for people who apply directly every day of their lives. Because now I'm going to go into a mobile phone, there's this VPN, and you can go into any social network in five minutes. So let's, if we work out, work on decisions that will allow us to block the social networks that we consider to be informationally useless in our country and not to engage in populism. That's why it's our way of confirming the President's decision, but let's act only within the limits and manner envisaged by Ukrainian legislation. This is my principle position. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-13-m1.u15	Thank you, Alexander Anatolyovich. Bacunec Pavel Andryovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-13-m1.u16	Mr. Chairman, distinguished national MPs, distinguished Ukrainian people! Let's go back to the story. As much as the high-intelligent gene pool is destroyed, Ukraine today is primarily a highly educated people and the most talented youth. Today, our young people are being raised and are sitting in beautiful Ukrainian - made sites. As a result, aggressive social networking on Ukrainian youth’s computer screens is out of the question. I urge you, national deputies, to support this decision, to support the development of the national Ukrainian idea in the heads of our Ukrainian youth, to support Ukraine. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2020-05-13-m1.u17	Dear colleagues, we are about to proceed to the vote for the ruling. But let's not manipulate. I am fully responsible for the fact that the materials given to the members of the NPB regarding sanctions were given long before the Council took the initiative to make such decisions. So let's move on. Well, are you telling me, member of the RNB? No, it's not. Well, colleagues, well, what does "no" mean? I would like to vote on the proposal for adoption in the whole of the draft Ordinance approving the proposal to extend the period of application of personal special economic and other restrictive measures (sanctions) (registration number 3319). Please support and vote. [[19:50:32]] For 248 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, I declare closed the plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Thank you.
