ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-01-m0.u1	Good morning, dear colleagues. Good morning, members of the media. Please take your seats, prepare for registration. Dear colleagues, ready to register? Ready? Well, you remember how to register, I won't repeat myself. Jaroslav Ivanovich, you know, by clicking, especially for the Ironman, by pressing the green button on the first left. Please register. [[10:09:59]] There are 287 Ukrainian national deputies registered in the hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear colleagues, we have two national deputies' birthday today. Yuri Yuriovich Aristov. [[Applause]] Greetings to You! And Kabachenko Vladimir Viktorovich. [[Applause]] Dear colleagues, I wish you health, success, achievement, and new victories! Once again with the holiday! In accordance with article 25 of the Rules, we have up to 30 minutes on Wednesday for the national MPs to make proposals, statements, and messages. Please sign up for the performances by the national deputies. The Deputy Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Condratiuk Olena Konstantinovna, is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-01-m0.u2	Good afternoon, fellow believers, distinguished presidency, distinguished national MPs! I want to draw your attention today to the wave of disrespect, discrimination, humiliation, sexism, language of hatred that we've been seeing lately. I think the people who chose a year ago the new system were expecting a completely different one. They were counting on real changes in our country. These are not only changes in the economic or social sphere, but also in the mentality, political and legal culture of those who represent power and make decisions. People wanted to see in government offices not so many new faces, but also the quality of politics based on public values, respect for human rights and the personal dignity of every citizen. People expect all of us to have respect, respect for institutions, and even respect for our opponents. And respect for women, respect for the weaker, for the younger, for the older, for the experienced, for the poorer. And this respect should be the foundation of a new culture, a culture of unification of society. When we were creating the IFF "Equal Opportunities," we were hoping that equality and tolerance would change the way Ukrainian women are treated in politics. Unfortunately, we see a cavernous retreat from partnership and a worthy representation of men and women in power. In the current government of women, no woman is in charge of the district administration. Soon we will see whether the majority are willing to support and advocate such a fair decision about 40 percent of women in local and national elections. Unfortunately, we are witnessing that sexism is tolerated in power, and it is tolerated that it is long unacceptable in a developed society. This does not bring Ukraine closer to the European Union, but it does distance us from European civilization. I want to address all the national deputies from our colleges, colleagues, regardless of gender and political affiliation. I want to speak to Parliament's leadership. I don't want to look at specific situations here and teach someone here. Let's do everything we can to avoid turning the Supreme Council of Ukraine into a board of endless scandalous stories, as it's fashionable to call "unconventional schtucks." And in principle, we all need to remain human. And if someone made a mistake, insulted a colleague or a fellow citizen, they should have the courage to apologize, say, sorry, I was wrong or wrong or even resign. To apologize sincerely for your actions and words is not a weakness, it is a great power. And this is the fundamental component of a new policy and responsibility in politics. Thank you very much to all my colleagues who have supported me. And I think we're looking for answers to these accusations that have been made not only in the Supreme Council, but in general in politics. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-01-m0.u3	Thank you. Wack Hennaday Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-01-m0.u4	Dear colleagues, Mr. Head! Gennady Wasak, 16th Wynnickin constituency, Trust Group. Ukraine gradually recovers from the effects of the flood. I want to stop at the conclusions and analogys of 2008 – the largest flood of Ukraine in recent years. Now for the questions. The flood theme for Ukraine is not new, so why are we never ready for it? Why is it that every time we have a comprehensive program, every time we step on the same rakes, people go under the water, and people get hurt and killed? The cause of the flood in 2008 in Winnickin was human. I think we should draw conclusions, make conclusions, but not all of them. Take, for example, the Mogilov-Podilsky and the Lampil of my 16th district, which also suffered from the flood. Taking into account the small rainfall, the working group and the interdisciplinary commission to agree on the operation of the Dniestrovska Reservoir for June 2020, measures were taken to fill the water wells to the necessary level. And at that time, the Carpathian region had been raining for almost a month, and then they were asking questions about an emergency drop of water, first 1,000, 400 cubes per second, and then 2,000, 50 cubes. As a result, from June 23 to 25, the level of deisturized waters reached dangerous markings, submerged areas of the district cities of Mogilov Podilski, Yampil, and isolated Winnitzkina. With synoptics in mind in 2008, preventive measures were needed to increase damages in advance in order to maintain a safe reservoir and avoid endangering people’s lives and health. Who really worked is the local authority of the city of Mohilev-Podilski, led by Peter Baruk, who, three years earlier, began the anti-crisis process, carried out a colossal work, organized all the services that were built in troublesome places. The help was provided by a district council. I was created by the social rescue headquarters, which was constantly in contact with the deputy director of Dniestrów’s GAES, Mikola Shevchuk. The head of Winnick's ODA, Sergey Borzov, has arranged for the management of Dubossar's GES to accept a portion of the water, thereby minimizing the negative effects on Mohilev-Durbish and Yamplish. The emergency services of Winnitzka led by Ruslan Shevchuk were operationally and professionally operated. In general, they met the challenge and endured as a result of the faithful and clear actions of the local and district authorities. If not, the consequences would be worse than they were in 2008. And the last. On June 25, the Cabinet of Ministers allocated the effects of floods only in Chernieweck, Zakarpatsk, and Lvivsk. Why is there no Winnitzka among the affected areas? Consider this my official MP's address to the Cabinet of Ministers.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-01-m0.u5	Rudik Sergey Jaroslavovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-01-m0.u6	Dear Ukrainians, colleagues! There are 193 countries recognized by the United Nations as democratic, independent, and consummate, and each one of us, the Ukrainians, respects each one of these countries. But there are countries that treat our country in a special way and we treat each other with special respect. These countries are the first to recognize our independence. It happens that these countries are the first to support us when the Russians attack us. These countries are the first to come to our aid when we lack funds and sometimes when we do not have weapons to protect the territorial integrity of our nation. Among such countries, one of the first countries is Canada, which celebrates its national day today. More than 1 million Ukrainians live there, and only according to official statistics. There are monuments on the streets of many Ukrainian recognized national heroes. There are more than ten national Ukrainian festivals each year, the oldest of which was held in 1939. And in our country there was a wonderful opportunity to welcome the whole Canadian people with this beautiful holiday. It didn't happen! On June 17, the United Nations voted in favour of members of the UN Security Council. And it would seem, well, what are the options? Ukraine for Canada! Oh, no! It turns out that our brilliant foreign policy office has chosen other priorities. And it is not the Canadians who have become the country that will protect us for two years in the UN, where five members of the UN Security Council are not always, and one in particular, never supports the territorial integrity of our state – Russia. But that's not even the problem. The problem is, when that didn't happen, on a direct Canadian question -- whether it was a vote for Canada or not, our President reverently replied, "We're holding our fists behind Canada!" The Society, we were in this room before I wrote my application to join a group of friends with the Canadian Parliament, there were 143 members -- more than a third of the Ukrainian Parliament. If the President has not had the courage and the Foreign Minister to admit the obvious, let's say for them. [[Expression in Foreign Language]] It is a bilingual country that deserves the respect and love of all Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-01-m0.u7	Nestor Ivanovich Šufrich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-01-m0.u8	Thank you. Dear Chairman, dear colleagues! Green and his "ministers of the people" year in power. What do we hear today? Peacemaking has been carried on for five years, and the age of poverty has continued for five years. There is a ban on the birth of inadequacies. Mrs. Galina, I'm sorry that you accused the opposition of having a paid action against you yesterday. Please tell me, how much did you have to pay, what did you say? Moscow, Berlin, the mirror has nothing to do with it. A guy. Misha, you said COVID wasn't here! And today we have the result: at the level of poverty, we are the first in Europe and at the level of distribution of COVID, we are the first in Europe, as a result, the Ukrainians are not allowed to enter Europe. What's the big deal? At the casino, it's legal now. Four billion dollars were added. Where are the 100 billion dollars of smuggling you ended up with on December 1st last year? "Where's the money, Zin?" Of course, today we realize that the result of today's government activity is a catastrophic downturn. Today, everyone in power, including the President, has a negative balance of perception. People are condemning the actions of the authorities. How did they decide to deal with this? Shut the mouths of the people and journalists of Ukraine. I want to read to you the position of Ukrainian journalists who are today addressing Zelensky and the Supreme Council of Ukraine: "The Media Bill can lead to censorship." Elizarov, Sweden, Gordon, Koshkina, Vlastenko, Sohar, Schlinczak, Bocman, and Limar demand that this law be condemned and rejected. "I fear that the Media Bill was created by the People's Servant not for the people, but for the protection of power from criticism," said Savik Schuster. And the position of the National Journalist Association of Ukraine: "The draft media law is not a law on media protection, it's not about strengthening protection, it's not about journalists' rights, it's not about state guarantees of media independence, it's not about officials' responsibility for press pressure, it's a bill to protect power from journalists." Mr. President! You said you're not a bad person, that's your subjective opinion. And the Ukrainian people are certainly not bad, and they will persecute you as their servants. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-01-m0.u9	The word is given to the national deputy Andrievich Zinoviya, faction of "The Servant of the People." Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-01-m0.u10	Congratulations, Mr. Head! National Deputy Andriyovich Zinovy, 87th constituency, Supervise, Bogorodščina, Jaremčanščina, Kolomishtina. Nice to meet you! Please turn on the video. [[Video recording broadcast]] Dear colleagues, of course, on June 23-24, entered the history of our nation as a state-wide emergency, which today has virtually destroyed the infrastructure of four areas. At present, virtually four areas of local self - government are struggling with the effects of subheating. Of course, more than 90 percent of the rainfall is the only cause of the most extensive flood. But technological factors also have a major impact on the formation of floods in the Carpathians, along with the causes of natural nature, such as the destruction of forest areas in the Carpathians and the reduction of their water - absorbing function, the disruption of the steep slopes in the flood - shaped mountain areas, and the congestion in the flows of rivers created by trees, roots, insects resulting from illegal logging and wastes, the disruption of management in water protection zones, and coastal protection strips. Especially did the flood cause great damage in small rivers, medium rivers, where rustic regulatory work is not carried out. Dear colleagues, I'd like to ask you for your support. Ivano-Frankivsky region, Lvivska, Cherniewecka, Zakarpatska need help, especially at a responsible time when 800 million dollars is not enough to deal with the consequences. In 2008, the amount was more than four billion dollars. Today, there is an urgent need for a regulation on budget changes to 2020. I need your support. The life, safety, and health of our inhabitants are paramount! Help and support, please. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-01-m0.u11	Thank you. The word is given to the national deputy of Fedina Sophia Romanovni. Alexeiovich Honcharenko, faction of the political party "European Solidarity".
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-01-m0.u12	Alexei Hotcharenko, European Solidarity. Dear friends, honourable citizens of Ukraine, I address you first. A few days ago we celebrated the Day of the Constitution of Ukraine. Why are we celebrating this as a state holiday at the level of the Independence Day of our country? Because the Constitution is the protection of every citizen of Ukraine from lawlessness, from abuse, from human rights. Because the Constitution is the protection of our state, its sovereignty, its borders, its integrity, its human rights and its rule of law. And what do we see with you? And now we see the Constitution of Ukraine lying to us in these days. And by whom? Those who have to protect her. The Attorney General of Ukraine, although I told her at the time, that she was becoming the Attorney General of the People's Servants, because she had no eye contact with the Femida goddess, but she had a portrait of the Servants of the People in her pocket, and I quote, "The Fifth President is proposing. I invite the fifth President of Ukraine to prove his innocence in court." Dear friends, article 62 of the Constitution of Ukraine: “No one is obliged to prove his innocence in crimes.” This is the Constitution of Ukraine. They don't care about the Constitution, because the presumption of innocence in this state is only for Zelensky and his friends, and for everyone else, we will do what we want. Especially when it comes to the political opponent, the leader of the opposition, then there is no Constitution of Ukraine. I want to tell you, we're going to fight this. And that's not how it's going to be, because today they're going to destroy the powder, and tomorrow they're going to come to everyone. Greensky from this rostrum said, "Each of you is the president." Thus, today, not the fifth President of Ukraine is on trial, but today there will be a court in the Pecher Court over every Ukrainian citizen. So I propose, and please, I ask all the Chinese, all those who can, to come today, to the D.B.I., the State Bureau of Repression, Simon Petluri 15, and to support Dusty and the opposition in Ukraine. Next, 14 o'clock, Vladimirska 15, the Cave Court, where there will be a court over the opposition, a court over all who wish to speak the word of truth. Otherwise, if we don't, Vladimir Alexanderovich will finally turn into Vladimir Volodymyrovich, who is currently raping the Russian Constitution, holding elections, and, therefore, a referendum in Crimea, destroying his state. And our Volodymyr Alexanderovich came this way. Let's protect our nation together. We don't need another Vladimir Volodymyrovich. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-01-m0.u13	Oksana Vasilovna's owl.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-01-m0.u14	Oxana Savchuk, 83th constituency, city of Ivano-Frankivsk, All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. I would like to stress again today that my colleague Zinovy Andryovich was showing off from this rostrum. It's about the flood that came to Western Ukraine. You know, hundreds of people, when they see that we've been looking at the game business all day yesterday, they don't understand us. They don't understand why we don't make any changes to the State Budget and we don't think about it as long as it's still warm, how we have to rebuild the infrastructure. They don't understand where this document is actually when Western Ukraine is heard. They don't understand why we don't tell them what bridges will be repaired this month, which bridges will be repaired in August. Because the 480 million for the entire Carnations that are being allocated today, colleagues, let's all be honest with you, let's take a look at ourselves, and we'll realize that these are the costs that are completely out of proportion to the needs that are needed today. Yes, the city of Ivano-Frankivsk has only made extreme demands. These extreme needs include, for example, the strengthening of hydraulic structures, the strengthening of dams. We're not talking about any other damage, vegetables, human homes. And these are the only needs that make up 81 million dollars to restore the dam on the Bistrica-Solotvinska and Bistrica-Solotvinska River, so that in the future the villages that are nearby will not be submerged. You can understand when people can't get to work or to a store because they're fully stocked. When you have mud in your house on the first floor, when you need to change everything, tear down the floor, you have ruined furniture, you have nowhere to sleep, you have a fungus. And today, when we talk about what we are restoring Ukraine, I am very much asking that we calm everyone down this week, and that we should still raise the issue of change to the State Budget, where we can clearly predict 2 billion dollars to deal with the effects of the flood in Western Ukraine. Yes, some objects may have to be abandoned. We may not have to build a new runway in Dnipropetrovsk, for example, but we will save lives. We'll make roads, we'll make bridges. Without it, there can be no life for those who are cut off from the world: the Highlands, the Colossae, the Overseers. I encourage all my colleagues to listen to the voice of the people, to make changes to the State Budget, and to support all those affected during the flood. I hope for support and understanding.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-01-m0.u15	Polakov Anton Eduardoovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-01-m0.u16	Anton Polyakov, 206 District, Montenegro, MP Group for the Future. Dear colleagues, our country is experiencing a protracted financial crisis that affects the situation of every citizen. And in this time of year, all majors, members of the "For the Future" MP group, would like to draw your attention to those people who need special attention and assistance. These are the people who have worked hard all their lives for our country's well-being, and unfortunately, they can't even pay rent for utilities. I mean our pensioners. Because the size of their pensions is just bullying people. Think about it. From now on, the total number of pensions will be increased to 74 bracelets. 74 bracelets! Almost that percentage was obtained in the presidential election by Vladimir Alexandrovich Zelenski. If Zelensky's case is a brilliant, fantastic victory, then in the case of pensioners, it's harassment. After all, it is impossible to live for 1 thousand and 712 dollars in our country. And anyone who thinks otherwise can try it on their own. The Montenegrins also asked me to defend the rights of retired children of war. Because when we say that, unfortunately, there are very few veterans left, there are children of war, there are people who have survived all the horrors of post-war times, rebuilt our country, rebuilt infrastructure, schools, kindergartens, hospitals, roads, bridges that we still use with you. We also need to review and make a fair payment to pensioners, veterans of the Ministry of Health, because they have worked for decades to make all citizens feel safe. I want to tell you that we don't have any quality children, we don't have any bad or good pensioners, we have people that we have to protect and for the good that we have to care for, because this is enshrined in our fundamental law, in the Constitution of Ukraine. And whenever I do, I urge the government and Prime Minister Schmigal to work out a real economic agenda and steps to get out of the economic crisis, not continue to abuse people. I hope our statement by the "For the Future" MP group will be heard in the predominant faction in Cabmine and the President's Office. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-01-m0.u17	Lukashev Alexander Anatolyevich. The city’s Yuri Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-01-m0.u18	Dear Dmitre Alexanderovich, distinguished national MPs! Having come to this high hall, I would like to address the President of Ukraine, Vladimir Alexandrovich Zelensky. Mr. President, during the election campaign, you drew the Ukrainians your dream. Ukraine, where only salutes are fired on birthdays and weddings. A land ruled by the peoples of the land. A country where Grandma gets a decent pension, not a heart attack from a utility bill. Where they are appointed by reason of intelligence, education, and abilities, not by the way children were baptized together. In this dream, your dream, Mr. President, is believed by 73 percent of Ukrainian citizens and you have received a loan of trust that has not yet been covered by the history of Ukraine. However, within a year of your presidency, you betrayed this Ukrainian dream and drowned it for several reasons. First of all, because of the lack of political will. Secondly, lack of experience. Thirdly, because of the failed personnel work. Playing with the International Monetary Fund, the short reforms of your two governments have put Ukraine on its knees, destroyed the economy, turned the Ukrainians into beggars. You can dream, but you have to have a highly professional team to make your dream come true. History cannot be repeated, history cannot be rewritten, but you have four more years to change the situation for the better. Mr. President, since the first days of your presidency, "The Opposition Platform for Life" has stated that it is coming to you in opposition. But the stronger the position, the more effective the power has to be. There's a lot in common in your program and in the Opposition Platform for Life program: it's the people, it's the people, it's the establishment of peace at Donbassa, it's the communal and tariff policy, it's the economic, social stability of the country. But unlike the People's Servants, the opposition platform for life is not only a program, but also a mechanism for its implementation. It's a bill on the whole of Ukraine and the local referendums on the people's initiative. It's a peace plan, a concept of peace at Donbas. The Ukrainians are tired of hearing plan "a," "b", "c." If the President's team has failed in a year's work, to develop a peace plan "Z," we recommend that you implement the peace plan "PIC." This is what the people of Ukraine expect, and that is what the people of Donbas expect. And we can work together to get Donbas back.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-01-m0.u19	Sussun Inna Romanovna Lozinski Roman Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-01-m0.u20	Roman Lozinski, the Voice faction. Dear Ukrainians, fellow MPs! It is very convenient to explain the deaths of people who have more than thousands in Ukraine than the Coronavirus, simply by the irresponsibleness of the people. That is how the government does it to avoid explaining why they have not yet protected the doctors and provided the hospital. Because the daily number of patients is approaching 1,000 people, so is the government. Because they don't want to explain why they still haven't provided mass testing and monitoring of contacts with the sick. And the fact that more than 7,000 medical people are already ill is also to blame. Probably guilty people, the government thinks. Meanwhile, over 60 billion dollars, the huge sums that you and I have allocated to a special fund to fight the coronavirus, these funds don't pay for premiums to medics, they don't provide for protective suits that Maxim Stepanov buys twice as much. This is where Habakkuk’s hand is now drawn, and he is still drawing money from his hand - held eagles. This money is now claimed by the State to be in charge of matters that only want to allocate tens of millions of dollars for one Phoefania, an elite Phoefania that doesn't save people in the time of the pandemic. You know who won't see that money? This money will not see local self-government, this money will not be seen by the community, because they are now alone with the pandemic. And you know, in the first six months, the local budgets no longer received 16 billion dollars. 16 billion dollars is a hole in local budgets, while 60 billion dollars are spent by Stepanov and Avakov. Over the past six months, 2 billion dollars is what local authorities, which local budgets spend on the fight against the pandemic. For example, Berdichov bought equipment at a local hospital instead of spending it on education. Kramatrski also took 13 million dollars from the education fund. Kiev, which is overcrowded, schools filled with students, has also reduced the program to a third by "capable communities", and Herson and Zaporozhye have transferred all the capital costs to the second half. As long as the government blames people, communities themselves are saved from the pandemic. And until the government finally starts to properly allocate the money to the coronavirus, instead of running Stephen and Habakkuk to get rid of these funds, we can't win until we can't win, and the local communities will be left alone. Cost the community and financial independence of the community!
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-01-m0.u21	Duck Alexander Stalinoenovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-01-m0.u22	Good afternoon, fellow countrymen, dear Ukrainians! The point is, in our country today, there are events that we could not imagine in any nightmare. Because that person who is supposed to be a lawyer, a defender of all the disadvantaged, all the people who are in need of something today, the poor people, unfortunately today, made a statement that does not allow that committee to run, but I think that today we should give an assessment to Treyak for personally humiliating all the national MPs, all the people who today consider themselves civil servants. The fact is, people who need help today have heard from the committee’s head that they should be sterilized. Dear colleagues, this is genocide, this is the beginning of fascism in our country. And, unfortunately, what I want to do today is to address all the "Serve of the People" you translate all that negative from Tretikav into the entire "Serve of the People" faction into your entire party and, of course, into our entire constituency. That's why I want to ask you today. You're going to have a faction meeting. You need to draw conclusions and give to all the Ukrainian people so that we can understand that the deputies of the Supreme Council are people who know the laws and love their people first. The second question that I would like to raise today is that today the Media Act on the Humanities Committee will be considered. What I'm saying is that all the news outlets, all the publications today are united in what this law says about the only thing -- it's about usurpating power, attacking freedom of speech, journalists, all the tools that give us information today. Dear colleagues, we must do everything we can to ensure that this law, in the form proposed today, does not come out. Thank you for your attention. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-01-m0.u23	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the time for performances is up. A statement came from two MP factions and groups about a break with a replacement for the performance. Princess Mikola Leonidovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-01-m0.u24	Dear colleagues, I would like to thank the Voice faction for her joining the faction of European Solidarity in bringing to the attention of Ukrainian society the state of humanitarian policy. Yesterday, Ukrainian students protested before the Cabinet of Ministers and the President's Office against the appointment of Mr. Scarlett, who has many questions, including the mistrust of academics and the support of Yanukovic. And these questions were even asked by the Supreme Council's profile committee. In spite of the decision of the committee, however, the government appointed him to perform its duties. Today, the government is to appoint a language ombudsman. What is happening to this position? At first, Minkult and Minust nominated Mr. Svetoslav Litinski, a well - known lawyer and authority in the defence of language, and the Ombudsman of Human Rights appointed Taras Kremin, also a well - known and authoritative deputy of the past vocation, a candidate of science, the son of the winner of the Shevchenk Prize, Mr. Kremin. Yesterday, Minkult is calling off a Latin candidate, and suddenly she's making a nomination for Mrs. Bronnicki, who's not known for her legal activities or for her protection of the Ukrainian language. Perhaps Mrs. Bronnikov is a strong and authoritative man. But why break the law? The Ministry of Culture directly violates Article 19 of the Constitution and Article 50 of the Language Law because it is able to appoint, apply, but not be able to withdraw. The law makes it very clear that the term for this is 30 days. That's a long time ago. Why, from the very beginning, should the position of language ombudsman be reblocked and turned into illegal? Today our committee will really consider the Media Law, which has been discussed by many speakers. In the European Solidarity faction, in the Voice faction, which took this break, along with our faction, except for the questions that we've been asking, we agree with something, no, there's another question. The law actually eliminates so-called "black lists" that prohibited those aggressors who called for the overthrow of the state system and violated Ukrainian law. These lists used to be made by Mincult. Allows these lists to be composed of Nacradi, eliminates all the old ones. But there is no obligation for Nakrad to give someone there. So this opens the way for all the vices and other bad guys to go back to the Ukrainian screens. It is not surprising that anti - Ukrainian politics is being carried out systematically. Today’s court over Prashenko, the court over Sternenko, courts over other Ukrainian patriots are political persecutions for the pro-Ukrainian position. And we strongly insist that Ukraine should be a strong democratic state to protect our space, our human rights and the freedoms of every Ukrainian.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-01-m0.u25	Another statement was made about a break with a replacement for the performance. Gunboat Arseniy Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-01-m0.u26	Honorable Chairman, Honorable Colleagues, Honorable Ukrainians! From this rostrum, I would like to raise a question first of all about the forestry situation in the Žitomir region. All of us remember the terrible fires that took place this spring in Zitomirsk, and from all the fires the capital and many regions of Ukraine felt. The problem in forestry, in particular in the Žitomir region, is particularly systemic and it was not created yesterday. I'd like to lay out and inform you about a few accents. First: The head of the State Department, Andry Zablotsky, signed the order to prepare the forests for the fires only at the end of February, although traditionally the heads of the statesmen sign these orders in December, at most at the end of December, in order to prepare the forests for the fires. So we actually lost two months, and we got the result that we got. The situation in the Gitomir region is special because it is an area where the most, in fact, is on a level with Western Ukraine, forests. And the situation there today with the fires and the mess that's in the forest agency today is, of course, the credit of the leaders of the previous forestry industry who haven't done anything in years. Literally in the fire on April 15 he was appointed head of the State Department of the Žitomir district of Sahnuk Viktor Anatoliyovich, an experienced manager and manager, who began to set order in the Žitomir region directly from the fire and to deal with the situation that had taken place today. This, besides the fact that forests are not ready for fires, is, of course, illegal logging. And I want to say that, according to the foresters, and we, the people's deputies, are communicating today, man is professional enough and he's trying to put things right. And that's why today the "forest mafia," which is sitting on illegal logging, which is taking part in amber, is taking all the steps to get Sachnyuk out of office. What is more, yesterday Andrew Zablotsky, threatening to use force, tried to get Sachnyuk to write a resignation application. That is why we, as national deputies, are addressing the Prime Minister and the Minister of Ecology, to take steps to ensure that the person who is now bringing order to the Žitomir region in the forestry sector continues to work. And I would like to point out that the Kurinsky Andrew, who in his own time wrote an application for release, the previous head of the State Department in the Gitomire area, after the President's request, is trying to do it again today, and this is the man who was involved in the amber and the illegal logging. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-01-m0.u27	Thank you. Another statement about a break with a replacement for the performance. Timishenko Julia Volodymyrna.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-01-m0.u28	Julia Timoshenko, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear friends, I'd like to speak to the deputies right now. Please tell me, is it normal that there is a second period of work of the Supreme Council, there is no government in the Supreme Council after the flood, there is no document of budget entitlements, there is no payment of any amount of compensation and assistance to those who have lost their homes, and to those who have actually suffered from this flood? There's no way out of this trouble. I just want to ask you, is that okay? And instead, what do we do now in the Supreme Council? What we do is we discuss in detail the Act on the Playing Business, which in people in Ukraine, who no longer have money for food, no clothes, no money for living. We're talking in detail about ordering a criminal mafia like people from pockets through slot machines, through casinos, by the way, gaming machines, which in every back yard will be able to pull out the last copies. I want to ask the MPs now who are going to vote for this immoral absolutely act. Please tell me, are all these games used to make Ukrainians win anything there? You really think the poor Ukrainians are going to put the last 100 dollars in their vending machines and come out of about a thousand dollars? Who do you care about? We don't understand that the black mob bought the president, and today the gaming business in this room is being conducted as a priority law? Did you forget that in order to get any money in the budget from the gaming business, you need 10 times more people to lose at this casino? I want to ask you. Is that the most basic law in Ukraine today? And who will be responsible for the fact that those people who lose the last cents in these gaming halls will go and end their lives by suicide, or will they get out of their home all they have? Who will be responsible? And I want to remind you that you once went to an election with the President with the idea of referendums. And it's weak to ask people, do they want to legalize the gaming business? And I want to say no to you. Because for people it's like legalizing prostitution, heavy drugs. This is a disease similar to heavy drugs. And that's why I want to call now. I am a man who, as Prime Minister, has essentially cancelled the gaming business as a legal matter, and I would like to urge you not to vote for it. Don't vote!
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-01-m0.u29	Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the subject.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-01-m0.u30	Dear colleagues, before we move on to our work, I would like to address each of the deputies in the hall whose face is missing. Dear colleagues, please tell me, when you entered the hall, did you perhaps see the sign "COVID free zone"? I don't think so. So I'm asking you again, once again, on behalf of the Presidium, so that you can still put yourself in order, put on masks and not expose yourself or anyone else to any threats that might exist in this room. And that's the only way we can work effectively. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-01-m0.u31	Thank you. Cimbaluk Mikhailovich, 52.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-01-m0.u32	Mikhailo Cimbaluk, Fatherland. Honorable Chairman, Honourable Reporter! I want to start by saying that after the first reading, a working group was created. And thank you, Oleg Romanovich, for having some perspective on second reading and adoption as a whole, this bill will be complete and will be preserved, as promised, that the casino is primarily in five - star hotels. But for the second reading, it turns out that they left and returned what had not worked in the state for 10 years -- "one-handed bandits" are returning to Ukrainian society. It's only worth looking at the criminal statistics of those years when this sad business was working. My amendment, which is unfortunately rejected, refers to paragraph 5 of Part One.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-01-m0.u33	Do you insist on voting? I'll bet on the vote 52 of the Cymbaluk amendment. The committee's dismissed. Please identify and vote. [[11:00:09]] For-75 The decision is not taken. 197 law, Cimbaluk.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-01-m0.u34	Mikhailo Cimbaluk, Fatherland. If we were to talk about this bill at all, the best decision that would serve the development of the state would be to take it off the table. Next. Dear colleagues! God forbid, this law will be signed by the President, and he will enter into force, so in every district center where there is a two-star, three-star hotel, there will be a return, not a casino, but a room of slot machines. And it's this bill that's corrupt because a state commission is being created that is a body that will distribute, control and disqualify licenses. Dear colleagues! There is no such law in any country in the world. I suggest you put this to a vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-01-m0.u35	197 law. The committee's dismissed. Please identify and vote. [[11:01:38]] For-78 The decision is not taken. 3255, Cymbaluk.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-01-m0.u36	Mikhailo Cimbaluk, Fatherland. Dear Oleg Romanovich, I address you, I know you as a statesman. And I want to thank you, because there are still four adjustments, although they are technical, but I've been able to thank you for that. But I would like to ask you a question. Do you and the national MPs who plan to vote for this bill, that you have a chance not to go into history, but to get stuck in it? Because future generations will be governed by this law. And 4 billion dollars, and more than 4 billion dollars, which have already been invested in the spending portion of the budget for this year, I have doubts that they will. And if a part of it is going to be expensive, it's only on account of those people who take the last part out of the house, it's not an investment. And this is probably the 500,000 jobs the government promised. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-01-m0.u37	I'll put it to a vote of 3255. The committee is not supported by an amendment. Please identify and vote. [[11:03:15]] For-90 The decision is not taken. Princess Mikola Leonidovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-01-m0.u38	Thank you. I've got 70 rights, five minutes, please. One, I'm going to vote at the end, and I'm not going to ask for another word. Okay?
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-01-m0.u39	Five minutes, huh?
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-01-m0.u40	Yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-01-m0.u41	Give me five minutes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-01-m0.u42	So, dear fellows, I really don't see a great need to announce all the amendments right now, because I want this whole nonsense to end quickly, we invite the Cabinet of Ministers here and talk about when the money for the flood will come out. Because people are still locked up in their villages, and we're talking about how someone is going to make money in a casino -- horror. As far as this bill is concerned. Obviously, there are countries where there are really elements of gambling. In Hungary, for example, there are two national lotteries, one collecting money for movies, the other collecting money for the Ministry of Culture in general. In Georgia, casinos were allowed, but only in one region to develop Batumi as a large resort. You have a major Georgian reformer here, give him an expert on this bill, tell him whether it should be a casino and a "Igorka" all over the country, where people are going to lose their families, their lives and their health, or whether it's going to be a particular region. The same Carpathians where the floods are, for example, or somewhere else. Therefore, of course, this bill cannot be voted on in any way. In addition, the bill became much worse before the second reading than it was before the first. Because gaming institutions can be placed at educational institutions because there is no control over mania and so that people don't "sit on the needle" of this harmful habit. Because there are so many other shortcomings in this bill. And there's a separate body that instead of bringing money into the budget, it's going to take money out of the budget to control all of these gambling businesses that are created not to help Ukrainian culture, not to help the Ukrainian army or medicine, although it's supposed to be created there, but to enrich specific areas that will rob Ukrainians during the crisis. Because it's during a period of crisis that gambling is growing. People have no hope of a government, people lose money, they take the last to a variety of gaming establishments, hoping to win something, where the people who take their last money sit. So at a time of crisis, when our budget is empty, it is a crime to pass such a law. Although adopting the law, as I said before, that would support certain areas of culture, would be absolutely positive. What's the point of my amendment to the gambling bill is regulation 1119. It's part of the table. It aims to protect Ukrainian culture and sets out two very important things: at least 30 percent of all the funds that will come into the budget from gambling operators should be directed directly to the development of Ukrainian culture. Costs must come to those institutions that have already proven their effectiveness, have social trust and support – this is the Ukrainian Book Institute, the Ukrainian Cultural Fund, Derkino. The amendment in the table is listed in part in the Final Positions of the Bill, but in fact in the text of the Bill in preparation for the second reading, the rule on the purpose of the use of gambling revenue was excluded, and the obligation to develop a separate bill was passed to the Cabinet. As a result, the drafting of such a bill can stretch out for many years and become quite different. Meanwhile, lottery arrivals will be eaten instead of serving the development of culture. World practice shows that the legalization of the social business of the gambling market should take place at the same time as the allocation of additional budget revenues for specific socio-profit purposes, primarily for culture. Moreover, in Ukraine, culture itself has been struck twice by both years of underfunding and the desire to save on a culture during the pandemic and to send this money inconceivably. Dear colleagues, the faction of "European Solidarity" strongly opposes such an approach, when in fact there is not enough money from culture to take money from the budget, to go into corrupt ways to steal and lie, to steal and lie, and not to turn to people who have suffered from floods whose homes need to be repaired, whose roads need to be repaired. We are against spending so much time on this futile and social thing. I ask you to place my order on confirmation and not to vote in favour of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-01-m0.u43	Thank you. Just remind me, what number do you want to put to the vote? Mikola Leonidovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-01-m0.u44	This is 1119.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-01-m0.u45	1119. Okay. Dear colleagues, I'm putting to the vote 1119 of the People's Deputies of the Prince. The committee's offering to reject it, isn't it? Well, I get it, so it's partially accepted, you suggest it's completely edited. Therefore, the vote is based on the vote of 1119 of the People’s Deputies of Knieżický. Please identify and vote. [[11:09:23]] For 1052 The decision is not taken. Thank you. Then we move on to the right hand side of the people's deputy, Puziyczuk Andriy Viktorovich, and we start at number 29. Andrew Viktorovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-01-m0.u46	Andrew Puziyczuk, Fatherland faction, Zitomirščina. Dear colleagues, the gambling business was closed by our leader, Julia Volodymyrna Timoshenko. After that, in human families, money arose when men did not carry the last and leave it in slot machines. Why are you returning trouble to a Ukrainian family that is now more than enough? Our faction strongly opposes the adoption of this bill. Say, look at the world’s analysis, the poorer the country, the more people play. People are looking for opportunities for themselves, looking for a last chance to solve their problems. Instead of creating jobs, you're pulling out, trying to get people's money, the last cents. Please put my amendment to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-01-m0.u47	I'm betting on the vote of Amendment 29, People's Deputy Puziyczuk. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[11:10:59]] For-80 The decision is not taken. The next amendment is 30. People's MP Puziychuk. Please, Andrew Viktorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-01-m0.u48	Andrew Puziyczuk, Fatherland faction, Zitomirščina. Colleagues, please explain not only to me, but to all Ukrainian society. The president claimed that the hotels, the casinos, would be only in hotels, five - star hotels. For the second reading, these are separate halls of slot machines, this is a casino that will be located in four-star hotels and three-star hotels. There is no certification body in Ukraine, there is no concept in Ukraine -- two stars or three stars. The explanation from society why you fundamentally changed the position that you claimed that the casino in Ukraine would be only for rich foreigners who would fly to Ukraine. But what we see today is that this bill is aimed at robbing ordinary Ukrainians. There'll be slot machines in every neighborhood. Please put my amendment to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-01-m0.u49	Vote number 30 of Puziyczuk's national deputy. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[11:12:25]] For-83 The decision is not taken. The following amendment 51. Puziczuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-01-m0.u50	Puzichuk Andrey, "The Fatherland" faction. Oleg Romanovich, please tell me, as the author of the working group, when you were preparing the bill for second reading, did you take analysis, statistics in law enforcement for the last 5, 7, 10 years? How many crimes were committed in the slots? How many crimes have there been around the gaming machines? How will the appearance of such a large number of gaming machines lead to an increase in crime in Ukraine?
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-01-m0.u51	Please. It's your fix, isn't it? Please, I'm going to give the report, but the questions and the answers have to apply to the amendments. Please take the seat of the committee. And if you want to, give me an answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-01-m0.u52	Dear Andriy Viktorovich, you probably know that we've been working on this bill for six months, and we've talked about it more than once. We've been taking help, and we know it's a toxic subject, and it's a complicated situation. But if this business is present among us right now, on the Internet you can play poker, online casinos, put bets on a bookie, we're only now admitting one thing -- that you can write rules for all operators in this market. If we don't recognize them, if we are governed by the law that prohibits gambling, we see that it doesn't work, this law. And you just have to tell yourself the truth: if we recognize that this gaming business is not there now, and whether the law enforcement agencies can.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-01-m0.u53	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I am voting on the amendment of 51 people's deputies of Puziyczuk. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[11:14:51]] For-82 The decision is not taken. The next amendment is 158. Puzichuk Andri Viktorovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-01-m0.u54	Andrew Puziyczuk, Fatherland faction, Zitomirščina. Oleg Romanovich, thank you for your answer. What did you say? You're talking about what the problem is today. You're talking about this bill, it's not going to solve it, and it's actually legalizing it. So what we're talking about is that gaming machines are bad for Ukraine, bad for people. And please note my 158th amendment. I propose this amendment to exclude the gaming slots from the casino list. I really want to hear your answer. And explain to the community why your bill contains gambling facilities that are not located in casinos that are not located in five - star hotels, as everyone claimed? You're planning to create casinos all over the country today. Please explain why, what argument?
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-01-m0.u55	Please take your position. Dear colleagues, the point is that the reporter only proves the position of the committee, not his own. That's why I'm putting 158 people's deputies to the vote. Please identify and vote. [[11:16:30.]] For-89 The decision is not taken. The next amendment is 159. Please, Puzichuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-01-m0.u56	Puziyczuk Andry, "The Fatherland" faction, Zitomirščina. Mr. Chairman, I am addressing the rapporteur, not as a person, but as a representative of the committee and as the head of the working group for the drafting of this bill. So once again, I want to go back to the question. The explanation, please, why do you put separate slot machines all over Ukraine that will be in the vicinity of schools, into colleges without any restrictions? Why are slot machines located throughout the country, not just in five - star hotels? This actually creates a mechanism, a tool to rob Ukrainian society. They're actually "one-armed bandits" who are going to rob citizens all over the country. Please give an answer as a representative of the committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-01-m0.u57	Andriy Viktorovich, my dear fellows! It's not really going to be like this, and there's not going to be a lot of these one-armed thugs and one-armed thugs. Because right now it's a much worse situation. If you read the law in its entirety, it is clear that there will be very few. And if. We discussed this in all the working groups, and the committee concluded that your amendment should be rejected.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-01-m0.u58	Thank you. I'm betting on the 159th amendment of the People's Deputy, Andriy Viktorovich. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[11:18:35]] For 106 The decision is not taken. The next amendment is 165 by Puzijchuk Andrija Viktorovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-01-m0.u59	Puziyczuk Andry, "The Fatherland" faction, Zitomirščina. Dear colleagues, I, like you, am the first call in this House, but in nine months of our work and nine months of the work of the three governments that worked with President Greensky, I can say that everything you say is diametrically opposite and does not correspond to reality. If you say it won't happen, you can be sure it will. And when you talk about a limited number, those are words, and the bill says something else. When you said there would be only five - star hotels, today they are separate halls, three - star hotels. Take this disgraceful bill off the table. Stop creating the conditions for looting Ukrainian society.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-01-m0.u60	A vote is taken on amendment 165 of the Puzijczuk People’s Deputy. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[11:20:00]] For-86
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-01-m0.u61	The decision is not taken. 232 axles. Puzichuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-01-m0.u62	Dmitry Alexanderovich, 196.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-01-m0.u63	196. Puzichuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-01-m0.u64	Thank you. Andrew Puziyczuk, Fatherland faction, Zitomirščina. Dear colleagues, return to history for a few years and see where the biggest problems were -- the biggest problems were in the slots. In fact, what we've heard is "one-handed bandits." It's an expression that's not made up in Ukrainian society, and it's an expression that's not made up today. "One-Handed Bandits" is an expression that exists. Why? They're machine guns that rob like bandits, people. And the problems were not in the casino, but in the slots. I insist that you support my 196 amendment, which I propose to rule out slot machines. Please explain why the committee supports the existence of gaming slots in Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-01-m0.u65	I'll bet you 196 votes. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. 196. [[11:21:30.]] For-96 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. 232 axles. Puzichuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-01-m0.u66	Puziyczuk Andry, "The Fatherland" faction, Zitomirščina. Mr. Reporter, I'd like not only me, but the whole Ukrainian society to hear why you're planning, why you don't support my amendments, which we're asking to rule out slot machines. Why do you insist that there should be slot machines where children can get controllessly dependent? If you explained that there would be five-star hotels where there would be a jersey code that wouldn't allow children in the hotel. So why is it that the main thing for today is playing machines in Ukraine without access control? Well, why don't you just argue? Thank you for your answer and please support my amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-01-m0.u67	I'll bet you 232 votes. The committee's dismissed. Please identify and vote. [[11:22:49]] Z-87 The decision is not taken. 262 law.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-01-m0.u68	292th. Dear colleagues, with this amendment, I propose to establish a single form of lottery ticket, namely an electronic one. Paper lottery is a field to manipulate abuse. Anyone can print any number of lottery tickets they don't control. My offer is electronic. Tell me, why did you reject my amendment? Why do you think they should be paper that is not controlled? Please explain your position.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-01-m0.u69	Thank you. Can we vote? I'll bet you 262 votes. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[11:23:57]] For-88 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. 292 revisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-01-m0.u70	Dmitri Alexanderovich, I asked 292, this is again the electronic form of the lottery ticket. So 292 amendments apply to the electronic form of the lottery ticket. Please explain the argument, why did they reject my amendment in the electronic form of a paper ticket?
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-01-m0.u71	Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-01-m0.u72	The committee's position is to reject. Only because if you carefully studied the whole law and the whole table, you would see that we put the lotteries in "Transitional Positions" and "Transitional Positions" are supposed to go into their basic law. And it says here that the lottery can also be in electronic form. So it's actually counted, just not in this chapter. Everything about lottery tickets, we've passed the law. So if you still have the lottery changes, you just have to pick them up in the end.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-01-m0.u73	I'll bet you 292 votes. Ready to vote? Please identify and vote. [[11:25:31]] For-86 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. 406 lashes, Puziychuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-01-m0.u74	Colleagues, my 406th amendment is about poker. Please pay attention. There's a decision by the District Administrative Court that thinks that poker is not a gambling game. Poker is a game that depends on the player's skill, not the case. In addition, in 2018 the Ministry of Youth and Sports's Order recognized sports poker as an official form of sport. So poker is not the subject of regulation at all. I'm asking you to support my amendment and rule out the appropriate positions regarding poker.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-01-m0.u75	I'm betting on a vote of 406 Puzichuk's turnout, and it's not supported by the committee. Please identify and vote. [[11:26:42]] For-96 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. 448 lashes.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-01-m0.u76	Andrew Puziyczuk, Fatherland faction, Zitomirščina. Colleagues, I insist that you can't create separate halls with slot machines. With this amendment, I propose that we rule out the creation of a register of game organizers in the slot rooms. If you feel that way about setting up slot machines, at least do it in a casino. And in general, the "Fatherland" faction strongly opposes this bill and insists that you do not support it. Take this bill off the table. And I'm asking you to back me up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-01-m0.u77	I'll bet you 448 votes. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[11:27:58]] For-86 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. Next line is 539. Puzichuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-01-m0.u78	Andrew Puziyczuk, Fatherland faction, Zitomirščina. My colleagues, we're talking about sports poker again. I stress that sports poker is not the subject of regulation of this bill, poker is a sport, not a gambling game. Sports poker is officially included in the list of neolympic sports recognized in Ukraine. Please support my amendment and exclude poker from this bill is a sport, it's not a gambling game, it's not a casino. Please support my amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-01-m0.u79	539 Puzichuk's right. Not supported by the committee. Please identify and vote. [[11:29:07]] For-88 The decision is not taken. Next line 652. Puzichuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-01-m0.u80	Dear reporter, I turn not personally, but to many colleagues who want to hear the answer. The explanation, please, why is poker like a sports game that is not subject to regulation of this bill, you don't support my amendment and you don't want to exclude it from this bill? Explain, please, because really in many colleagues, everyone asks why poker is carried away in Ukraine.? It's an abnormal phenomenon when you start turning sports into gambling. Please give me an answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-01-m0.u81	Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-01-m0.u82	Committee position: discard your changes. But, Andriy Viktorovich, in the right column there's a definition of sports poker and it says in black and white that it's not a gambling game. Poker as a gambling game can only be played at a casino. So that's the question. It just technically cannot be confirmed. Discard the edit.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-01-m0.u83	I'll bet you 652 Puzichuk's vote. It's not supported by the committee. Please identify and vote. [[11:30:49]] For-83 The decision is not taken. Sixty-seventy-two.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-01-m0.u84	Oleg Romanovich, actually, what you're saying about sports poker is that the Ministry of Youth and Sports, which has officially recognized poker as a sport, is wrong. It's not a sport, it's a gambling game. Well, then, please have a conversation with the minister of sports, who represents today's power. My amendment to 672 refers to slot machines again. I insist that the greatest danger of legalizing the gaming business is the slots. Not a casino, not a bookie, but a gaming machine, which is used to kill people in every family who make money out of their wallets. Why? If you're people's servants, if you have to protect people, what you're creating a tool for.?
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-01-m0.u85	I'll bet you 672 votes. It's not supported by the committee. Please identify and vote. [[11:32:20]] Z-85 No decision taken, no correction counted. 1788, Puzichuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-01-m0.u86	Dear colleagues, if you recall, President Zelensky told us in September 2019 that Chernobyl should be made a tourist destination. Many of your representatives, including ministers, said that special areas — resorts, playgrounds, tourists — should be created in Ukraine. My amendment is aimed at creating special gaming areas in Ukraine. Create playgrounds long distances from humans. Instead of creating near schools, schools, creating slot machines on every corner, create tourist zones. Show that you really care about Ukraine, that you want to create Ukrainian Las Vegas or Singapore, that you can show that somewhere in Ukrainian Herson or Wilkovo Odessa, or in the Chernobyl area, there can be playgrounds.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-01-m0.u87	I'm betting on the vote of 1788 Puziyczuk. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[11:33:52]] For-80 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. Next issue, 1895, Puzichuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-01-m0.u88	Andrew Puziyczuk, Fatherland faction, Zitomirščina. Colleagues, hear the other factions. To date, you have not heard every single speech or amendment in this room that supports your shameful bill. Take this bill off the table, create jobs for it, think about the welfare of citizens, about the welfare of society. You're all given examples that to get the 4 billion dollars you're dreaming of, you need to rob Ukrainian families for 40 billion dollars. You're creating a tool for robbing Ukrainian families. It's every person who doesn't have a job today, doesn't have an income today, will watch this slot machine, watch movies, and dream about pressing one button and solving all their life's problems. Take this bill off the table.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-01-m0.u89	I'm betting on the 1895 vote, the Puziyczuk amendment. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. 1895. [[11:35:31]] For-78 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. 2340 next line.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-01-m0.u90	Dear colleagues! Andrew Puziyczuk, Fatherland faction, Zitomirščina. Notice, this is actually not a bill on gaming business, but a bill on how to legitimize gaming machines in Ukraine, how to legitimize "one-armed bandits" who will constantly rob Ukrainian citizens 24 hours a day. You're not looking at bills to stimulate economic development today. You're not looking at the bills that will create jobs today. You are not currently considering bills that will be the drivers of Ukraine's economic growth. You're creating the only thing today is the conditions for robbing Ukrainian society. All your bills are meant to lead to the poverty of Ukrainian citizens. Please support my amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-01-m0.u91	Edit 2340 Puziyczuk. The committee's dismissed. Please identify and vote. [[11:36:59]] For-79 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. 2571. Puzichuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-01-m0.u92	Colleagues! Andrew Puziyczuk, Fatherland faction, Zitomirščina. I'm going back to the lottery. You've heard many times that our colleagues from different factions are offering to be state lotteries from which the income would be directed to the development of sport, to support culture. I insist that the lottery should be electronic, not paper. Paper lottery is a tool that you can't control. Today, Ukrainian society knows millions of instances of counterfeiting excise stamps. How can you today guarantee what mechanism for controlling not counterfeit lottery tickets? Make an electronic lottery and a state lottery. Please support my amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-01-m0.u93	I'm betting on a vote of 2571 people's deputies, Puziyczuk. The committee's dismissed. Please identify and vote. [[11:38:32]] Z-77 No decision taken, no correction counted. The next revision of Puziyczuk is 2948.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-01-m0.u94	Andrew Puziyczuk, Fatherland faction, Zitomirščina. Colleagues, my amendment is designed to create attractive investment conditions. I propose to create a casino in Ukraine, to create, if you're so sick of having a casino in Ukraine, to create casinos. Playgrounds in the Chernobyl area, in the Herson Steppes, where you don't have access to people, where what you do, you tell them that jets with rich foreigners will fly. So create a gambling zone in the Herson region or in the Chernobyl area, invest in it, let it develop in Ukraine. And your bill is not meant to develop Ukraine, your bill is designed not to be played by foreigners but to rob ordinary Ukrainians. Please support my amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-01-m0.u95	I'm betting on the vote number 2948 Puzichuk Andrija Viktorovich. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[11:40:05]] For-76 No decision taken, no correction counted. Yes, the next 3144, Puzichuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-01-m0.u96	Dear colleagues, this is my final amendment. I am addressing all of you, please exercise your consciousness, please exercise your responsibility, take your state position. Tomorrow, after opening the slot machines, after opening the casino, you can meet in the streets of Ukraine, in the streets of your hometowns, people who come up, look in your eyes, and their eyes will be filled with tears, because someone loses the last money in the slot machines, instead of getting a kid a backpack at school, instead of getting a book or a book or some notebook or a pencil for painting. Why are you creating a tool to rob society? I'm asking you to be conscious and not support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-01-m0.u97	Thank you. I'm betting on the vote of 3144 Puziyczuk. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[11:41:47]] For-76 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. Yes, Black Victor Ivanovich, 31st edition. Next. Frolow. For five minutes, please include Paul Valeriovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-01-m0.u98	Honorary colleagues, the World Health Organization, were recognized as being guaranteed that a constant gambling game would lead to a painful mental dependency — psychomania. This disease stands in one row with diseases such as drug abuse and alcoholism, but there are no obvious physical signs. Players tend to deny the problem by going to many victims for the purpose of concealing their harmful passion. This significantly complicates the treatment of game addiction at the professional level. It is this law of equal influence on hundreds of thousands of Ukrainian families that is one of the most dangerous. Yes, we understand that the total ban on the gaming business is ineffective. So we need to create as soon as possible a legal framework for the legalization of the igorka. At the same time, the world’s experience shows that the instrumentation and cruelty of national regulation will make every twenty - year - old and adult or every five years dependent on this business. So the price of this law is either 5 or 20 percent of the Ukrainians. Now it's about the substance of the bill. Despite the huge work carried out by the committee and taking into account 179 of my amendments, the drafting of the bill for second reading generally does not achieve the main objectives of regulating gambling, such as reducing the social distance between people and casinos, and preventing the widespread involvement of all kinds of people in gambling, especially young people. The bill is aimed at licensing and legalizing the gaming business for the benefit of several famous monopolies. The main flaw in this bill is the actual delay in the online monitoring system for two years, which will mean the legalization of illegal today's gaming business without proper control and taxes. Practically absent from the bill is the regulation of online gambling. In the world, all gambling is now online, and in Ukraine, most of the traffic will be unregulated. Hundreds of sites, including illegal sites, will cheat on Internet users and social networks without monitoring and identifying at least the age of players and without respecting the principles of responsible play. Another model of regulation applies to the European Union, whose court has already made over 40 decisions that make online gambling more dangerous than offline games. Even when they are regulated and controlled by the competent authorities of the State. So the court allowed automatically without a court decision to block websites with illegal content and advertising of illegal gaming operators. In the European Union, 18 countries are obliged to force providers to block illegal gaming resources. Of these, 12 countries use DNS blocking, 2 countries use IP blocking, 4 countries use all possible technologies. Their numbers are increasing steadily. Estonia, for example, has found that only a third of the players who looked for online gaming resources got an automatic message that the resource was illegal and tried to circumvent the ban, and various technical tricks to get to the banned website. Therefore, the arguments of opponents of blocking websites and lobbyists about the seemingly easy use of VPN, Tor, mirrors and other methods of countering bans are false. In Estonia, 67 percent of the users refused to pass the ban. It is ineffective and pointless to set up a committee on the regulation of gambling and lotteries, as well as the order of formation of the composition of the competition commission, contrary to the Constitution, not by the entire Parliament, but by the culinary committee. The lottery regulator throughout the independent Ukraine was the Ministry of Finance, which has worked out the practice and experience of regulating the gaming business, a formed department, and qualified professionals. The project has other shortcomings in advertising, license costs, market entry conditions, and so on. So I think the project needs to be further developed, because there are 4 billion budget revenues on one scale and millions of lives and fates on the other. To decide what is more important and to be accountable to the Ukrainians, you and I are honored colleagues. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-01-m0.u99	Thank you, Paul Valeriovich. Nikolainko Andri Ivanovich, 128.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-01-m0.u100	Nikolainka, the Motherland faction. Guys, I'll make you an offer. I have only five rights, and I'm going to propose each of them to vote, but they're all tied up and very clear. So a novelty and this is actually a know-how as a "fatherland" faction can vote in favour of this law if my rights are upheld. That's what they're all about. They're because we don't mind the development of tourism. We are for the development of depressed territories. But we're against robbing Ukrainians. There is a world practice where people who have reached the age of 21 are allowed to play in the territory but who are foreigners other than Ukrainians. So my amendment is to remove the citizens of Ukraine from those who can play. Let the Russians, the Belarusians, the Turks, the Turks, who are losing money, and we will develop culture, sport, and tourism for them. That's why I'm asking you to support me. And now we're going to see what we need: the development of tourism or the selection of Ukrainians? Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-01-m0.u101	Andrew Ivanovich, can we all put to the vote? Can we put all four of them in? In turn? I'll bet you 128 votes. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[11:48:12]] For 104 The decision is not taken. 1224.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-01-m0.u102	I want to explain it to my colleagues again. First of all, we've just rejected my order to have a legalized and normalized gaming market in Ukraine. But we are against paying Ukrainians for these services to collect them and fill our budget with mythical 4 billion. So we say that if we support this amendment, which is also related to the previous one, we determine that those who can access the gaming slots are anyone other than the Ukrainians. And I think that makes sense. This practice is in South Korea, to which the President of yours has urged us to be equal in economic terms, where the government wants citizens, the middle class, to develop and not rob them. This policy is in the Philippines, and this is politics in Vietnam. These are countries that show the highest level of economic development and pace. So let's think about what we need? And in my subsequent writings, I'll explain what else disappeared from the law between the first and the second readings.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-01-m0.u103	1224. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[11:49:41]] For-86 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. This Decision
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-01-m0.u104	So once again, I would like to draw attention to one of the thesis that was sounded by the distinguished speaker, Oleg Romanovich, in answer to my colleague’s question. He said yes, there's really such a problem, we can't overcome it, so let's legalize it. I want to remind my distinguished colleagues in the "Serve of the People" that when the bill was first failed, the President's will decision and the previous government, during one night, all that illegal, sorry, shit that was on our streets was shut down, and it didn't work until now. So if there's a political will to stop it and you don't change your mind, it won't start working, instead of giving it green light right now. And so, I think it was unacceptable to clean between the first and the second readings of the lottery that were set up, and it was under lotteries that all of the Wakhanalia that was on Ukrainian streets was going on. So I'm asking you to support the amendment and not vote in favour of this law at all, and actually that's going to give the green color to the renewal.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-01-m0.u105	I'll bet on the vote 2015 Niklaenka. Please identify and vote. [[11:51:15.]] For-89 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. 3380, last edition of Nikolainka.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-01-m0.u106	So, colleagues, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that if you have already decided to commit this sin per soul and legalize this disgrace called "playful," so-called "business," I refer to your Ministry of Finance and Minister personally as being personally responsible for the fact that it is the Ministry of Finance that is not in compliance with the Lottery Act that has been removed from this law. And as a result, under the legalization of the gaming business, once again, using a hole in the legislation on the standardization of lottery activity, all those who covered it up will re-establish their gaming halls, which is the problem. So I want everyone who votes for this law today to understand that you will have this personal responsibility. And on Friday, on a question from the government, I'm sure we'll be asking the government when they're putting in lottery action. Thank you and please support.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-01-m0.u107	A vote is taken on amendment 3380 by the national deputy Nikolainek Andrija Ivanovich. The committee proposes to reject it. Please identify and vote. [[11:52:47]] For-86 The decision is not taken. Then we move to the right of Ivana Orestovna Klimpush-Cincadze. From your rights I was told you two would speak. Could you give me the number, please?
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-01-m0.u108	Who said two? I have eight rights. But I want to pay attention to five of them.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-01-m0.u109	Tell me, which one?
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-01-m0.u110	Number 604.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-01-m0.u111	1668, 2194, 2695, 3438. Right? Let's get started.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-01-m0.u112	Yeah, come on.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-01-m0.u113	604, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-01-m0.u114	1668.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-01-m0.u115	Yes, yes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-01-m0.u116	Colleagues, in fact, some of the laws that make a suggestion before this bill that these games and these licenses for game organizers cannot work abroad, to the countries of the European Union, as proposed by this bill. Because of the European Union’s directives, such activity cannot be distributed to foreign countries and, in fact, our gambling organizers will be called to account immediately if they offer theirs.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-01-m0.u117	I can't hear you. What's the edit? No, it's an adjustment. Then we take the floor and we vote. Yeah? No, it's not. Then if you have five right - hands, you have five right - hands, then you will. What was the readjustment of 1668? 604? I'll bet you 604 votes. 1668, I put it to a vote. Please identify and vote. You're not being heard, colleagues. You'd have a microphone on, you could tell it all. You three answer, colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-01-m0.u118	Again. When you started, you said you started 1668 -- right? You've reported it. Now let's put it on.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-01-m0.u119	Colleagues, vote 1668, please identify and vote. [[11:55:26]] For-89 The decision is not taken. 2194, Klimpush-Cincadze.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-01-m0.u120	Give me three minutes. I have a total of eight rights. So seven is left, so give me three minutes, I'll do it.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-01-m0.u121	Please turn on two more minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-01-m0.u122	Thank you. I would like to point out that this bill does not take into account the European directives governing the issue of laundering, countering money-laundering and countering the financing of terrorism in European countries. And that's why my amendments have just suggested that we take into account the positions of the directives of the European Union that should be reflected in our legislation if we are actually going to the countries of the European Union. Regrettably, neither was the claim for a reduction in the amount to which financial monitoring is to be carried out. Today, the bill proposes financial monitoring of 100,000 dollars. European directives provide for two thousand, equivalent to two thousand euros. This means that someone is interested in making schemes opaque and that the country and the gambling organizers should be held accountable. I also suggested that we establish the need to obtain a license from foreign companies if they wanted to conduct this activity in Ukraine. This amendment was not included either. That means you, colleagues, don't follow the direction we said we'd go. And I'd like to put one on the vote anyway. Two of my licenses: one 604, which concerns the need for non-residents to obtain a license and the second 3438, which actually limits the financial monitoring plan from 100,000 bracelets to the equivalent of 2,000 euros. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-01-m0.u123	I'll bet you 604 votes. She was not supported by the committee. Please identify and vote. [[11:57:57]] For-89 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. And 3438, right? I'll put her to a vote of 604. The committee didn't support her. Please identify and vote. [[11:58:20]] For-94 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. There's a break until 12:30. Please don't be late.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-01-m0.u124	Feder Volodymyrovich, are you insisting on some of your papers? Oh, no? Can we move on? Thank you. Tarasov Oleg Sergiyovich. Six straights. 1343. Don't insist. 1344. 1345. 1477. 1490. 1729. Next. Grandma. Is there a baby? 1366. 1451. 2236. Caltz. Don't insist. No one insists. Is there a Bondarev? Dear colleagues, is Bondarev there? It's a faction. You don't? No, it's not on the ground. [[B in m in s a l in]] You think so? Let's go. 413. Bondarev. No, no, we voted yesterday. Sergey Volodymyrovich, you insisted on applying the ad hoc procedure. That's why I have to go like this. But the hall supported my offer. It's 413. No, it doesn't. 416 law. 605 correct. For confirmation, we agreed at the end, and we voted on it. 736 lashes. 1483. 1504. 1612. 2624. 2625. Sergei Volodymyrovich, all the papers. Is there a Krulko? Alona Ivanovna's starch. Eighty-seven-seven. I know I saw it, so I went to Scrum. Eighty-seven-seven.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-01-m0.u125	Thank you. I'm sorry, but I still have 665 to 800 and 676. Look, Mr. Head, please. So I'd like to start with a 665, which is negative.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-01-m0.u126	665 straight, Schrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-01-m0.u127	Thank you very much. I'm going to take this opportunity to explain the logic of my rights at all. I've filed a few rights, but they all relate to about the same painful issue: local self-governance and local communities' right to agree on (disagreement) gambling and regulation of gambling in their territories. Because, colleagues, very frankly, I don't know much about gambling. I've never been to a casino, I've never played vending machines, but I've been very good at local self-governance, local self-governance rights, and I've had to learn the international experience of how gambling is regulated by specific countries. In the United States, for example, local self - government and specific states, and specific communities have the absolute right to permit or prohibit gambling in their territory. And the same logic of all of my amendments. I would like to see the voice of local self - government and the local self - government committee heard in the consideration of a matter that will have a profound impact on local communities and local self - government. I'm asking you to support it. It's been rejected.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-01-m0.u128	I'm betting on the 665th Schrum vote. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[12:37:47]] For-69 The decision is not taken. Next amendment, Alan Ivanovna?
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-01-m0.u129	76th.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-01-m0.u130	766.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-01-m0.u131	Thank you. 766 revisions. Colleagues, same story. In most countries of the world, where gambling and casinos are even potentially allowed, local governments and communities themselves can decide whether they are willing to allow it in their territory. And the logic of these amendments was that the community itself -- we're talking about decentralization -- the community itself can decide, for example, to ban gambling for a year or for three years and open casinos in its territory. Another community might be the Odessa region, maybe the Mikolai district, maybe the Carpathians might decide that they need money in the gambling budget, no matter how this happens, and let it happen. And we're going to have Ukrainian Nevada, Ukrainian Las Vegas or Ukrainian Batumi. But for the time being, there is absolutely no right in the law to allow or prohibit gambling in its territory. So please support my 676.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-01-m0.u132	I'll bet you vote 676. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[12:39:12]] Z-77 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. Next issue is 827. Scram.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-01-m0.u133	Alona's splinter, Fatherland faction. Colleagues, exactly the same line. Allow local governments and communities to decide for themselves whether or not to gamble in their territory. Because all the money will concentrate on it in Kiev, and local self - government will get problems, the fate of people is mutilated, crime is potential, and so on. So I propose, along with a register of self-limited persons, to establish a register of local communities in which the activities of the organization and the conduct of gambling are restricted or prohibited in accordance with local self - government decisions. Once again, colleagues, the President speaks of decentralization, the Committee on Local Self-Government will be considering today's Order on so-called districts and the completion of decentralization. But real decentralization is to trust painful decisions and difficult solutions to local self-government. I am absolutely convinced that local self - government will be able to decide whether to allow or prohibit gambling in its territory, and that it must have the right to do so. Don't take this right into Kiev, you'll get a lot of resentment.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-01-m0.u134	Eighty-seven-seven. I'll bet you a vote. Please identify and vote. [[12:40:48]] For-83 The decision is not made. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. 905 correct. Scram.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-01-m0.u135	Thank you, colleagues. 905 correct. These corrections, which I am now talking about, are presented to me in cooperation and cooperation with Olga Belkova, who is well aware of her recent mandate and who worked for the Tax and Customs Committee. And you remember the personal history of Ollie Belkovi, who told us here from the rostrum, and it was impossible to ignore her, how people’s fates were actually being destroyed by such legislative initiatives. If we are talking about the legalization of gambling, we can talk about it only with the restrictions that exist in countries such as the United States, Georgia, the European Union and the countries of Europe. And in these countries, you have the right to individual regions, to individual states, to individual communities, and to individual OTGs, to make decisions, whether they're willing to have a casino in their territory, whether they're willing to let a 3-star hotel have or not have any gambling. And that's a decision we have to make. So I ask you to support this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-01-m0.u136	905 correct. The committee is not supported. Please vote and determine. [[12:42:13]] For-81 The decision is not taken. 941 straight, Schrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-01-m0.u137	941 of my amendment. This amendment refers to the State’s market surveillance of gambling. Unfortunately, we all understand very well that if we don't set up safety nets on such painful issues, we will get completely uncontrollable, completely all-involved, unsupervised and uncontrollable gambling markets. One such precaution may be to make a market for gambling in a particular territory. Unfortunately, the committee rejected the story. For example, in Georgia Batumi develops at the expense of this, but only Batumi, not all Georgia, in every small town and village. Another restriction that I propose, Mrs. Olga Bielkova, and I am confident that it will support a large number of committees from local self-government and government administrations that the local communities themselves have the right to prohibit or allow gambling in their own territory for 1 year or 2 or 3 years. And there must be a register of areas where casinos and gambling are not allowed to be opened. This amendment applies to State control. Please support her.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-01-m0.u138	I'm betting on 941 votes, not supported by the committee. Please identify and vote. [[12:43:41]] Z-87 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. 998.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-01-m0.u139	Thank you, colleagues. 998 is one of the key lines. I don't have as many as I said. But here I propose to complete the law with article 11 Prim. "The involvement of local self-government authorities in organization regulation and gambling." It's the right philosophy when we talk about decentralization and give money to places, taxes to places, authority to places, and not just give authority and no rights. I am sure that this international experience, both in the United States and elsewhere, should be in this law. So, colleagues, I ask you to uphold the right of united territorial communities, rural, rural and urban councils to decide on a total ban of 1, for example, the year of the organization of gambling in their respective territory. They are much closer to the people, to the people, and to the citizens. They understand the situation in their village, village, united territory, who will play, and the risks involved. And they have the right to make that decision. Colleagues, please support.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-01-m0.u140	I'll bet the vote on 998. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[12:45:07]] Z-91 The decision is not taken. 1251.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-01-m0.u141	Thank you, colleagues. Amendment 1251. We all understand how painful this discussion is. Yeah? And we all remember how Julia Volodymyrna Timoshenko, when she was Prime Minister, shut down gambling, shut down casinos, shut down "one-handed bandits," and why she did it. I don't think anyone in this room wants to go back to those terrible situations and to those tragic consequences absolutely. So it's not a bad choice here that a law could have a major restriction on gambling, allowing communities to decide whether they want to have gambling in their territory, allowing them to do it in specific areas. Unfortunately, the committee in charge didn't listen at all. Unfortunately, the president did not hear that either. Unfortunately, the Supreme Council is not going to listen to this either. Colleagues, we're going to have a totally catastrophic situation that we're going to have to deal with with for many, many years and then it's going to be a lot more difficult to deal with than it is now. So I still call very openly to talk about it, to think about it and to accept the right adjustments that are there.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-01-m0.u142	I'm betting on a vote of 1251. Please identify and vote. [[12:46:34]] For-92 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. Alona Ivanovna’s Final Rule, 3460
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-01-m0.u143	Thank you, fellows, for giving me the opportunity to speak at least a little bit of the position of the local self-government authorities, the position of the communities, the position of the people throughout Ukraine, who have addressed the Fatherland faction, to me personally, to Julius Volodymyrna Timoshenko himself and begged, literally asked, at least, to give them the right to determine for themselves whether they wanted to have gambling in their territory, in their community, in their village, in their town, in their village, in their village, in their village or not. Maybe there'll be communities that see this need and want to do it, maybe it'll be some community of Odessa or Mikolai district, and it could be Ukrainian Las Vegas. But this right should not be for us and not for President Zelensky, but for local self-government. And, colleagues, I'm going to insist that even after the adoption of this law, I hope this doesn't happen, that we settle issues with local governments, that we change the Law to gambling and local self-government, and give them that right. Decentralisation is an opportunity to put such decisions in place, not just to take money away from them and to take away their powers, to give them nothing but responsibilities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-01-m0.u144	I'm betting on a vote of 3,460. Please identify and vote. [[12:48:06]] For-97 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. Is there a Pole? Turn Anton Eduardoovich on for three minutes. Right, Anton?
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-01-m0.u145	Friends, I just want to express my position on this bill. In fact, we understand that the game business works and thousands of casinos and underground gaming slots work. But these costs are often in someone's pocket, and even in some cases they're transferred to the aggressor country. But we understand that this bill should be adopted in such a way that it really works. Because we had time to do this, and we were able to make it beautiful. About a year and a half ago, Vladimir Zelensky repeatedly raised the issue. A year ago in Rabbit, we raised that question. And I think that for a year and a half, we could come up with a really good bill. The point is that there are so many deputies in this room who have made fine adjustments in relation to the games’ entertainment facilities on the Internet and about five - star hotels that are promised. And for now we're seeing what's going to be adopted, I think, today, it's just going to go to the right field of all those institutions that are now working in the dark. So it's not really a reform, it's not an improvement. Control won't improve. Because we realize that if there's a gambling facility on every street, no law enforcement can control these institutions, and it turns out that we can't control the budget well. So I have a very big question for this bill. Question: Why were most of the good lines, let's say, not taken into account, is lobbyism present? And of course, when the bill is so final, I'm going to hold on in this case. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-01-m0.u146	Thank you. Coltunovich Alexander Sergiyovich. How much time did you ask for? You don't have to. How much did you show? A minute, huh? Well, you have four papers, right? Turn it on, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-01-m0.u147	Reverend Dmitry Alexanderovich, this is my next situation. My eight amendments include four in part. But since I insist that they be taken fully into account, I will be forced to insist on them and put them to a vote. So it's going to be eight.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-01-m0.u148	How much time do you want?
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-01-m0.u149	One minute at a time.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-01-m0.u150	All right, time's up.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-01-m0.u151	Are we rolling?
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-01-m0.u152	1849.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-01-m0.u153	Thank you. Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine! The concept of amending this draft law was certainly about taking into account international experience the so-called "game zones" that would not apply to those populated areas where we have direct access to schools and other infrastructure objects. First of all, foreign experience shows that the purpose of stimulating depressed areas is to create such appropriate zones. So in another parallel case, it was suggested not to apply.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-01-m0.u154	I'm betting on the vote in 1849. The committee turned her down. Please identify and vote. [[12:52:11]] For-75 No decision taken, no correction counted. 2087, Coltunovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-01-m0.u155	Thank you, Mr. Head! And the amendments that were made were to make sure that the money that was going away as a result of the winnings was not just going to go in the direction that was proposed in the draft Law, but also to do scientific work in order to have a parity of 25 percent, I understand that there would be also going to be a budget code for the creation of a special fund. And from this point of view, we basically insisted that we engage and finance scientific activities in Ukraine, including the winnings. We are interested in the committee's opinion on how they see the mechanisms for further financing of such projects and how it will continue. Because there are some amendments that are being pointed out -- partially accounted for. What we don't understand is how it's going to be applied and how it's going to be done, which fund it's going to be replenishing, which fund, which project support or innovation support fund, or the commercialization of innovation and so on? Thank you and please answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-01-m0.u156	I'll bet you 2087. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[12:53:43]] Z-77 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. 2248.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-01-m0.u157	Thank you, Mr. Head. I'm looking. And, look, we just missed the 1077 amendments with you guys, we were going, I'm just looking at the site, I'm looking at the second reading table, 1106 amendments. It says, essentially, "The End Positions." But, well, we wanted to ask the committee's representative about this example. But we have not heard the answer, so we do not understand whether we put it to the vote or not. As far as 1106 is concerned. "About financial support and/or funding of scientific research projects and programmes" is amended as follows: Mr. Head, I'm sorry. 1106, says, essentially, in the End Positions. I asked the committee representative a question. We don't understand how it's going to work on funding, funding research projects. I was just talking about it in the last amendment. So we wanted to hear the answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-01-m0.u158	Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-01-m0.u159	We've rejected these revisions here because in the Final Positions, we've essentially taken these positions into account. There is no specific funding for scientific projects. But there are: science, education, medicine, sports, and culture. In "Finally." In the right column, if you look at the end.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-01-m0.u160	I'm betting on a vote of 2242. Those changes that you mentioned are separate. The committee did not support 2242. Please identify and vote. [[12:55:40]] For-73 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. 3487. Coltunovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-01-m0.u161	Thank you. I'll be sure to pay attention to another 2242, which I just heard, which is what we're offered: the area of a special gaming area for the placement of gaming slots is where the five stars hotels go and are located (this is the main concept, and this is the strategic line) in special territorially separated gaming areas. This is where suitable objects are to be found, and why we emphasized this. Everyone knows Las Vegas, Altay, the experience of European countries. We see that stimulating just the depressing territories for Ukraine -- that could be the driver. We understand that the lack of structural economic reforms from the majority and today's Cabinet of Ministers is fueling the country's overall growth. Just what you're suggesting, if you're going to take this step, go to special gaming areas that can actually stimulate the development of regions. So that's why we've been insisting that we actually apply this amendment. And we're interested, of course, in the Committee's opinion on why they're against gaming zones. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-01-m0.u162	I'm betting on a vote of 3487. Please identify and vote. [[12:57:19]] For-73 The decision is not taken. Alexander Sergiyovich, do you insist on 1077? Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-01-m0.u163	Of course. Because we were talking about the support fund for science, medicine, culture, and sports. Once again, it's taken into account essentially. And what I was trying to say is that there wasn't enough time for changes to be made to the Budget Code, and that's where it's going to be defined. We wrote that I was making proposals for 25 percent. I mean, so we don't have to clear these costs. If you have education, culture, medicine, science, 25 percent each segment should be given. And so from this point of view, we're trying to understand what other regulations you're going to regulate. And what's important is that we get targeted funding for appropriate innovation and investment projects to actually contribute to the development of science and science and technology in Ukraine. If you can, let's talk about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-01-m0.u164	1077, the committee is partially accounted for. Reject? It's counted. Leave a suggestion made by the committee, right? Right, committee, committee representative? Okay. I'm betting on the voting proposal, which is shown in the table, which reflects the position of the committee. Please identify and vote. [[12:59:07]] For-79 The decision is not taken. Next line is 1006. Same situation. Are you insisting on yours?
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-01-m0.u165	Yes, I insist, but we're interested in how we're essentially taking into account the evolution of innovation in technology of 5, 6 technological arrangements in the context of technology transfer and the promotion of innovation infrastructure. I'm curious about how a profiling committee is going to carry out an appropriate segment of technology decisions and projects in order to finance them. And so from this point of view, it also gives rise to the wonders of formulation: it's essentially taken into account in the Final Positions. Because in our view, it's more like a write-off, not that modern technology projects are going to be financed in Ukraine. We are concerned about this, and from this point of view, it is important for us to think of a committee of profile. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-01-m0.u166	We can't present the position of the committee. The committee's position is not to support, unfortunately, Alexander Sergiyovich. It does not support the position of your committee, we leave it there. So I'm going to put your proposal to the vote, but let's see how this room works. Please identify and vote. [[13:00:46]] For-78 The decision is not taken, Alexander Sergiyovich. Is the next revision too? 1117.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-01-m0.u167	Thank you, Reverend Dmitri Alexanderovich. The next thing we have is, we've proposed, and here we've made a proposal to amend the budget code for the support fund for science, medicine, culture and sports. It is 25 percent for financial support (funding and/or funding) of research projects aimed at efficient replication of scientific and technological potential, the development of priority directions for innovation, the implementation of modern environmentally sound resources for conservation technologies, the production and implementation of innovation products 5 and 6 technologies, the transfer of technology, the promotion of innovation infrastructure and so on. And what we're curious about is, you know, you understand the absurdity in this is part of the End Positions, it's a very complicated large amendment. According to the Rules, you're absolutely right to ask the question that, if counted, we're asking for confirmation, if not counted, for the vote. And in this case, it turns out that we have to put them straight to the vote because she didn't find it.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-01-m0.u168	Yes, Nestor Ivanovich, I agree. I'm betting on the vote on the proposal by Alexander Sergiyovitch Koltunović with the remarks that have just been noted. Please identify and vote. [[13:02:35]] For-81 The decision is not taken. Alexander Sergiyovich, unfortunately, your offer was not supported. It's left in the text that's shown in the table. And the last one, yes, is it all right? 1824.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-01-m0.u169	Thank you, Reverend Dmitri Alexanderovich. Now, with regard to the strategic things that were said today and were fully sounded yesterday were our colleague, Natalia Royal. Our faction will certainly be speaking out and voting against the draft Act on State regulation of the gaming business in Ukraine. In our view, the course offered today is completely wrong. And to stimulate economic growth at the expense of the gaming business and the 4 billion dollars that have been said, they will certainly be removed from the pockets of the average citizens of Ukraine. Is that good or bad? It's definitely bad, because it's bad for Ukrainian families and in the social dimension, we're going to get a lot of social shocks, but it's a separate story. From an economic point of view, we understand that this will not stimulate the involvement of foreign direct investment, it will not stimulate the creation of a new even tourism infrastructure for the major business and so on. Unfortunately, these conceptual things were not heard. And that's why we're not going to support this bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-01-m0.u170	To put your proposal to a vote, can we not waste time? Okay. I'm putting up a motion for a vote that has just been made by Alexander Sergiyovich Koltunović in 1824. The committee invites her to leave it in the way it was marked. So please identify and vote. [[13:04:39]] For-80 The decision is not taken. Unfortunately, this was not supported, Alexander Sergiyovich. Thank you. Cool. You'll insist, won't you? Okay. 260 right.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-01-m0.u171	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. First of all, I would like to say that the bill proposed for the legalization of gambling is totally unacceptable. This is a bill that will actually bring Ukraine back to the chaos when Ukrainian citizens last take it out of their homes. Once the rights of minors are violated again, they will be able to play what they take out of their buildings. Moreover, I would like to say that with amendment 260, I propose at least to bring this law into line with the Law on the licensing of activities of agriculture. Because this law produces a huge misunderstanding with all the other legislation. So I propose to support 260 amendments.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-01-m0.u172	Voting? Do you insist on voting? 260 Krulka's amendment is not supported by the committee. Please identify and vote. [[13:06:17]] For-78 The decision is not taken. 293.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-01-m0.u173	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear colleagues, look what's happening in this particular position and I suggest you change it. The bill foresees that the lottery ticket of the instant lottery may be an electronic form. This means that in fact other forms of gambling, such as slot machines, will be disguised under such electronic forms. So I suggest we rule out this form. And notice that all the illegal gaming halls that so far overlap with the law enforcement agencies are all the gaming halls that worked in the form of so-called lotteries. We propose that this bill be completely rejected and followed by a decision that was properly taken by the government of Yulia Timoshenko when all gambling was actually closed and people could at least keep their assets in their homes, rather than the situation where they lost the last thing they made. Please support my amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-01-m0.u174	I'll bet you 293 Krulka's vote. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[13:07:40]] For-84
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-01-m0.u175	The decision is not taken. Next amendment by Ivan Ivanovich Krulk 596. Please, Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-01-m0.u176	595. Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. We propose that this amendment exclude the possibility of nonresidents who have a foreign license to engage in gambling activities. It's not enough that this whole plague and this vachanalia is going to be legalized in Ukraine, and so they're also proposing that those with foreign licenses be able to work here and not buy licenses in Ukraine. Therefore, I propose that it be excluded for nonresidents to engage in such gambling in Ukraine. And in general, it's not too late for you to think about what you're doing. Now you actually want virtually every hotel to have slot machines open and again what happened in 2009 was a stop. Think about it and stop considering the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-01-m0.u177	I'm betting on a vote of 596, People's Deputy Krulka. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[13:09:12]] For-88 The decision is not taken. Next amendment 708, National Deputy Krulko Ivan Ivanovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-01-m0.u178	You missed a 684 amendment. 708 revisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-01-m0.u179	The 684ths are essentially accounted for.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-01-m0.u180	708 revisions. National colleges, by their nature, are executive bodies whose primary function is to implement the Constitution, the laws of Ukraine, so they should not be specifically isolated. The procedure for the commission's creation and activities should be foreseen, and it should follow the principles provided for in part one of article 116 of the Constitution of Ukraine and the Law of Ukraine on the Central Executive Authorities, which is why it is more appropriate to place licensing functions on the Kabmin. Let's accept this, absolutely absurd, law that has to be rejected, at least not to create and produce additional organs, additional officials, who will only be using corruption in the field of gambling, so let's propose to support the amendment and to reject the law.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-01-m0.u181	I'm betting on the vote of 708 National Deputy Krulka, and the committee is proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[13:10:38]] For-81 The decision is not taken. Next amendment 719. National Deputy Krulko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-01-m0.u182	This amendment, which I now propose to be accepted, is true, few listen in this session hall, because everything is already defined, already paid and paid for. It applies to the Ministry of Finance itself performing the functions of the licensing authority. But, dear colleagues, why are you in such a hurry with this law? Is it normal that this entire week, when a flood in western Ukraine has caused so much distress, Parliament has made no decision on this issue, no decision? On the other hand, the second day we are killing this nonsense, which will not affect Ukraine or the state budget or the welfare of Ukrainian citizens. This bill is directed against the Ukrainians, against their welfare, their assets. So let us reject this bill and help Western regions that have been affected by floods.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-01-m0.u183	It's 719 people's deputy Krulka's vote, and the committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[13:11:59]] For-83 The decision is not taken. Next amendment 725 of the Krulka People's Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-01-m0.u184	This amendment, like the previous two amendments, is systematically linked to the functions of the Ministry of Finance as the authority to issue gambling licences. But I want to say again, I'm going to the Supreme Council Presidency: let's stop the consideration of this bill, let's have a session hall right now, and there are enough national deputies here, let's adopt a bill that was registered by the Fatherland faction about the flood situation in Western Ukraine, give 20 billion in the area of infrastructure restoration, let's help people who have been affected by floods. Well, you can't wait for that! People there every day are in an extremely critical situation, and now we want to adopt the law with a monopoly so they can go back to the machines and lose what they have. Is that normal? Is that human? Therefore, we propose to stop this bill and to adopt laws that are needed today by countries and people.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-01-m0.u185	I'll bet you 725 votes. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[13:13:27]] For-81 No decision taken, no correction counted. 741 axles.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-01-m0.u186	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. We're still being told that gambling needs to be legalized, because it's still happening, and it's still happening in Ukraine. I'm sorry, but I have a question. Having a monopoly, controlling all branches of government, controlling all law enforcement agencies, what do law enforcement authorities do, despite the fact that gambling is banned, this activity continues to take place in Ukraine? Yes, perhaps the problem is, not that something needs to be legalized, but that the law enforcement agencies have to do their job, their work? And if laws are to be adopted, these laws have to be implemented in practice. And believe that, in the way that the law is going to be passed in the second reading, it will lead to the full opening of gaming halls all over Ukraine. It will once again lead to the destruction of families, which will increase the number of suicides due to the lost costs of these gamblers.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-01-m0.u187	I'll bet you 741 votes. Please identify and vote. [[13:15:00]] For-78 The decision is not taken. 923rd.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-01-m0.u188	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. I have with me the national deputy Sergei Eutuszek, who just took an oath yesterday. A few weeks ago, in his native town of Sarna in the Plains, a 14 - year - old boy committed suicide because of losing himself in these illegal gaming machines. Now you want all these suicides to continue, but already in the legal halls of the slot machines. Where do you lead the country? And why is this law, now that there are so many issues that need to be addressed in a social way, with floods in Western Ukraine, low pensions, wages? No, everything has to be postponed, everything has to be rejected, and the law, which is nonchallenging, and nothing good except evil will bring Ukraine. Let us not adopt this law and stop the suicides that are taking place on this background in Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-01-m0.u189	Thank you. Nine hundred and twenty-three. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[13:16:33]] For-82 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. 928 correct.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-01-m0.u190	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear colleagues, listen carefully to what this amendment is about. This amendment refers to an authorized authority that will work in the process of overseeing the market for gambling. Yet, the list of rights is not exhaustive, and this can lead to serious abuse by such subjects. It is not enough that this absolutely unnecessary law for Ukraine is now being passed in these circumstances, and there are also authorities that will abuse their rights. Corruption - related factors will increase, and money laundering will increase through gambling. We're working on a temporary commission of inquiry to return revenue to the state budget, and now legal benches are being created to clean up the funds that will be received in a dirty way. Think of where we lead the country by this law! This law must be rejected.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-01-m0.u191	Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-01-m0.u192	Discard the amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-01-m0.u193	I'll bet you 928 votes. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[13:18:10]] For-80 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. 930 lashes.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-01-m0.u194	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. It is proposed to complete the list of the rights of the authorized authority and to bring it into line with the Act on Basic Principles for State Oversight in the Field of Economic Activity. I urge you not to produce additional organs. Let us not duplicate the functions of public authorities already defined by other basic laws. And in addition, let's finally think again about whether this law is needed for Ukraine today. The 4 billion that have been declared in this year's budget, 4 billion dollars in total. It's one month of tax work without schematics and no twists, and you're going to be 4 billion dollars a month. And you want to take it away in a year by throwing Ukraine into this Wakhanalia when Ukrainian citizens lose at least 40 billion. That's what this bill is about.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-01-m0.u195	I'm betting on a 930 vote, not supported by the committee. Please identify and vote. [[13:19:37]] For-83 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. 1177.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-01-m0.u196	Dear colleagues, this amendment is about who might be the organizers of these, how would that word pick up, gambling, this vacchanal? So I propose an amendment to make it exclusively for the residents of Ukraine. Let's not at least open up any possibilities to get to Ukraine from all sides, including the aggressor countries or related companies with them, who will take the last one from Ukraine and export everything abroad. Let's not turn Ukraine into a platform, where it just goes up, it goes up for years. And let's finally figure out and reject this bill, and make a strict ban on gambling, as was done by the government of Yulia Timoshenko in 2009, is the only right decision for Ukraine for which millions of Ukrainians have thanked.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-01-m0.u197	I'll bet you 1177. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[13:21:03]] For-80 No decision taken, no correction counted. 1637.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-01-m0.u198	What's the correction again?
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-01-m0.u199	1637.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-01-m0.u200	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. This amendment applies to the use of domains. But at the same time, our fundamental decision of the Fatherland is not to have any online gambling. Today, it's a completely shadowy scheme that washes the funds out of the Ukrainian budget, which allows the legalization of shadow capitals, which allows the looted to be exported abroad, and which allows those who want to legalize their illegal assets through a variety of lotteries, gambling to do so. Now this whole thing could be a criminal thing. Once this law is passed, it will all be legal. Think of how many corrupters will be allowed to legalize their illegal assets.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-01-m0.u201	I'll put it to a vote of 1637. Please identify and vote. [[13:22:26]] For-84 The decision is not taken. 1774.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-01-m0.u202	Dear colleagues, look, here's another example of what's going on in this law. There's a basic Advertising Act that defines how advertising is done. Can we ask the authors why we should duplicate this law and actually create a rereading of the subject of advertising? There's no need to duplicate different legal acts. Therefore, it is suggested that I support my amendment in 1774. This is an extremely important amendment that won't allow you to do any duplication. At the same time, we believe that the issue of the Gambling Act cannot be considered at present. This bill needs to be revoked, this bill needs to be considered when the time is right, because there are now issues that need an immediate response by the Supreme Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-01-m0.u203	I'm betting on a vote of 1774. Please identify and vote. [[13:23:53]] For-84 The decision is not taken. 1798.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-01-m0.u204	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear colleagues, I would now like to talk to you about what was promised when we talked about the legalization of gambling. We were told that it would be exclusively about five - star hotels. And this law allows gambling in all three-star hotels, and this could essentially be any hangover wherever it is. This law proposes so - called separate - standing buildings that will be used for the use of slot machines. So basically, all of the latrines are legalized, where gambling is going to take place. And that's what we promised and did the opposite. We strongly oppose such activities in any hotel in Ukraine. This is not the way that Ukraine should choose, and this opens up the possibility of gambling for anyone, any citizen, even a minor.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-01-m0.u205	Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-01-m0.u206	Ivan Ivanovich, it's not really the case, it's not the way the bill says it is. We have about 380 hotels in the country that have stardom in general. Of them, where slot machines or casinos can be located, if you only take five stars, there are no more than 50. And that's why when we studied the entire geography of these hotels and made decisions, we decided that 3-4 stars could also be included in this list. And the fact that these slot machines aren't going to be in separate buildings is guaranteed, so it says, ".....except for hotels 3.4.5 stars, there can't be a gambling establishment anywhere." Edit rejected.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-01-m0.u207	I'm betting on a vote of 1798. Please identify and vote. [[13:26:25]] For-82 The decision is not taken. 1901.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-01-m0.u208	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. Just now, a reporter from the rostrum has been announced that we have about 10 hotels in five stars. And please tell me, if you've made a decision for yourself that's not necessary for Ukraine to legalize, yes, maybe even if you've started with those 10 hotels, you've seen how this story works, you've put order in the market, you've stopped all the illegal gaming machines, you've cleared the roofs of law enforcement agencies and bandits. And then perhaps you would continue this discussion? What is it that you don't have 10 hotels in order for those who want to lose too much and have too much to be able to do it there? Clearly, then, if we accept it, it was enough to limit ourselves to five - star hotels. And the three-and-four-star reading is the possibility of opening gaming halls anywhere. I want to tell you again, and you'll see.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-01-m0.u209	I'm betting on the 1901 vote. Please identify and vote. [[13:27:54]] For-81 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. 2075.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-01-m0.u210	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. So what I'm saying is that ordinary Ukrainian people who don't have what to live for today and spend the month, they definitely oppose the adoption of this law, because they really understand what it's going to be like. And when we talk about stardom in hotels, we're going to see that after the adoption of this harmful law, we're going to have three, four-star hotels, not because they're going to build new hotels, but because those hotels that don't have stardom at all, in order to open these slot machines, they're going to get this starryness. That's what this law will allow you to do. And this is another corrupt feeder for that body that the starry is adhering to. So now stardom will be given for money because they'll know it's under the casino and under the gambling.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-01-m0.u211	I'm betting on the 2075 vote, not supported by the committee. Please identify and vote. [[13:29:30.]] For-81 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. 2114.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-01-m0.u212	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. This is about the bookbook items provided for in this law. Thus, it is suggested that a bookmaker’s point may be located more than 1,000 feet [1,000 m] away from specialized state children’s entertainment centers. So what I'd like to say is that it's totally unacceptable when, in the vicinity of children's playgrounds, children's entertainment centers are going to have bookie points where gambling is going to take place. And so I propose that my amendment be adopted, which prohibits these things from being done definitively. And what's more, I reiterate that this bill must be a Parliament-refused bill, and the faction of "The Fatherland" will not give a vote in favour of this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-01-m0.u213	I'm betting on a vote of 2114. Please identify and vote. [[13:30:49]] For-94 The decision is not taken. 2297.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-01-m0.u214	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. This is about the placement of slot machines from educational institutions. The standard that was adopted in the first reading, which pervaded the second reading, says that these slot machines can be no closer than 500 meters from the educational facilities. I think it's totally unacceptable when in 500 meters children from schools actually can run to these slot machines and play what they might have taken from their family. In general, there must be a clear ban on who might be in these slots. And even what is prescribed in the law today, it creates opportunities for minors to use such halls, and no one will control it in any way. That's why we, as Fatherland, don't support this position in the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-01-m0.u215	I'm betting on a vote of 2297. Please identify and vote. [[13:32:08]] For-92 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. 2360.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-01-m0.u216	2360. Look at what the bill says. And the bill says that there could be 40,000 slot machines in Ukraine. Forty thousand! Do you have any idea of this amount that's going to work in Ukraine all day long? So in order to reduce the negative impact of gambling in Ukraine, even if this law is already adopted, which we are firmly against, there is a proposal to reduce this number of slot machines that may exist in Ukraine. And you know, now that we're hearing the words "one-handed bandits," when we hear the words "poker," "the casino," you can imagine that people who have been listening to the Second Ages channel "The Council," what's going on in them? Their hair grows when they hear what Parliament is doing when people have nothing to buy bread for.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-01-m0.u217	I'm betting on a vote of 2360. Please identify and vote. [[13:33:34]] For-92 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. 2430.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-01-m0.u218	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. The question is the bank guarantee for gambling organizers. We suggest that they be established by law with very clear fuses and that the number of these gamblers should be minimised, return to the offer that the Fatherland would have made. And if you are already doing this casino, let them be only in five - star hotels, although this is totally unacceptable to Ukraine. But don't create, don't produce these thousand halls with 40,000 slot machines that are now being offered to do. What will we leave our descendants in Ukraine? A country that would be more like a gambling hall than a normal European state? So "Paternity" suggests that we reject this bill completely.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-01-m0.u219	2430. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[13:35:04]] For-88 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. 2497.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-01-m0.u220	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. Once again, we go back to these lottery tickets of the instant lottery, which essentially became a cover for the illegal operating of gaming slots, those halls that were the cause of the suicides that caused the breakup of Ukrainian families, which were the cause of the Ukrainian wage earners who spent months earning those costs abroad, then lose them in the gaming machines halls a week later. So we're proposing this amendment so that lottery tickets have purely material form, no electronic form of lottery tickets, because this is essentially the legalization of illegal gaming slots. Don't do this nonsense, don't do this crime against the Ukrainian people! People see everything, and they do not forgive a law that will bring them nothing good.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-01-m0.u221	2497. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[13:36:35]] For-78 No decision taken, no correction counted. 2525.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-01-m0.u222	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. Again, where can you distribute the lottery? Specialized children’s entertainment centers. Acting laws allow them to be distributed in the immediate vicinity of children’s entertainment centers. We suggest that such lottery tickets should not be placed closer than a mile [1 km] away to such children’s playgrounds. Let's create a legal framework that won't allow us to get involved in this gambling, in this vacchanal of Ukrainian children, Ukrainian families, to train them to do that. But let's prepare and form a healthy nation. And it's better that we now consider, not this law, but today, the laws that will help with the birth of a child that will help single mothers and support Ukrainian families rather than destroy them.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-01-m0.u223	2525. The committee turned it down. Please identify and vote. [[13:38:04]] For-74. The decision is not taken. Correction not counted. 2714.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-01-m0.u224	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. Again, the same poker that was already proposed to be removed today because it is so sporty. It is a gambling game that does not have to be distributed in Ukraine as proposed by this law. And what's more, we think that 100 meters in those establishments where they're going to play poker from children's entertainment centers is not enough. We suggest replacing 100 meters by 1,000 meters so that there is no direct access to children's entertainment centers to engage in gambling activities that will cost Ukrainian citizens so much money. I suggest you support this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-01-m0.u225	2714. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[13:39:25]] For-75 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. 2895.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-01-m0.u226	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. The amendment relates to the Law on the licensing of activities and the introduction of an unnecessary bill, at least with this law. I reiterate that this bill is unacceptable both in fact and in terms of how it responds to other legislation, with a legislative basis, so I propose to support this amendment. But at the same time, I'm addressing colleagues from all the factions that are in this sessional room, so let's not legalize this insanity. Let us not introduce Ukraine in those dark times when Ukrainians have lost the last and let us remember that Ukraine can be free from gambling, as was done by Julius Timoshenko at her premiere. This is the only possible action that will save the Ukrainians from losing the last one.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-01-m0.u227	2895 is not supported by the committee. Please identify and vote. [[13:40:53]] For-74. The decision is not taken. 2958.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-01-m0.u228	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. I'd like to pay attention to the cost of the licenses. I propose that my amendments greatly increase the cost of licenses so as not to allow unscrupulous subjects to enter the market. They need to be greatly increased. This number of these subjects should be strictly limited to 5-star hotels. This activity cannot be distributed throughout Ukraine as proposed by this law. Therefore, I propose that the session hall adopt strict standards that would prevent the distribution of gambling in Ukraine, which would result in negative consequences for the entire Ukrainian people, and the Ukrainians would remember the names of those who would vote for this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-01-m0.u229	I'm betting on the vote on Krulk's 2958 proposal. It's not supported by the committee. Please identify and vote. [[13:42:22]] For-74. The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. 2971.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-01-m0.u230	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. This amendment is systematically related to the previous amendment, where we talked about the cost of licences. Once again, if President Zelenski has made a decision that he wants Ukraine to become a great playground, because Ukraine has not been played as it is now, limit Ukraine to at least five star hotels. Take at least one step. If the rich millionaires want to lose, they're going to go to these five-star hotels, but don't create these squares where the ordinary Ukrainian, who's earning their wages, is going to lose. Hundreds of families in Zacarpatha fell apart, virtually bankrupt because of the loss of all earnings in slot machines, no.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-01-m0.u231	I'm betting on a vote of 2971, rejected by the committee. Please identify and vote. [[13:43:51]] For-72 No decision taken, no correction counted. 3005.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-01-m0.u232	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. I'd like to talk about the increase in the cost of the license, but I'd like to remind you once again what this bill is proposing and what is already budgeted for this year's Special Fund for Gambling -- just 4 billion dollars. I'm saying everything because it's nothing compared to the billions of dollars that are being stolen every month. The interim commission of inquiry, which I have been able to lead, has proved that every month up to five billion dollars have not received a government budget due to VAT fraud. Give order to do so, you have the opportunity to do so. And you don't have to have any gambling that's going to bring 4 billion dollars a year. And 40 billion dollars must be lost by Ukrainian citizens in order for 4 to come into the budget. Not millionaires, not oligarchs, but ordinary Ukrainians must lose in order to.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-01-m0.u233	I'm betting on a vote of 3005. Please identify and vote. The committee is not supported. [[13:45:19]] For-72 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. 3055. Cool.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-01-m0.u234	Dear colleagues, I don't understand why the profile committee didn't support my amendments regarding the increase in the cost of licenses. The explanation, please, why did the licenses remain at the same low level as was provided in the first reading? Was it so important that these deals with gambling organizers did not even pay a normal amount in Ukraine’s State Budget? We're also asked, "Why is this bill currently under consideration?".. So respectable Ukrainians, I'll tell you why. Since slot machines are already leased in advance, they are already paying rent. And now gambling organizers are putting out "legislize us because we don't pay rent." And in harmony with these Azarians, the whole Parliament today is doing what this unnecessary bill is doing.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-01-m0.u235	I'll bet you a vote of 3050. Please identify and vote. [[13:46:47]] Z-70. The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. 3099.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-01-m0.u236	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear colleagues, if there are to be any number of these agrarians, they must pay such a high license for doing this activity that they will reflect the desire to carry out this activity extensively in Ukraine. This law will actually create such opportunities for mass gambling activity. And this bill, it's going to have an enormously negative impact on the socio-economic situation of Ukrainian citizens, as in the criminogenic situation in Ukraine, as in the fact that in fact Ukraine today will return to the chaos that prevailed before 2009, when there were machines, slot machines, where people were able to play what they earned. Therefore, this amendment must be supported.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-01-m0.u237	I'm betting on the 3099 vote, rejected by the committee. Please identify and vote. [[13:48:15.]] For-68 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. 3185.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-01-m0.u238	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. This is an amendment that puts the risk under a section that relates to the cost of licensing. I still think that even if this bill is to be voted on in this session room, the cost of the license should be increased. The "ministers of the people," even those who vote in favour of this bill, will increase the value of licenses. Do not allow this mass vachanal with gambling in Ukraine. What are you doing? You don't have to legalize all of this underground activity, you don't have to legalize the proceeds that are going to be obtained criminally through gaming machines, and you're also creating, through cheap licenses, the opportunity to do this to anyone who doesn't get hit. That's what this bill is about. So think about what you are doing, and how Ukrainian citizens will then feel about everyone who press the green button on this bill, which will bring nothing good to Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-01-m0.u239	I'm betting on the 3185 vote, not supported by the committee. Please identify and vote. [[13:49:43]] For-74. The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. 3336.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-01-m0.u240	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. Here's what this amendment is about. In End Positions, there's a rule that children who are 18 years old can play games machines. In fact, when they're 18, they're still kids, they're students at best. My correction corrects this inadequacy, and the 18 changes to 21. I ask that this amendment now be positively voted on because it corrects the inadequacies provided for by this law. And I'm asking the committee representative to explain why the bill provides "21" and "transient positions" to "18." Is this deliberately an inappropriate thing to do in order to be rereading?
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-01-m0.u241	3336. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[13:51:05]] Z-71 The decision is not taken. 3442.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-01-m0.u242	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear National Deputies! Dear Chairman! I suggest we take a look now for an hour. We're out of work, we've got 10 minutes. And so I propose that right now, even though we're at the end, we stop the consideration of this bill. And let's take a look at the bill submitted by the faction of Fatherland and the author of Julia Timoshenko. Which allows us to allocate 20 billion dollars to deal with the effects of the disaster caused by floods in Western Ukraine. People are looking forward to that, people are thanking the Ukrainian Parliament for that. 10 minutes to consider this bill will be enough to be accepted immediately in the general, immediately, in this sessional room. That's what we need to do now, not gamble. Because floods are bad for people, they're not gambling, they're what's bothering everyone. So I suggest we adopt this law right now.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-01-m0.u243	I'm betting on a vote of 3442. Please identify and vote. [[13:52:34]] For-72 The decision is not taken. 3468 extreme.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-01-m0.u244	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear colleagues, I once again call upon the entire session room to stop the consideration of this bill, to reject it as one that cannot work in Ukraine, because it will only bring about problems such as the one that now does not solve the problem of the coronavirus, which does not solve the problem of natural disasters, which does not solve poverty in Ukraine, but will only produce it. The Ukrainians, when they formed this Parliament and trusted the Servant of the People so much, they thought that Parliament would adopt the laws that people needed, but they didn't dream in a terrible dream that Parliament would first engage in what took away the last of their income from people. That's why we, the Fatherland faction, will not vote in favour of this bill. And we urge all the conscious MPs in the Supreme Council to think about how Ukrainian citizens will live tomorrow, how will the Ukrainian state work? We accept laws that will benefit Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-01-m0.u245	I'm betting on a vote of 3468. Please identify and vote. [[13:54:02]] For-68 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. Is there a Vasilevska-Smagluk? Don't insist. Okay. Dubinsky Alexander Anatolyovich. Doesn't he insist? Savrasov Maksim Vitaliovich. Don't insist. A duck. Are you insisting? Don't insist. He's a great man. Don't insist. Makarov, are you insisting? No, it's not. 348 axles.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-01-m0.u246	It's about the fact that it's not easy to legalize casinos in Ukraine right now, and it's starting to legalize the very dangerous kind of casinos that are online. The damage to online casinos is much more than online casinos. Every child, every dependent person, can uncontrollablely register, transfer money into their own accounts, and lose uncontrollablely. Any player who sits in a casino-offline for a long time who enters the casino right now will be spotted by relatives, will be noticed by friends, will be noticed by colleagues, and they can stop him. Meanwhile, the person who plays online can lose a lot of money completely out of control. In European countries, research has been done, and online casino dependence is much higher than the usual casino. I suggest we rule this out of ours.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-01-m0.u247	I'll bet you a vote of 348. Please identify and vote. [[13:56:50]] Z-87 The decision is not taken. 566 law.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-01-m0.u248	By the way, as in discussing other bills, I insist that a committee member give his position: why not, why do we want to play, why do we want to deceive Ukrainians? This is the position of the committee, this is the position of the majority, the position of the reporter himself? Otherwise, there is no point in discussing this issue in the second reading. I want to say that online casino introduces a lot of tricks: it allows without registering to enter, play without money, offers games where the player wins, and then, realizing and thinking that it's very easy and it can be enriched, the ordinary Ukrainian who has just a salary card, who just got paid, can go in and lose the last money, without leaving his kitchen, even being quarantined and self-sustained. So once again, I insist, answer why we left the online casino, why do we need it?
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-01-m0.u249	I bet. Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-01-m0.u250	Oleg Anatoliyovich, we discussed this with you in the working groups. There's an online casino right now. It's this law that we're laying down rules, restrictions to control these organizers who are currently doing this in the Internet space in Ukraine. This is where we prescribe all the fuses to identify how to find certain limits for these organizers. And that's why we can't rule them out, we have to regulate them and we have to control them. That's why. Your readjustment is dismissed. Because you can't exclude online casinos from your sight.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-01-m0.u251	I bet. He just told me. Alexander Rafkatovich, you've just been told. I'll bet you a vote on Makarov's 566th proposal. The committee's been rejected. The position of the committee has just been fully sounded. So please identify and vote. [[13:59:30.]] For-82 Unfortunately, no decision is made. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. Dear colleagues, I welcome you all. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed.
