ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-21-m0.u1	Good morning, dear fellows! Good morning, distinguished journalists, representatives of the media, guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine! Please prepare for registration. And if you'll allow me while we're preparing for registration, a few words after yesterday's event. Let's not forget that Ukraine has always been a very tolerant state, and it's not surprising to me that it was wild for me to observe yesterday, and I'm sure, like you and most of us, 99 percent of our fellow citizens who have returned from China, and I'm stressing once again. First of all, they're healthy, and I hope that's the case within 14 days of quarantine, and everyone will be able to safely return to their homes. Yet even if any of them were sick, they were affected by this virus -- they're our citizens, just like you and me in this room and in this country. [[Applause]] Thank you. Thank you, Your Honor. And do not give God to any of those who blocked their movements yesterday, that their relatives may be there, close to them, and in this place every one may be. Let's talk about this a lot, let's hear from each other, let's stay human and let's think about how to unite this state, not find mechanisms that can harm Ukraine. I thank everyone for their support, and I hope that all the events that happened yesterday will be a lesson for us and for those who took part in them. And our citizens who returned from China returned to their families and loved ones as soon as possible. Thank you. [[Applause]] Thanks again. Let's get to the registration.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-21-m0.u2	I think that this position should be heard in any area and in any city of our state. [[Applause]] Thank you. Are you ready to register? Please register. [[10:11:37]] There are 273 Ukrainian national deputies registered in the hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Honorary colleagues today, as was the case at the Conciliation Council, are also taking part in the meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Alexei Valeriyovich Honcharuk, and representatives of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Please welcome a colleague. [[Applause]] We agreed that today's "hour of questions to the government" would be replaced by a government report. In accordance with article 228 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules of Procedure, the Supreme Council of Ukraine examines the Progress Report of the Cabinet of Ministers and the results of the implementation of the Government’s Programme of Action approved by Parliament in 2019. Our next schedule is proposed. The report of the Prime Minister of Ukraine – up to 20 minutes; answers to questions from the deputy factions and groups of the Prime Minister of Ukraine – up to 21 minutes (minutes to question, 2 minutes to answer); reports by the committee's head - up to 3 minutes; questions from the national deputies - up to 6 minutes. The report by the head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the economic development of Nataluha Dmitry Andriyovich is within 3 minutes. Talks from MP factions and groups for up to 21 minutes (three minutes for each MP faction and group). And the national MPs' speeches are up to six minutes. Yes, as always, dear colleagues. Then we go to questions. And after that, as agreed, there will be no different today. Is that what everybody's doing? One more question. Please tell me we have a break from 12 to 12:30. Because. If we go into law enforcement, this does not adversely affect the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Can we cancel this break today? Ladies and gentlemen, the faction position, because we can't vote on this right now, I'd like to understand. "Serve of the people"? Do you mind? Thank you. "ES"? He doesn't mind. "The Voice"? You don't mind. "Paternity"? You don't mind. "For the future"? They don't deny it. "Trust"? Postfaction? That's the same. Thank you, dear fellows, then we will not be taking a break from 12 to 12:30. Dear colleagues. Did I ask? You can pick up the transcript. You deny it, don't you? The only faction that denies that there will be a break between 12 and 12:30 is European Solidarity. Then, unfortunately, that's the question we were talking about. Mr. Chigos, no, I'm sorry. For reasons, no. It's not a motive, it's a procedure. Dear colleagues, let's move on to the government report. The Prime Minister of Ukraine, Alexei Valeriyovich Honcharuk, is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-21-m0.u3	Good morning, fellows! The Honourable Head of the Supreme Council, the distinguished national deputies, the honourable ones present! Thank you for being here today. Unfortunately, I have only 20 minutes in the course of this time, obviously not all the things that you and I have been able to do in the last five months. But I'm going to try to go through the main results very briefly, and most importantly, I'm going to try to figure out the plans that we have for this year. I'm going to start by saying that, as stated in our program, in the President's program, in the "Serial of the People" program, in the center of everything is human, and the state should actually protect the human being first. So yesterday, of course, we immediately went to New Sanjara to make sure that our citizens were safe. Now I can tell you that everything that people need is provided, they're housed in numbers, they're warm, they're fed, they're epidemiological, and they're provided with physical security. However, those events that happened yesterday, I can't stand on this alone, in my opinion, are the result, including the information war that continues with our country from the inside and from the outside. I predict that the provocation will continue. We already have information today that a Chinese citizen who arrived five days ago on a plane to Ukraine was on a four - day trip to Kiev, on a train to Moscow, on a border with the Russian Federation, allegedly stopped, and there was some sort of virus that was discovered, and they're exploring something, and so on. I think the information field will continue to stir up to create panic, to mistrust the population, to sow mistrust and discord among us. I want to say it responsibly. The government, the President, the President's team, the Parliament have done everything in our power, and I think it's enough to ensure that citizens, and who are evacuated and who are in Ukraine, are safe. We are ready to respond to the challenges that exist, there is no reason for panic. A week ago, I was driving to Poltavsk district to see for myself how the medical system works in this area. And I think it's one of the best regions in terms of the medical system, so it's not random for us to choose this object. The situation is under control. We expect that there may be provocations and manipulations, of course, but we're ready for that. I'm going to go back to what we did. Actually, we started working with you on September 1. During this time, as was recorded in your program, colleagues, in our program with you, we began with an audit of the state. Well, because you obviously need to first understand what you have, and after you make decisions for the middle term, for the long term, and for the building of a strategy. Audit was made up of many parts. First, we've done a population assessment to better understand the number of people living in the territories, their age composition, their gender composition. These results are published, you've seen them. It's not a census, as they were trying to manipulate, so there's no betrayal here. We conducted a population census in two separate regions to see how much it would cost us and see if it would be effective if we did it throughout Ukraine. So we did an audit of the national inventories of natural resources. For the first time in Ukraine’s history, maps of various natural cadastres are now integrated. You can now see on a public cadastral map in one place information about land, nadra, forests, water objects, and so forth. This greatly reduces manipulation. We're still working on it. This spring we plan to photograph the entire territory of Ukraine in good quality so that the cadastre has a high-quality floor. This will enable us to use software, inventory software, and analyse resources available in Ukraine much faster and more effectively. Similarly, we have done so with all social infrastructure. There was a mess with the data. Now we've put everything on one map, we've got over 111 thousand different objects -- schools, kindergartens, stadiums -- in one place. It's convenient to work with them now, you can make decisions easier. We did the same with the authorities. The HRMIS system was created in the public service, in the public service agency, and a normal software complex was created in which government officials are currently operating. It continues to be filled with data. This is going to increase significantly, this is the foundation for improving the efficiency of the state's work. So we're working on reducing government functions. Started with district government administrations, performed a functional analysis, and got rid of the surplus. This enabled us to cut almost twice as much as the equipment and the potential cost. The same analysis was carried out by district government administrations. There are conclusions. We're ready to go to optimisation as soon as possible. Under the conditions of decentralization reform this year, when we need to actually replan the territory of Ukraine and there in a new logic to build both infrastructure and social facilities, it was absolutely necessary to do so. This work is done and done. And along with many of your colleagues, we continue to work to get community and territorial development plans approved soon. In fact, we now have the country's master plan. We have a clear plan of support schools that will allow us to optimize the secondary education system and make it more accessible. I've already talked about this in separate areas today, we're spending 100,000 dollars per child per year, because the average cost per child is 20,000. So as a state, we overpay five times, and the child gets much worse education than her peers in cities. This injustice needs to be corrected and corrected by improving the system. The same is true of the health system. We are ready for a reform that has been annotated and is due to take place on April 1. It's a long, difficult conversation. I think we can even make separate parliamentary hearings about this. That's why I won't be here long. Let me just say that we have a clear master plan in every area as to how the medical system should be transformed, taking into reality. Once again, I went to Poltavsk district to see for myself how this could work. It could be done, there's plus-minuses, there might be complicated discussions, but we're ready for that. In a month, in principle, we can begin to transform the system. Economics. The most important subject I wanted to talk to you about today. In fact, we started off with security. If you think about September 1st last year, isn't the most important question that we have before us energy security? We ended our contract with the Russians on January 1, and there was a serious risk that we would lose this transit. And this is a serious blow to the economy, and a serious increase in energy resources for both businesses and citizens. If this contract hadn't been signed, the price per individual estimate of individual specialists could have been 3, 4 times higher by gas, I mean, for Ukraine, for the economy of Ukraine than it is now. Of course, there are those who win, those who lose, but in general for the economy, it would be much worse than it is right now. In less than four months, you and I have performed a very complex operation called the Naftogazu Ending, which is actually turning our energy regulator into an effective European model. This has given us the opportunity to have a more favourable negotiating position in negotiations with Europeans, the support of our European partners. As a result, we were able to make a very important contract for Ukraine's economy – a transit contract for gas from Russia to the European Union. I think it's a very serious result that puts us on the foundation for the next five years, allowing us to work in peace. We've also dealt with top-level corruption in the government. We can't help but notice, it's already being noted by our international partners, it's known by business, it's coming from a lot of people. We still have a lot of middle-level work to do in our state-owned enterprises, in law enforcement agencies. There's still a lot of work here, but the general conclusion is that there is no President's Office on top-level corruption in Ukraine in government, in parliament. It's a huge gain and a signal. We were able to regain trust from our international partners. It's not just words, it can be confirmed by real numbers. A year ago, Ukraine borrowed twice as much in bracelets — below 20 percent — twice as much as it is now. Now it's going to cost us 9 percent. If we continue to work in the same direction, resources for our nation will continue to be cheaper. Cheap resources are an opportunity to invest in infrastructure. The ability to invest in infrastructure and modernization is an opportunity to be more competitive, these are new jobs. In general, spending resources for us is one of our strategic tasks. I'm not just talking about external resources, it's very important. By the way, in the fall that you didn't notice, absolutely all the rating agencies have improved Ukraine's sovereign rating. And the same thing will continue to happen in the spring, if the course that we took with you is preserved, I have no doubt about it. Well, the macro situation is continuing to improve. The economy continues to grow, and it continues to grow faster than in Europe. In I.V., the rate of growth has dropped, it's true, it's caused by completely objective factors, for example, we have much cheaper gas than we did last winter. For example, we have much less electricity produced and consumed, and it is much cheaper than last winter. For example, October, November, was very poor in terms of external markets for our industry. We did a separate economic analysis on the committee. By the way, I want to say thank you for the warm reception of our ministers on all the committees. We worked very constructively, talked about it, and were ready to continue. So we predicted and understood the trends that are happening there today. And it's very clear what we have to do with our economy. Unfortunately for today, our economy is small. It's 0.29 percent, which is actually 0.3 percent of the total GDP in the world. It's open, it's raw. This means that in order to grow, we have to answer something. We need competitive advantages. Now what's happening in the economy can be characterized as follows: it's undervalued and it's underinvested. We need investment, Ukraine's economic development strategy for the next five years is investment. This is a very clear medium that we want to report right now. We have something to boast about, including working with investors. First of all, when an investor comes to Ukraine, he says, "Give me equal rules, give me rule of law, I want to understand what rules I'm going to play by." We're making serious progress here. Our team, the Ministry of Justice, has eradicated the systematic raiding that has been going on so far. No more whispers of one person’s property are copied in registers for another person’s indeterminate. Now, the Ministry of Justice, in the vast majority of cases, reacts for 24 hours to similar acts of raiding and immediately shuts down those registrars, the villains, the often notary who play these games. This will continue. And it's now obvious that if you look at the dynamics of the complaints, how satisfied they are, you can understand that there is no system of registering in Ukraine through state registers. Of course, there is more. The same is true of court decisions. If you look at the statistics, how much better the court's decisions began to be implemented, you can see immediately that there have disappeared the stop sheets that have been there so far, that the government's executives are doing the decision much faster, and much less is spending the creditor to protect their rights. What does this talk about? This suggests that in fact, Ukraine has returned the possibility of normal and civilized instruments, without bribes to protect its property and interests. This is very important for our investors. It's already been noticed, it's given us the opportunity to do a few very important signal symbolic things. You and I, friends, have passed the Act on Concessions. We have accepted all the necessary regulations in the government, conducted and prepared contests, and already the first two objects, the first two ports now, as if they had announced the winners of concessions, and we expect investment to enter. If you look at the numbers that these ports brought to the concession and the conditions on which the investor entered, it becomes clear that this is a huge step toward development. We now have at least 12 objects of different infrastructures, from railway stations, ports, roads, to hold concessional competitions. We're going to be increasing this rate. One of the main problems with our economy is that it's very mobile. Why? A huge amount, a huge part of our economy is owned by the state or controlled by the state. What does this really mean so often? This means that the profits are privatized, and all the damage remains with us. Look at the thousands of businesses that seem to exist on paper, and they actually live on a lease that seems to be worth a penny. And all of their functions, it's just to support their minimum costs. All the real profit from real activity was usually in the pockets somewhere. It's settled at the expense. What's more, if you compare any state-owned enterprise, especially in our circumstances, where the prosecutor's office comes in very often and asks you about profitability and everything else, why you've made a decision, it's obvious that you have to transfer the maximum part of the economy to an effective private owner. This is the way. Which we have declared and which we are going to do. During the first four months, that is to say, by the new year, we had more than 500 objects privatized. It's a record, it's more than 10 years before that. Now they're ready to privatize, well, before we get ready to privatize a few more hundred objects, there's about 300. Of course, we will continue this work. This year we are finally planning to unlock the big privatisation. Now the first thing that we're preparing is the Dnipro Hotel right here in the European Square. If you look at it, if anyone's interested in what was going on in there, it's a gesture. Well, it's a black register, in better traditions. We can report it, show it. By the way, we could go on a field trip, see what was actually going on there. Now we're looking, more precisely, for a normal competition to have a normal private owner there this spring. We do the same, and we plan to do the same with Centrenerego, and with the ICC, and with other large objects that traditionally had oligarchic interests, the interests of different groups of influences that have traditionally been embalmed and broken down, have been ripped apart by different groups of influences. We're not afraid and we're going to keep working in that direction. What else is important to say. What else is so important to say. We've been planning since March 1st, as we agreed, I'm going to say a little bit about the plans, because as time approaches completion. So we've now planned these priorities for our work. This year, given how events are developing, it is fundamentally important for us to reduce the volume of the shadow economy. That's why we started with the gaming business, the illegals, the liquor. Yesterday I went to Montenegro to see how the new system of centralized woodwork worked. All of this we have to figure out, it has to come out into the world of God and pay taxes, formalize people, and we have to stop this total theft. The market plan is also ready to be presented separately. We started working on official employment. The work of the State Labour Service changed, and by January we have 25 percent more official reports on employment than in January of last year. We have launched and are currently completing the audit of the Pension Fund. We've launched and we're about to get an audit of Centrenerego, which is one of the key enterprises that are now in Ukrainian energy. We ran and we built a Diya plugin. It's not just a result, it's not just an application, it's a result of synchronization of many registers. So this is such a job, it's not that it's noticeable, it's actually a much deeper question. We started to make people's payments, like this winter, much smaller, and in the following year we didn't make that jump, and now we're running a big-scale thermo-modernization program for the country. From March 1st, as we promised, a large - scale construction will begin. We're going to be building, or reconstructed or restored, 4,000 kilometers of roads, 100 gardens, 100 schools, 100 stadiums, more than 200 reception rooms to make people see the effect of medical reform right now. And there's a lot more to it. We do.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-21-m0.u4	A minute, if you please, Alexy Valeriyovich. The timing is the same for everyone.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-21-m0.u5	I'm done. We have a clear plan and strategy for what to do. Both the government and the President's team understand very well what needs to be done. The allegations that nothing has been done in five months have absolutely no soil. Indeed, we may need to communicate better with society. Yesterday, by the way, we felt that very clearly. And we're ready to do it again. Now we're preparing, in a couple of weeks, an ewe that's called "Development Strategy," to talk in detail about how in the blocks we're going to solve the complex problems that we're facing. I want to tell you. The tasks set by the President and the Ukrainian people are, in fact, completely accomplished. The goals we set before us are realistic. And I thank you, in five months, friends, you have done so much with us to achieve these goals. Thank you for your cooperation. You're cool. Let's do it together. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-21-m0.u6	Thank you, Alexei Valeriovich. I'd like you to sign up to the Prime Minister for the factions and groups. Constanceevich Irina Miroslavovna
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-21-m0.u7	I give the word to Taras Ivanovich Batenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-21-m0.u8	Taras Ivanovich Batenko, MP for the Future.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-21-m0.u9	Dear friends, we have not really heard the report of the Prime Minister of Ukraine. We've heard a general statement about how hard it is with the coronavirus right now, how we need to save individual areas. But in the whole complex approach to what state of the economy we haven't heard. And I think that on such conceptual issues we need to spend more time in Parliament. And I have a question for the government. Is it not a shame to rob a country by privatizing state-owned enterprises, by privatizing, how does the Minister of Economics, State universities, State hospitals want? This is actually the sale of Ukraine. Didn't you lose your conscience, Mr. Prime Minister?
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-21-m0.u10	I want to answer you this way. Let's see how there are Western countries that we are now equal to. Let's just take a look at this. Over the past 30 years, the state-owned enterprises that you're talking about, which we're supposed to steal through privatization, have been ripped apart without any privatization. They were brought in by their controlling people, politicians who came into power, and they were drunk from the inside out. What we're seeing right now, inside of these enterprises, is unfortunately broken down, it's often a ruin, it's in the interests of the uncomprehensible who's being merged by external economic contracts, it's being brought to the handle of technology, it's not modernized production. That's why we're losing the industry now, including. Because all these years, dear friends of ours, we had to invest in industrial modernization, all these years. The countries that did this 15-10 years ago are now going to win all of our articles, unfortunately. If you look at the real situation in industry, you'll see that there are successful productions in Ukraine. But what distinguishes successful Ukrainian industrial production from failure is modernisation. Those who thought about the future and invested, and invested, are now successful. Where we've been drinking and stealing, and unfortunately it's in the vast majority of state-owned enterprises, we're now in decline, liberation and bankruptcy. And we'll never let that happen again. It's a very simple answer to a very difficult question.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-21-m0.u11	"Trust," Kulinich Oleg Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-21-m0.u12	Thank you. Mr. Prime Minister, I have a question about a situation that took place yesterday in Poltavščina, namely the New Sanjars. We understand that these are our people, they're Ukrainians. But why did it happen that yesterday morning neither the governor nor the district council nor the Department of Health knew about the placement of our people, Ukrainians, in Sanjar? Why was proper communication not conducted? The plant is in the village itself, next to the apartment house, why didn't anyone work with them? Why? What confidence will there then be in the government, the Ministry of Health, when the basic working situation is absurd? Please comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-21-m0.u13	I'll explain. The operation that took place is unprecedented in the history of Ukraine. Well, I mean, they never evacuated people in these circumstances, they didn't have to provide epidemiological safety, so that's how this first scale operation was done. The first thing we thought about was safety. The safety of the people they drive, the safety of the people living in the territories around them. There may have been provocations, special operations, and so forth. So we couldn’t even announce the route we were going to take. That's what we were going to do, and in service mode, we were actually making decisions in secret at operational headquarters. Obviously, in these circumstances, we can't inform two people in a week about where it's going to happen, because it could undermine the ability to provide security. All necessary measures were planned. Provoking that someone at the last minute had defined something is not true. From the beginning, a circle of about ten objects was identified according to medical parameters. Three days before the actual adoption, when it was decided to send a plane to China, we had three objects ready to accept these citizens. The final decision on which of these objects will be applied and on which we will take the people was made the day before. It's perfectly normal in terms of security.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-21-m0.u14	Motovilover Andriy Viktorovich, "Serve of the People."
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-21-m0.u15	I'm hearing a lot of criticism from the government right now. I want to tell the Supreme Council that there is no effective government without effective government. The Supreme Council without an effective government. We should all work together, together with the government, because we're all working for one country. That's my question. The Ministry of Economics forecast is 3.7 GDP growth. I see almost all countries fall in growth, and I have a question. Whether we're ready for that. view this indicator, and will the budget changes? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-21-m0.u16	Thank you. About macroprognosis and growth rates. See, analysts always predict economic growth. Then there is a factor that changes this trend. When did the previous macroprediction take place? October 10th was published. We didn't have any information, for example, whether we would have a contract or not, and this has a significant impact on the macroeconomic situation, well, because it actually changes the cost of the main energy resource for Ukraine three times, well, or four times. So macroprognosis is always a prediction. If you look at how they predict the development of the world economy, Ukraine, individual countries, such respected organizations as the International Monetary Fund, the World Bank, they also change the forecasts, they also correct them depending on what's going on. Even the coronavirus as a phenomenon now in the world has a serious impact on the economy and may be the basis for a macro-predictive review. Now, of course, of course! – we need to look at it, the Ministry of Economics is already working on it. I think about the next couple of weeks we're going to come out with a new macro-predict for this year. And of course, in the spring we're going to have to go back to the review and look again at this macro-predictive state budget. We have a very different class of bracelets than what was laid in October, we have a completely different price for energy resources than what was laid in October, and we have a completely different market environment than the one that was set up in October. So that's the right question for you. In fact, the macro-prediction will be reviewed, and indeed, we will go back to correcting the state budget this year.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-21-m0.u17	Thank you. Makarov Oleg Anatoliyovich, Voice.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-21-m0.u18	Please, Olga Stefanisin.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-21-m0.u19	Stephanie Olga Anatolyevna.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-21-m0.u20	Mr. Alexia, yesterday we saw a really tragic situation for our country, and first of all, the blame for everything that happened yesterday lies with the government of Ukraine, and completely communicates with people. The Ministry of Health did not properly bring what was going to happen to the Ukrainians. The fact that people were hidden from the Ukrainians was obviously wrong. And I have three specific questions for you. Today, the Ministry of Health does not understand who will be responsible for specific directions when the minister of health is in the sanatorium. Who will answer for the further preparation for the resistance of the Coronavirus? Who will be responsible for implementing medical reform? Who will be responsible for the purchase of drugs and vaccines for Ukrainians? Excuse me, you have to tell this to the Ukrainians today specifically and clearly.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-21-m0.u21	Thank you for asking, distinguished national MP. I repeat, we come from the fact that Ukraine is now in a state of actual information war. There's a lot inside, and outside of the subjects who want to destabilize the situation, to sow panic, to create an idea of what's supposed to be a file state in Ukraine, and so on. You all know all these rumblings. We weighed all the pros and cons and made the decision that was made. For safety reasons, given that all the necessary measures were taken, we did not really advertise until the day of the actual arrival of the people and their location. This is the decision of the operational headquarters, we're ready to discuss it. Some may feel that it is right or wrong, for reasons of security, it was more right. For someone who'll be responsible for how to provide sanitary and epidemiological security. Obviously, the Ministry of Health is an institution that can work completely, including when a minister is on a mission somewhere, the 21st century allows you to work completely at a distance without being physically in your office. There is now a minister of health in the city. Now in Poltava is Mr. Lazko's deputy minister, who is responsible for sanitary and epidemiological safety. In Kiev there is a strong team, including the National Health Service National Health Service team, which knows what needs to be done in order for the reform to begin on April 1. Once again, it's a complex process, of course, it may be flaws, but it's all going according to plan. Thank you for your concern for the health of the Ukrainians.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-21-m0.u22	Thank you. Ivchenko Vadim Evgeniovich. Ichchenko Vadim.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-21-m0.u23	Please pass the word to your colleague Kucherenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-21-m0.u24	Alexei Yuriovich Kucherenko
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-21-m0.u25	Alexy Kucherenko, the Fatherland faction and her leader, Mrs. Timoshenko, are consistently and professionally fighting for transparent and understandable energy tariffs. We've proved in court and won the courts that are responsible for the economic inequity of gas prices in recent years. Do you know, Mr. Prime Minister, about this and why your government continues, unfortunately, to impose a formula for gas on Ukrainians? You offered us an Amsterdam Plus gas price and allowed Naftogazu to resell Poltava and Harkow gas at the price of Amsterdam with a plus bracelet. I'm bringing it to your attention that this used to be $9, today it's $51. It's illegal and wrong. And lastly, "hot" loans. You're talking about how you're going to modernize our houses.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-21-m0.u26	Sadly, no. No, the Rules are the Rules.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-21-m0.u27	I understood the question. We've talked to you about this a number of times. I think I've got a little bit of an idea. The first is the tariff. Politicians should not interfere with the work of the market. This leads to corruption and populism. What does that mean? When a politician wants to enjoy himself, he also takes some of his thoughts into account, picks up, and reduces the price of gas. In fact, this lays an additional tax on everyone — those who consume and do not consume gas. That's just as simple as that. Such policies have led to the fact that our state-owned Crushing Company has been actually draining its resources over all these years. So for today, if we look closely at what the basic funds are, what is the state of mining in this state company, we're going to see that it's barely managed in recent years to contain the failure, so let's say, the production. Because the natural destruction of this product is actually 1.5 billion a year. All of this is the result of underinvestment. That means that state companies are also business, they have to work on business logic. The state must protect people who themselves cannot pay for energy resources or utilities through other tools, through individual subsidies, as is currently the case. The mechanism doesn't work perfectly, but it works correctly. It's about thermo-modernization. We have a tool designed to support our international partners. It's called the Energy Efficiency Fund. It makes sense that people create OSBBs, unite, make decisions about modernizing themselves, understanding that they will pay twice as much, come into the fund, and actually make up for the lion's share of their expenses. It's the right, healthy logic that stimulates people.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-21-m0.u28	Thank you, Mr. Prime Minister. Nina Petrovna Jujanina, European Solidarity.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-21-m0.u29	Dear Mr. Hotcharuk, I ask you to give a specific answer, not pour water or express your fantasies. First. What percentage of planned revenue to the state budget do you have today is February? Interest rate. What size of budget failure do you expect to be furious in absolute terms? Question three. What level of industrial decline do you expect in the first quarter of the 20th year, and what percentage was the decline in the fourth quarter of the 19th? And question four. Are you preparing a budget sequencer? A specific answer, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-21-m0.u30	Answer. I'll cross-reference the Ministry of Finance in large numbers so that I don't twist the question. [[B in m in s a l in]] But in terms of the budget sequester. One more time, one more time. We have the logic of adopting changes in the budget never changed, it's the following. At first, the Ministry of Economics prepares macro-predictation, after macro-predictation, according to the estimates of the figures in the macro-predictation, changes are made to the budget. And then we're going to make decisions with you, with the budget committee, with colleagues from the tax committee about the review or the non-review of the state budget. For execution, failure to perform is a ferocious thing. The number of finals is obviously not there yet, because the ferocious one is not finished. But we expect the tax to implement the plan that was put into the budget. We're expecting a mix-up because of the exchange rate, because it's much cheaper to import into a bracelet. So the volume of import goods is much lower, and because the cost of energy, which was usually blurry and was a significant part of income, was also smaller. In terms of other figures, the Ministry of Finance, please help me.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-21-m0.u31	Coltunovich Alexander Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-21-m0.u32	Please give the word to Alexander Kacny. Duck Alexander. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-21-m0.u33	Duck Alexander Stalinoenovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-21-m0.u34	I have a question for everyone, but I wanted you to answer it. Does the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine have the right to run a full-fledged economy, even if the Ministry is headed by a man who calls himself an idiot? That's the first question. The second question. The report was prepared by a private firm for 84,000 budget money, one of which was paid by our Ukrainian person, each of his wallets, is the preparation of slides and briefs for your performance. Questions. Where are the slides? And are you satisfied with these?
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-21-m0.u35	Mr. Kacny, I can honestly tell you, I understand why this level of debate in Parliament has led our country to the terrible situation that we are in right now. You are now moving on to personal insults, which were manipulations derived from listening to the highest officials of the state, which is actually a crime. And now you're trying to create a picture for ours, including our northern neighbors. To show that instead of working and talking professionally in Parliament, we have a circus. There will be no circus in Parliament, Mr. Ducky, call it off.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-21-m0.u36	Dear colleagues. All right, Alexei Valeriyovich? Please sign up from the National Deputies for the performances, to 6. No, a minute, unfortunately. According to the Rules, the honourable colleagues. Mushroom Victoria Alexandrovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-21-m0.u37	Yes, thank you. Alexia Valeriovich, thank you for your statement. In principle, I understand that we are moving forward. But there are a few questions that I would like to ask. First. You were talking today about being directly in Poltavščina and doing this sort of audit of medical institutions. I invite you to come to Donbas and Luhanščina and to see where the medical facilities are now. And there are major health problems with health reform. It's the first question and an invitation like that. And the second question is, this is about investors. You're absolutely right about our economy being underinvested. So I'm very much asking you to pay attention today to the issues that concern investors and retrospective changes in rules. Because if this is done, unfortunately, the investors won't come to us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-21-m0.u38	Thank you for the serious professional questions. With respect to retrospect change of rules. It's probably about a green tariff, isn't it? That's a complicated question. We, look what happened. Guys, we've got a very high "green" tariff. In fact, we have committed ourselves to people who build green energy here, generation, to pay very dearly for electricity. This practice existed in the world. There were many investors here who agreed to these conditions. We actually signed as a country, and we made a commitment to play by these rules. We now have serious problems, and we anticipate serious problems in serving our energy with such high obligations. Now we're in a dialogue with the market. We, our Ministry of Energy, have built a model, i.e. actually a model of electricity, have shown the economy to investors, and EBRD and other respected investors are constantly discussing possible compromises and arrangements to prevent retrospect changes in rules. Nor do we stand and support a retrospective change of rules. As far as medical reform is concerned. When I go to a region, I always look and ask questions about medical reform. Yesterday, I was in Montenegro, in places where people have a lot of questions. It is true that reform is poorly communicated. We still have time to make amends. The main problem I see right now is the quality of communication, and we're about to seriously correct it. If you have specific population points for which there is a problem, share, please, it will help us a lot, because numbers are one thing and real on earth is another. Thank you for the constructive questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-21-m0.u39	Thank you. Keith.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-21-m0.u40	I give the word to Valery Davidenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-21-m0.u41	Who?
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-21-m0.u42	Davidenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-21-m0.u43	Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-21-m0.u44	Good afternoon! Mr. Prime Minister, did you just notice or mention that you were in Montenegro yesterday? I have a question. You know, I feel bad for Ukraine, I love Ukraine. We had a flight yesterday, and we saw that everyone was witnessing what was happening in the New Sanars. And you've been in Chernigov, checking the main use section of the state forest and the electronic circulation of the wood that's been operating there since 2013. And Agrolis, who has some problems and questions, didn't send you there, and you didn't go there. So I have, so we can talk about raising wages, taxes and so on. But it's not your credit, by the way, it's not the government's credit. The minus on GDP and the rise in wages is precisely because we are integrated into the European Union.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-21-m0.u45	I'm reporting. The state is a big machine. For our citizens to accept, and they were safe, everything was done. We had two airports in Kharkiv and Kiev that were equipped with the necessary columns specially designed to transport objects from one side to the other. There were at least two objects that were ready to receive these people. The operation was planned in advance. There were ministers who were responsible for organizing a part of the work. I went there as soon as it became clear that there could be serious opposition. Thank God, when I arrived, literally at the same time, the situation with people in order to solve it. We checked that everything was secure and we held headquarters meetings, we made a number of organizational decisions, and we went here to prepare for a speech in Parliament, sir. About my trip to the Chernigs. Listen, you're either being misinformed or you're lying. Yesterday we met, including the representatives of Agrolis. They told me that they were not previously connected to the system. And that's true. You know that. Now they're connected. Call them, make sure. It used to be that someone was involved and was working under the law, and losing, that's usually the state, and the other, cunning, they weren't working in the system, they weren't working with papers and they were hiding with prosecutors, and the papers were closing their corruption schemes. It's stopped now. Ask in Montenegrin, there are now 95 percent of businesses connected to the system. And so it will be throughout Ukraine. Get used to it!
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-21-m0.u46	Thank you, Your Honor. Question time's up. Thank you, Alexei Valeriovich. Just like we agreed. The report is given to the head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Economic Development, Dmitri Andriyovich Natalusi.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-21-m0.u47	Dear colleagues, Your Honor Mr. Head, Mr. Prime Minister! Yesterday the committee really did consider an interim report from the government, and I think we really have to thank you for the time and effort spent in preparing this report, and interacting with the High Council's profile committees. In particular, I would like to thank the Minister, Deputy Prime Minister of Kuleb, the ministers of Milovanov, Creek, Orgel, Dubilet, Sokolovsk, Kolada, who found the time and opportunity to be present yesterday on the committee and to defend their positions. Yesterday, dear colleagues, the committee was certainly not the easiest. We had constructive debates and discussions, but members of our faction and other factions agreed that there were positive achievements in the government. Among them, we can call inflation declines, we can call a downturn to 11 percent, which leads to credit cuts, low prices for gas transport, and a fight against shadow markets, particularly in the game business. But there are obvious challenges that we would like to see more effective government work. There's an elephant in a room that's hard not to talk about, it's a industrial crisis, it's a decline in production, it's a decline in exports due to the revaluation of the bracelet, the budget deficit and the failure to carry out the planned customs duties. Nevertheless, we welcome and support the government’s approach to human centerism. This is really the right goal and the right goal. But a common wish and a committee, and I think that Parliament as a whole, is not just human centerism, but also Ukrainian centrifuge, when it comes to people's interests, but, above all, to people who live here in Ukraine. We would like Ukraine to stop focusing mainly on external factors so that we can stop viewing Ukraine and Ukraine as a war-sacrifice country, a country affected as a needy country that needs help. We would like to see Ukraine as a competitive country and a rival country, because right now, we're going to talk about Ukraine finally starting to defend its own national interests. And we want this government to be able not only to achieve the stated goals but also to achieve that great goal. You all know that there is a certain legislative restriction in the form of government immunity, so the committee cannot give a positive assessment of his report. But according to the outcome of the discussion, in accordance with the requirements of article 228 of the Ukrainian Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the Committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the Report of the Cabinet of Ministers on the move and results of the implementation of the Program of Activities of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine in 2019 to take note. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-21-m0.u48	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please sign up for the speeches by the MP factions and groups. Order up to 21 minutes. Comer Natalia Igorovna. Coltunovich Alexander Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-21-m0.u49	Dear Dmitre Alexanderovich, dear colleagues! I'm a member of the Economic Committee. I want to tell you that on the committee yesterday, we have this program and this government has been blown to pieces. Let me explain why. We have real macroeconomic indicators that have failed completely. For example, the gross domestic product in the second quarter of the increase is 4.6 percent and the fourth quarter is 1.5 percent. According to 2019, industrial output dropped by 1.8 percent. While there was nominal growth in the 18th. The record debt on salary payments is 3 billion dollars. This has never been the case in Ukraine’s history. The next moment. 63.7 billion dollars increased the debt for residential services. This is the result of tariff policy in Ukraine. Now let's move on. We were offered a country’s cool economic program. What do we have? They planned to increase GDP by 40 per cent in 5 years -- less than 3 per cent this year; they promised $50 billion in foreign direct investment -- in this year, in the 19th, only $2 billion; they promised to export $90 billion -- they only got $50 billion in 2019 ($40 billion before they promised). The next few moments. Record unemployment. Plus 300,000 unemployed, 2019. Here's the new million jobs, what it really looks like. So the rhetoric offered by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine is completely diverged with official data from the State Statistics Service, Treasury, and so on. Another very important moment. On the other hand, in the social sphere, the government has worked so that by 2020, it has reduced the subsidies to 47 billion dollars, and the economy is doing so, and the EU’s accounting for the deficit of the Pension Fund, which is covered by the budget, has increased to 172 billion dollars. And this situation is not the result of the 28 years of previous teams, it's the results of a six-year-old team. I'm not a fan of the government or the Groysman or the Yatzenuk, but they were more effective than you were, and you're the result you're making, it's worse than your predecessors. Another very important moment. It turns out that the agro-industrial complex is going to be the main engine of the economy of Ukraine. But what we see is that 8.1 growth was the AP of agriculture in 2018, while at the 19th rate fell to 1.1 percent. Here's what a powerful economic policy of today's power looks like. "The opposition platform is for life," it certainly doesn't divide this economic policy and propose, and it advocates an alternative development model. We're in favour of this, and we've registered a draft of Decree No. 3101 to.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-21-m0.u50	No, Alexander Sergiyovich, thank you. No, it's not. Alexander Sergiyovich, I'm sorry. Olenna Volodymyrna's fraud. Skipper Alexander Alexander,
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-21-m0.u51	Dear Chairman, Honourable Prime Minister! First of all, I want to thank you for responding to yesterday's Coronavirus situation in Poltava and visiting the site in person, and I think it's very important. And I want to thank all of our Minister of Health, Mrs. Zorjani, who is now there, for the truth. But unfortunately, I can't say "thank you" to our minister of infrastructure and transportation today. Unfortunately, he's not here today, so, Mr. Prime Minister, I'd like to ask you first. I want to contact you from all the employees in the railway sector in Ukraine. For five months, we fought for the re-launching of the Railroads and the destruction of corruption in this company. You've repeatedly spoken with what she's really there, and you're going to do the best you can to destroy her. At the top of this iceberg you called Mr. Kravtsov's former leader. Finally, after six months, we did a reboot, and Mr. Kravtsov is gone today. But I think that's the only result Mr. Crickley, Minister of Infrastructure, can report today in the railway sector. Because that's the way the equipment goes on, just like the schematics and the machinations, they go on and on and on and on and on. Because the people who worked with Mr. Kravtsov stayed in place and the changes did not take place. So, Mr. Prime Minister, I ask you to assist in the full re-loadment. I know it takes time, but the people of Ukraine are not waiting. So I very much ask you to take all measures to really make sure that the railway sector is fully refueled. And finally, the launch, because we're all in line for a big construction, we're all looking forward to it. And the building materials that will be needed today for the construction of Ukrainian roads, they must first go to the Crucifixion. Thank you and I hope you understand.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-21-m0.u52	Thank you. The word is given to the National MP, Bilozoz Larissa Mikolayovni, MP for the Future.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-21-m0.u53	Dear colleagues, distinguished Ukrainians, honourable chairman, Prime Minister! Larissa Bilozer, Winnitzkin, Future Group. You know, as long as Skalecka is in charge of Skype now, while he's on pear quarantine, the health system is transformed into a survival system. Yesterday people protested not against the evacuated Ukrainians, they protested against our medical system. I'll remind the ministers and the minister of health that the budget subsidy will only be available by April 1st, and then you can survive as you wish. I want to say that today there are 212 hard-core hospitals in Ukraine that have to go to 6 billion. The choice of hospitals raises big questions, it's probably a tool for implementing the political ambitions of local elites. Ukrainian authorities are losing confidence, and hospitals are victims of ill-planned reform. Imagine, the government has determined only one criterion — the hour of arrival. He's nowhere in the Winnitz region. We've identified the support hospitals on the border. Who are we going to treat there, Moldovan? On the border with the occupied Transnistrian Hospital, when the other hospitals in the seven districts will not have access! Why is this happening? Methodologies have not been developed, they are not serious. And they will suffer, not like the 30 people who are currently quarantined and taken to unprepared hospitals, but the suffering of hundreds of thousands of Ukrainians who will not be brought to these resilient hospitals. Please pay attention to this. A review of the wrong determination, without criteria, did not include either USAID, efficiency, accessibility, or coverage. What do we do with our medicine? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-21-m0.u54	Thank you. The word is given to the National Deputy Volodymyr Igorovich Ariev, the faction of the political party "European Solidarity". Please, Nina Petrovna Jujanin, faction of the European Solidarity political party.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-21-m0.u55	Honorable Presidium, honourable colleagues, in fact, is the first time that we didn't have a government program, so we have either a report or just a message. I'd split what the government sent us into two parts. This is a large number of paper different slides that include data for the work of the entire previous government and partly their work. It seems to me that this is a manipulation of all the information, and you should definitely separate your fourth quarter and two months this year. This would be more ethical and fair in relation to all Ukrainian citizens. So you're talking about all of the two election campaigns you've criticized the work of the previous government, so you should at least review all the processes and correct them. You just mentioned in your oral presentation, which is completely different from the materials that you've sent to all the deputies and all the factions, that you, for example, I'm going to name just one, you've audited cadastral, you've done an audit of all the resources. Yes, sorry, you've finished it, you've only got to finish the big job that the previous authorities did. As far as the population of Ukraine is concerned. You lied again, because the data you published, it wasn't an audition, it wasn't a census, it was all statistics that we owned. And so at each point, if you're talking about what you just said to us. But you really need to pay attention to the fact that you don't know any of the numbers that the economy is in. I would now even like to reject all the political expressions that are here, because I think the population and the state as a whole are in great danger. I would like to give you, Prime Minister, the figures that are on January of the month in which the country is now. On February 20, 2020, the coming was 35.2 percent of the plan. This is because February is more planned for January than almost 10 billion. Did you know that VAT is only reimbursed in February for 4.1 billion dollars? This means that the rest of the VAT is either for checks, or for tax breaks, because the average amount of VAT reimbursement is 10 billion. Do you know what there is, perhaps, a figure that can be counted, and perhaps they have already counted, but they do not tell people. And they don't say in vain, because we, and all citizens, have to be prepared that the budget is going to be largely unrealized in February, and they're going to be worth over 20 billion dollars. Tell me, please, we have to go with you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-21-m0.u56	Nina Petrovna, three minutes, sorry. Bobrowski. With all due respect, Nina Petrovna. Bobrovska Solomija Anatoliyevna
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-21-m0.u57	I'd like a word with Natalie Pippa.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-21-m0.u58	Pippa Natalia Romanovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-21-m0.u59	Dear Ukrainians, dear colleagues! The first question I have is to head the National Security and Defence Council, our distinguished President. I'm asking you very much when all the countries are evacuating their citizens two weeks ago, and we were probably also preparing two weeks ago, not to make such important events in the country when people, 77 percent of the Ukrainians, are grieving about the events in Maidan and are deeply experiencing it. That's the first one. The second question I have is to the government and to the MOH. Who will be responsible for the orders that were misissued during this time when we were working with the transportation of our own citizens to Ukraine? For an order issued from the so - called educational evacuation in the town of Vinnicki for not knowing where he was sitting, for lack of information, a daily briefing with simple explanations for people to be at peace, not panic. Third. I have a question, I'm going to the National MPs. I would ask you very much to be professional and to mention what the Ukrainian Security Service is really doing. And criminal conduct against rallyers does not reveal the Ukrainian Security Service. And I have a big request for these naphthas, who mistakenly put their signatures against a certain number of rallyers, who, I fully agree, did the wrong thing, to call them off. The second request is to treat all those who have wrongly done the reception of our Ukrainians in Ukraine. So I ask you not to make people extreme, but first of all to answer to officials who have done wrong, starting with the government, ending up with doctors who did not want to carry out their oath. And the third. And then there's the next one. I'd like that very much. We're talking to the government and the MoH again, we want to hear a plan of action, how exactly are we going to act if, suddenly, the coronavirus is in Ukraine? And how will we continue to be at peace with this question that concerns all citizens? And I ask you to stop being a government generator of random numbers and decisions. And I'm going to ask you to work professionally for the benefit of Ukraine and the Ukrainians. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-21-m0.u60	Thank you. Lunchenko Valeriy Valeriyovich. Shahov Sergei Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-21-m0.u61	Sergey Shahov, Luhanščina, Deputy Group "Trust". Dear colleagues, did we just hear the report or just talk? Tell me, please, from the MPs, the national MPs just for six minutes! There's 450 of us in the hall. 200 deputies were elected in the districts and would like to hear a normal report from the Prime Minister. As far as we can see, there's no Coronavirus, and there's a coronavirus in the heads of the officials of class "A" today. Look at the specialty that people didn't know they were going to be taken to any Sanjars. Is this a medical kit or is this a military base, do you say? What is the condition of people today? Who will be responsible for these people? In what state will the sewers be there, or will the sewers be there today? Tell me, please, what kind of coronavirus is it that people die of flu today at every turn, there's no mask in the pharmacy, there's no one in one pharmacy, there's no pharmacy where to buy masks. Next questions to the government from all members of the Trust Group. Why are hospitals not built today but closed at every turn? Why are kindergartens closed today? Why Are Schools Closed Today? Why is it that the money has not been given to the communities since 2020, which has become new communities, and why is there no money in the budget? Where is the report of the Minister of Energy and Ecology today? Where did the miners pay $1 billion,650 million? 25 numbers here, on the Main Independence Day, will be about a thousand miners with trade unions who will ask all ministers where their money is. Next. Where is the report that led to the battle in Gold today? Where is the report of today’s Minister of Health, in what state are all the epidemics for which no one has responded in our country? Who's going to be responsible today for what children are supposed to do today, the whole question, 682 bracelets to make a quick passport for a child -- 1 thousand and 35 bracelets for 4 years? Where is the conscience of ministers today? It's not about spending, it's about making money, it's about making a small, medium, big business, agribusiness. How the State should make a living.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-21-m0.u62	Thank you. Mikhail Mikhailovich Zimbaluk. Taruta Sergey Alexiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-21-m0.u63	Dear colleagues, a respected government! Unfortunately, we have not heard a macroeconomic or macrosocial report today. And what worries me is everyone here in this room, including the "Paternity" faction. That's because you can't imagine the very threat to the dynamics that we've had in the fourth quarter and it's going on for today. And if we don't know why, we don't know how to cure it. And so I invite you, let's, together with our Economic Development Committee, figure out why that happened. Believe me, it's negative. What you've done, you have to do it. What's important is that you didn't finish up to get the lead. You're saying that the basic value is human. It's very right that you put a human-centered model around you. What does a person need? Security, peace, economic gain, and, of course, the opportunity to feel human. When people leave Ukraine, that's already an estimate. We didn't make it to the top -- the growth of the economy. We didn't get to the top -- jobs. Only jobs feed the local, regional, and state budgets. With the state budget, it's a disaster. Imagine you're in the illusion of the numbers that the Ministry of Finance gives you. Don't believe this. The situation is much worse. Let's analyze and draw conclusions for this year. Believe it or not, regardless of the real sector, regardless of monetary policy, what the National Bank is doing, and you're not asking that question in your report today, the National Bank is ruining it. Imagine that only one person in our country, the head of the National Bank, is making a decision at an interest rate. What country in the world is there? There is no country in the world where this is done. The government was completely constrained, Parliament was constrained, and the situation was deteriorating. What the National Bank does and speculates on bonds, what the Ministry of Finance does is a threat. The only reality is to make more money. Making quick money can only be done by the real sector. Go back to the real sector. Come on, Ministry of Industry, there can't be any rapid growth without it. We have a real sector that needs resuscitation today. And that's why there's not one Skalecka in places where there's a problem today that every minister understands that the real sector today is in great danger, and let's do it. Because investors only come when there's a reason to come here.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-21-m0.u64	Thank you, Sergey Alexiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-21-m0.u65	Dear colleagues, the request to sign up for six minutes will be made by Ukrainian national deputies. Please, Deputy People's Honourable Sergey Anatoliyovich, Deputy Group "Trust".
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-21-m0.u66	The questions from Luhansk will be asked by Sergey Shahov.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-21-m0.u67	It's not a question, it's a speech from the national MPs.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-21-m0.u68	I'm handing it over to Sergei Shah.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-21-m0.u69	Sergei Shahov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-21-m0.u70	Sergey Shahov, Luhanščina, Deputy Group "Trust". Dear colleagues, I may not have understood, but I have been asking questions to the government and all my questions, and I'll tell you the questions of the "Trust" Group, Prime Minister. What I said about the miners, God forbid I have enough time to starve and leave here today, to Kiev, I welcome them. Please form a budget and pay off the money you earn. People should feed their families. And we're saying there's been gunfire, they can't move here. Next. Lugansk. Since there is no coal, the blocks may stop. And that's going to stop the whole Lugansk area and shut it down. It's going to be a disaster, a technological disaster. Next. I literally recently held the third meeting of the interfractional MPs for Technological and Environmental Safety in the Energy Fuel Complex. Mr. Prime Minister, just so you know, there's no announcement in any of the state's businesses today for the fast population, and it's a disaster again. If anything happens today on Transchimiacu, it'll cover exactly six kilometers to the right, to the left of all the villages and villages. It's going to be worse than the crown virus that's in the heads of class "A" officials today. Let me be clear. Next. Today, all the companies in Transchimamiac, for which I said, "Kruknafta," are all in your office today, making money at all, not spending money on people's safety. Next. What we were talking about today about health care. Please tell us, when the minister of health at this rostrum responds not for five minutes, but for an hour, two, three minutes, so that we don't just look at the land in this hall as a sellout, and how to build our state, how today people who don't get a proper pension get 83 percent of pensioners today get a lower minimum pension in our country. Next. Those who do not receive subsidies today. People have gone to work, children have gone to work, and parents are not given a grant. Note this. Thank you. Sergey Shahov, Luhanščina, Deputy Group "Trust".
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-21-m0.u71	Nina Petrovn Yuzanin.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-21-m0.u72	Dear colleagues, a venerable Presidium! I propose that we continue our tour of the actual figures in order for everyone to understand how government activities can be evaluated and what our economy awaits. You know, Mr. Prime Minister, you've said that you're making incredible efforts to keep state-owned businesses from breaking up money, and you're accomplishing something, and that state-owned enterprises can only be resuscitated because of their upgrades, that is. I want to ask you why you're hiding information that, in order to cover the hole in the budget -- 120 billion real, what you had in the fourth quarter, you've increased, you've decided to increase to 90 percent the size of the deductions from the profit of the state enterprises and where there's 50 plus. Did you realize that you're taking all the negotiable funds out of state enterprises, what are you letting them go bankrupt, what are you driving them into further destruction? Is that what you think is right? At the expense of these funds, you have raised the considerable indiscretions you had. And until you learn to speak and answer for your numbers, answer! – you will not and you will not work effectively. For you, accept this rule that you are responsible for your actions! What our team has done and what we've achieved, they don't apply to you, and your 80 percent report was about our team's achievements. So please learn to tell each other apart. Now I would also like to point out to all citizens about the legislative reforms that we have received from the new government. Do you not find it surprising that the indignation of all citizens and representatives of small businesses, both in land and tax, both in administrative and gas, and in media and in judicial reform, they all turned into a series simply to fight good and bad. Is this reform? Your incredible playoffs with future investors have led to considerable indignation at all businesses in Ukraine. Why don't you count on a Ukrainian investor? Why don't you build our middle Ukrainian class as a young, experienced person? You know, back in the years, our team didn't do much work on economic issues. For you, this is the most important thing, everything has to be focused exclusively on the economy, it's going to depend on everything. You didn't say what percentage of the decline in industry you expect in the first quarter. And that means I didn't want to get you in numbers, and I wanted to point out that, with a significant decline in the fourth quarter, you're doing nothing in the first quarter to eliminate the shameful consequences that our industry has. You didn't explain it, you're just talking.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-21-m0.u73	No, Nina Petrovna, time's up. Zero. I'm sorry. Dear colleagues, the time for the government report is up. Let us thank the Prime Minister, the government. And we agreed with you on the Conciliation Council that there would be 30 minutes of information on the Coronavirus associated with the activity of the Minister of Health. Since it is not available, the Deputy Minister of Information will report today if you do not object.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-21-m0.u74	I'm sorry. I can't hear you, I'm afraid. There's no minister. Do you know why? No, it's a profile report, dear colleagues. Deputy Health Minister Dmitry Mikhailovich Koval is invited to attend. The performance is up to 10 minutes and 21 minutes for questions and answers from national MPs. As I understand it, we can still cancel the break from 12 to 12:30. There's no objection anymore, is there? Okay, thanks. Mr. Deputy Minister, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-21-m0.u75	Ladies and gentlemen of the people, Mr. Head, the people of Ukraine! I'd like to understand if honestly, in which context we're going to communicate, yes, I am. Why did I come out? I went out to report on what had been done with the coronavirus of the struggle in Ukraine. I can report that on January 24, the Ministry of Health established an operational headquarters for quick discussion and decision-making, where all the leading Ukrainian experts entered. I will note that this took place just a week before the World Health Organization made an appropriate decision with recommendations on government action in various countries. The ILO has developed and approved Order No. 185 on measures to prevent the introduction and spread of diseases caused by the new coronavirus in Ukraine. On January 30, 20th, in connection with the rapid spread of the new coronavirus, an international emergency in public health was declared with the aim of preparing a system of preparedness to respond to similar threats. In this regard, the ILO and its operational headquarters developed a management project and a comprehensive plan of action. On February 3, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine approved Order No. 93, which established and approved a government operating headquarters that agreed between the ministries and the authorities involved. The order, which was approved, established a regime to increase the willingness of a single national civil protection system to prevent a state-level emergency as a result of the possible spread of acute respiratory disease caused by the coronavirus and temporary restrictions, as well as the special conditions for entry into the province of Hubay, People’s Republic of China, through their isolation for 14 days in health institutions designated by the Ministry of Health. So to say that no one has prepared for this situation is groundless. The National Plan against Epidemics is a comprehensive document aimed at coordinating the efforts of all branches of government to improve the response system. To implement paragraph 1 of this plan, the reference period, for example, has been extended. A call was also made to higher education officials who are training health - care professionals. The Ministry of Education and Science of Ukraine has been informed that they have also taken the necessary measures, which have extended the canical period for people who were to come from China. Joint statements have been made, temporary district counter-epidemic commissions have been drawn up, explanatory letters have been prepared, and so forth. So in this section, I'd like to ask you a question about where this panic is coming from. Is it not work, for example, for journalists to attend daily briefings, either at the Ministry of Health or at a crisis center, to read carefully all the materials that are isolated on the Ministry of Health’s website that explain all the necessary information about fecal or oral transmissions and the rest of everything else? I will not continue to say what was done next. I want to report, I just see that there's not a lot of time, about the circumstances that people are in right now. This is really embarrassing for me. I realize that this has not happened without the participation of outsiders, since we have, for example, a fairytale appeal from the Ministry of Health and the sending of letters with the spread of false information. We have stone throws, we have other provocations that are now taking place and that are gradually appearing in the information space. So I'm reminding you that we're in a hybrid war today, and we're considering this part. When it comes to people, if it's interesting to someone, think about people. People are really not in a 5-star hotel. Several places were prepared at the same time. Again, to warn of the spread of panic, these places were not made public until the last one. There are rules of work, international ones that are also used in Ukraine. As far as the dates are concerned. Ukraine acted in harmony with the Chinese government. Both dispatches, and consents, and whether or not the release of Ukrainian or other citizens depended on the government of China. When permission was granted, the citizens arrived. Citizens are placed in double rooms. They are provided with hot food. There's refinement, hot food isn't prepared in this sanatorium, it's prepared according to the caitering principle. And people take food from a disposable container that is then collected and disposed of accordingly. The sewage system is as separate as the water supply. The treatment of sewage is carried out in the same way as in the infectious hospitals during an enhanced regime. Of course, people will need psychological help. That's why communication with the Red Cross is now taking place with regard to security, including psychologists. Because being a healthy person in observation for 14 days is, well, quite difficult. So people are now in normal conditions. If you receive signals, please contact the Ministry of Health, I think our contacts are not a secret, and report on the shortcomings that may actually be. As the Prime Minister has said, there have never been any such measures in Ukraine, ever in history. And now, if you'll excuse me, two minutes on the support hospitals and the situation that's being pushed back in the regions. Yes, we know that chief doctors are forcing medical personnel to write down applications for wage cuts and transfer them to a minimum. I think you know that too. There's no basis for that. With regard to support hospitals approved by the Cabinet of Ministers. Yes, they were considered, including by the Ministry of Health. Once again, did the district departments come up with a list of these district hospitals? Was it not determined which hospitals should be resilient, which should not be resilient? A request from the Ministry of Health to look into your areas, who and how they formed a list of these hospitals. We will do everything in our power to ensure that medical care, in this context, is considered an emergency, is done in the right way, and is finally given the attention needed to save people's lives. If there are any questions, I will be happy to answer them.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-21-m0.u76	Thank you, Dmitri Mikhailovich. Dear colleagues, we have 21 minutes to ask the reporter. I'm asking you to sign up for the factions on the question. Thank you. The word is given to the National Deputy of Exchange Irina Namentual, the faction of the political party "Serve of the People".
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-21-m0.u77	Good afternoon, Irina Borzov, 14th District, Winnitzkin. Dear Deputy, please tell us why children’s district hospitals are not included and are not defined by OLIV, since they need to be reinforced with new equipment. There are small patients from all over the area and fine professionals who can provide more types of medical aid when equipment is available. And who's going to be responsible for the patient's life when from a village on a bad road, an unrepaired person in a resistance hospital just doesn't get brought in, because the main criteria are time -- "Golden Hour," but that hour is a lot. Please tell me today, from the village to the resistance hospital, 1.5-2 hours of driving on roads that no car can drive today. Please give a specific answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-21-m0.u78	A specific answer. The car park, which is supposed to consist of 3,000,700 cars, is now estimated to be 2,000,100 cars. More than half of them are over 10 years old, for special transport -- that's a lot. That's why they bought one fifth of the available cars -- that's 436 coming in, that's where they're starting to get into different regions. According to the plan, the park will be upgraded each year, and it will continue to be upgraded to one fifth. And this should become a systemic phenomenon until all regions are fully equipped with the necessary transportation. As far as the roads are Of course, all these questions are considered in a complex way. So if we finally figure out which hospitals have to be resilient, which ones don't have to be resilient, this list is passed on to the Mini Infrastructure, and these regions are primarily provided with repairs or capital, or the current repairs of roads to improve them, for the purpose of providing this very "gold hour" that everyone knows about. Children's hospitals. This is emergency medical care. It can be given to children, including children. But believe me, no one will be deprived of medical care without the necessary equipment. And the situation in this area will only improve. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-21-m0.u79	Thank you. The word is given to the National Deputy Kulinich Oleg Ivanovich, the MP's "Trust". Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-21-m0.u80	Oleg Kulinich, trust MP. Dear Mr. Deputy Minister! I've listened to you, I'll tell you the truth, after what happened yesterday, it's not like we calmed them down, they're going to have even more panic. If it was, as the Prime Minister said, a special operation, then a specific question. You're like the department of profile, why didn't you communicate with people? Why the Department of Health in the Poltav region did not know about the situation yesterday morning. Who studied this facility, what are the conditions of the sewers? You're talking about sewerage, and you're completely out of focus. And I'm oriented because I'm from Poltavian. Why did this happen? Why did this happen? Who specifically studied this facility? Where is he? What are the conditions in which there is a distance to housing? From the Ministry. Why did the Department of Health know absolutely nothing about this special operation? I didn't hear back from the Prime Minister. Maybe you can tell me the answer to something? And when we heard you talk, we didn't calm people down, and they'll get even more excited and more excited.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-21-m0.u81	Thank you. Dmitri Mikhailovich, for the sake of hearing, please put on the earring, there is, you will answer. Please answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-21-m0.u82	Thank you for asking. It's to determine where, when, there's an operating headquarters. And the facility was identified during the operational headquarters meetings. This is not just a decision made by the Ministry of Health. These are decisions based on clear criteria of various components, including health care. With these criteria in mind, four were selected first, then three institutions prepared for the reception of citizens. And a message or a miscommunication is also an operating headquarters decision. It's about communication with people. I honestly don't understand what it was that we had to communicate with those people who were in one of the locations and how it was going to happen. The information was provided in due course, and the people knew that there would be evacuations from China. The inspection took place not before the day before, but before, so ask the Ministry of Health personally as a professional, professional, so that it prevents entry into Ukraine of the Coronavirus and creates the necessary regulatory acts to ensure this, as well as the use of measures to prevent the spread of the virus in the country if it enters it. So thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-21-m0.u83	Thank you. The word is given to the People's Deputy, Murmitch Anatoly Petrovich, "The Opposition Platform for Life," please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-21-m0.u84	Natalia Juryovna Kraljevska.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-21-m0.u85	Dear colleagues, Mr. Prime Minister, distinguished ministers! Today we all understand very well that after yesterday's incident. Mr. Prime Minister, can you hear me? I'd like the Prime Minister to be on the spot for a minute and the "hours of the government report" and to hear about what he's told to be a deputy, not going out there. Because after yesterday.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-21-m0.u86	Alexei Valeriyovich!
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-21-m0.u87	Can we invite the Prime Minister because I want to talk to him? Time, please repeat. No, yes, where's the Prime Minister? Why are we here "the hour of the government's report" and there's no government. There's no Prime Minister, no ministers we're talking to? And it's not really respect for Parliament. He's already gone.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-21-m0.u88	Natalia Yuriovna, continue if you don't mind.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-21-m0.u89	Dear colleagues, we see that the government doesn't pay any attention to Parliament or even to "the government's report" the Prime Minister is not in bed. But I would like to ask him that after the incident that was provoked yesterday by the government in the village of Sanjar, we expected one this morning: we expected the Prime Minister to write a statement from the Chamber of Parliament and ask the deputies to release him from office. Because if he's really a public person, if he's worried about the country, he's very well aware that he doesn't meet the challenges and demands of the government today. And so all these comics that they drew in their report, all these propagandas about their work, we all saw very well yesterday in the Sanars when the government provoked this situation. And that's why we're asking you to.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-21-m0.u90	Thank you. Rušin Jaroslav Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-21-m0.u91	Please give my word to Olga Stefanishini.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-21-m0.u92	Stefanishius? Olga Anatolyevna Stefanishina
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-21-m0.u93	Dmitri, I listened to you, and I don't understand, you said that the whole country the day before people were brought to New Sanjara, I knew, I wanted to tell you that's a lie, no one knew where they were taking people. And the Ministry of Health is primarily responsible for the communication failure of the entire campaign. I have three specific questions for you, please answer them, they apply to the Coronavirus, in order to calm people down. First question. What percentage of doctors in ordinary clinics in Ukraine know and know how to use recommendations for diagnosis and treatment of coronarys? The other one. What percentage of hospitals are made up of individual remedies? And the third. How many beds are equipped with artificial lung ventilation devices, and where are they? Thank you. Please answer now.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-21-m0.u94	Mrs. Ola, I wasn't talking about all of Ukraine, the whole country knew it, I don't think it was necessary, but the Sanars knew it. Now for the percentage of doctors. It's brought to the doctors of the primary chain, it's about the first question, how they operate in case they suspect they have an acute respiratory disease that they have to do, and it's not their function, it's to be provided with diagnostics. They should direct the patients according to the order that has been shown to them. Percentage of hospitals. These hospitals are infectious. Yes, we know that not every region now has an infectious hospital, but in each region, respectively, again, under the direction of the Ministry of Health, a patient's route has been developed, which regulates where the patient is going to go, and according to which facility the laboratory centre, which is at each district center, is the laboratory center of the Ministry of Health of Ukraine. With regard to the provision of artificial ventilation to the lungs. These devices make up, are this 0.65 coefficient, this is a high coefficient, this oxygen is in any other way provided by all one hundred percent of the facilities to which these people are going to be directed. Therefore, there is no need to worry about this.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-21-m0.u95	Eugene Nina Petrovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-21-m0.u96	Please pass the word to Ariev Volodymyr.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-21-m0.u97	Arjev Volodymyr
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-21-m0.u98	Mr. Vice Minister, as to what happened to communication, I'm sure I'll explain it a little bit. Not all people have medical education, and not everyone understands what a terrible coronavirus is and what can be done without fear. And just when it was necessary to explain something to people in a language that was available, we had the President, the Prime Minister, recording the footprints that were then being set up in the social media and in the media. I'll even remind you that Ulyana Suprun made available explanations when needed. But the question is different. All the countries evacuated their citizens from Uhajan early in February. Please tell us why Ukraine waited three weeks to evacuate them on the anniversary of the Celestial Heroes ’ Day. Is this an accident? Is this a misdemeanor of the Ministry and other authorities in order to organize timely and effective evacuations?
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-21-m0.u99	The question is understandable. So, about the first part of your question. The Ministry of Health’s communication began since January of the month when the problem became global. During this time, the official website of the Ministry of Health has all the necessary information in complex form, in professional, simple language, in hard language, in any language consolidated in one place. If you go to the Ministry of Health’s website, there is a huge banner on the top that contains the combined information on the Coronavirus. That's the first one. Second, the Ministry of Health conducted daily briefings. But when things are done calmly, as I understand it, in our country, it is not interesting. So by 3.5 briefings, fewer and fewer journalists are coming. Please tell me, does the Ministry of Health have means of communication other than social networks that explain the situation several times a day? What else would the Ministry of Health do to communicate? Please, I can't get this information from anyone. Now, the second ingredient, if you can't write it down, somebody do it again. Don't you remember?
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-21-m0.u100	You have 20 seconds left.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-21-m0.u101	I don't remember. I didn't record the other part.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-21-m0.u102	Please record it next time. Jurchisin Petr Vasilovich. He doesn't have time to answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-21-m0.u103	Please pass the word to Dmitri Lubinci.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-21-m0.u104	Vladimir Igorevich, I'm sorry, well, objectively. Who? A lube? Lubinet Dmitry Valeriovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-21-m0.u105	Yes, I have two questions. First question. Do you, Mr. Deputy, imagine that when your manager returns from New Sanjar, the entire health care system in Ukraine will be costless because you have paid a subsidy only on the first quarter? You translate all of this into local budgets, there's no money there. And there will be closure of both FAPs and hospitals. And that's what I want to hear from the Prime Minister. And the next question. I'm at the hospital. You know, when we just heard from you that the national MPs were supposed to do this, it felt like you had to write a release application and appoint someone from the national deputies. These are your structural units in the Department of Health. They were the ones with you who offered to support hospitals. And when you are now, we hear from you that you want to transfer responsibility to the MPs is bullying people. Shame! You're closing the tires of the hospital. Look, the office.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-21-m0.u106	If you allow, the Department of Health is not a structural unit of the Ministry of Health and we can only communicate through district government administrations. The Ministry of Health does not translate anything into national MPs. It's just a request to figure out how the resistance hospitals were defined and whether there was, for example, a corruption component. That's right, the trailer. Now, what can be left of the cost and the subsidy. I also recall that there are 72 billion dollars that will be in the National Health Service of Ukraine, and these funds will be paid to hospitals that will provide medical services. With regard to tariffs, I will warn the possible next question, of course, is the understanding that they may be imperfect, so they will be reviewed, for the time being, there is a need, but please understand that a health system that has not been touched for decades cannot be without reform. There will be no feudal divisions, no princes, and so on, in which the chief physician will be responsible, without being responsible for the quality of medical care, to receive funds from the State. For health care to be quality, affordable so that professionals who provide this medical care would receive a decent salary. And that's where the money is going to be paid to those who want to work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-21-m0.u107	Thank you. Ivchenko Vadim Evgenovich. Cimbaluk Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-21-m0.u108	Mikhailo Cimbaluk, Fatherland. Mr. Deputy Minister of Health, I have the impression that today we are in a group of extended days or at a time when you are raising us and the entire Ukrainian people and telling us that in all the guilt of journalists, all the guilt of those who were to go to the Ministry of Health’s website, and, as you said, read in one place. Can all Ukrainian citizens benefit from this? It's like a line. About executive power. Read the material part: The Law on the Cabinet of Ministers and the Law on Local Government Administrations. It was under your direction that they appointed and determined where the hospitals were located. And your job is to stick to and set standards. Question one. From February 1st to 5, almost all China’s nations took their citizens. How do you estimate that Ukraine succeeded in the 20th, which is the profession of the government? And the next. Tubdispancers are closing down, and psychological hospitals are closing down.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-21-m0.u109	About February 1st and February 5th and the rest. As I said during the report, this was done, including in agreement with the Chinese government on the basis of the decisions of the operational headquarters, on the basis of the decisions of the National Security and Defence Council, which had been held since January. As far as Tubdispancers and psychoneurological dispensers are concerned, the problem is known, there is now work to be done on how this situation can be resolved and will have to be resolved. She's famous, there's no answer for this minute. There are parts of the funds that are undercalculated, I can say, and we are now deciding quickly how this situation can be remedied. I didn't hear any more questions. I'm done.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-21-m0.u110	Thank you. Dear colleagues, time is up. Thank you, Mr. Deputy. Question time's up. Let's go back to the law, bill 2178-10. Thank you, Mr. Prime Minister. Thank you, distinguished officials. Let's move on to the next one. It's 1223, Frost. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-21-m0.u111	Good afternoon, dear fellows! Moroz Volodymir, 59 constituency, Donetskina. I want to remind you once again that "The Opposition Platform for Life" is against selling land. Amendment 1223: Part three of article 130 of the Ukrainian Code of Land to include sentences in the following wording: "Part Three takes effect after the implementation and establishment of the results of the All-U.S. referendum on free sale and purchase of agricultural land." Thank you. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-21-m0.u112	I'm betting on the vote of 1223. The committee was rejected. Please identify and vote. [[12:11:12]] For-51 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. 1224, Frost.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-21-m0.u113	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. Amendment 1224, Moroz Volodymir, 59 constituency, Donetskina. "In article 130 of the Ukrainian Code of Land, part three of the term "may" replace "may" with "may have." To supplement article 130 of the Ukrainian Code of Land with the following paragraph: "If the outcome of the U.S. referendum does not authorize a decision on free sale and purchase of agricultural land, the prohibition on the purchase and sale of land, or other means of alienating land, pies, parts of their sale and other means of alienation shall be maintained until 1 January 2030." Thank you. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-21-m0.u114	I'm betting on the vote of 1224. Please identify and vote. [[12:12:37]] For-51 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. 1225, Frost.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-21-m0.u115	Thank you. Moroz Volodymir, 59 constituency, Donetskina. The plenary Sunday ends, and I go back to my district, where the war is going today, and again people on the line of separation are being shot. I'm going to go to them, and I'm going to look at the plots, those pies of land that they have there, and what we can do there, and I'm going to ask our international investors to come and exchange land for people, because there's nothing in them today, anything to buy food for today, they're in line for the Red Cross to get their money for bread. And that's why Amendment 1225, in article 130 of the Ukrainian Code of Land, in part three of the term "may" replace "may" with "may" in the term "may.""..
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-21-m0.u116	Thank you, Vladimir Viktorovich. I'm betting on the vote of 1225. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[12:14:10]] For-55 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. Next line by Burmich. Another one? 26th, right? 1226, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-21-m0.u117	Thank you, Dmitri Alexanderovich. Moroz Volodymir, 59 constituency, Donetskina. Amendment 1226. In article 130 of the Ukrainian Code of Land, part three, the term "may" replace "may" with "may have." Complement article 130 of the Ukrainian Code of Land with the following paragraph: "It is prohibited to introduce the right to land (pai) to statutory capitals of legal persons whose documents provide for agricultural production, to hold and establish the results of the all-U.S. referendum on free sale and purchase of agricultural land." And I want to remind everyone again. Country, "The Opposition Platform for Life" against the sale of land. Thank you. And I'd like you to support my work.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-21-m0.u118	Let's put it to a vote of 1226, Frost. The committee didn't support it. Please identify and vote. [[12:15:42]] For-55 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. Next line 1227, Burmich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-21-m0.u119	Anatoly Burmich, "The Opposition Platform for Life." Dear Head, I've got a line here, they're similar. And I ask you to consider my offer. Give me 10 minutes to go straight. And put seven ballots. So I think we're going to cut back a little bit. Is it supported?
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-21-m0.u120	Okay. Please tell me what changes you need to submit for confirmation first.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-21-m0.u121	So it's 1227, 1230, 1250, 1253, 1273, 1290 and 1312.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-21-m0.u122	Okay. Please turn on 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-21-m0.u123	Dear colleagues, distinguished listeners, respected citizens of Ukraine! Why are we looking at so many rights today, and someone is bored, someone's not interested, I'm going to try to explain it. The plans for the invaders and those who wanted to colonize the country by means of a blitzkrieg broke out. They've been reporting by the 20th. They wanted to report by December 20 that they had decided. But that didn't happen. Why? Because on the verge of this colonial invasion, our opposition platform and other healthy forces of Parliament and the Ukrainian people have become ours. Blitzkrieg broke down. We have moved the issue of the earth’s market to a normal, legitimate course. This time we have not just won, we have won to get to the common sense of the "ministers of the people," the leadership of the country, so that they will certainly pay attention to their people, whom they say they are serving. We hope, for the last day, for the minutes, for the seconds that we reach both our hearts and our sanity. And they're going to pay attention to our leaders both to Parliament and to the majority and to the states what the Ukrainian people want. And the Ukrainian people want one -- a referendum. And if the land market is put in place, one that is in the interests of our agriculture, our state, our independent Ukraine, and our sovereignty. There can be no other way. No Soros, no other world or foreign corporations on Ukrainian land should be owned. That is why we will use this time to listen. I understand not everyone will listen. But those who pay attention to their own people will realize that they need to do everything in the interests of their own people, not today, but for the future for their children, for their grandchildren, because such a decision happens once. I'll tell you more. In today’s six years, when our Ukrainian people did what we saw yesterday, we cannot make such decisions. What happened yesterday? We saw our Ukrainians meet on their home land. It's a shame! And shame to all, both men and authorities. First of all, we need to make peace on our own earth. You have to take away the dispute on all issues. It is necessary to restore the people’s trust in power. Only then can decisions be made as far - reaching as the introduction of the earth’s market. Otherwise, we may not have what happened yesterday when our Ukrainians were stoned. It's a shame. That's terrible. That is why we need to put order in Ukraine. Order in the heads and hearts of Ukrainians. Only then will they be asked in a referendum and questions: What market do they need, and when will it be introduced? Not to fear any Soros or to take money from them, not to sell their land at any cost, but to be their owners. There can be no other way. And I'm sure we've translated the issue of the land market from December to spring, and you know that in Ukraine spring always wins. We've translated this question into spring, and it will win, I believe. And the enlightenment of both "ministers of the people," and of others, I'm absolutely sure of that. I'm sorry. Of course, if the authorities and the committee and our present - day Supreme Council had adopted five, seven, or ten healthy amendments that apply primarily to the referendum, first of all, that only Ukrainian citizens who work on the earth could be the owners of the Ukrainian land. Of course, if the number of hectares in one hand doesn't go beyond 300 or 500, maybe a thousand, I don't know, have to ask people, then I don't think any questions would arise to power. But today, on the knee, passing such an important law in a situation of disunity, civil conflict is a crime, it's treason. I don't even think, Mr. Mikolo Tarasovich, we're standing here and we're dragging, and you're standing on that stand, we're going to go into history as those who defend the interests of the Ukrainian people and try, and what kind of people are you going to go in there, and how are you going to be talked about by children, grandchildren and everyone else? I would like all of us sitting in this room to speak well of what we have done for Ukraine, for Ukrainian land, for sovereignty only. Well, finally. My colleague, Mr. Alexander Kaczyny, today, asked a question to the Prime Minister that he did not answer. That is, when in the country and as long as it is said, propane and stupid will rule. He didn't get an answer. I'll try to answer my version. As long as the country's leadership is in the mist. That's not what I said, that's what the Prime Minister said. But I know the fog will melt, the fog will pass, and the propane, and the assholes won't control us. Remember our Ukrainian cartoon, he won first place as the best cartoon in the world, it's "The Horseman in the Fog." The meal was in the mist, remember, for a long time he was walking and looking for his friend. He was frightened, and the owl was afraid, and the horse almost drowned. But he came out of the mist, and came his friend the bear. They sat down. They sat down together, had tea, tea with raspberry cooking, and counted the stars. I hope that our country's leadership will come out of the mist, and we will not be ruled by propanes or idiots. And we will adopt laws in this Parliament in the interests of the Ukrainian people, the sovereignty of our country. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-21-m0.u124	Thank you, Anatoly Petrovich. Thank you. Mikola Tarasovich, position of the committee, and we go to the vote for the amendments that Anatoly Petrovich noted.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-21-m0.u125	Anatoly Petrovich, thank you for such a detailed lecture on rights. Actually, it's about the things you've been sounding. So once again, let me tell you, there's a referendum in the foreign part. First moment. Second, there are no Ukrainians, only Ukrainians. Third. As for those colleagues who vote for the bill and for history. I'm sure they'll go into history like the people who restored the rights of 7 million Ukrainians. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-21-m0.u126	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I'm betting on confirmation of the 7 rights of Murmitch Anatoly Petrovich. 1227. Please identify and vote. [[12:27:33]] For-59 The decision is not taken. 1230. I'll put it to a vote, please identify and vote. [[12:27:50]] For-60 No decision taken, no correction counted. 1250. Please identify and vote. [[12:28:08]] For-58 No decision taken, no correction counted. 1253. [[12:28:25]] For-58 The decision is not taken. 1273. Please identify and vote. [[12:28:43]] For-59 The decision is not taken. I think you'll be able to get them soon. 1290. Please identify and vote. [[12:29:09]] For-65 No decision taken, no correction counted. And 1312. Please identify and vote. [[12:29:30.]] For-60 The decision is not taken. Sadly, Anatoly Petrovich was not supported. Let's see the factions. Let's move on to the next one. Next line is 1411, Crybaby.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-21-m0.u127	Good afternoon. Dear colleagues, in this room we're used to remind each other that Parliament comes from French "to speak," and we talk a lot. But I would like to remind you once again that the Ukrainian National MP comes from the Ukrainian people, the Ukrainian people, who authorized us with you to exercise their powers here in the Supreme Council in accordance with the Constitution of Ukraine. Our faction, "The opposition platform -- For life," as real representatives of the Ukrainian people, it consistently advocates and guarantees the protection of Ukrainian citizens, who today are against the sale of land. And so we demand, I ask you to support this amendment of mine, which states that the sale of agricultural land can take place only after the outcome of the U.S. referendum. Please support and vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-21-m0.u128	Thank you, Aunt Michael. I'm betting on a vote of 1411 Plats. Please identify and vote. [[12:31:07]] For-66 Regrettably, the amendment is not supported. Next line is 1412.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-21-m0.u129	My dear colleagues, once again, I stress that our faction, "The Opposition Platform for Life," is essentially stressing that it is impossible to allow any manipulation of the land that today belongs to the Ukrainian people. This is indeed a gross violation of article 13 of the Constitution, and laws cannot violate the Constitution. This bill actually limits the rights of our Ukrainian citizens to obtain their rights under the Constitution, according to Ukrainian legislation, 2 hectares of land for personal and rural farming. If we allow the sale of land that is now in state and municipal property, how can we guarantee our citizens their right not to land? So I ask you once again, let's stop today and let's not vote for this bill before the Ukrainian lands are torn apart. Let's give our citizens 2 hectares of land, and only after that and after that, and the results.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-21-m0.u130	Thank you. I'm betting on the vote on this amendment, 1412. Please identify and vote. [[12:32:41]] Z-62 The decision is not taken. 1415.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-21-m0.u131	Once again, the fact that our opposition platform for life insists that the unacceptable manipulation of the alienation of agricultural land is unacceptable. I remind you that when the Minister of Justice popularized this bill, he referred to the decisions of the European Court of Human Rights in the Zelenczuk and Cicura v. Ukraine case. However, I draw attention to paragraph 150 of this decision, which states that the court’s decision should not be understood as such, which requires the immediate introduction of an unlimited market for agricultural land in Ukraine. So I'm asking you to support this amendment of mine and not allow the landslide. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-21-m0.u132	Certainly, Auntie Mikhailovna. I'll bet you a vote of 1415. Please identify and vote. [[12:33:54]] For-61 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. Next line is 1418.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-21-m0.u133	I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the General Legal Directorate has expressed a number of warnings, including those relating to the proposed agrarian committee editing article 131 of the Ukrainian Code of Land. It was noted that the proposed changes did not provide for proper legal regulation of these aspects in the future. To avoid creating such legal uncertainty with the possibility of transferring the dominant right to purchase land to unidentified persons, I ask you to support this amendment that will correct this kind of resentment that the agrarian committee has allowed. So I ask you to support my amendment, put it to a vote, and vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-21-m0.u134	I'm betting on a vote of 1418. Please identify and vote. [[12:35:07]] For-64 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. Next issue is 1420.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-21-m0.u135	Dear colleagues, the sale of agricultural land at prices much lower than our European neighbours. In addition to the fundamental question for our faction about the U.K. referendum, I am pointing out in this direction that this bill, which is proposed by the agrarian committee, will actually buy Ukrainian land for no price. So I ask you to note that the normative monetary valuation that is set out in this bill is not the real value of our Ukrainian land. And in this amendment, I define that it is necessary to maintain the very expert cost, the expert price at our price. It's a very important correction, and I'm asking you to support it. I think the chairman of the committee might comment on it.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-21-m0.u136	Yes, it is. The chairman of the committee, please comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-21-m0.u137	Look, we have the price of land set by the market. The committee recommended no less NGOs, it's in Transitional Positions. Mrs. Auntie, I want to speak to you. There's one thing you've heard about is that you have to give people OSH pies. Indeed, since 2001, OSH pies have been distributed, not submersible land, and 4 million acres [4 million ha] in free circulation. I mean, I get it, that's the logic that we need to continue to distribute the land.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-21-m0.u138	Thank you. I'm betting on a vote of 1420. Please identify and vote. [[12:37:13]] For-63 The decision is not taken. 1421.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-21-m0.u139	Dear colleagues, regarding your question. These are different lands — private agriculture and agricultural land (pai). So today, we can spoil the land for Ukrainian citizens who have not received their rations, and only after that can we introduce the so - called market. Because this bill does not actually implement the market, there is no land reform. In fact, this bill just cancels the moratorium on land sales, but there are no mechanisms, no safeguards regarding the fact that land in state and municipal property is not listed there. Your colleagues already said it's a framework bill, and we'd like to see what's going to happen in the following bills, which really should apply to a market, because this is not a market bill -- it's about selling out Ukrainian land. I ask that this amendment be put to the vote and voted for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-21-m0.u140	I'm betting on a vote of 1421. Please identify and vote. [[12:38:41]] For-60 The decision is not taken. 1427.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-21-m0.u141	Dear colleagues, on the other hand, back to the fact that our faction is fundamentally opposed to the adoption of this bill before the holding and setting up of the results of the U.S. referendum on the issue of the sale of agricultural land. Therefore, I urge and ask for my support for this amendment of 1427, which is proposed to supplement article 130 of the Ukrainian Code of Land with the following content: "It is not possible to carry out and establish the results of an all-U.S. referendum on the sale of land for agricultural purposes and to carry out land surveying of land alienation and to change the target destination of land that is owned by citizens and legal persons for the maintenance of commercial agricultural production. ".. I ask you to put this amendment to the vote and support it.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-21-m0.u142	I'll put it to a vote in 1427. Please identify and vote. [[12:40:07]] For-61 The decision is not taken. 1428.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-21-m0.u143	I'm addressing you once again, distinguished national MPs. I'm not afraid to repeat myself, the authorities have to act consistently. In June 2019 the government adopted Decree 476, which approved the procedure for carrying out land inventory. Before attempting to launch the land market in the area now, it is necessary, first of all, to compile and generalize a list of the undistributed, unexploded land parts of those pies that must now belong to Ukrainian citizens. So the next thing I'm saying is that the position of our opposition platform for life is that civilized land circulation is only possible if all land is fully inventoryed. And that's what this is about. I ask you to put her to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-21-m0.u144	I'm betting on a vote of 1428. Please identify and vote. [[12:41:28]] For-61 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. 1432.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-21-m0.u145	The drafting proposed by the agrarian committee of this bill actually provides a prerequisite for overcoming the agricultural land border area, which can be owned simultaneously by one person. 10,000 hectares is actually an excessive concentration of land in one hand. And instead of prescribing sanctions for violators, the bill actually stipulates that overland areas will be sold at land markets. Moreover, the bill does not contain any safeguards, such as a ban on sales, unless a mechanism is put in place to test the acquirer of laws. Sorry, we find ourselves in a situation where the law only declares rules, but there won't be any safeguards, there won't be any influence. I'm asking you to support my correction and I'm asking you to think about what's really going on.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-21-m0.u146	Thank you. I'm betting on a vote of 1432. Please identify and vote. [[12:42:59]] For-56 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. 1443.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-21-m0.u147	Mr. Chairman, I ask you to put 1433, 34, 35, 36 and give me a minute to vote at the same time. I continue my previous statement on the project's assumption that in case of a violation of the requirements of the land purchaser, it is subject to confiscation of such land. I note that a lawsuit for land confiscation is filed with the court by an authority that exercises State control over the use and protection of land. Everyone in this room understands that when public authorities go to court, they face problems in paying the court. And in fact, we have this bill, a legal violation of requirements and such an imperfect law. I ask you to support these five amendments and put them to the vote at the same time. Let's do it in a row.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-21-m0.u148	In turn, I have to take turns. 1433. Please identify and vote. [[12:44:21]] For-60 The decision is not taken. 1434. [[12:44:37]] For-59 The decision is not taken. 1435. Please identify and vote. [[12:44:52]] Z-62 The decision is not taken. 1436. Please identify and vote. [[12:45:09]] For-60 60. The decision is not taken. And the last attempt, 1437. Please identify and vote. [[12:45:29]] For-63 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. 1439.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-21-m0.u149	Dear colleagues, I would like to remind us of some of the recommendations of the oldest body in Europe for inter-parliamentary cooperation of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. It recommends that referendums be used as a means of strengthening the democratic legitimacy of political processes. That's why we, the Opposition Platform for Life faction, also insist on what is an important question, a more pressing question for the Ukrainian people, we also have to ask the Ukrainian people. Let us not fear the thinking of the Ukrainians. Today, more than 72 percent of the Ukrainian people feel that the market for the land cannot be opened, nor can the reform proposed by the authorities be implemented today. So I'm asking you to support this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-21-m0.u150	I'll put her to the vote. Please identify and vote. [[12:46:58]] For-60 No decision taken, no correction counted. Next item is 1441.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-21-m0.u151	I also want to go back to the experience of the leading European countries, particularly Switzerland, where perhaps the most direct democracy is developed among European countries. The party is provided with family forms of production, and the buyer has to manage the farm on his own, having appropriate experience or qualifications. And this has led to an average land value of $70,000 in this country. Why has the Ukrainian tradition, unfortunately, been ignored in recent times, really become such a positive experience? Instead, we are trying, in the form of deregulation, to introduce a completely unlimited market for agricultural land. Taking into account what has been said, I insist on this amendment 1441 and ask it to support the vote and finally give the Ukrainian people the right to decide on this issue.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-21-m0.u152	I'm betting on the vote of 1441. Please identify and vote. [[12:48:26]] For-61 The decision is not taken. Next item is 1443.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-21-m0.u153	Dear National MPs, our faction "The Opposition Platform for Life," acting in a perfectly legitimate way, is doing everything today to prevent the adoption of legislative norms that allow for the sudden deprivation of citizens who have worked hard to earn their land rations, to deprive them of their right to a fair reward. We are successively advocating the continuation of the moratorium until the outcome of the U.S. referendum is carried out and inserted. So today, as the national deputy of the Opposition Platform for Life, I insist on this amendment and ask that it be supported by a vote. This amendment refers to the fact that prior to the holding and establishment of the results of the All-U.S. referendum on the purchase and sale of agricultural land and land inventory, the introduction of land (pai) to statutory capitals of farm societies, the transfer of ownership by way of land is prohibited.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-21-m0.u154	I'm betting on a vote of 1443. Please identify and vote. [[12:49:59]] For-67 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. 1444.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-21-m0.u155	Mr. Chairman, please 1444, 1445, 46, 47, and 48 are similar to the content, so I ask you to put them to the vote. What are these changes about? In preparing the project for second reading, he actually lost all the fuses that were in the original document, which involved restrictions on the accumulation of agricultural land that could be owned by one person in one area, one community. Such fuses should have been preserved, although they should certainly have been substantially reduced. It's such an agrarian committee move to meet big corporations. So I'm asking you to support all of my subsequent amendments that relate to the fact that the concentration of land in one hand within the community, the area, the region should be reduced.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-21-m0.u156	I'm betting on a vote of 1444. Please identify and vote. [[12:51:26]] For-66 The decision is not taken. 1445. [[12:51:44]] For-59 The decision is not taken. 1446. Please identify and vote. [[12:51:59]] For-65 The decision is not taken. 1447. Please identify and vote. [[12:52:18]] Z-62 No decision taken, no correction counted. 1448. Please identify and vote. [[12:52:35]] Z-62 No decision taken, no correction counted. Next, 1459.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-21-m0.u157	Dear colleagues, at first we were offered permission to own 200,000 acres in one hand. It's kind of to distract and, in the form of a concession, then go to meet and reduce this concentration to 10,000 hectares. This is also unacceptable for large amounts of land. We, the National Deputies of the Opposition Platform for Life, as real representatives of the Ukrainian people, have consistently stood up for those citizens who believe that the issue of the market for land and the abolition of the moratorium on the sale of agricultural land should be referred to the country-wide referendum. So I ask you to support this amendment of mine and to add Article 130 of the Earth Code to the following content: "It is forbidden to introduce the right to land (pai) to statutory capitals of farm societies, to transfer to ownership by sale to the holding and to establish the results of the U.S. referendum." Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-21-m0.u158	I'm betting on a vote of 1459. Please identify and vote. [[12:54:04]] For-59 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. 1462.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-21-m0.u159	Our faction, "The Opposition Platform for Life," in principle stresses that any manipulation of the land that is now the property of the Ukrainian people cannot be allowed. This is a gross violation of articles 13, 14 of the Constitution of Ukraine, and laws cannot, once again, conflict with the Constitution of Ukraine. If we allow, and this bill provides for, in fact, the sale of land that is in state and municipal property, then what will we tell our citizens? Therefore, I ask you once again, Mr. Chairman, to stop and to complete the breeding of land among all Ukrainian citizens, and to establish the results of the U.S. referendum on the issue of the sale of agricultural land, not to ask the question of Parliament's decision. I'm asking you to support this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-21-m0.u160	I'm betting on a vote of 1462. Please identify and vote. [[12:55:28]] For-60 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. 1465.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-21-m0.u161	Honorary colleagues, the agrarian committee, justifying this essentially anti-national bill, pointed out that there is now such a shadow market in Ukraine and instead of fighting the shadow market of the land, the bill actually legalizes it. So what are you offering us? In fact, legalize the earth’s shadow market or establish normal land markets? Therefore, this amendment of mine refers to the fact that such important issues need to be resolved, and only the Ukrainian people must decide on their own. I ask you to put this amendment to the vote and support it.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-21-m0.u162	I'll bet the vote on 1465 Plats. Please identify and vote. [[12:56:43]] For-58 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. Next issue, 1468.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-21-m0.u163	I also ask for the following four amendments to unite, because they are very similar to the content, and to vote in turn. I want to remind our national MPs that the first promise, what you promised in the elections, was the law on the peoples of the country. The nation’s law has not yet appeared in the country. So far, there is no actual referendum law in the country. There's some reference in this bill to the phrase "referendum." I want to ask the chairman of the committee what this bill defines as a referendum, because there is no separate definition of "referendum" in Ukrainian legislation. So I'm going to ask you to put all four of my amendments in a row, support them and answer the question of what referendum is. It's really important, because we require that only after the outcome of the U.S. referendum can we put the market in.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-21-m0.u164	I'm betting on a vote of 1468 Plats. Please identify and vote. [[12:58:20]] For-57 The decision is not taken. 1469. Please identify and vote. [[12:58:38]] For-56 The decision is not taken. 1470. Please identify and vote. [[12:58:53]] For-55 The decision is not taken. 1471. Please identify and vote. [[12:59:09]] For-59 The decision is not taken. The next 1477.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-21-m0.u165	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Chairman of the Committee, I would like to draw attention to the violation of the Supreme Council Rules. According to part five of article 120 of the Rules, “if there are several proposals in one article or part of it that exclude each other, their discussion shall be conducted simultaneously with the successive one, in order of order of order of schedule.” Nevertheless, the agrarian committee in breach of the rules of the Rules during the preparation of the comparative table for the second reading actually allowed for a change in the order in which the amendments I made were made. I'm talking about the revisions from 1071 to 1081. Eleven amendments are placed in reverse order than I did. Such actions by the agrarian committee distort all the content of these amendments. These were very important repairs. So now I'm not putting these eleven amendments to the vote at all. Because in fact their contents were distorted. And in that case, they already are.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-21-m0.u166	Thank you. Next line is 1483. No, I'm sorry, stop. 93.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-21-m0.u167	Dear colleagues, once again, I would like to point out that such a form of land secession as the introduction of land share rights (pai) to statutory capitals of farm societies actually converts ownership to corporate rights. This is unacceptable today in Ukrainian legislation. And there can be no such form before the outcome of the U.S. referendum can be carried out and established. Everyone who has worked in the field of corporate law very much understands that, today, land relations cannot be treated in the field of corporate law, there is virtually no assessment of corporate rights in Ukraine. This will lead to the fact that even the land can be sold even less than the legal and monetary valuation that is now being established by this bill. That's why I'm asking this one.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-21-m0.u168	I'm betting on a vote of 1493. Please identify and vote. [[13:02:02]] For-58 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. 1497.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-21-m0.u169	Ladies and gentlemen, let's pay attention to the thoughts of the people who voted for us less than a year ago, and let's complement this bill with one simple norm. To supplement article 130 of the Ukrainian Code of Land with the following paragraph: "It is prohibited to introduce land rights into statutory capitals of agricultural societies, to transfer ownership by sale until the implementation and establishment of the results of the nationwide referendum on the purchase and sale of agricultural land." One simple amendment that will actually change the fate of the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-21-m0.u170	I'll put her to the vote. Please identify and vote. [[13:03:12]] Z-62 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. 1500 straight.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-21-m0.u171	Dear colleagues, 1.5 thousand amendments, more than a thousand times in this room was the phrase "all-Ukrainian referendum." And yet I think that this amendment is worth supporting today to support all of these calls by the Ukrainian people, which were gathered under the walls of the Supreme Council, which was covering the paths that require us to listen to the Parliament of Ukraine today. And it's the right to sell land, the right to determine whether you can open up the market for agricultural sales of land or not -- they have to be determined. So I would like to support this amendment, because it's so significant, it's not only by quantity, it's also by quality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-21-m0.u172	There was a lot of significance and prominence in Nestor Ivanovich yesterday and there. I'll bet you 1500. Please identify and vote. [[13:04:31]] For-63 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. 1503.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-21-m0.u173	This is my amendment, once again, it's made up of one sentence. To supplement article 130 of the Ukrainian Code of Land with a new paragraph of the following content: "Concluded by invalid agreements made during the ban on the sale of agricultural land before the holding and establishment of the results of the U.S. referendum on the purchase and sale of agricultural land." Our entire faction is asking you to support this amendment and vote for it.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-21-m0.u174	Thank you. I'm betting on a vote of 1503. Please identify and vote. [[13:05:32]] For-60 The decision is not taken. Aunt Mikhailovna, welcome to the final edition of 1505.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-21-m0.u175	This is my last amendment to this block. And once again, I would like to remind myself that the National MP is a representative of the Ukrainian people. It was the Ukrainian people who authorized us here to resolve important issues. And it is for us to say, in the opinion of the Ukrainian people, which today is against this bill, which today is against opening up the sale of agricultural land. So I ask you to support this amendment of mine, which also relates to the fact that this bill can be considered in this room only after the results of the U.S. referendum on the sale of agricultural land have been established.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-21-m0.u176	Thank you. Put it to a vote? Do you insist on voting? Yes, it is. I'll bet you 1505. Please identify and vote. [[13:06:55]] For-59 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. The following revisions by Kiwa and Koltunovich. I suggest we start at the next plenary meeting? Let me explain. We've been asking for three minutes, Chigos. And then we go to questions, and questions are read. Is there no objection? Two announcements are Ruslan Alexiyovich Stefanchuk. Do you mind, Ilya Volodymyrovich? And Alexander Sergiyovich doesn't deny it either. Thank you, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-21-m0.u177	We have questions, Your Honor, to the President, so please don't disagree.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-21-m0.u178	Dear colleagues, while Mr. Chigos is going to the rostrum, I inform you that the Supreme Council has created an interfractional parliamentary association called "Control for Reforms and Sanitation in Ukraine's judicial and law enforcement systems." The leader of this union is the national deputy of the High Priest Sergey Anatolyovich. And there's also an interfractional parliamentary association called Energy and Transport Infrastructure Development, a strategic vector of an efficient economy of the state. The leader of the unification of the elected National Deputy Sukhova Aleksandra Sergiyovich. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-21-m0.u179	Thank you. Chigos Ahtem Zeitullajovich, 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-21-m0.u180	Dear colleagues, prejudice, dear Ukrainians! In these days, six years ago, Russian military occupations took place actively in Crimea. Crimea’s authorities, including Sevastopol, were unwilling to fulfil constitutional obligations to protect Ukraine’s territorial integrity. In addition, in their majority, they contributed to military occupation by showing separatism and nonchungry treatment of Ukraine. For 23 years, when Crimea was in control of Ukraine, Ukraine’s lack of presence in Crimea, the formation of pro-Russian power by established officials, special services, law enforcement agencies, courts, and local authorities, who for the most part did not run Ukrainian politics in Crimea. Lack of due respect for the political rights of the Crimea-Criminal People, the vile, cynical actions of the Russian banditry that have been carried out in relation to the Crimea all the times of Ukraine’s independence. In my opinion, these are the factors that allowed for the severe consequences of Russia’s military occupation of Crimea. Crimean Tatars and other citizens, making peaceful opposition to the invader, when from Kerchi to Simferopol and from Simferopol to Sevastopol, tens of thousands of people became living in a chain of slogans in three languages -- Crimecatatarian, Ukrainian, Russian -- "Putin Go Away, We Did Not Call You" -- we destroyed one of the speculative myths of the Russian Crimea. And today, our citizens in Crimea continue to fight for Ukraine for once again being part of Ukrainian society, and they don't accept Russia's occupation. All of this is accompanied by terrible reprisals and terror against our citizens. The Crimean Tatar people are under special pressure and repression. The Occupiers called us "uncontractual". We were often called Ukrainians in Crimea. Remember that. Today, we are obliged to restore justice and strengthen Ukraine's position on the liberation of Crimea from the occupation, to make changes to the Constitution, to recognize the right of the Crimean Tatar people to national territorial autonomy in Ukraine. We will never stop fighting for Crimea, for the territorial integrity of Ukraine. Crime is Ukraine! Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-21-m0.u181	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the word is given to the Deputy Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Oleni Constantine Kondratjuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-21-m0.u182	Thank you, Dmitri Alexanderovich. Dear colleagues, 236 parliamentary inquiries were made during the plenary week. Of these, 2 to the President of Ukraine; 6 to the Supreme Council; 113 to the Cabinet of Ministers; 103 to the heads of other state authorities and local self-government bodies; and to the heads of enterprises, institutions and organizations located in Ukraine, irrespective of their subordination and forms of ownership, 12. In the past plenary weeks, 182 parliamentary requests have remained unannounced. A total of 418 parliamentary inquiries were made for the announcement. Dear colleagues, two requests have been made to the President of Ukraine. First, we have to vote in favour of the request at least 150 votes, and then we have to send the request to the President of Ukraine by a majority of the constitutional composition, i.e. 226 votes. So, honourable colleagues, we are looking at an open-ended roll-call vote in support of Mikola Zadródny's request to the President of Ukraine for a moratorium on the coding of satellite television signals from Ukrainian television channels. Please identify and vote. [[13:13:13]] For 210 Decision taken. Show me the factions, please. Thank you. There is a vote on the decision to refer this pre-supported parliamentary request to the President of Ukraine. Let me remind you, we need 226 votes. Please vote. [[13:13:48]] For 255 Decision taken. Show me the factions, please. Thank you. Dear colleagues, there is an open roll vote in support of Paul Melnik's request to the President of Ukraine to commemorate the memory of singer Andrew Kuzmenka by assigning the honorary title "The National Artist of Ukraine", as well as other prominent Ukrainians who have not been awarded such a national award in life, by amending the relevant decree of the President of Ukraine, which will allow the award of honours to be awarded in death. Please vote. It's a very important question. Please vote. [[13:14:43]] For 261 Thank you. It is up to the vote to refer this pre-supported parliamentary request to the President of Ukraine. Please vote and vote. Thank you. [[13:15:10]] For 260 Thank you, Your Honor. Decision taken. Please show by factions. Thank you very much. Let's move on to the query reading. So questions came in. From Alexander Tkachenka to the Ministry of Energy and Environmental Protection of Ukraine, the Ministry of Internal Affairs, the Ministry of Economic Development, Trade and Agriculture of Ukraine, the State Tax Service of Ukraine on the verification of the facts given to residents of the village of Roylanka of the Tatarbunar district of Odessa for the use of joint measures to ensure additional tax revenues to the local budget. Groups of National Deputies (Shakhova, Magnificent, Sukhova) to the Attorney -General on the invocation of responsibility for violating the requirements of effective legislation in the field of technological security and civil protection of operators. Group of People's Deputies (Shakhova, Majestic, Sukhova) to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the order of the Prime Minister of Ukraine from 11 December 2019, number 44205/1/1-19, and the protocol decision of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine from 6 December 2019. Igora Kolyhayeva to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, Minister of Energy and Environmental Protection of Ukraine, temporarily acting as head of the Ukrainian State Environmental Inspectorate for the transport of sand into the territory of Herson after the daytime treatment of vessels at a ship repair plant in Bijela, Republic of Montenegro. Groups of National Deputies (Peterovka, Gorvati and others) to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the elimination of deficiencies in the issuance of licences for international freight transport. Alexander Guerrega to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the financing of anti-tuberculosis services at the expense of the State budget of Ukraine. Alexander Guerrega to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the preservation of the children's specialized sanatorium "Swiatnak" in the Hmelnicka district.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-21-m0.u183	Dear colleagues, I'm going to ask for a little more silence in the hall. They read your parliamentary questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-21-m0.u184	Thank you, Ruslan Alexiovich. Alexander Tkachenka to the Authorized Supreme Council of Ukraine for Human Rights, the Attorney General's Office, on the need for a comprehensive examination of the facts of inappropriate and long-term criminal investigation. Sergey Ljowczina to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on speeding up the destructive processes in the industry. Oleg Kulinić to the Minister of Finance of Ukraine, Prime Minister of Ukraine for the release of Zynkowich OTG into direct inter-budget relations with the State budget of Ukraine from the third quarter of 2020. Victor Medvedchuk and Alexander Koltunović to the director of the National Anti-Corruption Bureau of Ukraine on the commission of a crime by former senior officials of the State, members of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, led by Prime Minister Volodymyr Groissman of Ukraine, who, in abuse of power and office, caused serious consequences to the public and public interests by the introduction of a corrupt scheme for the transport of imported natural gas from the German gas hub under the Dysseldorf Plus formula. Victor Medvedchuk to the Attorney General for the purpose of verifying the legality of the investigators who are investigating the murder of the writer and journalist Olesia Buzina, giving a legal assessment of the actions of the Public Service Procurator who demeans the honour and dignity of the person, undermines the attorney's title, undermines the trust of the prosecutor's organs, and the need for the personal admission of the mother of the deceased, Valentina Buzina. Igor Marchuk to the Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine on the need for an out-of-plan examination of the eligibility and effectiveness of the execution by the Rector of Kamyanec-Podil National University of John Fire. Igor Marchuk to the Head of the Western Office of the State Audit Service of Ukraine on activities related to the inefficient use of municipal resources and the over-authorization of power by the management of the Communiqué. Groups of National Deputies (Crowrukina, Koravchenkova, Zacharychenka) to the Minister of Energy and Environmental Protection of Ukraine, Head of the National Police of Ukraine, Head of the Ukrainian Security Service, temporarily acting as Head of the National Environmental Inspectorate of Ukraine, temporarily acting as Head of the National Service for Food Safety and Consumer Protection, Director of the State Institute of the Dnipropetrov Regional Laboratory Centre of the Ministry of Health of Ukraine, Director-General of the Society with limited responsibility of Metinvest-Criminal Repair and Mechanical Plant on the need to ensure the right of citizens of the city of the Horn of Dnipropetrov to safety and health of the environment. Alexander Tkachenka to the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, the Office of the Attorney General, the State Bureau of Investigation on the need for a comprehensive examination of the facts presented in the address of the inhabitants of the Tatarbunar district of Odessa regarding the possible illegal transfer of agricultural land to private property. Natalia Prijedzko to the Kiev City Head for the work of the Obolon district education institutions. Groups of National Deputies (Fraz, Heratchenko and others) A total of 10 deputies) to the Ukrainian Defence Minister on the state of implementation of the measures taken to move individual military units of the Ukrainian Armed Forces into the food supply system with the application of the food catalogue. Groups of National Deputies (Klimpush-Cincadze, Savrasov and others) to the temporary duty of the Director of the State Bureau of Investigation to provide information on the DBD's co-worker, who on 24 January this year refused to the Ukrainian National Deputies in his personal transmission to the Head of the DBD of the address from the House of Heroes of Heaven. Groups of National Deputies (Geraschenko, Klimpush-Cincadze and others) to the Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine on the appropriateness of the use of subsidies to provide State support to persons with special educational needs to pay for the work of all professionals who provide educational services to children with special needs. Groups of National Deputies (Southern, Cuba and others) to the Minister of Health of Ukraine regarding the provision of necessary medical equipment for the Cernigian City Hospital’s Cardiological Department. The National Deputies' Groups (Geraschenko, Klimpus-Cincadze and others) to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Minister for the Development of the Communities and Territories of Ukraine, the Minister for Education and Science of Ukraine, the head of the Zacarpathian Regional Administration for the allocation of funds from the State budget of Ukraine for the 20th year to co-finance the project of the construction of SO-II in the city of Uzhgorod Zakarpatsk. Group of National Deputies (Paulenka, Fries and others) to the Minister of Social Policy of Ukraine, Head of the Military and Civil Administration of the City of Toreck Donetsk Region, Head of the Donetsk District Public Administration, Head of the Regional Military and Civil Administration on the improper response to questions raised in the parliamentary request for funding and proper equipment of the Centre for the Social and Psychological Rehabilitation of Children in the City of Toreck Donetsk Region, which was announced at the plenary meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on 15 November 2019. Solomonia Bobrovsky, head of the Ukrainian State Border Service for the deliberate destruction of material security in the special military unit No. 2418. Sergey Minka to the head of the National Commission for State regulation in the fields of energy and utilities to verify the validity of tariff formation for the distribution of natural gas to the PRAT "Melitopolgas". Sergia Minka to the head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Budget, Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine on the allocation of funds from the Foundation for the Development of Higher Education Institutions to the Tavrian State Agrotechnology University of Dmitr Motory for the implementation of the investment project. Valery Kolucha to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the monopoly of English-speaking scientific bases Scopus and Web of Science as a criterion for the conviction of scientific names and the need to change the order of scientific judgement by expanding the list of scientific bases. Groups of National Deputies (Ionova, Pavlova and others) to the head of the National Police of Ukraine, the temporary duty of the Director of the State Bureau of Investigation to ensure compliance with the requirements of the law regarding the openness and transparency of the activities of the State Bureau of Investigation for Society and the opening of criminal proceedings for the unlawful use of violence against the National Deputy of Ukraine VIII, the convening of Tetjana Crnovol and the National Deputy to Ukraine of their call to Mary Ionova, which took place during the briefing of the First Deputy Director of DBR Babikov on January 28, 2020. Vjechaslava Rublov to Prime Minister of Ukraine, Head of the National Commission for State Regulations in the Field of Energy and Municipal Services for the Cancellation of the Decision of the National Commission for the Regulations in the Field of Electricity and Municipal Services of October 7, 2019, No. 2080, “On the Approval of Amendments to Certain Decrees of the NCREKP”. Vladislav Borodin to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Head of the Regional Department of the State Property Fund of Ukraine for Dnipropetrovsk, Zaporzik and Kirovograd, Head of the State Property Fund of Ukraine for the non-privatization of the Metalurg Cultural Palace, which is owned by the state. Paul Melnik to the Minister of Infrastructure of Ukraine, the Head of the State Security Service of Ukraine for Transport, the Head of the Zaporozhye District Public Administration, the Head of the National Police of Ukraine for the address of the Mikhail District State Administration of the Zaporozhye Region for the implementation of effective measures to limit the movement of large-scale transport through the populated areas of the Ferrodensk and Mikhailian United Territorial Communities, as well as the possible establishment of a corresponding point of habaric weight control. Inni Sosun to the Minister of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on the methodology for carrying out the assessment of the number of the present population of Ukraine as of December 1, 2019. Taras Batenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Energy and Environmental Protection of Ukraine, Head of the National Commission for State Regulations in the Field of Energy and Municipal Services for the Legality and Protection of Consumer Rights, on the basis of payment for the distribution (delivery) of natural gas. Taras Batenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Energy and Environmental Protection of Ukraine, Head of the National Commission for State Regulations in the Field of Energy and Municipal Services, Head of the Antimonopoly Committee of Ukraine for the purpose of bringing the activities of natural gas operators to consumers according to current legislation. Igor Negulewski to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, Head of the National Police Department of the Mikolayev Region, Prosecutor-General, temporarily acting as Director of the State Bureau of Investigation, temporarily acting Head of the State Environmental Inspectorate of Ukraine, Acting Head of the State Fiscal Service of Ukraine, Head of the State Security Service of Ukraine on Transport, Head of the National Road Agency of Ukraine, Acting Head of the National Anti-Corruption Service in the Mikolayiv Region, Head of the State Service of Ukraine on Exceptional Situations, Head of the National Police of Ukraine, Director of the National Anti-Corruption Office of Ukraine. Jurya Boyka, until the temporary duty of Director of the State Bureau of Investigation to conduct an independent and comprehensive investigation into the organization of mass electoral bribery in the Luhansk region for the likely involvement of senior officials. Julia Yooffe to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the need to contribute to the preservation and full functioning of the hospital and clinic in the Gyrska Pásnjan district of Lugansk. Julia Ioffe to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the need to protect the legitimate rights of the inhabitants of the Luhansk region, to settle the issue of payment of pensions for July 2014. Julia Yooffe to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the need to take urgent measures to prevent the emergence of an extraordinary technological situation in connection with the sinking of the mines of the First-Major-Stahan region of the Lugansk region. Julia Yooffe to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the need to protect the rights of students in the "Rubijanska district sanatorium" to obtain education with proper medical support, to prevent school dropouts and to change their type. July Klimenko to the minister for veterans, temporarily occupied territories and internally displaced persons of Ukraine to provide information on the extent of the damage to Ukraine as a result of the Russian Federation's armed aggression. Igor Kopitin to the Director General of the Ucrobornprom State Concert to address the shortcomings of the parliamentary hearing. Igor Guza to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the need to resolve the issue of compensation AT "Urzalzliznica" expenses for citizens' benefits, in order to preserve railway suburban connections on separate routes in the Volinsk region. Igor Goose to the head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Committee on National Health, Health Care and Health Insurance, Ukrainian Minister of Health, on the need to strengthen the legislative regulation of the distribution and advertising of tobacco products, electronic cigarettes, devices for the heating of tobacco products and potassiums. Oksana Savchuk to Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Finance of Ukraine, Minister of Infrastructure of Ukraine for Projection of Expenditure in the Ukrainian State Budget for 2020 to build a bridge across the Bistrica Solovinska River and a transport solution in the street area. Chemical is a year old in the city of Ivano-Frankiv. Groups of National Deputies (Gristina, Lukasheva and others) to the Prime Minister of Ukraine regarding the provision of information on how to secure the territory of education facilities. Oksana Savchuk to the Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine is the Minister for the Development of the Communities and Territories of Ukraine, the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the inclusion of kindergartens in the Microregion of Cascade, the city of Ivano-Frankivsk, in the social finance programme. Ivanni Klimpush-Cincadze to the Minister of Energy and Environmental Protection of Ukraine, the head of the Zacarpathian District State Administration, the Attorney-General for the Legality of Building the "Swidvets" Mountain resort in the village of Yasinah Rakhiv district of Zakarpatsk. Ivanni Klimpush-Cincadze and Irina Frez to the Minister of Infrastructure of Ukraine, the Head of the Zacarpathian District Council, the Acting Head of the Zacarpathian District Administration on the need to restore the functioning of Uzhgrad Airport. Olesia Long to Ukrainian Minister of Health on the need to provide immunosuppressive treatment. Groups of National Deputies (Parubia, Bondarra and others) to the Mučačov City Head on the allocation of funds from the local budget to co-finance the project to create the 128th Special Mountain Storm Brigade in Mukachevo Zakarpatska District. Groups of National Deputies (Geraschenko, Zinkevich and others) to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the use of measures to effect the activities of the Council of Entrepreneurs at the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Sergey Severin to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the repeal of Decree No. 17 of 24 January 2020 and Decree No. 3013 of 24 December 2019. Michael Laby to the Minister of Energy and Environmental Protection of Ukraine on international technical assistance projects. Anton Yatzenka to the Umman City Council to provide information on the alienation of municipal property (a cinema) located on the street of Andrija Kizil, 4 in Uman. Olga Stefanyssa to the Ukrainian Minister of Health regarding the centralized procurement of medical supplies. Irina Borzowa to the Minister of Health of Ukraine, Prime Minister of Ukraine for the inclusion of the "Barska Central District Hospital" in the network of hospital hospitals in the Winnicki district. Irina Borzov to the Deputy Minister for the Development of the Communities and Territories of Ukraine, the Prime Minister of Ukraine for approval and approval in the new edition of the Draft Basic Level System for the Administrative and Territorial System of the Vinicka Region, which provides for the formation of three united communities in the Tivrov region: Gnievanska, Sutiskovsky and Tivrovski OTG. Alexander Jurchenka to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine on the obstacle to the activities of the National Deputy of Ukraine, O.M. Jurchenka. Jury Pavlenko to the Minister of Health of Ukraine, Prime Minister of Ukraine, on the illegal actions of the Ministry of Health of Ukraine regarding the prohibition of children from being admitted to their children’s homes. Jury Pavlenko to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on dissatisfaction with the response of the Minister of Health to the MP's request for illegal actions by the Cabinet of Ministers and the Ministry of Health of Ukraine on the issue of the creation of the priority of adoption by foreigners of Ukrainian children. Vladimir Aresonkov to the Minister of Justice of Ukraine on the settlement of the issue of immovable property tax, other than land. Vladimir Aresonkova to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the settlement of the issue of the payment for work in the alien zone, the granting of annual and additional leave, the retention of wages in the event of the transfer to the lower paid employment and the relocation of citizens affected by the Chernobyl disaster. Groups of National Deputies (Pushkarenka, Pashkovski and others) to the Minister of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine on the statement of the Embassy of Ukraine in the Islamic Republic of Iran on the causes of the crash of a regular flight of PS 752 Tehran-Kiev airline "Ukrainian International Airlines", which crashed in Iran on January 8, 2020. Olga Savchenko to the head of the National Police of Ukraine, the first deputy prosecutor of the Dnipropetrov region for law enforcement. Groups of National Deputies (Tretiaków, Strunevich and others) to the Minister for Veterans, Temporaryly Occupied Territories and Internally Moved Persons of Ukraine to provide information on the creation and operation of the Single State Register of War Veterans. Groups of National Deputies (Tretiaków, Strunevich and others) to the Minister for Veterans, Temporaryly Occupied Territories and Internally Moved Persons of Ukraine for the provision of information on the Ministry for Veterans and Temporary Occupied Territories of Ukraine from NGOs, organizations and agencies of other countries. Alexander Tkachenka to the Head of the Ukrainian Security Service on the rightful conduct of searches in the premises of the "Secretary Materials" programme of channel "1+1" at Kurenivska, 18. Natalia Royal and Jury Solod to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the improper consideration of the parliamentary appeal regarding the implementation of the decisions of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine reiterating the rights of citizens in the area of social protection. Andrija Holodov to the head of the Ukrainian State Road Agency on the allocation of funds and the urgent repair of the T-24-15 Talne Blagovishtsk road within the Przegonów Rural Council. Groups of National Deputies (Andryovich, Friz and others) to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the cancellation of the subscription fee for the transport of natural gas to domestic consumers. Oxanas of Dmitry to the Kharkiv Research Institute of Occupational Health and Occupational Diseases of Kharkiv National Medical University to provide a copy of the results of laboratory research. Alexander Fedienka to the Chief of State Services of Ukraine from an extraordinary situation in Kiev regarding the preparation of a civil protection system. Alexander Fedienka to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine for the verification of the creation by the Department of Cyber Police of the National Police of Ukraine of a software product. Dmitry Kisilevski to the Minister of Justice of Ukraine regarding the failure to provide answers to the request of the Ukrainian national deputy. Alexander Aliksiyczuk to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, head of the Ravenna District Public Administration, Attorney General, on the solution of the problem of construction investors. Arsenija Pushkarenka to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine for providing the National Police with unobjective and biased information in response to the appeal and deception of the Ukrainian national deputy. Vitalia Bort to the Minister of Justice of Ukraine for the consideration of the complaint about the unlawful actions of the State registrar, which led to the raiding of the immovable property of the PAT company Reven, Dnipro. Igora Negulewski to the Ministry of Education and Science of Ukraine, State Bureau of Investigation for the verification of the activities of the Sniguravska District Council and the Sniguravski District Public Administration in the design and implementation of the New Ukrainian School. Igor Negulewski to the Ministry of Economic, Trade and Agriculture Development of Ukraine, the State Service of Ukraine for Geodesy, Cartography and Cadastre, the State Audit Service of Ukraine for Land Land Checks on Rent of the Novoode District Council and the Novodé District Public Administration from 2018-2020. Igor Negulewski to the Ministry of Economic, Trade and Agriculture Development of Ukraine, the State Service of Ukraine for Geodesy, Cartography and Cadastre, the State Audit Service of Ukraine for Land Checks on Rentals of the Kazankow District Council and the Kazankow District Public Administration from 2018-2020. Igor Negulewski to the Ministry of Economic, Trade and Agriculture Development of Ukraine, the State Service of Ukraine for Geodesy, Cartography and Cadastre, the State Audit Service of Ukraine for Land Land Checks on Rent of the Brezneguwat District Council and the Brezneguwat District Public Administration from 2018-2020. Igor Negulewski to the Ministry of Economic, Trade and Agriculture Development of Ukraine, the State Service of Ukraine for Geodesy, Cartography and Cadastre, the State Audit Service of Ukraine for Land Checks on Rentals of the Bastana District Council and the Bastana District Public Administration from 2018-2020. Igora Negulewski to the Ministry of Economic, Trade and Agriculture Development of Ukraine, the State Service of Ukraine for Geodesy, Cartography and Cadastre, the State Audit Service of Ukraine for Land Checks on Rentals of the Snigurov District Council and the Snigurov District Public Administration from 2018-2020. Dmitri Solomczuk to Prime Minister of Ukraine for the establishment of a multi-profile health care facility for intensive first-degree treatment on the basis of the WHO "Dubrovicka Central District Hospital". Larissa Bilozer to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the subscription fee for gas transport. Gennady Watzak to the Minister of Health of Ukraine, Prime Minister of Ukraine, Director of the Department of Health of the Vinick district government administration, head of the Vinnick district government administration for the introduction of the KNP "Kryzopolska OLIL" into the list of health support institutions in the Vinnick region. Veacheslava Rublova to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the allocation of funds from the State budget for the financing of fire safety measures by municipal enterprises in the Volin region. Alexander Kunicko to the Kharkiv City Head, head of the Kharkiv District State Administration for the termination of the lease agreement of 17 January 2008 of the Kharkiv City Council with the CONTACT PLUS, and the establishment of a utility company that is to take care of the Kharkivs' resting place at the Žuralovívíví water shelter. Stepan Kuba to Deputy Prime Minister, Minister of Digital Transformation of Ukraine, on conflicts in the work plan of the Ministry of Digital Transformation of Ukraine for 2020. Stepan Kuba to the Minister of Energy and Environmental Protection of Ukraine on the systematic shortcomings of the Ministry of Energy and the protection of Ukraine's environment in the implementation of the National Waste Management Strategy in Ukraine by 2030. Grigory Mamka to head the National Police of Ukraine for the verification of the legality of construction in the land area at 11-13 Michurin Street in Kiev. Larissa Bilozer to the Minister of Health of Ukraine, the Prime Minister of Ukraine, for the award of the management and accounting department of the NDSL "Ohmatdit" and for the analysis of oncological children in a private laboratory. Sergia Dunayeva to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Secretary of the National Security and Defence Council of Ukraine for the non-admission of Luhanské TEZ as a result of the closure of the gas supply of Naftogaz Ukraine under the economic blockade in the Luhansk region. Groups of National Deputies (Ariev, Saurasova and others) to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for the removal of baseless and unmotivated restrictions on the rights of Ukrainian national deputies established by the Order of the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the provision of a legal regime for the protection of administrative buildings, buildings and service facilities of the Supreme Council of Ukraine since 31 January 2020. Anatolia Ostapenka to the Minister of Defense of Ukraine, Head of the Ukrainian Security Service, for information on volunteering. Dmitry Travel to the Minister of Finance of Ukraine for the Elimination of Violations of the Rights of Individual Taxpayers. Robert Gorvato to the head of the U.S. State Tax Service regarding the branding of ordinary (non - Christian) wines and dehydrated beverages. Sergei Dunaev and Julia Yooffe to the Minister of Interior of Ukraine, temporarily acting as Director of the State Bureau of Investigation for the need to conduct independent and comprehensive investigations into the organization of mass bribery of voters in the Luhansk region for the likely involvement of senior officials. Dmitra Putnam to the Attorney General, Head of the Ukrainian Security Service, Director of the National Anti-Corruption Bureau of Ukraine on the possible corruption of the officials of AT "Screwing" and AT "Ukratransnaft". Robert Gorvato to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the cessation of discrimination against persons who took part in hostilities in other states. Sergei Nagorniak to the Minister for Economic, Trade and Agriculture Development of Ukraine for information and documents regarding the activities of the state shareholder company. Sergey Nagorniak to the State Enterprise "Centre of Certification and Expertise on Seed and Garden Material" on getting information and documents regarding the activities of the state enterprise. Mikhail Kryachka and Roman Soha, until the temporary commission of the Director of the State Bureau of Investigation, Director of the National Anticorruption Bureau of Ukraine, Attorney General of the Investigation of Offences by the former head of the Zaporez District Authority. Mikhail Kryacka and Roman Soha, until the temporary commission of the Director of the State Bureau of Investigation, Director of the National Anticorruption Bureau of Ukraine, Attorney General of the Investigation of Crimes committed by the Ukrainian National Deputy Alexander Ponomarov. Alexander Kabanova to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, Prosecutor General, temporarily acting as Director of the State Bureau of Investigation, President of the Public Organisation of the Association of Economists of Ukraine, Head of the National Agency for the Prevention of Corruption for the Protection of Dignity, Honor and Business reputation of Tetjana Jefimenko. Ivan Shinkarenko and Alexander Tkachenka to the Ministry of Energy and Environmental Protection of Ukraine, the Odessaoblenergo Association, the National Commission for State Regulations in the Field of Energy and Municipal Services, on the possible misuse of electricity services. Alexander Tkachenka and John Shinkarenko to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the Ministry of Social Policy of Ukraine, the Odessa District State Administration for the organization of free passage to the civil service categories of citizens in the Bilgorod-Dnistrov region of Odessa. Roman Lozinski to the director of the Municipal Institute of the City about the provision of information on payments by the Municipal Institute of the City. Anton Polakov to the Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine to provide information on the size of paid salaries. Alexander Tkachenka to the Ministry of Economy, Trade and Agriculture of Ukraine, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on the use of measures to approve the use of water resources in inland sea waters. Alexander Tkachenka to the Ukrainian Human Rights Council, Ministry of Internal Affairs, State Bureau of Investigation, National Police of Ukraine, Attorney General's Office on the examination of the facts of the improper conduct of criminal investigations. Mr. Andrija Puziyczuk and Mr. Vladimir Aresonkova are to be appointed Minister of Health of Ukraine, Prime Minister of Ukraine for the inclusion of KNP "Olewska Central Hospital" of the Olew City Council in the list of health support facilities of the hospital district of Žitomir Region. Victoria Kinsburg to Kharkiv City Head on the need for repairs and other measures to improve the conditions for the upbringing and training of children in a number of educational community institutions in Kharkiv. Victoria Kinsburg to the Minister of Health of Ukraine, the Kharkiv City Head for the planned closure of the daily station and the dispensary of the Communion non-commercial enterprise "The City Clinic No. 2 of Professor Shalimov" (the city of Kharkiv) and in this regard, concern for patients with endocrine disease. Sergey Nagorniak to Minister of Interior of Ukraine, Attorney General, Ukrainian Security Service for the violation of licensed activities in the supply of electricity. Igor Negulewski to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, Head of the National Police of Ukraine, Head of the National Police of the Mikolayiv Region, Prosecutor General, temporarily acting as Head of the National Environmental Inspectorate of Ukraine, Acting Head of the State Fiscal Service of Ukraine, Head of the State Security Service of Ukraine on Transport, Head of the National Anti-Corruption Agency of Ukraine, Acting Head of the Motorways Service of the Mikolayiv Region, Head of the State Service of Ukraine on Exceptional Situations, Director of the National Anti-Corruption Bureau of Ukraine, Temporaryly Acting Director of the Public Bureau of Investigation. Igor Negulewski to the Ministry of Economic Development, Trade and Agriculture of Ukraine, the State Service of Ukraine for Geodesy, Cartography and Cadastre, the State Audit Service of Ukraine for Land Checks on Renting of the Novobus District Council and the Novobus District Public Administration from 2018-2020. Igora Negulewski to the State Bureau of Investigation, National Police of Ukraine, Security Service of Ukraine, Prosecutor General's Office for the verification of the use of targeted subsidies from the Snigurov District Council and the Snigurov District Public Administration from 2018-2020 Sergey Kuzminy to the Attorney General, Head of the General Directorate of the State Fiscal Service in the Zitomir Region, Head of the State Service of Ukraine on geodesy, cartography and cadastral issues regarding the raiding of the reformed collective agricultural enterprise Vertokiyevka. The Kuzmini branch of the Ministry of Health of Ukraine for the change in the Professional Qualifications Guide, issued 78, health protection approved by MOHO Order No. 117 of March 22, 2002. Dmitry Schenzeva to the Minister of Health of Ukraine for the establishment of a transitional period for the transfer of secondary health facilities in rural areas to work on new conditions. Roman Kaptielov to the head of the Financial Control Office, Attorney General of Pavlovgrad City Council, Pavlovgrad Public Works Agency for Water Management, Pavlovgrad City Council, Pavlovgrad Water Management Society, for the purpose of misappropriation of citizens' funds. Roman Kaptielov to the head of the Financial Control Office, the Attorney General to ensure that the Administration of Municipal Economy and the construction of the Pavlovgrad City Council, the Society with limited responsibility “EUROBUD PLUS” are tested to carry out inequity capital and current road repairs in the city of Pavlovgrad and to violate environmental standards. Alexander Gerega to the head of the National Commission, which regulates national energy and utilities regulations on the legality of increasing the price of gas for domestic consumers by bringing its volume to standard conditions. Vassil Petovka to Prime Minister of Ukraine on the allocation of funds in the 20th year for the continuation of the MAPP "Lujanka". Michael Bondar to the Ukrainian Defence Minister for housing for the permanent residence of the family of the tragically lost military crew in the city of Broda Lviv district. Michael Bondar to the head of the National Commission, which regulates national energy and utilities regulations on the unscrupulous actions of the GM operator in the Lviv district of Lvivgas when checking gas and its components in consumers. Alexander Abdullin to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, head of the Plain State Administration, head of the Equality District Council on the need to grant the non-commercial utility "Dubrovica Central District Hospital" status of the multi-profile hospital intensive first-level treatment due to a significant increase in disease among the population of the north of the Plains and a significant distance between rural areas from the centre of qualified medical care. Solomonia Bobrovsky to the Minister of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine for the liberation of Ukrainian citizens and their children from the Al-Houl refugee camp in the Syrian Arab Republic. Mary Ionova to the minister for veterans, temporarily occupied territories and internally displaced persons of Ukraine, Ukraine’s Minister of Health, for the development and implementation of a budget program for the financing of specialised health care facilities (war veterans ’ hospital) that provide medical care to the welfare categories of citizens. Victor Mejalik to the Minister of Energy and Environmental Protection of Ukraine, Prime Minister of Ukraine, for financing the completion of the construction of the Azeric Republic of Vladimirsky District Council of Ravenna Region Victor Meyalik to Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Health of Ukraine, Head of the Plain State Administration for the granting of the "Dubrovicka CRL" KNP to the status of a multi-profile hospital for intensive first-level treatment. Groups of National Deputies (Southern, Ion and others) to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Economic Development, Trade and Agriculture of Ukraine, Minister of Finance of Ukraine, Head of the National Bank of Ukraine on the negative impact on Ukraine's economy on the rapid strengthening of the currency exchange rate. Alexander Tkachenka and John Shinkarenk to the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, the Attorney General's Office, the National Police of Ukraine on the examination of the facts of the improper conduct of criminal investigations. Groups of National Deputies (Crowrukina, Koravchenkova, Zacharychenka) to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the need to provide citizens with disabilities with technical and other means of rehabilitation. Groups of National Deputies (Korivchenkova, Kriworukina, Zacharychenka) to the head of the Office of Financial Control on the need for public procurement. Jaroslava Dubnević to the Minister of Energy and Environmental Protection of Ukraine, Minister of Finance of Ukraine, Minister of Economic Development, Trade and Agriculture of Ukraine for the approval of the passport of the budget programme 2407170 "Implementation of the State Investment Project "Actions to Ensure Comprehensive Flood Protection against the Harmful Effects of Waters of Rural Populations and Agricultural Arrangements in the Lviv Region" 2020. Jaroslava Dubnević to the Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister for the Development of the Communities and Territories of Ukraine, for the award in 2020 of the Regional Budget of the Urban Region of the Lviv Region of Subvention from the State Budget to local budgets for the implementation of measures for the socio-economic development of individual territories. Anton Yatzenka to the Umman city head for providing information on the activities of officials of the Umman City Council during the 2015-2020 years. Solomonia Bobrovsky to the Minister of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine for the organization of a meeting between the President of Ukraine and the Minister of Foreign Affairs of Sultanate Oman. Groups of National Deputies (Lunchenka, Gorvati and others) to the Minister of Health of Ukraine, Prime Minister of Ukraine for the granting of the Irsavska District Hospital to the status of a resistance hospital. Maksim Zariski to Prime Minister of Ukraine, Head of the State Agency for Road Traffic in Ukraine, on the allocation of additional funds to complete the construction of the bridge in the village of Rostok of the Czernovets region. Maksim Zariski to Prime Minister of Ukraine, Putil District State Administration of the Cherniewec Region, Putil District Council of the Cherniewets region, Cnernyevsky District State Administration on speeding up the process of opening an infectious department of the municipal non-commercial enterprise "Putilsky Central District Hospital" in the Chernivets region. Group of National Deputies (Puzijczuka, Grishchenko and others) to the Minister of Health of Ukraine, Prime Minister of Ukraine for the inclusion of the Malian Town Hospital of the Malin City Council in the list of health facilities of the hospital district of the Žitomir region. Irina Konstankevich to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister for Veterans, Temporaryly Occupied Areas and Internally Moved Persons of Ukraine, Minister of Health of Ukraine, on preventing the deterioration of medical care for war veterans in the 20th year. Maxima Berezin to the Head of the State Agency for Road Traffic in Ukraine for walking and stopping 129 km of road using the national value of M-03 Kyiv-Harkiv-Dwążanski. Irina Herashchenko and Maria Ionova to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the verification of possible violations by the Commission on the Issues of the High Corps of the State Service of the requirements for the adoption of human resources decisions by the Head of the State Agency of Ukraine on the issue of Marina Kuderchuk and the invocation of responsibility of the guilty Alexander Bakumov to Kharkiv City Head on the status of implementation of the investment project "Building the Third Line of the Metro in Kharkiv from Metro Building Station to Odeska Station". Alexander Bakumov to the Minister of Health of Ukraine, the Kharkiv City Head, for the non-stopping of activities and the reduction of the state of the political endocrinological department of the Kharkiv City Council. Olesia Long to the Minister of Social Policy of Ukraine on the need to make changes to the procedure for receiving housing and utility subsidies. Alexander Kunicko to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the adoption of acts by the Cabinet of Ministers to implement the Ukrainian Law on Amendments to Certain Legislative Acts on the Access to Infrastructure of Electric Power Stations. Sergey Grivka to the Attorney General for providing statistics on crimes committed in the 19th year. Jury Kissiel to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Head of the Supreme Council of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Head of the Supreme Council of the Ukraine Office for the Improvement of Organization Activities, the need for posting on the official website of the Supreme Council of Ukraine in a separate section of the web site of information on all existing inter-fractional parliamentary mergers of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the need to list the entire personal composition of such mergers, the number of deputies in such associations, and to ensure that the information on all inter-fractional parliamentary associations is reflected in the National Deputies of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-21-m0.u185	Thank you, Helen Constantine. Dear colleagues, a small part of them, who remained to hear the questions, I would like to thank everyone for the evening session. I'm sorry. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed. Thank you. Have a nice weekend.
