ParlaMint-UA_2020-04-24-m0.u1	Good morning, dear fellows! That's right. Excuse me. Good afternoon. The habit remains. Please prepare for registration. Please take your seats. Dear colleagues, ready to register? Please register. [[13:11:43]] There are 332 Ukrainian national deputies registered in the hall. I now declare open the plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Dear colleagues, today is the birthday of our colleague of national deputy Leros Geo Bagratovich. Congratulations! Congratulations on your colleague's behalf. Health, strength, success, well, and achievement. Once again with the holiday. [[Applause]] Dear colleagues, in response to the demands of the President of Ukraine and in accordance with part eight of article 19 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, we are today holding an extraordinary plenary meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. On April 23, 2020, President Vladimir Aleksandrovich Zelenski of Ukraine addressed the Supreme Council of Ukraine with a letter reiterating the requirement for an extraordinary meeting with a specified agenda, which excluded the draft Law on the Fund for Partial Guarantee of Agricultural Credits (registrations 3205, 3205-1) and the draft Law on Amendments to certain Ukrainian legislation on the definition of responsibility for the formation of a pricing system in the construction of public roads (registration No. 2234). The final list of issues of today's extraordinary plenary meeting is given to you. At a meeting with representatives of the MPs and groups that took place today, an agreement was reached on the consideration of agenda issues, which we are following a reduced procedure, which we are taking without discussion, because the issue is not causing further discussion. Now there are two statements from MPs and groups replacing the break for the performance. The first is "Trust" and "For the Future." Who will act? Chess. Out of place, please turn on the microphone. Not from the place. Please, Sergey Volodymyrovich. Dear colleagues, please put on the masks who forgot to wear them.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-04-24-m0.u2	Dear colleagues, what better way to die than a coronavirus or quarantine? Today we need quarantine, but not one that limits the constitutional rights of people. During the celebration, people spent all their final expenses on the feast table. Please tell me, who will be responsible for the collapse in the country today due to an uncontrolled coronary disease due to an uncontrollable quarantine? We need restrictions today, but not what they are today. Why does the MOH today claim and seek only sick people? Why is it that MOH does not seek out those who have already recovered? Our Ukrainian scientists, who have "gold" hands, have tested antibodies, and I have passed this test myself, detected antibodies and elevated immunity titres. This gives us today an opportunity for those who have already fallen ill since December, January, February, March, to feel normal in society today, to do, to walk in parks not only with dogs but also with people. Today, Ukrainian tests are cheaper than 30 times, which is what the MoH buys from abroad. 98 percent of the test is normal. Today, we should seek, not those who are sick, but those who are already healed. Our team is proposing the next plan of action. Carry out mass free antibody testing in all Ukrainians who had half a year similar to the coronavirus symptoms and recovered; those citizens whose blood will show antibodies, issue immunodeficiency cards and allow them to return to normal life; introduce tax vacations for small and medium-sized businesses and normalize the Ukrainian economy; create blood banks across Ukraine with antibodies for the treatment of serious diseases, such as in Switzerland, France, Germany, who saved a hundred years ago from Spain, the whole society; create a national group of scientists involved in drug development; continue quarantine and provide financial assistance to those who do not have antibodies; and to citizens who are at risk. Colleagues, do you think, a better controlled coronavirus or an uncontrolled, chaotic one that will bring about the decline of the economy, the destruction of business, depression and psychosis in people, the increase of domestic aggression, panic, social anxiety, cold, hunger, and destruction? The end of one is hunger riots and death. Or a controlled coronavirus that will allow you to develop the Ukrainian economy and.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-04-24-m0.u3	Thank you, Sergey Volodymyrovich. Dear colleagues, another statement has also come in with a replacement for the EC and Voice. Who will perform? Stephanie Olga Anatolyevna.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-04-24-m0.u4	Dear colleagues, good afternoon. I'm going to give you one number right now: 1,000 458 medical personnel today have become ill in Ukraine on COVID. This is 20 percent of all who are sick, 10 times more than in Germany, for example. We all know why this is happening here. Because the Ukrainian government did not provide our hospitals with all the necessary means of protection for doctors in time. Colleagues, we've all seen the appointment of health ministers in this room. The first was Mr. Jemetz, who was trying to make a living on government purchases of COVID, putting his "lookers" in the state-owned medical supply company. You took off the German and thought the problem had been solved. But, colleagues, that's not true. Today, the Ministry of Health, in the face of Mr. Stepanova, is trying to tap into the purchase of medical supplies. At a time when a state-owned medical purchase company can buy suits, colleagues, for 245 bracelets one thing, the Ministry of Health is returning these purchases to its tender committee, and in one day it's conducting a tender to buy those suits for almost 500 bracelets. Colleagues, today Ukraine, instead of 140,000 suits, will buy 70,000 and take away one hospital that could work in defense for six months, these suits. I refer to you, colleagues, in the time of Richter, I remember this well, up to 40 percent of the money was spent on government purchases, stolen from medicine, vaccines, and medical supplies. Now you're putting your hands on ministers who are going to do it again. You "ministers of the people," stop it. It's in your hands. Yesterday we had a meeting of the National Health Committee. And that's where I saw unity when both the Servant of the People and the Fatherland and other factions supported my bill that today Ukraine would be able to open a large-scale testing across Ukraine; that doctors would be paid up to 100 percent on their own; that doctors would finally receive training on how to use protection tools; and that they would finally have the Ministry of Health prepare for the COVID health system, namely the first, second, third-line hospital. So I ask you very much, this bill yesterday supported the committee unanimously on the health of the nation, and I very much ask the Head of the Supreme Council and you, my colleague, that this bill be in session next week, in our session, and that we all support it together. I believe that this Parliament can stop corruption in the Ministry of Health and unite in order for us to deal with it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-04-24-m0.u5	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the day-to-day issues. As far as determination is concerned, there are four of them. These are the orders to repeal the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of 16 April 2020 on the adoption as a whole of the bill of the draft Ukrainian Law on the amendment of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules against the abuse of the rights of national deputies in the course of the legislative procedure (registrations 1043-P, 1043-P1, 1043-P2, 1043-P3). We agreed that after each of these draft decrees, the first, the speech and the discussion, the second, the authors' speech, and then we're going to the vote. Dear colleagues, 1043-P. National Deputy Batenko Taras Ivanovich
ParlaMint-UA_2020-04-24-m0.u6	Christ Voscres! Dear friends, the parliamentary group "For the Future" all the time emphasises that Ukraine is confidently heading towards the end of parliamentaryism with such bills as we are adopting with regard to amendments to the Rules. And it's done completely in an anti-constitutional way. This bill 1043 on amendments to the Supreme Council Rules seems to be against the abuse of the rights of Ukrainian national deputies during the legislative procedure, and all the mental and inconceivable limits of ignoring the provisions of the Constitution of Ukraine are exceeded. We limit the right of the National MP to register the amendments, we limit the number of alterations by factions and separate non-faction deputies. This point of view has been in complete disrepute with the decision of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine since 2018. In this decision, the Constitutional Court of Ukraine stressed that the implementation of the law of the legislative initiative provides for mandatory consideration of legislative initiatives by the relevant entities. The adoption of Bill 1043 is a mine of slow action in Parliament of opposition and other opinion in general. Today we want to consider the draft Opposition Act prepared by Mr. Ruslan Stefanchuk, we are ready to engage in this. But, my friends, the opposition is to be heard first. As a researcher of Ukrainian parliamentaryism and the opposition of previous centuries, it comes to me that Ukrainian parliamentarians, even in monarchy times, defended their rights, even in the days of the Istro-Hungarian monarchy, stood by deputies, such as Kirilo Trilovsky, and for hours, ten hours from the Supreme Council’s rostrum, defending the rights of Ukrainians. Today, we limit these rights to our own independent parliament. Friends, even in this difficult time for Ukraine, we, as the Ukrainian Parliament, need to preserve the spirit of democracy and democracy itself. Therefore, a request to support the draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-04-24-m0.u7	Thank you. Sergei Vitaliovich Calchenko. Yeah, if you don't mind. And if you don't mind, the honourable national deputies, by all four decrees, at 1,043 positions of the committee, please speak.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-04-24-m0.u8	Honorable Presidium, distinguished national MPs! The Regulatory Committee has considered these four draft regulations. With regard to three of them relating to the lifting of voting results, the committee noted that they, even the wording itself, contradicted the provisions of article 48 of the Rules, which referred to the possibility of revoking Parliament's decisions adopted in the second reading and in general. The committee drew attention to article 48, which provided for the annulment of Parliament’s decision in the event of a violation of the Rules during a plenary discussion and vote, but not during the drafting of the bill on the Main Committee. Thus, the Committee adopted decisions on these four draft regulations and invited the Supreme Council to decide how to vote on the adoption or rejection of each of these projects. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-04-24-m0.u9	Thank you, Sergey Vitaliovich. Dear colleagues, please sign up for the MP factions and groups: two in favour, two in favour. Buzansky Maksim Arkadyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-04-24-m0.u10	Dear colleagues, I ask you to support the vote in favour of a decree that annuls the disgraceful changes to the Rules that have been adopted last time. This is a gross violation of the substance of parliamentaryism, this is a false way for a specific bill to change the Rules. I suggest you cancel the bill adopted at the previous session. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-04-24-m0.u11	Thank you. Abdulin Alexander Rafkatovich. Ivanovich Krulko.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-04-24-m0.u12	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. Last time this bill was under consideration, I would like to remind you that "The Fatherland" voted against and voted against the adoption of amendments to the Rules, which limit the rights of a national MP who violates the Constitution and turns a national MP into a button that has no right to speak that has no right to defend his position, which cannot defend the interests of his electorate. Because when a special procedure is initiated in preparing draft drafts for second reading, when, after all amendments, the MP has the right to speak once, it is an attempt to destroy total parliamentaryism. We're told that we have to fight spam, spam law enforcement. So let's look at the examples of foreign countries. I would like to remind you how France, which is a democratic country, has been amended by the Gaz de France Bill, and no one has thought of it since this amendment was introduced to take the opportunity of the members of the French Parliament to speak on these amendments and to present them to Parliament. I want to remind you of another bill on pension reform. Under this bill, 41,000 amendments were tabled, and even after that, no one thought of taking the right of French parliamentarians. Or a presentation by Congressman Ted Cruz in the United States: A parliamentary speaker for 21 hours for 19 minutes, but no one took away his right to speak. Why are we turning the Ukrainian Parliament into a "banana" parliament, a third world parliament? Why do we destroy the Constitution? Let us fight against the causes of such bills that violate the Constitution, not the people's deputies who want to defend their rights. And this bill will be brought before the Constitutional Court.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-04-24-m0.u13	Thank you. Zabrodsky Mikhailo. Irina Volodymyrna's character.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-04-24-m0.u14	Dear Ukrainians, you see a country of destroyed institutions: a government without key ministers, a parliament without politicians and MPs, but with green buttons. These people simply don’t need the Rules, so they destroy them by law that forbids the MP from making amendments. The April 16 laws are no different from the dictatorial laws of January 16. Note: today's next session of Parliament, formed by the President, not by Parliament itself. On the day-to-day, there's no bill of the President himself, and there's a bill of MPs coming. What are these bills about? No one about the support of a doctor, no support for the economy, no support for education, no support for the country. There is no banking law to save Ukraine from the default. It's a simulation of a violent activity that doesn't have any bearing on even the majority, because it doesn't have the right to do anything. She even learns about future ministers for whom she will take responsibility from the Internet. This is what this Parliament has been transformed into. Our faction registered a bill on insurance, compulsory medical insurance. Because today people who work with COVID get 4,000 dollars, not dollars, wages. No 300,000 allowances. The percentage is not yet valid, all translated into local authorities. We didn't get these signed letters, they're blocked by the Supreme Council's leadership, because all we really have to do is imitate the violent activity, not work to protect the country. Our faction today will not vote in favour of any other than the TSC, a bill to keep this disgrace from happening.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-04-24-m0.u15	All those who want to speak, let's go to the vote. I would like to vote on the proposal for a draft Decision repealing the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of 16 April 2020 on the adoption as a whole of the bill of the draft Ukrainian Law on the amendment to the Supreme Council of Ukraine Regulation on the suppression of the abuse of the rights of national deputies in the course of the legislative procedure (registration No. 1043-P). Please identify and vote. [[13:31:46]] For-56 The decision is not taken. Ladies and gentlemen, next project. Order number 1043-P1. As reported by Dubinsky Alexander Anatoliyovich. Then we go to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-04-24-m0.u16	Dear colleagues, good afternoon! The so-called changes to the Supreme Council of Ukraine regulations, which were, let's be honest, were fraudulently adopted on April 16 under the slogan of opposition to the abuse of the rights of people's deputies, is a disgrace to the Ukrainian Parliament. Without stopping the substance of this regulatory terrorism, which destroys democratic principles in the legislative body, I now personally want to address Mr. Razumkov's Head of the Supreme Council. Unfortunately, my official statement on the principles of reference to Bill 1043 and the insistence on the third reading procedure was ignored because the text of Bill 1043 was deliberately and deliberately amended. By the time of the vote on April 16, the National Deputies had proposed completely different articles to which the Rules had been amended, and the text of the bill, which had been put to the vote in the second reading and in general, did not even conceptually correspond to the text that had been adopted in the first reading. In line with articles 102, 121, 123 of the Rules, it is in this case that a compulsory third reading procedure is foreseen. In my statement I said it was impossible to put Bill 1043 to the vote in general, but I still haven't received an official response to my official statement. I understand that under the current conditions, the Chief of the Supreme Council is unable in some cases to resist the fraudulent methods of the Supreme Council, and that is an extremely covert fact for all of us. But I know that we all promised, of course, to comply with the rules of the Constitution, the laws and the Rules and when we went to the elections, and when we swore an oath to the Ukrainian national deputy. The practice, however, is a little different. Perhaps our youth and inexperience are hampered in this area, but I am sure that we can turn Parliament into a real body to protect the rights of Ukrainians and make it work under the Rules. Those who violated the Rules of Procedure on January 16th.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-04-24-m0.u17	Thank you, Alexander Anatolyovich. Dear colleagues, let's go to the vote. I am voting on the proposal for adoption as a basis and as a whole of the draft Decree repealing the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of 16 April 2020 on the adoption as a whole of the bill of the draft Ukrainian Law on the amendment to the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Rules against the Abuse of the Rights of People's Deputies in the course of the legislative procedure (registration number 1043-P1). Please identify and vote. [[13:35:11]] For-61 The decision is not taken. Next question 1043-P2. Polackov Anton Eduardovich will report.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-04-24-m0.u18	Regrettably, in Ukrainian politics there is such a bad tradition of confusing sinfully with the righteous and substituting concepts. From officials who are corrupters, we hear about patriotism, and they get millions of wages at the expense of our taxpayers. And this is against the backdrop of the economic crisis and the poverty of millions of our citizens. I'm hearing about the need to get new loans, and you're closing your eyes on the theft of tens of billions of dollars, which doesn't stop with the new government. I watched the last film with the participation of the President of Ukraine. I didn't hear a word there about the holed customs, or the ODS schematics or the VAT scraps. And I didn't hear anything about having a tough position with the IMF. What about instead? Instead, I have heard about it and I see that instead of having a debate in Parliament, there are rules that cover up changes in the Rules that violate this Constitution, our Constitution and our Ukrainian legislation, instead of thinking about millions of our citizens and fellow countrymen. You call yourself new politicians, and you use old schemes and break the opposition across your knee, forgetting all the possible norms of the Constitution. The bill, this bill amending the Rules, is a crime against the Ukrainian State. Please support my determination. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-04-24-m0.u19	Thank you, Anton Eduardoovich. I'm betting on the vote on the proposal for adoption of the entire project. Please identify and vote. [[13:37:53]] For-48 The decision is not taken. Next project, rule 1043-P3. This is Vassilevska-Smagluk Olga Mikhailovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-04-24-m0.u20	Dear colleagues, Bill 1043, which was voted in the Supreme Council on April 16th, not January 16th, but April 16th, was virtually deprived of the Ukrainian national deputies of the right to legislative initiative, which is a sign of a gross violation of the Constitution of Ukraine and the imposition of parliamentary functions in Ukraine, in fact, in the field of buttoning. Once again, I remind you that the Constitutional Court of Ukraine, in its decision of February 28, 18th, stressed that the implementation of the law of the legislative initiative, and that this includes not only bills, but also amendments thereto, provides for their consideration in the sessional room. The process of reviewing the bill in plenary sessions of the Supreme Council is not just a discussion and a vote, it is also a discussion of proposals that are a form of the realization of our right with you. I find it rude to incompetence and disrespect to change the Rules under the demands of someone abroad. The Constitution of Ukraine states that Parliament is the only body of legislative initiative. So I would like to support my decision to cancel this decision, to work qualitatively on draft laws, to carry out my legislative functions, to respect myself and colleagues, and not to shoot your leg. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-04-24-m0.u21	Thank you. I am voting on the proposal for adoption in the entire draft Decision repealing the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of 16 April 2020 (registration number 1043-P3). The author is Vasilevska-Smagluk. Please identify and vote. [[13:40:03]] For-53 The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, a statement came from two factions: "The Fatherland." Coltunovich Alexander Sergiyovich. I'm gonna take a break from the show.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-04-24-m0.u22	Thank you, Mr. Head. Dear national MPs, distinguished voters! "The Opposition Platform for Life" in conjunction with "The Fatherland" what did you take that time for? In order to focus on the fact that the agenda we are looking at today does not meet the challenges of time, does not meet the challenges and threats facing the economy of Ukraine today, the recession and the total poverty that everyone faces without exception, the average citizens who survive on the minimum fixed income. What are we talking about? The point is that there are complex processes that are not slowing down today, but are deepening in relation to COVID-19. We're seeing a 8.5 percent drop in industrial production. We see a slowdown in agricultural production and a fall in the first quarter by 1.8 percent, we see a budget failure and a deficit in the Pension Fund. And so today we have to consider, not the issue of water transport and other things, but the priority economic and social steps that will affect the lives of Ukrainian citizens today and now. What are we talking about? And what does our faction say? We are addressing you, our colleagues, to give 150 signatures to convene an extraordinary meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and to form a day-to-day agenda of those issues that will correspond to the national economic interests and interests of Ukrainian citizens that will answer questions that will shape and overcome poverty in the country and allow people to have the means to survive today. Our party insists that citizens of Ukraine today receive the one-time aid and payment they have promised so that people today will have something to live for. That's the first one. The other one. So that we can stimulate the internal and consumer market and preserve the micro and small business that is getting and working in the service and trade sectors. And the third. Of course, we are in favour of smart quarantine measures, so that Ukrainian citizens will have the opportunity to work anyway. And at this time today, we are insisting on social protection not only for all citizens of Ukraine, but also directly for the medics, for the day before the next anniversary of the Chernobyl accident, and for many other steps that will stimulate economic growth. We see the experience of the countries of the European Union and other countries that are going to help the most vulnerable groups in the first place. We see the experience of France, of other countries that are forming this social pillow that will allow the citizens of Ukraine to get through this crisis as painlessly as possible. And the last moment, of course, is an important moment. Let's ask for 150 signatures to form the exact agenda that will help overcome the crisis in Ukraine and provide social protection. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-04-24-m0.u23	Thank you. Let's move on to the next question of order of the day. You are invited to consider the draft Resolution on the Cancellation of the Voting Results of the Supreme Council of Ukraine since 16.04. 2020 on the second reading of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Local Self-Government in Ukraine (registration number 2653-P). Polakov Anton Eduardowicz has the floor.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-04-24-m0.u24	Dear colleagues, it is very dangerous when the authorities begin to live in their own, torn away from life, reality, forgetting all those promises that were sown during the elections. President Zelensky told us about the peoples of government, and in fact, concepts such as democracy and discussion are confined to the doors of the same President's Office. The "ministers of the people" told us about the support of small and medium-sized businesses, and they actually adopted anti-Fopian bills. The support of our farmers can be forgotten just when the sale of Ukrainian land was accepted during quarantine at night. And now the turn has reached one of the more successful, few successful reforms in recent years, decentralization. And when the "ministers of the people" proudly declare their support for their actions in the regions, I can certainly tell you that you have no support. I was approached by the OTG Association of the whole of Montenegro and the Czernigow District Council. Besides the fact that this bill violates the Constitution of Ukraine, the only purpose of its adoption is to destroy the notion of "decentralisation" and put pressure on the local authorities before the next election. And you and I have a great understanding that "servants" can't win these elections without administrative resources. Dear colleagues, this bill is a mistake. But I am confident that the Ukrainian people will come to their conclusions in the next parliamentary elections or in turn. Please support my determination. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-04-24-m0.u25	Sergei Vitaliovich Calchenko, position of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-04-24-m0.u26	The Regulatory Committee at its meeting discussed the draft Ordinance 2653. In conclusion, the Committee noted that in violating the requirements of article 48, the Polish National MP did not refer to the presiding officer at the plenary or to the Chief of the Supreme Council for violations during the discussion and vote in plenary. Furthermore, the wording of the draft Resolution on the lifting of voting results does not correspond to the provisions of article 48 of the Rules, which deals with the possibility of revoking a decision taken by Parliament as a whole. Therefore, the Committee adopted the conclusion and invites Parliament to decide how to vote on the adoption or rejection of the draft decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-04-24-m0.u27	Thank you, Sergey Vitaliovich. Dear colleagues, let's go to the vote. I would like to vote on the proposal for adoption in the entire draft Resolution on the Cancellation of the Results of the Vote of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of 16.04. 2020 on the second reading of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Local Self-Government in Ukraine (registration number 2653-P). Please identify and vote. [[13:47:31]] For-43 The decision is not taken. Next question of the agenda. This is a draft law amending certain Ukrainian laws on the safety of nuclear energy use (registration No. 2372). Dear colleagues, the meeting decided not to discuss the matter. Is there no objection? I'll give the floor to the committee. We won't? Then the next question. The committee recommends acceptance as a whole. Should we be based on the whole? Dear colleagues, I am voting on the proposal to adopt a draft Law amending certain Ukrainian laws on the safety of nuclear energy use (registration No. 2372). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[13:48:55]] For 295 Decision taken. Honorary colleagues put to the vote a proposal for acceptance in general with the necessary. [[B in m in s a l in]] No, I was just asking. Who's against it? "Paternal" and "ES" are against. I would like to vote on the proposal to cut half the deadlines and proposals and prepare for the second reading of the bill (registration No. 2372). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[13:49:47]] For 263 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, the next issue of the agenda is the bill amending the Ukrainian Code on Administrative Offences in Criminal Matters (registration No. 2809). In order to address this issue, we need to include it in the agenda of the day session, which requires 226 votes. Please prepare for the vote. Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[13:50:33]] For 321 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, the point was that we could adopt this bill without discussion. [[B in m in s a l in]] No discussion. And the position of the committee was a foundation and a whole. I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Act amending the Code of Administrative Offences on Criminal Scores (Registration No. 2809). Please support and vote. [[13:51:20]] For 318 Decision taken. I am voting on the proposal for adoption, in general with the necessary technical and legal regulations, of the draft Act amending the Code of Administrative Offences on Penal Balls (Registration No. 2809). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[13:51:53]] For 302 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. The next question is the bill of registration 1182-1-d, this is the draft Law on Inland Water Transport (Re-reading). Needed Discussion? No, we can bet. We only vote on the basis. I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Law on Inland Water Transport (Registration No. 1182-1-d). Please support and vote. [[13:52:52]] For 243 Decision taken. On the basis of that, we voted on the basis. Dear colleagues, perhaps a little quieter in the hall. Thank you. The next issue is the draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine (registration of the non-payment crisis in the electricity market and certification of the transmission system operator) (registration number 3364). Dear colleagues, we don't consider it, we need to put it in the order of the day session and shorten the preparations for the first reading. I would like to vote on the proposal to include Bill 3364 in the agenda of the day session. Please support and vote. [[13:53:58]] For 233 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, I am voting on the proposal to cut the deadlines for the introduction of alternative bills and to draw the conclusions of the relevant committees on the bill (registration number 3364). We need 226 votes in favour of this decision, this is a half-term reduction. Please support and vote. [[13:54:41]] For 251 Decision taken. The next issue of the agenda is the draft Ordinance establishing the Provisional Investigation Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the investigation of media-published facts of possible corruption by officials of the State authorities, which resulted in significant losses in the income part of the State budget of Ukraine (registration number 3358). It is suggested that this issue be considered in a simplified manner. Please support and vote. [[13:55:31]] For 290 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, the National Deputy of Ukraine, Ivan Ivanovich, is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-04-24-m0.u28	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear fellow countrymen, dear Ukrainians! For your consideration, it is proposed to draft a regulation establishing a temporary commission of inquiry by the Supreme Council on the investigation of media-published facts of possible corruption by officials of the public authorities, which has resulted in significant losses in the income part of the State budget of Ukraine. I would like to remind you that former Finance Minister Igor Umanski gave this information: that up to 10 billion dollars does not receive a government budget because of the corruption of the "crushings" that are carried out by the schemers, as well as by representatives of state authorities and law enforcement agencies. That's why Julia Timoshenko initiated the creation of such a TSC at the faction council of the heads of factions, and all the factions supported it. Appropriate nominations are submitted to Parliament. I would like to thank the faction leaders who have entrusted this work to a group of national MPs that I also belong to. I believe that this commission can become the first real temporary commission of inquiry that can not only name those who are guilty of corruption and expose corruption, but can also offer real ways for Ukraine's State budget to be properly filled and reduced by the shadow economy, in which it has actually taken over the whole of Ukraine. I would like to say exactly that business doesn't want to work on the schemes that work today, not all businessmen want to work like this. Just as there are many decent representatives in law enforcement and government structures who are willing to help the interim commission of inquiry to have real results. I'd like to request the consolidation of the entire room with this question. And I would also like to say that today, during the faction heads' meeting, it was suggested that this commission should have the opportunity not to work since September 2019.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-04-24-m0.u29	Dear John Ivanovich, the rules know. I'll tell you what was agreed at the meeting, whether you confirm it or not. It was about changing the time that this temporary commission of inquiry should be working on, not just since September 2019, but throughout 2019 and in part 2020 today, starting from the beginning. [[B in m in s a l in]] I won't say another word. There's going to be factions, you can do it. What's the point? We're making a decision now. Wait, don't worry about me. What's the point? We're going to take a decision on the option that there is, and then we're going to initiate changes to that decision. Because I remind you, nothing will happen from the voice, don't worry. The report is given to the head of the Committee on Rules, MPs, and the organization of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Sergio Vitaliyovich. Out of place, please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-04-24-m0.u30	The honourable Presidium, honourable members of the national parliament, the Regulatory Committee discussed the draft Registration Order 3358 at its meeting, decided to recommend to Parliament that it consider the draft, taking into account the comments and suggestions of the committee. What are the comments and suggestions? First. The committee received letters from the deputy faction "The Servant of the People" proposing to replace the deputies of Kinsburg and Ustenko with the deputies of Kovalov and Allahverdiev. Thus, the commission can now be made up of national deputies: Krulko, Petrunjak, Purtova, Didenko, Babak, Kovalov, Allahverdijeva, Kovalczuk, Koltunović, Južanina, Tsabal, Batenko, Adjective. The other one. The Committee noted the need for a change in section 8, paragraph 8, of the draft decree, the term "General Prosecutor's Office of Ukraine" to the Attorney General's Office. The committee then drew attention to chapter III of the Second Supreme Council Decision on the establishment of another interim commission of inquiry, namely the release of National Deputy Krulka from his duties as a member of the TSC and the replacement of him as National Deputy Skrum. In fact, there are two objects in one draft. We know that the Constitution requires 150 votes for the formation of the TSC and 226 votes for the amendments to such a regulation. In order not to raise questions about the validity of this draft decision, therefore, the majority of Parliament's constitutional composition should vote for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-04-24-m0.u31	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please sign up for the speeches by the MP factions and groups. Shahov Sergei Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-04-24-m0.u32	Sergey Shahov, trust MP. I give the word to Andrew Koto.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-04-24-m0.u33	Andrew Borisovich Keith.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-04-24-m0.u34	Dear colleagues! Andrew Keith, Trust MP, Stryshtyn, Jewish. The Trust Group generally supports the idea of the need to create a Temporary Investigation Commission to investigate possible corruption by officials in public authorities. We realize that, year after year, so - called VAT fines cause damage to the state budget for about a billion dollars a year. If we even take a small segment of abuse -- illegal VAT compensation -- those numbers are amazing. And despite the many declarations that have been made in this rostrum for many years in a row, the situation in the country. The situation of compensation for a fictitious VAT is changing extremely slowly. But it's very important to understand, and as a group of Trust, we're looking for a deeper study of this issue, and I think we should take a broader period, at least since January 2019, in order to get a thorough understanding of how our government authorities are working and whether they are effectively fighting with the minimizers and schemers in the Ukraine market. I think that the solution should be not only in the scope of the penalties for VAT fines, but it should also lie in the plane of differentiation of VAT rates, which will just make it possible to reduce the tax burden, on the one hand, on our processing sector, and on the other hand, to allow us to spend the consumer basket. And the economic method is going to be illogical to fight. You don't have to fight VAT. We should minimize our risks and allow businesses to pay their taxes effectively, as is done in a civilized world and, in particular, in Poland. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-04-24-m0.u35	Thank you. Juršin Jaroslav Romanović.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-04-24-m0.u36	Overall, while supporting the need for parliamentary control in order to encourage law enforcement authorities to act on important socially important matters, I would like to point out that, unfortunately, the possibility of a temporary commission of inquiry will be sufficiently limited, but not because of desire. And here I fully understand that those people who joined this committee really want to get to the bottom of the argument of the former minister's accusations and the actual abuse of the state's finances, and because of the inactivity and political dependence of our law enforcement agencies. Now we just have a very loud fact. When a case involving an active relative of the President's Office of Corruption is reclassified by the Specialised Anti-Corruption Prosecutor's Office, who should be the first to be interested in investigating, in fact, corruption, fraud and transfer to the National Police, where she is to die. So one of the key tasks of this TSK will be to prevent law enforcement authorities from manipulating what the SAP is now doing in the case of the discoverer, our colleague, whom we are now welcoming with birthday, Leros. And it's very important that they do their function. And the exposeers did not become suspects, and the sellers responded. So it's a very big call to the TSC. Please make the most of your control, unfortunately, of the politically dependent law enforcement agencies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-04-24-m0.u37	Nestor Ivanovich Šufrich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-04-24-m0.u38	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. Well, first of all, Christ is resurrected! I want to welcome all our believers with a very unforgivable, unforgivable Passover! But the Beneficent Fire has come down, and there is hope among us that we will overcome, despite the unprofessional actions of the government and the crisis that we are now entering. You know, I remember what the President and the authorities said recently: December 1st, they overcame the smuggling and there is no corruption among the leaders of the state. Well, only God knows about the second. And as for the first one, we felt it. And Umanski was right about 10 billion bracelets that disappear somewhere every month. And that's 120 billion dollars. People are good, more than $4 billion now disappears between tax and customs. The question is, where's the money, Zin? And while we're here collecting money to think about how to provide for those who don't work with some kind of help, how to support our medics, how to find the funds for the first time to fight the pandemic, we see that things are disappearing on customs somewhere. And we don't want to impose criminal responsibility for speculation, although there are two laws on this subject: one that is stricter than my authorship and colleagues from different factions and more liberal. No one wants to take it! So we have to figure out who's spending the money, who's stealing it, especially at this hour. It's not stealing, it's stealing. And we have to deal with this!
ParlaMint-UA_2020-04-24-m0.u39	Thank you. Gerasimov Arthur Volodymyrovich. I see.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-04-24-m0.u40	Dear Ukrainians, Mr. Zelensky talks a lot about zero tolerance for corruption, but the country can't understand if it's zero Fahrenheit or Celsius. We all remember his phrase: When I break the law, I will leave immediately. So the question is, where was this zero tolerance, whether it was official, whether it was unofficial, or half official, or Oman, where his wife paid for it at first, then Oman gave it -- and they got the whole country confused. Why don't you tell me what happened in Oman? Where was this zero tolerance for corruption when Zelensky’s people in the Council traded sugar with the Attorney General’s Office? Where was this zero tolerance called when Zelensky's people in the Council were found in the Criminal Rose and the militia? Where was this tolerance when all the masks were sold before the coronavirus epidemic and then left the country free before the epidemic? You all remember the scandal about selling jobs. And for today, there is every effort to close this scandal quietly, to forget about zero tolerance for corruption and to bury it. And so today we're creating a temporary commission of inquiry that's going to be doing the screaming stuff -- a statement by Mr. Greensky's finance minister that he's stealing every month, and he's only meant 2020, 10 billion dollars in customs and tax dollars. That is, at the time of the shortage of doctors, 30 billion dollars were stolen on the rise of the economy, according to Mr. Umanski. That's why "European Solidarity" will support this decision. We thank all the colleagues who have joined and supported this initiative. And as for Mr. Zelensky, I think that's the same approach as selling jobs and selling masks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-04-24-m0.u41	Thank you. Batenko Taras Ivanovich, with motive, one minute. After that, Kornienko and Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-04-24-m0.u42	The MP Group is authorized to state the following, friends, that Parliament should remain today a higher legislative body that determines the day's order in the country. That's the first one. The other one. We are not comfortable with the fact that the last consecutive meeting of the Supreme Council and the agenda were initiated by the President of Ukraine. And today, this is the question that we are discussing, the interim commission of inquiry, is the first question in quarantine, when we are sitting with you, which was initiated by the MP factions and groups, 150 deputies, and is being considered today in this particular session. Friends, Parliament should work and meet on its own initiative without delay, including through the Conciliation Council, we stress this, which determines the order of the day of the extraordinary meetings and sessions of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And today we ask all of you to support this initiative to create the TSC. I will repeat John Krulk's words, who said that this might be the first TSK in this Parliament to be determined to bring the information meeting to an end and to show all the major corruptionists who have been undermining Ukraine's economy and the Ukrainian industry in the last quarter of last year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-04-24-m0.u43	Thank you. Alexander Sergiyovich Korniyenko. From where? Out of the way. Then Julia Volodymyrna.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-04-24-m0.u44	Colleagues, our faction has also signed and will support this decree. As for all political innuendo here, I want to say that, you know, there is information that Mr. Umansky is going to be the advisor to the President's Chief of Staff. This shows that there is the will to investigate these points that he spoke of and to resolve them. At the same time, we would like to remind you that those officials who are concerned have been working in the government since early 2019 and some earlier. So our proposal is to extend the commission's operation throughout 2019. We would like to register the changes immediately after this decision has been made. It would be fair to investigate all of last year's activities in this direction and the previous government of Mr. Groysman, and already the government of Honcharenko, and the government of Schmigal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-04-24-m0.u45	Thank you, Alexander Sergiyovich. Julia Volodymyrna Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-04-24-m0.u46	Dear colleagues, almost all of Ukraine's independence has not been passed the Law on Temporary Investigation Commissions, which allows Parliament to carry out its monitoring functions in a very systematic manner. And it is only in this calling, including the majority in this House, that this law is passed. He's, by the way, our authorship, our team. And today we have the opportunity with you for the first time in the history of Ukraine to create a temporary commission of inquiry under a strong law that gives you the full right to conduct investigations and to bring to justice those responsible. Our task with you today is to reverse all this corruption completely and to show the country. And then the era of corruption will end. And I think this is going to be a test vote. Who's voting for who's "against" is we're going to look into the eyes and figure out who's who and who's hiding. But I believe that Parliament will be at the forefront of the fight against corruption. That's what's gonna Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2020-04-24-m0.u47	Heroic glory! Dear colleagues, once again, we are voting on that decree that. Ladies and gentlemen, may we have a little quieter in the hall? Thank you. We are now voting on that ruling, the text of the decree that is given to you. What colleagues said about changes, they'll be registered, and I think they'll be voted soon. In order to look at the wider time span so that if there are facts of corruption, they are really exposed. Ready to vote? I am voting on the proposal for adoption as a whole, taking into account the committee's proposals, the draft Ordinance on the Establishment of a Provisional Inquiry Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the Investigations of Possible Corruption in the Media of Officials of the Government Authorities, which resulted in significant losses in the income portion of the State Budget (Registration No. 3358). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[14:15:47]] For 324 Decision taken. [[Applause]] The procedure is an announcement from Krulk about the commission's work. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-04-24-m0.u48	Thank you to all the national deputies who voted for the commission. The constitutional majority – this has really shown that Parliament will fight corruption and expose corruption. And in order to immediately start a session of the commission, there is a proposal for members of the Temporary Investigation Commission, who have just been voted on by this commission, to meet at 15 hours on the third floor of the clock, room five, to hold a meeting of the Temporary Investigation Commission. Without wasting a minute, let's get to work. Thank you, colleagues. And we're going to report to Parliament on what the commission actually did and what it's concluding is what's going on with the income part of the state budget of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-04-24-m0.u49	Thank you, Your Honor. We went through the entire list of issues that were identified today before the extraordinary meeting. Therefore, I declare the plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine closed. Thank you all.
