ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-05-m0.u1	Please approach the rostrum for a moment.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-05-m0.u2	Good morning, dear fellows! Good morning, media officials! Please prepare for registration. As long as the people's deputies take their seats, I'd like to inform you that two applications have been made. One of them is about a break with a replacement for a performance and one of them is about a real break from Fatherland, if I'm not mistaken, and European Solidarity. Dear colleagues! Tsakenko Maxim Mikolaiovich. [[B in m in s a l in]] We're going to register now, I understand, it's your salary. Are you ready to register? Ready. I'm reminded that registration takes place by clicking on the green button, the first button on the left. Please register. [[10:10:26]] For 250. Excuse me, there are 250 Ukrainian national deputies in the hall. The plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear colleagues, today is the birthday of two of our colleagues: Victor Vasilovich Bondar and Ludmila Anatolyevna Buymester. [[Applause]] I wish you success, achievement, victory, and health first. Dear colleagues, Batenko Taras Ivanovich is invited to attend. After that, a break of 30 minutes, up to fifteen.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-05-m0.u3	Dear Dmitre Alexandrovich, distinguished fellow national MPs, a respected Ukrainian society! Yesterday what happened at the end of the plenary day is actually called a blackout. I'll remind the Ukrainian National Deputies that, in fact, following the initiative of Dmitri Alexandrovitch Razumkov in the last few days, there have been active negotiations in the session hall, which have resulted in a compromise on the delay for our microbusiness introduction, the introduction of RROs for small and medium-sized enterprises and the release of entrepreneurs during the pandemic from unjustified tax reporting. Unfortunately, this did not help, nor did it help that the compromise text of the draft procrastination bill was initially agreed upon, but was as a result broken down by a majority in Parliament. Already today, small and medium-sized businesses in a country that expected us to decide to support us yesterday may no longer believe any of our words, no promises and no sleepovers. Entrepreneurs are not interested in our political battalions, which take place in the session hall and outside the session hall, which go between branches of government today in Ukraine, entrepreneurs want to work and survive under pandemic conditions. With the prospect of surviving in these critical economic circumstances, whether we give them this prospect or we take it away. That is why we understand today the moods of the FOPs, who are deeply disappointed by yesterday's Parliament and Parliament's decision and can come back again and today call under the walls of Parliament. In fact, they want to announce the tax haven today. We don't need -- not society, not entrepreneurs, not ordinary citizens -- no venues that are just deepening today's economic crisis and the political crisis in the state. So we need to urgently restore the format of the microbusiness meetings with Parliament and all factions and groups and, without delay, come back to the session room today and tomorrow. In addition, we need to avoid cancelling the moratorium on checks and tax changes for small and medium-sized enterprises. The comprehensive moratorium introduced in 2014 is no longer in place. And the worst thing for entrepreneurs today is the tests of the State, of the State, and the RRO is just going to put the entrepreneur on his knees today in front of the state's fiscal pressure. Let us not let small and medium -sized enterprises die today. Friends, we will either support small and medium-sized businesses today in critical conditions of pandemic survival, when other countries of Europe do their utmost to not only survive but also experience minimal losses, or we will be silent witnesses to the disappearance of a large part of the middle class in our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-05-m0.u4	Thank you. Dear colleagues, there's a break at 10:45. The heads of the MP factions and groups, please meet in my office.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-05-m0.u5	Dear colleagues, let's move on to our work. But not really. Again there was a statement about a break with a replacement for the performance. Iron. Lozinski Roman Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-05-m0.u6	Roman Lozinski, the Voice faction. Dear Ukrainians and fellow MPs, I'd like to make a statement about the fact that the election is forging. Not in the United States, not in Nevada, not in Las Vegas, I know that everyone is now very active in overseeing elections in the United States, but I want to say about elections in Ukraine, especially in Opuhu, where yesterday at the office the representatives of various political forces -- the Voice, the European Solidarity, the Fathers, the People's Servants, the Strike -- were exposed to factual facts of falsification. And I'll explain what's going on. In the original protocol and in the protocol clarifying the results for the "For the Future Party" there are 40 votes. These detailed protocols were totally illegally enforced in the field. The head of the district commission comes to the district office and says, "It's not my secretary's handwriting, my seal is elsewhere, it's a totally fake document." So absolutely without any "art", without any "art", the "For the Future" party there received plus 40 votes in two areas: the music school and Jablouneva. There's no commission head in place, there's no commission secretary in place. But what is the result of such falsifications? This results in a plus one mandate for one political force and a minus one mandate for the Voice party in Opuch. I want to emphasize that this is not a political action, it's not a political position of one political power. I would like to emphasize once again that this fact has not only been recorded in footwear, but also the European Solidarity, the People's Servants, the Strike and the Fatherland Party. The territorial election commission does not give a detailed protocol to the representatives of these political forces. Tomorrow's election results have to be played. And we have ten differences in the original protocol and in the protocol specifying where the stamps don't match and where plus 40 votes in one district, plus 40 votes in the other area got the political force "For the Future." So I want to point out that we're taking this situation under our own control, we've made the appropriate statements of the electoral process representatives, the voters of the electoral process, to the law enforcement authorities. We're going to pursue and defend the vote count, and we're going to make clear the unprecedented and absolutely indicative facts that indicate the falsification of the election. And now, legally, we're going to demand that the results be established there legally, such as people actually voted, the voters in footwear, and similar situations in Borschagów and other cities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-05-m0.u7	I got it. The replica "For the Future" is the staff of Igor Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-05-m0.u8	I want to tell the representatives of the Voice Party, if someone stole the votes, they have to sit in jail, in prison, whether it's a representative of the Party for the Future, or the Voice, or other political parties, and that's what law enforcement is supposed to do. And if someone has allowed it somewhere, let the law enforcement authorities handle it and put it in jail. But not from the rostrum of Parliament, it's to say that 40 votes have been stolen somewhere, but it's to have the honor of every district where you have representatives of your party, to accept honestly all the votes and to be honest in the Lviv region, which is in Ternopilsk, which is everywhere in Kiev. The person who stole should be in prison. If we have to count, we're just in.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-05-m0.u9	Irina Volodymyrna's character.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-05-m0.u10	Dear colleagues! Dear Ukrainians! You know, we're running out of votes in the United States, where the election took place on November 3rd, and Ukraine is probably waiting for someone to count the results of the election. I want to remind you that he is now fully responsible for the elections, for honesty and for making the votes transparent, the authorities themselves. And unfortunately, Zelensky and his team failed the fair elections. And as for Kiev, I would like to remind you that there was a disgraceful incident when our colleague, Mrs. Sumar, was pushed out of the room where the TVC is located on Borshtag. And in fact, I think there should be a reaction here not only to our political power, the Voice, which then came together to stop the crime, but also to the entire parliament. This is unacceptable right now all of these recalculations under which elections are being falsified throughout Ukraine. Zelensky and his CBC are responsible for this.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-05-m0.u11	Dear colleagues, I remind you once again that we have an epidemic, quarantine, masks, please. Oleg Sergiyovich Tarasov, I can name everyone by name, name, after my father. My colleague, please remind me. Put your masks on, please. Dear colleagues, during a meeting with representatives of the MPs and groups, the proposal was reached to consider the changes to the Budget Code now and then to consider the budget. It'll take about an hour, an hour, an hour. So there's a proposal to go over these two questions, then go over to the break that's scheduled for 12 to 12:30. Is there no objection? We work in this mode, and then we go back to the agenda of the plenary. Okay? Please prepare for work and vote. Dear colleagues, you have been invited to consider the draft Law amending the Code of Budgets (Registration No. 4100). It is suggested that this issue be considered in a simplified manner. Ready to vote? Ready? Please support and vote. [[11:00:32]] For 206 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, can you please tell me if it needs to be discussed, or should we vote and move on to the budget? We can vote. I'll bet you a vote. But here's an acceptance as a basis, and I understand it, on the basis and as a whole. Oh, no? Based on the base. All of it? We have to take it as a basis and generally in order to go to the budget. Right? Based on what? I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Law amending the Code of Budgets of Ukraine (Registration No. 4100). Please support and vote. Nestor Ivanovich, we agreed without discussion, you were in the hall. [[11:01:50]] For 225 The decision is not taken. Leaders of the MP factions and groups, please come in.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-05-m0.u12	Dear colleagues! Dear colleagues, once again, I am now giving an order to the Committee on Budgets to meet immediately. [[B in m in s a l in]] Look, I'm about to (with all the representatives of the MP factions and groups) and I'm giving the commission to meet up today, and I'm going to meet the budget committee right now. We're sending Bill 4100 for re-reading. They're working on it now. At 12:00 we are holding an extraordinary meeting of the Supreme Council, where we are considering Bill 4100 and we are going back to the budget. I understand there's no objection. [[B in m in s a l in]] We'll put it to a vote now, I know. I'm just talking about our plan of action, and I'm grateful for everyone's understanding. I'm talking to those national deputies who didn't drink coffee until 11:00. I'm asking you very, very much to understand the responsibility that lies with you and to be in the session room, not then to come and talk about that 10 people are late, 15 are late. I see 346 in the hall. Thank you all very much. I would like to vote on the proposal to refer a bill to the Committee to prepare for the re-reading of the draft amending the Code of Budgets of Ukraine (Registration No. 4100). Please support and vote. Ready to vote? [[B in m in s a l in]] Wait. Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[11:09:49]] For 262 Decision taken. Thank you. Once again, I'm calling on the Committee on Budgets to deal with this issue expeditiously so that we can look at it in the conference room at 12 o'clock. Thank you. Stay put, we'll keep working. Thank you. Dear colleagues, you have been invited to consider the draft Decree on certain features of the holding of parliamentary hearings during the quarantine period in Ukraine (registration number 4302). Is there a need for discussion? You don't? Can we vote? I am voting on the proposal for adoption in the whole of the draft Decree on certain features of holding parliamentary hearings during the quarantine period in Ukraine (registration No. 4302). Please support and vote. [[11:11:06]] For 318 Decision taken. Thank you. The next issue of the agenda is the bill. This is a short cut. I will immediately put to the vote a proposal to shorten the deadlines for the submission of proposals and allowances and prepare for the second reading of the draft Act amending Chapter XX of the Tax Code of Ukraine (as regards the features of the administration of taxes for the financing of expenditure as defined in Article 14, paragraphs 31-34 of the Ukrainian Law on the State Budget for 2020). This is a reduction in the preparation time for the second reading. Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[11:12:06]] For 275 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, I remind you, a moment of attention, I remind you that on Monday all the MP factions and groups have reached the only position on this matter. Almost all MP factions and groups have reached the only position. This is the bill (registration number 4304) on the re-establishment of certain provisions of the Ukrainian Anti-Corruption Act and the Ukrainian Criminal Code and the draft Act on the re-establishment of certain provisions of the Ukrainian Anti-Corruption Act. Everyone signed 126 people's deputies, if I'm not mistaken. No, 126 signed 126. But for reasons that are not clear to me yesterday after this document was considered and the position was reached that this document would be considered in the Hall today, after the profile committee considered it and invited the Supreme Council to accept it as a basis and in general, one of our colleagues, Alexander Anatoliyovich Dubinsky, introduced an alternative bill 4304-1. I will not comment on this action, but you know that the Supreme Council does not violate the laws. We cannot consider this law today because there is no committee conclusion. No, I think we're going to shorten the deadline now and consider this bill next plenary week with another package of bills that are also important for the Supreme Council to address this crisis. [[B in m in s a l in]] No, there will be no discussion here, Peter Alexiovich, and others, I'm sorry. For reasons, after we vote. I am voting on the proposal to shorten half the deadlines for the first reading of the draft Law on Restoration of Certain Provisions of the Ukrainian Law on Prevention of Corruption and the Criminal Code of Ukraine (registration No. 4304, 4304-1). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[11:14:57]] For 292 Decision taken. Thank you. I'm out of procedure. Not out of motive, out of procedure, Peter Alexiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-05-m0.u13	Ladies and gentlemen of the people, Mr. Head! I got it yesterday. There was a meeting yesterday with the ambassadors of the Great Seven. We have reached an extremely important position that we urgently need to reinstate anti-corruption laws. I had an alternative proposal for us to shorten the deadline for this bill to one day, ad hoc, and today we've discussed the renewal of anti-corruption laws. You denied me the right to an alternative offer. And why Mr. Dubinsky as a human being is trying to block the consideration of anti-corruption laws, is now known throughout the country and around the world. Don't go there. I'm asking you very much and I'm addressing the entire room.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-05-m0.u14	The decision was made. It'll be just as the hall decided. Julia Volodymyrna is a procedure. Nestor Ivanovich. I'm sorry, Schuffritch, I'm sorry. "The Voice," who? Jaroslav Jurchisin is a procedure. Radina's procedure. Keep moving, we'll keep working. It's Shufrich now. Julia Volodymyrna Timoshenko. After that, Shufrich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-05-m0.u15	Dear colleagues, I think we've all forgotten the hysteria that started all over the country about the fact that no day without electronic declaration, no day without hard anti-corruption. I can't understand how we can essentially postpone the adoption of this question for a week now? You know very well that there is a consensus between all factions without exception -- to adopt this law now and to renew the electronic declaration today, to renew the strict responsibility for illegal wealth today and today, to do everything to stop the country from practically cracking down on all international media so that we can be the basis for today's discussion of corruption in the world. We propose to vote immediately in ad hoc modes.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-05-m0.u16	Julius Volodymyrically, Parliament has always remained that stable structure, and it will now remain that way. I'm sorry to comment. I'm not sure all factions are in the same position. I'm not sure about that. [[B in m in s a l in]] I answered. No, it's not. No, it's not. The next issue of the agenda is the project. [[B in m in s a l in]] Let's go to. Nestor Ivanovich, it will be. Are we still talking about political positions or are we starting to work? I'll go on. [[B in m in s a l in]] Does everyone want to come out? Suffritch Nestor Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-05-m0.u17	Thank you, Dmitri Alexanderovich. Dear colleagues, regarding the individual "slayers" who meet with ambassadors. In 2014, we had to watch what you voted for and not make a problem for the Constitutional Court. He was placed on a stretch — on the one hand, unconstitutional standards were extended, although everyone at the time said that they did not conform to the Constitution. So you don't have to fight corruption right now, hoping it won't pass, because you're going to have to fight it yourself. So don't hold back and answer for what you did six years ago. And now Ukraine is paying and suffering. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-05-m0.u18	Juršin Jaroslav Romanović.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-05-m0.u19	In fact, all the political forces, when the President's initiative came in question from the standpoint of law, called on the Supreme Council to act within the framework of legislation. The Supreme Council's rules are a law to be enforced. So in fact, yes, the individual representatives of most of this decision were dragged away. But it is very important for us to act within the framework of the law so that we do not undermine that decision. And now the only way to accelerate is to go to an alternative initiator, call him off and vote on him, who's consensual. There's no other way. So, my friends, it's the right thing to do now. We welcome the speaker's call to the Voice to move on the Rules. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-05-m0.u20	Radina Anastasia Olegovna One of the factions. Put your hands up again, colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-05-m0.u21	My colleagues, I would like to thank the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for the important decision. We must now speak the truth to the electorate and to society. We need to make two decisions. First decision to return anti-corruption legislation. And the second decision on the Constitutional Court. The adoption of only one decision, colleagues, is a lie. It will be abolished by the Constitutional Court immediately. We'll act honestly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-05-m0.u22	Dear colleagues, it is important for us that this law then is not said to have been accepted with a breach of procedure and would not have been appealed again in the Constitutional Court or in any other court. Parliament's position today was demonstrated when we voted in favour of shorter terms. I'm sure if we vote in favour of this law and on the basis, and in general, we will see an even better result. Thank you. So let's get to the point. The next question is 2458, draft law. [[B in m in s a l in]] I'm sorry. I'm through. I'm sorry. I'll be right back. You are invited to consider the draft Law on the Principles of State Anti-Corruption Policy for 2020-2024 (registration number 4135). It is suggested that this issue be considered in a simplified manner. Please support and vote. [[11:22:42]] For 234 Decision taken. Thank you. The head of the National Agency for Prevention of Corruption, Novikov Aleksandar Fedorovich, is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-05-m0.u23	Ladies and gentlemen, we have all witnessed that today the anti-corruption system of the state is in total danger. Its preservation and development today depend on our reputation in the international arena and, more importantly, on the trust of citizens. At that time, the anti-corruption strategy must show that countries have a clear plan to fight corruption, and there is a clear understanding of how to build a system that is not compatible with the practices of corrupters. There are at least three reasons why the adoption of an anti-corruption strategy is absolutely necessary for Ukraine. First of all, it's a healthy budget. We estimate that the strategy will save up to 200 billion dollars a year. Only through customs measures will the economy reach at least 50 billion dollars a year. You know very well how much these funds are now important for the welfare of citizens by voting on the 2021 State Budget. Secondly, the strategy takes into account the interests of all stakeholders in combating corruption. We have conducted numerous consultations with citizens, and anti-corruption strategies have undergone a process of agreement between 37 authorities, including 12 ministries. We discussed and reconciled the document with all interested parties from late June to mid - September. That is why an anticorruption strategy will help to bring together all authorities and ensure their teamwork in the fight against corruption. Thirdly, the area of coping with corruption, which focuses on a strategy defined after exploring citizens and businesses. In general, it's eight key areas. These include health care, the defence sector, and the fight against illegal construction. After we developed an anti-corruption strategy in NAZC, it was approved by the government and supported by the National Council on Anti-Corruption Policy. Today's anti-corruption strategy is a chance not to lose hope in Ukraine without corruption.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-05-m0.u24	Thank you. The chairman of the Committee on Anticorruption Policy, Radina Anastasia Olegovna, is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-05-m0.u25	Good afternoon, dear colleagues. The Committee on Anti-Corruption Policy has considered bill 4135 and recommends that the Supreme Council approve the bill on a basis. Why is it important, colleagues? We often complain with you that we have no agreed strategic documents, we often complain that we have no agreement in the various branches of government to achieve strategic goals. So anti-corruption strategy is now our ability to figure out where we're going, what we're doing, how all branches of government work together to achieve the overall result. This strategy answers the question of how we deal with corruption in key areas. More importantly, colleagues, at last this strategy answers not only how to plant but how to prevent corruption. That's exactly what we're talking about in this strategy: e-services for citizens and businesses, anti-corruption component in education, conflict of interest reform, judicial reform, a transparent system for assessing the quality of the work of prosecutors, a risk-oriented state-of-the-art business surveillance, which actually means not to touch the "white" business. Next, colleagues, customs automation, tax automation, the only electronic urban cadastre. All of these are tasks that we can carry out in a coherent way if we find out what and when all branches of authority are to do: Parliament, executive power. I very much ask, colleagues, to support and now give society, and the world a clear signal that Ukraine remains in the fight against corruption and speaks clearly about how and when it will be done. Thank you very much, colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-05-m0.u26	Thank you. Sign up: two in, two in, two in, two in.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-05-m0.u27	Please, National Deputy Heratchenko Irina Volodymyrna, faction of the political party "European Solidarity".
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-05-m0.u28	Please pass the word to Victoria Sumar.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-05-m0.u29	Victoria Sumar, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-05-m0.u30	Dear colleagues, the NAZK Law was approved in October 2014. So Parliament gained its powers, and in fact, right after five years of the beginning of the work of the previous Parliament, we created this whole anti-corruption architecture. NAZK was a very important link in it. Then there was the NAB, then there was the SAP, then there was the Anti-Corruption Court. And these were actually independent structures that were based on new approaches to fighting corruption in Ukraine, totally agreed with our international partners, which provided a unique level of transparency for Ukraine. Because before that, no one had seen the wealth of officials publicly and transparently, which had to be declared constantly in the process of even buying something. We've been declaring ourselves for over five years. We've all been through full declarant checks. And in the last year under ban and under the sauce of wanting to step up the fight against corruption, we see just the murder of this anti-corruption architecture. We're looking at how they're destroying the NAB and its independence, how they're trying to take SAP under control. We see how the Constitutional Court is making a decision today. We're sure they agreed with the President's Office. And it's not just the opposition talking about it. And today it is very important to get out of this crisis, which was actually brought together by the authorities together with the Constitutional Court. And this crisis is being discussed by everyone today, and the Ukrainian people clearly support the restoration of the declaration today. We now demand that we have signed letters, and we are able to hold an emergency session immediately, and to adopt a law that is signed by all faction leaders and which is a healthy compromise. Thank you to the Head of the Supreme Council for this compromise. We demand that this be approved immediately today and that such a session be held. And of course, we're going to vote on the strategy, because it's really important to us today.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-05-m0.u31	The word is given to the national deputy of Venislav Fedor Volodymyrovich, faction of "Serve of the People".
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-05-m0.u32	Honorable Presidium, distinguished national MPs! Indeed, Ukraine is in a rather interesting situation today, caused by a sad decision of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine to abolish anticorruption legislation. Today's strategy, which is proposed for adoption as a basis, is exactly going to be a clear signal because Ukraine has a clear understanding of the irreversibility of the road to fight corruption. The strategy may raise some questions, but today we take it as a basis. If any of the Ukrainian national MPs have any suggestions, I think we'll be able to correct them peacefully between the first and the second readings. But today we are obliged to adopt it as a basis for showing a clear signal of the irreversibility of Ukraine’s course in the fight against corruption. The strategy provides for comprehensive and comprehensive measures to prevent such a negative phenomenon that is not taken by virtually all citizens of Ukraine. And so I ask you to support this strategy. The "Serial of the People" faction, I think, will vote in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-05-m0.u33	Mother Grigory Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-05-m0.u34	Dear National Deputies! The "Response Platform for Life" faction for fighting: (a) corruption as a phenomenon (we simply do not hear these proposals from power) and (b) for fighting corruption. But in the framework of the current, active legislation that operates in Ukraine, well, not in the territory of consultation with international partners. The bill, or anti-corruption strategy, will be supported in the first reading, because it is a treaty, a plan of intent in the form of a law, based on a law that requires the NAM to enforce it in the form of individual laws, regulations aimed at combating corruption. We'll be supportive. There's a note to this program, and essentially by working between the first and the second readings, it can acquire more or less a form that is actually going to be aimed at combating corruption. We'll support, vote in favour in the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-05-m0.u35	Please, National Deputy Lozinski Roman Mikhailovich, faction of the political party. Jurchisin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-05-m0.u36	Dear colleagues, it's really very important to shift the state's work into a strategic framework when, before we throw in, excuse me, we understand clearly what the purpose of the decision is. What is an anticorruption strategy? This is a core document that allows us to predict in advance where there are problems that are proposed by the decision mechanisms, but most importantly, for which the Cabinet of Ministers is responsible, for which the Supreme Council is responsible, for which the law enforcement authorities are responsible. In fact, today we are drawing up an anti-corruption plan for the country. The only time I took that plan was in the 14th year, and that's why you and I got anti-corruption infrastructure, which allowed us, in particular, to win the car. We now have an important responsibility — whether we can work strategically or not. In fact, we have a very good example when all the executive authorities, the judiciary, the law enforcement agencies, the public organizations and the international partners were also very positive about the development of this anti-corruption strategy. So I very much hope that at such a difficult time when society is at issue at all and whether the Supreme Council is fighting corruption, we will unite and adopt an anticorruption strategy as soon as possible. Well, everyone who doesn't vote can see that they have corrupt risks and they're not ready to take responsibility for them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-05-m0.u37	"Paternal" and "For the Future." Anton Eduardoovich Polakov.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-05-m0.u38	Anton Polyakov, Montenegro, MP for the Future. Dear Mr. Novikov, really, thank you, you're working with the parliamentarians. But I've read your strategy and, frankly, in the face of every problem that we have written: introduced, secured, simplified, cancelled, implemented, developed, developed, completed, implemented, implemented, minimized, impossible, reduced, limited, adjusted, conducted, given, developed, accepted, projected, improved, revised, deleted, solved, created, set, defined, published, compounded. It's not a strategy, it's a report. Are you telling me you're having trouble putting up those corrupts who are sitting in this room right now? What's bothering you? Billions are allocated to anticorruption bodies. We will vote for this strategy if it really helps you, because how many of these organs have been created. What other organs do you need to create to really start working? Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-05-m0.u39	Please, Devajchenko Valentina, Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-05-m0.u40	Honourable national MPs, citizens of Ukraine, while top-corruption, more simply, rats, top-corruptioners are biting the ship of Ukraine, in this Parliament is playing an unfair game. Who is the person, the outsiders who are blocking the proceedings now, and the main approval of the Law on the Full and Full Return of Electronic Declaration? One. The other one. A certain discharge from any person's office who's entered into a register of corrupts, but here and now. Return the honest rules to this House! Let's not just vote for strategy and not just for strategy, but for concrete steps, concrete punishments of specific top-corruptioners! There is no virtue without cleansing, and there is no justice in the absence of it. without the responsibility and irreparability of punishment. That's our goal. That's the position of the Fatherland faction. I address everyone, let's go back and vote for the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-05-m0.u41	Thank you. "Trust," Aresonkov Vladimir Yuriovich. Then we go to the vote. Please invite the people's deputies to the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-05-m0.u42	Dear colleagues! Dear Mr. Head! Of course, the position of the "Trust Group" is an extremely important bill. Yes, there is some discussion. First of all, because we, the Supreme Council, as the supreme legislative body, have created in previous years, in fact, everything necessary for the system to function so that those organs that were created to combat such a shameful phenomenon as corruption at all levels have all the necessary weights to do so. But of course, coordination of the activities of individual bodies, regulation of individual legislation is a time requirement. So we understand the authors with the very idea of creating such a general concept, and we think we need to vote and adopt it. The Trust MPs support this decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-05-m0.u43	Thank you. Let's go. [[B in m in s a l in]] "The Voice" was speaking. I'll bet you a vote. Please prepare for the vote. I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Law on the Principles of State Anti-Corruption Policy for 2020-2024 (registration number 4135). Please come in, people's deputies, to the hall. Is everyone ready to vote? Everybody ready? Right? Please support and vote. [[11:40:29]] For the 320. Thank you. No, I'll bet you a cut. I am voting on the proposal, in the second part of article 116, on the reduction of half the time limits for the submission of rights and proposals and the preparation for the second reading of the bill, registration number 4135. Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[11:41:11]] For 229 Decision taken. Thank you. Dear colleagues. Gerus is a procedure. Gerus Andrey Mihajlovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-05-m0.u44	Dear Chairman, request to withdraw 2458, transfer it to later.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-05-m0.u45	Taking off today’s consideration is meant. Is there no objection? No, thank you. Let's move on to the next question of order of the day. Ruslan Alexiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-05-m0.u46	Dear colleagues, we are considering Bill No. 4131: draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine to ensure the effective implementation of parliamentary control. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to vote on this issue under a reduced procedure. Please support and vote. [[11:42:33]] For 244 Decision taken. The word is given to the Ukrainian national deputy Dmitry Aleksandrovitch.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-05-m0.u47	Good day to you again. Dear colleagues, Parliament has always been a point of stability, Parliament has always been and has remained the point of resolving key issues for this state, and Parliament will continue to do so in the future. Parliament is the only legislative body in our country, but you and I have also been entrusted with important functions related to the implementation of control, the control of various activities, primarily the executive power. And all of this is and is provided for by the Constitution and the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. However, very often we face the fact that by adopting laws that are sometimes very important for this state, they do not fully realize all the potential that we place as Ukraine’s national deputies. Therefore, Bill 4131 proposes that many issues be addressed in order to make parliamentary hearings more quality and effective, and that the work of the committees and their weight in taking and controlling decisions by both executive and those adopted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine have been more powerful and effective. And of course, what has been placed on us as the Supreme Council of Ukraine: to perform its functions according to the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine. I think that this bill is important in order to prove to others that we have parliamentary control behind us. And we'll do it qualityly. I thank everyone for their support.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-05-m0.u48	The word is given to the Head of the Committee on Rules, Deputy Ethics and Organization of Work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Sergio Vitaliyovich Calchenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-05-m0.u49	Honorable Presidium, distinguished national MPs! The regulatory committee at its meeting reviewed the draft Law (registration 4131), introduced by the Ukrainian National Deputies. The bill, as stated in the explanatory note, is designed to build an effective parliamentary control system in Ukraine and to ensure better implementation of the laws and other acts of the Supreme Council. The drafters propose amendments to the relevant laws to provide time limits for submission to the Parliament of reports, reports by the Attorney-General, the Head of the Security Service of Ukraine and the Antimonopoly Committee of Ukraine, the Fund of State Property of Ukraine, the Head of the National Bank of Ukraine and the Authorized Supreme Council of Human Rights, the Court of Auditors, as well as reports, reports, information from other State bodies whose submission is provided by special laws, the amendment of the Committee Act, the addition of new articles of the Rules and the presentation of relevant provisions of the Rules in the new edition. The committee will support the proposed changes to parliamentary control. At the same time, he drew attention to some of the shortcomings of the bill, which he concluded. In addition, a member of the John’s Court of Auditors, present at our committee meeting on behalf of the Court of Auditors, noted that taking into account the changes to the Rules of the Supreme Council set out in the bill, it would be necessary to make appropriate changes to the individual articles of the Law on the Court of Auditors, namely, the parts of the fourth article 20, part two of article 23, article 28, part one of article 30. Then, in accordance with part one of article 116 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, according to which the Main Committee, as an exception, may decide to take into account proposals made and amendments that were not the subject of the first review if the need for such proposals is noted in the conclusion of this Main Committee and announced by the chairman of the plenary meeting, he supported the proposal to make the appropriate proposals. on the need to amend the provisions of the Act on the Court of Auditors.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-05-m0.u50	Thank you. Thank you, Sergey Vitaliovich. Honorable Colleagues — Is It Needed? Can we vote? Is it necessary or can we vote? Vote. Please invite the national deputies to the hall. I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the Committee's proposals for a bill amending certain laws of Ukraine to ensure the effective implementation of parliamentary control (registration No. 4131). Ready to vote? Everybody ready? Please support and vote. [[11:48:23]] For 323 Decision taken. Thank you, Your Honor. [[B in m in s a l in]] No, no, not at all. The committee said, on the basis of that, it was based. You know, we're under the rules. Thank you again. Let's move on to the next question of order of the day. No, wait, the budget we can't, we can't now. No, I understand, colleagues. [[B in m in s a l in]] 4130. Now, one minute. Dear colleagues, this is a draft law amending some of Ukraine’s laws regarding the provision of free food for children, one of whose parents died (disappeared) during the protection of Ukraine’s independence and sovereignty (registration number 4130). It is suggested that this issue be considered in a simplified manner. Please support and vote. [[11:49:39]] For 256 Decision taken. The chairman of the Committee on Social Policy and Veterans’ Rights, Trelyakov Galina Mikolayevna, is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-05-m0.u51	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank the honourable chairman for his initiative in drafting this bill. Ukraine has been a state for seven years that stands for its sovereignty and territorial integrity with weapons in hand, and so we lose and have sad statistics, we lose our people. At the same time, let us keep in mind that each lost life is primarily the result of family life and that children are the primary ones. Law 4130 is designed to support children whose parents died protecting our country. We need to establish this standard at the legislative level, even though we do have the Law on the Status of War Veterans, the Guarantees of Their Social Protection, but it is not anticipated that children whose parents have died (missing unconscious) died, protecting the sovereignty, independence and territorial integrity of the state, are provided with free food. In this way the decision to provide free nutrition for these children can only be made to the discretion of local self - government authorities regarding the educational institutions of municipal property. This leads to an inequality in the social protection of such children. Because in practice some local authorities make the right decision, others ignore the problem. The authors believe that the standard of this bill should be established at the legislative level. The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Social Policy and Veterans' Rights discussed at its meeting on September 28, a bill to amend certain Ukrainian laws on the provision of free nutrition for children whose parents died (a loss of consciousness), died in the protection of Ukraine's independence and sovereignty (registration number 4130), submitted by the Ukrainian National Deputies, Arahamaia, Kornienkom and other Ukrainian National Deputies. According to the explanatory note to the bill, there is an additional need to provide 2,000 709 children. The number of children was calculated according to the Department of Veterans. I am grateful to the Ministry of Veterans for their statistics. According to this statistics, the amount of money we need to separate for such free nutrition is about 10 million 467 thousand 576 dollars. We ask that we include these numbers in the Cabinet of Ministers in the State Budget. The main scientific and expert administration of the Supreme Council of Ukraine does not object to the adoption of the bill and believes that the adoption of the project will create additional social guarantees for the identified category of children. The authorized Supreme Council of Ukraine for Human Rights supports this bill. The Department of Veterans supports the adoption of the bill. The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Anticorruption Policy has failed to identify corrupting factors that can contribute to corruption. The Ministry of Finance determines that the implementation of the bill will have an impact on the expenditure, and the impact figure has already been given. Thus, the committee on the outcome of the review and discussion of the bill decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine in its first reading to accept as a basis and as a whole draft Law 4130. Please support the committee's decision. Once again, I am grateful for the initiative of the honourable chairman of the Supreme Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-05-m0.u52	Dear colleagues, do you need a discussion? Let's just have five minutes to 12, let's take one minute each faction, vote and move on to the next meeting. Yeah? We've got 5 minutes till 12. Are we going to call it a break? Then, dear fellows, please invite the national deputies to the hall so it won't be like last time. Honorary colleagues, the committee recommends a foundation as a whole. Is there no objection? No, I'm fine. The author, yes. Then we vote. Mikhail Mikhailovich, we have agreed that we are voting without discussion. I thank you for your support. Please invite the people's deputies into the hall, and then we'll move on to an extraordinary meeting. Ready to vote? I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Law amending certain Ukrainian laws on the provision of free nutrition for children whose parents died (missing) while protecting Ukraine’s independence and sovereignty (registration number 4130). Ready? Please support and vote. [[11:56:04]] For 321 Decision taken. Mikola Mikolaiovich, that's not what you're saying. That's my bill. I am voting on the proposal for adoption in general with the necessary technical and legal regulations, the draft Law amending certain laws of Ukraine concerning the provision of free nutrition for children (registration No. 4130). Please support and vote. [[11:56:42]] For 324 Decision taken. Thank you again, dear fellows. Dear colleagues, let's move on to. We're on a break, but we don't want to break up.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-05-m0.u53	Dear colleagues, please invite the national deputies to the hall. Let's move on to the budget. Dear colleagues, let us go to the draft Ukrainian State Budget Act of 2021 (Registration No. 4000) in the first reading. In accordance with article 157 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules, the matter is being discussed in full. In accordance with the Rules, the following procedure is proposed: a report by the deputy head of the Committee on Budget Affairs, Truhín Alexandr Mikolajovic, in up to 5 minutes; a reply by the committee's representative to a question of up to 3 minutes; a statement by the finance minister, Sergey Mihajlovich Marchenka, in 5 minutes; a reply by the minister, in 3 minutes; a statement by Valery Vasilovich Packana, Head of the Court of Auditors, in 5 minutes; statements by representatives of the deputy factions and groups, in 21 minutes; statements by the national deputies, before. [[B in m in s a l in]] Three minutes until 9:00. Seven factions, three minutes. All by standard procedure. After that, the national MPs spoke for up to 9 minutes, after that vote on the basis, and then immediately the vote in general. Is there no objection? Very good. The Deputy Head of the Committee on Budget Affairs, Truhin Alexander Mikolayovich, is invited to attend, in up to five minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-05-m0.u54	Dear Dmitri Alexanderovich, distinguished national deputies and invited! The Budget Committee has been preparing the State Budget Bill for 2021. For consideration in the first reading, according to Rule 156 of the Rules, the Committee thoroughly drafted a bill taking into account the conclusions of the Court of Auditors and the General Scientific and Scientific Administration. The draft budget for 2021 has been developed taking into account government bills 4100 - on changes to the Budget Code and 4101 - on changes to the Tax Code. Thus, such bills should be considered and adopted in a mutually agreed manner. The Committee's list of issues and indicators of the bill, including comparisons with the current year and the assessment of compliance with the rules of the Budget Code and other legislation, is presented and presented in a general way. In preparing the bill for the first reading, the budget committee, with the participation of the Ministry of Finance and the Court of Auditors, dealt with the proposals of the national deputies and committees, which are listed in the general table and have the number of allowances of two thousand and 451. Some proposals do not meet the regulatory requirements for their balance. Individual national MPs have also submitted only formally balanced remedies and proposals. Because the proposed sources for additional expenditure are not well-accounted for and therefore cannot be considered realistic. Individual proposals contain amendments to other laws, although according to the Rules, the State Budget Bill cannot contain provisions that amend other bills. According to the previous estimate, it took about 1.5 trillion dollars in total to take into account the proposals. According to the committee’s work, a draft Supreme Council Regulation on Conclusions and Proposals for a Bill and a table of proposals for legislative initiatives were prepared. The committee is asked to take fully or partly one thousand 276 straights into account and to reject one thousand 175 rights. First of all, it is proposed to support proposals for the clarification or exclusion of specific provisions of the draft law to comply with the rules of the Budget Code, in particular the need to determine the limits of government guaranteed debt and State guarantees, the allocation of unallocated expenditure on public capital investments on the basis of a decision of the relevant interdepartmental commission, and the provision of parliamentary control over the allocation of funds under certain budgetary programmes. Some proposals have also been taken into account to increase the expenditure of the State budget on individual programmes and measures in the fields of medicine, education, science, social protection, culture and sport, the functioning of foreign diplomatic institutions, the provision of State support to farmers, the disposal of solid rocket fuels and the implementation of state investment projects and certain infrastructure projects. At the same time, the proposals of the National Deputies for the provision of individual subsidies to the local budgets are proposed to decide, within the framework of the envisaged subsidy, on the socio-economic development of individual territories, which will enable the National Deputies to participate in the determination of the relevant directions and the purpose of the use of the subsidy. The source of additional expenditure is the increase in individual incomes and the redistribution of expenditure by some programs. At the same time, it is suggested that the government should be entrusted with careful consideration before second reading of issues relating to: raising public social standards, primarily the minimum of living, arising from the financial capacity of the State; increasing revenues from the privatization of state property, with appropriate reductions in government borrowings and the marginal volume of government debt; increasing individual expenditure on the basis of the proposed proposals, drawing on the available financial resources of the budget and assessing the basis of additional budgetary requirements; providing adequate financial support for the remuneration of teaching staff; and paying off the debt generated in the wholesale electricity market; and settling the "green" energy bills. In addition, the draft decree entrusts the Government, when preparing the bill for second reading, to further develop the rejected proposals of the National Deputies and Committees of the Supreme Council in the relevant table of proposals. In view of the above, the Committee on Budgetary Questions recommends that the Supreme Council adopt a draft regulation 4,000-P on the conclusions and proposals to the bill as a whole. Please support the committee's decision. With the above-mentioned decree adopted, the State Budget Bill for 2021 will be considered to be adopted in the first reading. It should be stressed that the adoption of such a decision would essentially unlock the further development of the draft State budget and allow the government to prepare it for second reading, taking into account the budgetary conclusions of the Supreme Council. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-05-m0.u55	Please sign up for a question to the reporter. One minute to question, two minutes to answer. Bobrovska Solomija Anatoliyevna
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-05-m0.u56	Please pass on the word to Cabal Volodymyr.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-05-m0.u57	Good afternoon, dear colleagues. I have one particular question. We know that medicine, according to the Budget Code, has to be financed at 5 percent of GDP. Now there's actually been an increase in funding, but that's still 4.2 percent, we're not reaching 5 percent. In the revisions that were accepted and in those assignments, unfortunately, various colleagues from different factions were not accepted to increase their funding for medicine. But it is good that there is at least a government mandate on this issue. I have a question for you. What's your prognosis, do you see that the government can increase this funding anyway, is it more of a formality that we've given the government a mandate and the government really isn't ready to increase the cost of medicine? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-05-m0.u58	Thank you, my dear colleague, for a very meaningful question. You know my personal position on the implementation of all the laws that we have adopted in the walls of the Supreme Council, and I support you that we should fund all the measures that are and not only in medicine, in full compliance with the laws that we have adopted. So we've given you a government commission together, and we'll hope that the Ministry of Finance will also be able to find additional funds to meet these standards. But what I want to point out is that the Minister of Finance has already found an opportunity to increase the budget, what you've pointed out, by more than 27 percent on the financing of medicine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-05-m0.u59	Zinkevich Jan Vadimovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-05-m0.u60	Please pass the word to Alexia Potter.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-05-m0.u61	Alexeiovich Honcharenko
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-05-m0.u62	Alexei Hotcharenko, European Solidarity. I have a few more questions. First. On November 1, 2020, the State budget was not implemented by nearly 8 billion dollars, a share of income. The 2021 budget plans to increase by almost 100 billion. After further processing, another 20 billion came into existence. How solid do you think this is, and isn't this budget just a nice bubble that the state won't really be able to provide? That's question number one. Question number two. During the process, we see that there's no change in the numbers on the force, and they're showing a big increase again. At this point, the number of the Ministry of Defense remained the same as the Cabinet of Ministers had suggested, i.e. with a decrease. What do you think we should do as a parliament to remedy this situation? How do you see priorities in this regard? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-05-m0.u63	Thank you for two meaningful questions. The first question and the very short answer. Yeah, I think it's realistic, I voted for it on the committee, and I'm gonna vote in the room. I believe that all those indicators that were provided by the Ministry of Finance and all the professional ministries that took part in the formation of this budget have been further developed within the committee and committee work along with you. So I think we're going to do this budget, or maybe even improve the indicators, because there are very good macroeconomic trends that can help our country to overcome even these indicators. In terms of wages, I want to point out that we don't only have the first question, colleagues, the medical standard. For example, we have separate positions in the power sector, such as the Public Prosecutor's Office. You know they don't get the standard on them and on their wages. So I think there's some categories where we need to work on this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-05-m0.u64	Thank you. Time's up. Thank you. Alexander Mikolaiovich, please sit down. Sergey Mihajlovich Marchenko, Minister of Finance of Ukraine, is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-05-m0.u65	Dear Dmitre Alexanderovich, distinguished national MPs, respected Ukrainians! On September 14, the government submitted to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft State budget for 2021, as defined by the Constitution and the Budget Code. The project is completely balanced and realistic. It's not just a financial asset. This is a tool for the development and growth of the country. The budget provides sufficient funding for all priority needs of the state. In addition to taxpayers, the cost of the result will be used effectively and will benefit people and the economy. We'll be able to deal with the coronary crisis, ensure financial stability, restore the economy and increase the welfare of citizens. This is a budget of opportunities for further development. It creates the basis for the necessary transformations that will make our country a successful country and the economy strong in the medium term. People's deputies, factions, groups and committees have made over 2,000 proposals to the 2021 State Budget project, which is essentially another budget. In close cooperation between the Ministry of Finance and the National Deputies and Parliamentary Committees, a working group of the Committee of Budgets worked out proposals that were reflected in the draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on conclusions and proposals for the draft Ukrainian State Budget Act of 2021. The draft regulation proposes to increase the expenditure of the general budget of the state budget by more than 20 billion dollars. First of all, there are additional funding for the development of areas – 4.3 billion dollars, infrastructure projects – 7.5 billion dollars, culture and sport – 3 billion dollars, health care – 2 billion dollars, support for agrarians – 500 million dollars, social protection – 200 million dollars, ecology – 90, education and science, support for the military. With a view to continuing the reform of the law enforcement agencies, we will be looking for ways to address the issue of the wages of prosecutors. And until the second reading stage, we will also look for opportunities for all other law enforcement agencies. Minfin will thoroughly process all the regulations and proposals of the people’s deputies and will try to take them into account, based on the priorities of the expenditure and the possibilities of the income part of the budget. Today's approval of the Supreme Council's draft Decision on Conclusions and Proposals for the Draft National Budget Act of Ukraine 21st will allow us to work qualitatively on these initiatives, prepare and submit to the Supreme Council a draft budget for second reading. I am grateful to the people's deputies of Ukraine for the constructive dialogue and understanding of the importance and balance of the budget. We're going to get out of our current capacities and economics, so we want all of our expenditures to be supported by real revenue. We have a common goal: to get to the financial document of the maximum quality. This is what people expect of us, waiting for our actions and decisions that will allow us to really feel and ensure the development of our country's economy, the rise in wages, the increase in well-being. Thank you for your attention. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-05-m0.u66	Thank you, Sergey Mikhailovich. Please sign up for the interview. It'll take up to three minutes. Christmas, Valery Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-05-m0.u67	Please tell me, Minister, do you know the situation with regard to financing the needs of law enforcement agencies, such as the prosecutor's office, which has been associated with the determination of a living minimum of thousands of dollars? And in this regard, what steps are you going to take?
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-05-m0.u68	Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for asking. Indeed, we have an objective opportunity to look for the possibilities of a balanced budget project, so we will take into account the need to reform law enforcement agencies, including prosecutors, before the second reading stages, as I mentioned in my report. I think we're going to be looking for more opportunities to meet these needs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-05-m0.u69	Thank you. Please, Bondar Mikhailo Leontijovich, faction of the political party "European Solidarity".
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-05-m0.u70	Please tell Mashi Ionova.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-05-m0.u71	Maria Ionova, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-05-m0.u72	Thank you. I have two specific questions. First. Why is there still a lack of funding for the army, and instead of increasing funding for the President's Office, the DSS and the DBR? And the previous speaker said that they had to do the Law on Raising Pays for Prosecutors, according to the D.B.I., but somehow they forget about doctors, forget about education, and forget about scientists. So how much longer are you going to postpone implementation of the Order on Increase in Educational Wages No.822, which was approved by the previous authorities in 2019? I mean, when will the Education Act be implemented? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-05-m0.u73	Thank you for asking. We will seek as much resources as possible to ensure that your actions are implemented and to look for opportunities, including in the areas of education, science, and the support and defence directions you have mentioned, will also find their support at the stage of the second reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-05-m0.u74	The word is given to the national deputy Vasilchenko Galina Ivanovna, the faction of the political party "The Voice".
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-05-m0.u75	Please pass the word to Volodymyr Cabal.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-05-m0.u76	Vladimir Tsabal, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-05-m0.u77	Mr. Secretary of Finance, I have two questions for you. First question. Do you really believe that those domestic borrowings on the Ukrainian market that are planned to finance the government budget, its deficit, more specifically, are realistic? Do you really believe that Ukrainian citizens and Ukrainian businesses have enough money to lend to the state more than all those years ago, even in the 18th and 19th years? And the second question is this. I remember when you just submitted this draft budget, everyone wasn't very pleased that the President's Office was being funded by a third, and including the O.P. saying that they weren't aware, and this amount would be reduced? So there's no regulation to reduce the funding of the President's Office, there's only one-third increase. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-05-m0.u78	As for the first question. We have the possibility, in accordance with the Budget Code, to replace domestic sources of borrowing with external and privatization. And your point is right, and I think at the refinement stage, we're going to increase the total borrowing by external sources of borrowing, and we're going to reduce it by internal sources of borrowing. On the issue of financing the President's Office. I think at the second reading stage we'll also find ways of optimizing expenditure.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-05-m0.u79	Thank you. Thank you, Sergey Mikhailovich, please sit down. The Head of the Court of Auditors Valerius Vasilovich Packan is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-05-m0.u80	Dear Dmitre Alexandrovich, distinguished national deputies, members of the government and invited! The Court of Auditors carried out an analysis of the state budget project for 2021 and approved the relevant conclusions and proposals made to the Supreme Council. I'll stop at some of them. First. The government is predicting a 4.6 percent growth in the economy. That's pretty optimistic. Taking into account the situation, there are risks that such growth will not be achieved. Quarantine restrictions will continue until the end of the year, the statistic shows an increase in the number of COVID-19 patients in both Ukraine and the world. There is a recession in industry and other fields. There has been a decline in the lending of the economy to foreign capital flows, a significant decline in capital investment, and this will lead to a lack of income in the budgeted amounts. The other one. The government's offering a six-month "freeze" minimum of $2,189. At the same time, its actual size is 3,763 bracelets. This is 1.6 times the government's size for December of this year. The Court of Auditors has repeatedly emphasized the change in approaches to the formation of a minimum of living. Third. Income is projected to rise by 9.4 percent. But in reality, we estimate a 2.2 percent reduction compared to the year's expectation. Four. The Court of Auditors found additional reserves for four sources of income totalling 20.6 billion dollars. I'm going to point out that three of the four proposals taken into account by the Committee on Budget Affairs are in your conclusions to the draft of this budget. Fifth. Unfortunately, there is a real reduction in spending on consumption and development. When working on a project, you need to pay attention to the formation of individual expenses. I'll stop at some of them. The topic of concern for Ukrainians is the fight against the epidemic. This includes 19.4 billion dollars, of which 2.6 billion dollars is for vaccination. We see the risks of buying at higher prices of medical goods and insufficiently researched vaccines. If quarantine continues, the cost of fighting the epidemic and its consequences may increase. It's about the social sphere. There are 561 million dollars less than in 2020 to pay for the benefits and housing subsidies. There has been a significant increase in gas prices since November of this year. This will result in an increase in housing services and an increase in the number of recipients of subsidies, and therefore in planned expenditures. One hundred and forty-seven billion dollars is planned to target roads. Development and maintenance of roads are usually provided by means of the funds involved by Ukraine under State guarantees. Six. 6 percent of GDP or 270 billion is a government deficit. This is twice the limit set in the Codex Budget. The deficit of the budget and the ratio of debt to GDP in Ukraine and to other countries can be compared, but the average cost and the term of borrowing should also be compared. Our borrowings are more expensive and shorter. Part of government borrowing is 39 percent of all government funding. Seven. Debt payments include a third of the government budget’s spending, nearly 620 billion dollars. Only one in seven bracelets will serve the government’s debt. The amount of government and government debt guaranteed will generally increase to 2.9 trillion dollars, nearly 65 percent of GDP exceeding the limit set in the Budget Code. Eight. The proportion of self - sufficient budgets will fall to 25 percent. So the result of the decentralization reform was, not a declaration of self-sufficient communities, but an artificial strengthening of the administrative and territorial units. Ladies and gentlemen, the Court of Auditors is ready to continue its cooperation with the preparation of a high-quality asset for 2021. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-05-m0.u81	Thank you, Valery Vasilovich. There won't be a question for you. Please sign up from the MP factions and groups. Each faction and group will have up to three minutes to perform. Kisse Anton Ivanovich. Batenko Taras Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-05-m0.u82	Dear colleagues, the first thing we want to say is that we need to solve some of the problems that we today have at the compromise that we started yesterday during the vote, and we haven't solved it, it's a matter of the FOPs. I think that we should not delay this question, but rather find strength and courage to return to it as soon as possible, to this question. At the request of the FOPs, draft Law 3853-1 will begin to be considered. This petition was received by 25,000 citizens. And as the petition is to be considered in a 10-day term in the Supreme Council of Ukraine, and to start looking at this issue today or at the nearest plenary meeting. The other one. It's a question of Europlums. I think it's also a compromise issue. There are drafts that have been drafted: 3704. People expect us to make such an emergency decision. Friends, about the budget. What do we want? We want this budget to be primarily the budget of life, not death, and not the budget of survival. We want a clear commitment by the government to raise the minimum of living for all population groups to the level of the actual subsistence minimum that has been developed and calculated by the Ministry of Social Policy. Similarly, we want minimum pensions. We want the medical community to have a decent wage in pandemic conditions. We want mandatory state insurance in case of COVID disease for employees of state and municipal institutions, both in health - care facilities and in educational institutions. We want the government to stop further attacks on the financial resources of the local budgets. And here we have a question to the government, to the Ministry of Profiles and to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, to preserve the mechanism of accounting for excise duties, excise taxes on fuel imported into the customs territory of Ukraine, which has been a major resource in recent years to finance a number of social programs and to make the capital expenditures of local governments. That's 13.5 percent, the excise tax. As you recall, last year, when we fought this position and discussed with the government, the Parliament stood firm for this position and preserved it for local taxes. And this was actually one of the main bailouts for local budgets. We want to see in the budget the appropriate compensations for the loss of local budgets. We want local budgets not to deprive financial resources of payment for land that was to go to local budgets through Ukrzalznica. A small victory for the MP's corps is the decision of the profile committee to return to the social and economic development grant holder a total of 7 billion dollars. And we want the government to finally have the power, the ability and the mind to master the pandemic and the severe economic crisis, and to listen to the position of MPs so that this budget is a budget of hope for millions of our fellow citizens. In this situation, if the government listens to our positions, we are ready to support the budget in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-05-m0.u83	Vasilchenko Galina Ivanovna
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-05-m0.u84	Please give the word of Volodymyr the Cabal.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-05-m0.u85	Cabal Volodymyr Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-05-m0.u86	Dear colleagues, today we've heard a lot of different things about both the positive things that are in this budget and not very positive things that are still hard to understand. But I don't really want to concentrate right now and tell you where and where the money wasn't added and where it was done well, where it was bad. We've been talking about this a lot since the government made the budget. And I want to take a more global perspective and think, are we, like Ukraine, the right government, moving in the long run from the perspective of fiscal policy? If we look at the deficit -- 270 billion -- that's a very large amount. We've managed to keep it at 2-3 percent before. So this year we increased it to 7.5. I was even 5 to 6 percent myself, but it was planned as a one-time action. Unfortunately, we see in this project that the government is planning a significant deficit of 6 percent for the next year, regardless of economic growth. That's 25 percent we're going to be spending more than we're making. Is that right? The government justifies this by claiming that all Western countries are doing so now, and the crisis is not over. And that's right. Indeed, all Western countries do, and the crisis is not over, and the state has to compensate for the collapse of the private sector at the expense of the state. But is this the right way for Ukraine? I think given our specifics, this path is not right for Ukraine. Why? And there are five reasons. First of all, the state is not using money as effectively in Ukraine as in the West, when the state is spending 100 dollars at the expense of, excuse me, taking away corruption risks. This money increases the economy less than it does in the West. Secondly, we still have a fresh memory of the uncontrolled growth of government spending that led to an increase in inflation. We need at least 10 years to live with inflation 3-5 percent so that we can have two years in a row or three years in a row with such a high deficit. Thirdly, we don't have a consistent tax and fiscal policy, because in the West, when government increases deficits, it thinks 5 years ahead. Because when even voters don't choose them, they mention it. And we don't have the government thinking about five years ahead, and they leave problems to the predecessors. And fourthly, we have more flexible conditions. Business is able to get the state out of the crisis by reducing taxes better and easier than an inefficient state can do. And the last. Our debt burden - 15 percent of us pay. Even in Italy, where the debt to GDP is 130 percent, they pay 9 percent of the income per cent. So we still have a pretty high level of debt. Therefore, the Voice faction cannot vote in favour of this draft Budget Act. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-05-m0.u87	Thank you. Windstorm. Peter Alexiovich Poroshenko?
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-05-m0.u88	Dear colleagues, dear Ukrainians! Mr. Prime Minister, I would ask that those national MPs who are trying to solve the often-difficult lobbying problems do not prevent me from addressing the Prime Minister. I would like to point out that according to the draft budget, he is Mr. Greensky's personal receipt in his own incompetence and diletation. I firmly believe that the Ukrainian word for "head to head" is now a vivid demonstration. According to the draft budget, Zelensky is not going to make pre-election commitments, and the following year he is already the equator of his presidential office. Greens and the government had 9 months and 66 billion crowns to prepare the country well for the challenges of the pandemic. Nothing is done with the word "at all." Neither HlV, nor oxygen, nor medicines, nor beds equipped with all the necessary equipment, have Ukraine's hospitals been left alone with these problems. I emphasize it's a crime, and the price of this crime goes up every day. Nearly 10,000 patients in one day, in 24 hours. In Kiev, thousands of people are sick. Nearly 200 dead. The dead are at home because there is no room in hospitals that are dead in hospitals, because there is no oxygen, they suffocated, they are sick because there is no protection. And in the budget, there's a program that requires free masks, free tests that can be done in an hour, free protective suits, free seats in hospitals with oxygen, free drugs -- all of this is for the Ukrainians, because the Crown Fund was spending money on a big program called "The Big Thieves," because that's where they're stealing. I am firmly convinced that in 72 hours, and this is my address to the Prime Minister, we must immediately open a well-known hospital, including Feofany, where Mr. Zelensky must decide. And put those who don't have enough room in hospitals. But I'm pretty sure, as we won the local elections, we're going to win the COVID. Ukrainians, everything will be fine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-05-m0.u89	Zarski Maksim Valentinovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-05-m0.u90	Please give it to Trukin.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-05-m0.u91	Trukin Alexander Mikolayovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-05-m0.u92	Dear colleagues, I think it's time to stop all politics, vote count and such local small wars that are taking place in our Ukraine. It's time to either work together, not just talk about what we want and can do. You've had your time, you've seen the results, you've given your assessment. So please either join in and let's have really fruitful results or hare say some incomprehensible things. I'll tell you a very simple word. The budget is set aside for decentralization and the fight against the coronavirus. We have, thank God, I'm telling you, very good results from the numbers of people who have experienced coronary disease. Please see what is happening in other parts of the world. The money, the infrastructure, the money, it's also put into medicine plus, it's put into the army. Money is provided for all subjects who have applied for their budget. So I think it is necessary to unite the efforts of Parliament, to show that there are really patriotic factions, to actually gather together, to hear each other, to work, to exchange experiences. And to the second reading, if there are really solid and meaningful suggestions and very reasonable thoughts of my colleagues, join. I believe that both the Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance are here with us, we can confirm this, we will go out together really on a patriotic and national budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-05-m0.u93	The word is given to the national deputy Coltunovich Aleksandro Sergiyovich, faction of "The Opposition Platform for Life"
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-05-m0.u94	Thank you, Your Honor, Ruslan Alexiovich. The previous speaker mentioned figures and successes. Let's talk about the numbers. Look, the budget, first of all, a lot of people were asking questions about his name -- total poverty, speculative capital, and actually no future. Now it's the numbers. 270 billion dollars is a budget deficit, it's just an unrealistic figure. And based on the fact that even today's budget is not being implemented. Then the second one, which I think is the killer's chest number: 702 billion dollars is an extra external and internal loan. Two thirds of the budget’s income, 66 percent of us lend to meet our expenses. And next year, how will we live? And in the 23rd, in the 25th, we're going to borrow 100 percent of the income part of the budget to do basic things at least on pensions. Next, you appealed to the fifth president. They had a subsidy of 71 billion dollars a year, and the price of gas was 8,550. You now have the price of 9200 gas, it has increased, and the subsidy has 36.6 billion dollars, two times less. So when you appeal to someone by number, you can at least study them. I'm not protecting anyone, but that's objectivity, and that's a fact: 9 million families have received subsidies, now less than 3. Let's move on. These are official numbers. Let's move on. Six thousand is the minimum. You can set any minimum wage you want until you raise the minimum wage, which is 2 thousand 255 dollars. Whatever you do, it's got to be. The first tariff charge is going to be 6,000 dollars. Then, after taxes and congregations, the person will receive 5,000 dollars, 5 with small coins. Retired. One thousand and seven hundred and sixty-seven dollars. Do you realize that this is just a tiny little number -- 1 thousand 769 dollars? We have, I specifically counted, out of 11.2 million pensioners, 63 percent of pensioners have pensions that are roughly equal to that figure. This is how our pensioners will live. Next. As far as budget policy is concerned. We are totally unacceptable to the priorities that exist today. When we have a downturn in engineering, in industrial production, we can't invest money on roads, because there's a low multiplier effect, low return. One job is not going to give jobs in adjacent 4-5 jobs. We're in favour of support and road construction. First, however, it is necessary to maintain the machinery. This should not be "The Opposition Platform for Life" but today's Cabinet of Ministers. And unfortunately, you're down 22 percent. Well, most importantly, local budgets. Many say for fiscal decentralization. So why did you take the land tax for the Cruise Station from the local budgets? Local budgets are declining. We're not going to vote for this kind of budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-05-m0.u95	Please, National Deputy Bakunetz Pavel Andriyovich, Deputy Group "Trust".
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-05-m0.u96	Dear Prime Minister, dear Ukrainian people, honourable fellow MPs! Paul Bakunets, Deputy Group "Trust", Lvivščina, Jovkovsky, Yavorovsk oblasts. First of all, I note that we are in the budgetary process with you, and we are looking at the core document almost in time for the next 2021. I'm going to say, this document is far from perfect, it's a budget for survival, not for the development of our country. It clearly lacks funds and costs to increase the standard of living of all the population in our country. And I also have a lot of questions and comments about this document from my colleagues in the Trust MP group. However, I emphasize that the Trust MP group has taken an active part in the work of the core budget document for the following year. We have introduced a series of rights to increase or restore expenditure on various sectors and to various construction projects in almost all areas of our country. Our group's proposals can be called trust budget, both in terms of direct and figurative meaning, because we were primarily social initiatives, and equally, I emphasize, the budgets of local self-government. The members of the Trust Group hope that the money from the excise goods, which is tobacco, alcohol and especially fuel, will remain in the local budgets for the next year, as well as in the local budgets, the cost of rent and land tax that you want to clean up so that the cruiser doesn't pay money. We hope that these funds will remain in local budgets, and they will also be able to build gardens, schools, roads, and other things. The decentralization process is also being completed, and it is vital that these newly created united territorial communities provide quality administrative services, so the CNAPs need to be built. And as we know, almost 500 new OTBs don't have DNA, which means we have to predict money on CNAP. We also need to provide funds to increase funding so that there is money in local budgets for personal protection for schools and for our doctors. So the "Trust" group in the first reading votes in favour of this document with the hope that the government will work on the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-05-m0.u97	Thank you. Julia Volodymyrna Timoshenko. And then nine minutes later, they're going to be out of the country's national deputies.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-05-m0.u98	Dear colleagues, I think every member of the Supreme Council here knows that the country is in a state of extreme crisis. Now we're going to pour numbers and show budget deficits and everything else, I don't think there's any need. Each of you knows that the country is at an extreme point. At the same time, I want to remind you that I am not the first to be convened in this Parliament, and I remember exactly what these walls saw in this Parliament. And now that I've heard enough cynical speeches, I just remember all of that because I have a history of this process. I remember in the walls of this Parliament, in the last night, a number of budgets were adopted, where 134 social laws were repealed and tariffs rose dozens of times. I remember very well how the bracelet was spent three times on artificial instruments to get the previous cadence in speculations at the National Bank in five years, $14 billion in high - interest money alone. I remember how this budget was destroyed. I remember how 300 percent of the casts were in the previous cabinets, and I remember that very well. And when you cry about the coronavirus today, and you have to cry, I remember very well how over 300 hospitals have been closed for the previous cadence as a result of the reform of Uljana Suprun. Dear friends, stop being cynical. Stop by taking responsibility for everything now, because I remember well the history of these walls and what was done there. I want to tell you that this budget, this is the budget of disaster, right. But at the same time, it's not the government's budget of disaster, not the President's and not even this Parliament's -- it's a disaster of the country. And so if we have a little bit of conscience and not that much cynicism, our proposal is essentially another budget we've put in to make this budget a little bit different. I have an offer. Let us now try again in the first reading, all together, to vote by Parliament. But for the second reading, to present a budget that will give a chance to a country that will give every person a chance to adopt the same budget as when we joined together under the COVID Regulation. Because it's not Zelensky's crisis, it's every Ukrainian citizen's crisis. Either we do it now, or the next budget for the country is just going to be deadly, we can't take it as a country. So give the country another chance at your connection and a common intellectual job for the budget.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-05-m0.u99	Thank you, Julia Volodymyrna. Please sign up from the National Deputies. Rules up to 9 minutes. Chigoz Ahtem Zeitullajovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-05-m0.u100	Please give it to Jujanini.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-05-m0.u101	Eugene Nina Petrovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-05-m0.u102	Mr. Prime Minister and Minister of Finance, I request you. Nevertheless, this table, which we are looking at today, is more like a compromise in order to seem to satisfy everyone's wishes, because almost every proposal by the national MPs is a government commission, that is, you will consider every line, every proposal that has been made. In fact, we're not discussing anything specifically with you today, we're just actually making a decision that's procedural without considering your suggestions. That's the first one. It's different. Dear Minister of Finance, you know that the Tax Committee is preparing a bill amending the Tax Code, where, for example, such revenue articles, I've already counted several billion, will disappear from your budget statement altogether. What will you do? This applies, for example, to the cost of special use of forest resources – 700 billion dollars for 2021. billions. It's an article on revenue, like the collection of jewelry and household products from precious metals for staining -- it's 300 billion dollars. Tell me, please, what are you going to do with the fact that we have the income section right now has nothing to do with what you're actually supposed to be planning? Why are you now in the budget that we're looking at in the draft budget, the value added tax on goods produced in Ukraine is increased by 55.1 billion compared to the secessionated budget, and when we talk about the 2020 budget, by 33.7 billion. Where are you going to get this money? You're saying that we're not in the best position with the economy right now, we're going to have a drop of up to 7 percent. And without any basis, you're planning to increase the economy by 4.6 or 4.7 percent next year. So most of the income articles aren't provided by the real state of the economy, and that's the biggest threat. Because now that we're talking about increasing spending, it's the right thing to do, but we need to understand what we're going to do. I'm not talking about the unreality of the budget deficit and the ability to borrow both internally and externally. Do we realize that even this year we still need to borrow how many to 200 billion? What real tools do we have? None. So I would ask for a second reading, let it be worse than this draft budget, but it has to be real. We have to live by a document that you can actually implement, and we as Ukrainian citizens need to know.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-05-m0.u103	Thank you. Eutusek Sergey Mikolaiovich. Ivanovich Krulko.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-05-m0.u104	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear fellow national MPs, distinguished Ukrainians who now hear us and watch us. Parliament is now considering a document called the Supreme Council's Resolution on the 2021 budget. In fact, Parliament gives its document to the Cabinet of Ministers that the Cabinet of Ministers, who is accountable and accountable to the Supreme Council, should make a budget preparation for the second reading. I would like to thank my colleagues from the Committee on Budgets for, in fact, the conclusions that the Supreme Council is voting today, we are giving the Cabinet of Ministers a very specific mandate on the realisation of the income part of the budget. Unwarranted borrowings. Regarding the direction that needs to be changed in the country today. First of all, it's social policy, it's pension insurance, it's salary payments to budgeters, it's all the things people expect from us today. And we expect the government to fix all these things before the second reading. I agree with the speakers who said today that we don't have to borrow that much from abroad, and we, as Fatherland, agree with that completely. The cost of implementing the budget is within the country. You have to reduce smuggling, you have to reduce these schemes, the fictitious tax schemes to the added value. Let me give you an example. During the work of the interim commission of inquiry, which was created in the Supreme Council for the initiatives of Yulia Timoshenko, we did a lot of things, but one thing we did when we changed the base of the tax box at the CMCOR base was a mistake. And now the budget was given in 2020 plus 29 billion dollars in four months. That's what we did with you. And here is Finance Minister Sergey Marchenko, who will confirm that the change in this error has led to the revenue of the budget. So once again, not in America, not in Europe, but in Ukraine, but with you. We have to start a real economy, support infrastructure projects in the country, and we have to stop the schemes, the corruption schemes that are eating the state today, and then the budget can be implemented. And social standards are going to be raised from where we can make real pensions that have to be equal to the minimum of living. And so those tasks given by the Budget Committee and the Parliament of the Government should be implemented for the second reading. And finally, for the first time in this session hall in the last five years, we will be able to adopt a truly balanced budget if the Cabinet of Ministers does what was said today in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-05-m0.u105	Thank you. Gnatenko Valeriy Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-05-m0.u106	Dear Chairman, the honourable ones are present! Today, the Supreme Council is considering a major financial document that awaits the entire nation, especially the socially unprotected ranks that are expected to improve their lives. What do we see? We see, not the State's development budget, but the death budget that we are all offered to accept today. What is the saying of "promising doesn't mean getting married"? That's why GDP is projected to grow by 4.6 percent in the budget. And no one cares that this year this rate has been declining by 6 to 8 percent since last year. What happens next year? I want to ask the Ministry of Finance what this budget project is going to offer us, what's this amount coming from next year? Where are they going to get a country that's not actually developing, that's where all the businesses actually started, that tax base that's going to grow next year? We move on and we see worse that in the 21st year, the least socially protected Ukrainians get nothing. Thus, the new social welfare budget provides 3.1 billion dollars. Sounds good. What if we divide into 169 thousand displaced persons who are now in the state, what do we see? We see only 1,528 dollars per person. And tell me, please, how can you survive on this amount to a displaced person who has lost his residence, his job, and much more? No less cynical situation with the social protection of the Chernobyl population. What do we see next year? There are 2.6 billion dollars in the budget, a total of 120 dollars a month. That's a lot of support from the state. Please answer all of us. For people with disabilities, the government has allocated as much as 2.2 billion dollars. This means that people with disabilities will receive a meager 916 dollars per person. How you can survive on such expenses, please answer all of us. What about the minimum pension? Since January 1, it has been increased by up to 57 bracelets and a living minimum by 73 bracelets. In addition, the 21st-year budget reduces the funding of subsidies, so both wages and pensions are not actually raised by the authorities. Please tell me, who needs this budget? In general, our party is proposing more than 200 amendments to the budget and is also proposing to adopt the draft budget that our party is proposing today. We've proposed and developed a 2.5 percent increase in GDP. This growth in GDP will provide an additional budget of at least 128 billion dollars. Simply put, it's an increase in living for all population groups, it's an increase of 30 billion dollars of income in the budget, and it's also compensation and it's an extra one.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-05-m0.u107	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we are moving to a vote. I hope that everyone understands the responsibility that lies both on us today and on the State as a whole, much has been said today by the representatives of various political factions and groups. This isn't really about politics. Dear colleagues, it's not a matter of politics, it's a matter of state welfare. I'd like to address the honourable officials. Mr. Secretary, first of all, Mr. Prime Minister, you're here. Work on the proposals that Parliament will make today to the government of the State, taking the needs of the people into account as much as possible. Because, in fact, as long as the national deputies spend with their constituents, no officials, well, objectively, do. I understand the local authorities. [[Applause]] The local authorities are also constantly in communication, but when we talk about central authority, it is the national MPs. So the big request to take this into account is going to depend on the budget vote in the second reading. Now let's get to the vote. Please be prepared. In accordance with article 157 of the Supreme Council's Rules, I am voting on the draft Budget Committee (registration number 4000-P) on conclusions and proposals for the draft Ukrainian State Budget Act 2021 for adoption as a basis. Ready to vote? Everybody ready? Please support and vote. [[13:34:46]] For 275 Decision taken. In accordance with article 157 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Rules of Procedure, I am voting on the draft Decree (registration number 4,000-P) on conclusions and proposals for the draft Ukrainian State Budget Act 2021 for adoption as a whole. Please support and vote. [[13:35:20]] For 275 Decision taken. Show me the factions, please. "People's Servant" – 209, "The Opposition Platform for Life" – 0, "European Solidarity" – 0, "Fatherhood" – 19, "For the Future" – 16, "Voice" – 0, "Trust" – 20 non-fractional – 11. Once again, thank you all for the responsible state position that has taken part. Let's move on to the next question of order of the day. The next issue of the agenda is the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation on the organization of individual detection issues (registration number 3450). It is suggested that this issue be considered in a simplified manner. Please support and vote. [[13:36:22]] For 226 Decision taken. The vice president of the Committee on Anticorruption Policy, Janchenko Galina Igorovna, is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-05-m0.u108	Good afternoon, dear fellows! Your opinion is proposed in Bill 3450 on the organization of individual issues for the protection of the rights of fugitives. The purpose of this bill is to increase the confidentiality of corruption detection agents. This bill was developed in cooperation with NAZK on the basis of an analysis of the legislation that you and I adopted a year ago. The analysis of legislation has shown that some changes are needed, so in this draft law, we propose to align two norms. The first rule applies to the following change. Today, current legislation obliges all state authorities to create secure anonymous channels of communication to report corruption. It's long, it's expensive and it's ineffective. According to NAZC, the number of such subjects to create portals is more than a thousand. Imagine, each of them has to create a separate portal, get the conclusions of the DZZI, KSZI, and so on, it's a crazy budget. So the bill proposes to create a single portal for corruption detection. There will be no need for government authorities to create separate anonymous message channels, as a rule, in each village separately. In addition, there is no draft text, but such a single channel can be created without the cost of the state budget. To date, NAZC has already held talks with international partners who are ready to provide technical assistance for the creation of such a portal, but it takes an appropriate vote of the Supreme Council to show that we are also interested in such a norm. As a result, we solve two problems: first, we provide complete anonymity to the discoverers, secondly, economically the budget. Another proposal from the NAZC bill is to have the responsibility of protecting the discoverers on a system of free legal aid as well as lawyers. So NAZK wants to take this function off them. In truth, as of today, NAZC has neither the resources nor the ability to perform this function, there are only four people working in the relevant department who cannot cover the needs of the whole of Ukraine. But this second norm, of course, is for discussion, and we can work on it in the process of preparing the bill for second reading. Thank you for your attention. And on behalf of the committee, I can only add that the anti-corruption committee recommended that the bill be adopted as a basis. The committee also decided that the draft law was in line with the requirements of anti-corruption legislation. Thank you for your attention, please support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-05-m0.u109	Thank you. Dear colleagues, do you need a discussion? Please sign up: two for, two for the factions. Eutusek Sergey Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-05-m0.u110	Please pass the word to Sergei Vlasenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-05-m0.u111	Vlasenko Sergei Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-05-m0.u112	Thank you, Mr. Head. It's been a year since this law was passed. Similarly, I stood on the rostrum of the Supreme Council and said that there were a great number of flaws and problems in this law. At that time, no one listened to me most of the time. Then they said, "No, no, no, faster, let's go, go, go, go, it's a very good law, it's not about whistleblowers, it's about whistleblowers," and so on. A year later, we came to the point that there are real problems in the law. Thank you for this conclusion to the professional anti-corruption committee that it took a year to guess that there are problems in the law. But these are problems that we are now asked to solve, and these problems are completely technical. If we're talking about the Offenders Act, the key problem is to define who is the Offender in accordance with this law. According to this law, any person who has heard something has actually learned something. While in the whole world, the European Union has the discoverer of the inside of the system and thus has learned about corruption — once, and has accurate information about such corruption — two. As long as we don't change the basics of the Offenders Act, unfortunately, no technical changes will solve anything. I understand that the Constitutional Court is in the way, the Martians are in the way, and someone else is in the way. Let's sit down and work on this law, taking into account the normal European approach, by deciding and correcting errors in basic things, not just in technical things that, a year later, have been brought to technical problems by an anti-corruption committee. Once again, if this is not done, unfortunately, it will either not work, or it will work distorted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-05-m0.u113	Fedina Sofia Romanovna. Sumar Victoria Petrovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-05-m0.u114	The absolute right now was Sergey Vlasenko, who reminded us a year ago that we all, the opposition factions, spoke in one voice about the fact that there were a lot of flaws in the law, and that in fact he would not work. At the time, the authorities said that it was simply an apologetic fight against corruption. Question in a year: Where are the discoverers, who knows them? There's another interesting rule about 10 percent of the bribe that was going to be received, that's going to be the one that was going to get it. Do you know a person like that at least one who's discovered something and got 10 percent? Well, that's actually what people are. Among yours, among our ranks is Geo Leros, who published very interesting films, many different ones, where there was specific corruption, where there were figures, 40 million bracelets and so forth. Well, no one's ever written it in a corruption finder. He was violated in a number of criminal cases. And those who have talked about 40 million dollars continue to sit in this room, protected by the integrity of the Attorney General of Ukraine. So, colleagues, you know, if we're constantly imitating the fight against corruption and talking about it so much, it's not going to change the essence of imitation. If you want to fight corruption, you have to do it, not correct unworkable laws. There is every possibility. We need to have just political will that is not in Ukraine’s leadership today.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-05-m0.u115	Thank you. Buzansky Maksim Arkadyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-05-m0.u116	Dear colleagues, I agree with the previous speaker. Who are the corrupters? 52 percent of those polled believe that the word corruptioner is associated with the person Peter Alexiyovich Dustyenko, and he is a corrupter, they think so. But where are these exhibitors? Where is the position of the faction "European Solidarity", which ignores what people say. Who discovered it? Nobody. Let's move on. There's a court verdict that's been declared corrupt by the Director of the National Anti-Corruption Agency of Mr. Sitnik. Where are the discoverers? There's a corrupter. There is a finding by the Constitutional Court that it has been appointed unconstitutional. Where are the discoverers? Where are those who say corruption cannot lead the National Anti-Corruption Bureau? Where are they all? Protect whom? I promise you protection and support. Where are the fire extinguishers? They're gone. It's all a fairy tale. It's a fairy tale. We're seeing how the so-called Grantoids are trying to build a fourth branch of power that will blackmail three existing ones that will parasiate them, that will receive grants to fight corruption. Yes, I support this bill. But we all know the names of the corrupters. First of all, it's Sitnik. And people think it's Dusty. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-05-m0.u117	The faction mentioned, Heratschenko of the EC. Irina Volodymyrna Heratchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-05-m0.u118	Dear colleagues, the Ukrainian people have clearly seen that an MP has been detained from the "ministers of the people" who took bribes. And now this MP is sitting among the "ministers of the people," and he's even taken off his bracelet, and we think that compensation for that kind of moral ivy stress is going to be given to him during the time of the fight against the corruption of Greensky's name. In fact, our faction is making an official request to the National Anti-Corruption Agency right now to provide official information on the cost of the Greens survey, which involved 30 million or 100 million dollars of Ukrainian tax payers, where the first issue was the fight against corruption. And in fact, all the Ukrainians said they were for fighting corruption. But we can see that on the second day after that poll, as Bogdan says, and this is a friend of Zelenski's, with the participation of the Green Constitutional Court, the decision was taken to cancel even this fight against corruption that was before. I mean, you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-05-m0.u119	Jaroslav Romanovich Jurchishin.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-05-m0.u120	Respectful colleagues, corrupters of corruption, should definitely be protected. Yesterday was the sad anniversary of the death of Catherine Gandzük. Do you know why she got beat up? It exposed the logging schemes of local feuds. And it's not really about politics, it's about protecting people. It's about people being able to go to NAZK on a secure system, especially if they're there, they're working in a company where they're built. In fact, we protect people, we strengthen them. Should we criticize hasty decision - making? Absolutely, yes. Is it worth building policies around the fight against corruption? Right, no. We need to be able to work with the structures. We now have the order of the day to return the mandate of the NAZC to work. And stopping this process is a crime. Let us not be his accomplices. But now we have to vote in favour of this bill, give additional powers of protection, and create a system that will guarantee security for the next Catherine Gandzük. And the finders need to be protected, not burning their cars, as it is now, for your office. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-05-m0.u121	Thank you. Now it's Suffritch, and we're voting. Please invite the national deputies to the hall in a minute. Nestor Ivanovich Šufrich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-05-m0.u122	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. Dear colleagues, don't be offended, or we'll be guilty again. We warned you a year ago that this law would not work? That's all the result of your turbot or the biturb thing you had there. We have a key question about the discoverers. Why when a person writes, a Ukrainian citizen is a private citizen, of the people you serve, writes a statement and realizes that he has a criminal responsibility if he writes a lie. Why are exposeers not responsible if they write something wrong or pronounce a person? That's the first question. The second question. Carthage must be destroyed. For a year now, I've been waiting for Carthage Corruption to be destroyed and Dusty to answer. And frankly, I want to be honest with you, we won't vote for irresponsible whistleblowers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-05-m0.u123	Let's go to the vote. Please take your seats and prepare for the vote. Dear colleagues, prepare for the vote, invite the national deputies to the hall. I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of a proposal by the Committee to take into account the proposed clarifications in the preparation for second reading, in accordance with article 116 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation on the organization of individual protection issues (registration number 3450). Ready to vote? Everybody ready? Please support and vote. [[13:51:53]] For 254 Decision taken. The next issue of the agenda is the bill amending articles 18-7 of the Ukrainian Law on State Aid to Families with Children to increase aid for children with severe diseases (registration number 2024). It is suggested that this issue be considered in a simplified manner. Please support and vote. [[13:52:34]] For 228 Decision taken. The National Deputy of Ukraine, Zimbaluk Mikhailovich, is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-05-m0.u124	Mikhailo Cimbaluk, Fatherland. Honorable Chairman, Honorable Presidium, Colleagues! Today we have already voted on a bill to support children whose parents died in Ukraine, about their free diet in preschools and schools. The bill is a proposal to support children who are sick. Sad statistics: More than 70,000 children in Ukraine today suffer from severe diseases. To provide social protection for such children, monthly subsistence allowance for those who have lost their jobs is now $1,712. Taking into account that the child’s subsistence minimum is on the average 49 percent to the projected actual minimum of living, such State aid does not allow the child to be provided with at least drugs and adequate food. Our bill, together with Julia Timoshenko and other national deputies, proposes to increase the amount of government assistance per month for severely ill children from one subsistence minimum for those who have lost their jobs to two subsistence minimums set for children of appropriate age. This will work for children with severe nervous system impressions, severe birth defects, cancers, oncogenic diseases, cerebral polio, severe mental disorders, and type 1 diabetes. We propose and ask all colleagues to support this bill in the first reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-05-m0.u125	Thank you. A member of the Committee on Humanities and Information Policy, Boblah Andry Rostislavovich, is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-05-m0.u126	Honorary Presidium, Honorary Colleagues, the Committee on Humanities and Information Policy reviewed Bill 2024 at its meeting on October 13, this year. As noted earlier, the bill deals with the state support of families with children with severe perinatal disorders of the nervous system, severe birth defects, rare orphan diseases, cancers, cancers, cancers, and other diseases. Today, parents of such children receive monthly assistance to those who have lost their jobs at a minimum of living. According to the Ministry of Social Policy, 691 people today receive such assistance. The bill proposes to increase the amount of such assistance to two living minimums set for children of appropriate age. The Committee certainly supports the need to improve the level of social protection for families with children with severe disabilities. At the same time, I agree with the conclusions of the Chief Scientific and Expert Office, the Ministry of Finance and the Committee on Budget Issues on the need for its technical and legal development, particularly in the area of implementation. Therefore, the committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council a bill of 2024 to be adopted as a basis. Please support the committee's decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-05-m0.u127	Thank you. Needed Discussion? Can we vote? [[B in m in s a l in]] Well, everybody's voting. Okay. Vote. Thank you. I'm betting on a motion for adoption on the basis of the draft Law on Amendments to Article 18 prime. The Ukrainian Law on State Aid to Families with Children on Increasing Aid for Children with Serious Diseases (Registration No. 2024). Ready to vote? Please be supportive. Wait. Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[13:57:21]] For 287 Decision taken. Thank you. The next issue is the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation implementing the Council of Europe Convention on the Protection of Children from Sexual Exploitation and Sexual Violence (registration No. 3055). It is suggested that this issue be considered in a simplified manner. Please support and vote. [[13:58:03]] For 226 Decision taken. The chairman of the Committee on the Law Protection of the Monastery, Denis Anatoliyovich, is invited to attend. And from the committee, and from the authors? Four minutes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-05-m0.u128	Good afternoon, dear fellows! Today, I'm presenting more than just a bill prepared by the authors of our committee, and today we need to discuss the problem for a much more serious reason: it's to protect children from sexual exploitation. Today, according to international organizations, Ukraine joins the world’s top-3 child pornography suppliers. Top-3! I mean, you and I understand that every fact that you put that photo, that video on the Internet, is the fact that you rape a child. In recent decades new measures and ways have been developed to produce and distribute child pornography, as well as to involve children in such activities. Do you know how many criminals it takes to get photos of intimate content from a child on the Internet? Again, according to experts, this is only 18 minutes of social networking. It's also a question about your children, about the children of every Ukrainian citizen. And again, unfortunately, Ukraine also has the head of three countries in the world that spread child pornography. So this bill that we're going to be discussing with you aims to combat this phenomenon. Not only with children’s pornography producers in Ukraine but also with those who use it. And that's one of the big problems, because without having to deal with it, with someone who's using child pornography, with someone who's accessing child pornography websites, and this is a clearly defined list of sites, we're not going to be able to deal effectively with this phenomenon. Today, also according to international organizations, 50 percent of child victims of Internet sexual violence are trying to commit suicide. When such crimes are investigated in criminal proceedings, they, children, face a fact called double victimization. What does that mean? First, they are interrogated by an investigator. examines how this happened, what details, and then repeats it repeatedly in court. And the child is worried about it. With the speed of our investigation, this is not a month, this child survives in a month, two, a year later, a few years later, again becomes a victim of the same cases. It's also a problem to remove these photos that get into the network. Because a child, you know, if that happened and the material about it got on the Internet, then it's impossible to figure out and remove it. Therefore, the bill provides for a number of amendments to the Criminal and Procedural Code. In particular, there is a responsibility for sexual activity with a person who has not reached the age of 16. This is the new article 155 of the Criminal Code. A new edition, sorry, of this article. Next. Harassment of a child for sexual purposes. This is the new article 156 prime 1. Aware of gaining access to, acquiring, possessing, producing or distributing child pornography. This is article 301-1.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-05-m0.u129	Thank you, Denise Anatolyovich. You didn't even make it in four minutes, that's how important this law is. Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss this bill? Is there a need? It doesn't, does it? Dear colleagues, please prepare for the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-05-m0.u130	Based on the base. I'm betting on the voting proposal for acceptance as a basis. Please invite people's deputies. Don't split up, see how the job's done. I am voting on the proposal to adopt the new draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislative acts implementing the Council of Europe Convention on the Protection of Children from Sexual Exploitation and Sexual Violence (registration No. 3055). Are you ready to vote? Gregory Mikolaiovich will now take his place of honor. Well, that's it, Mama, we can vote. Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[14:04:06]] For-286 Decision taken. Thank you, Your Honor. Dear colleagues, please don't break up. The next question is the draft Act amending the Law on the judiciary and status of judges and certain laws of Ukraine concerning the activities of the Supreme Court and judicial authorities (registration number 3711, 3711-1, 3711-2). It is suggested that this issue be considered in a simplified manner. But it's important that the committee's position is now. Please don't break up. For the summary procedure, please support and vote. [[14:04:58]] For 209 Decision taken. It is the Christmas of Valerius Vasilovich. Wait, I'll give the committee right now, he'll explain why. Don't split up.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-05-m0.u131	Dear Mr. Head! Dear colleagues! The Legal Policy Committee draft Act amending the Law on the Judiciary and Status of Judges and certain laws of Ukraine concerning the activities of the Supreme Court and judicial authorities (registration number 3711), submitted by the President and designated as urgent and alternative.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-05-m0.u132	Valeriy Vasilovich, I'm sorry I kicked your ass, let's do it essentially. What was proposed by the committee, we understand, but another proposal. Do I understand you correctly?
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-05-m0.u133	Dear colleagues, quite right, there is another suggestion. Taking into account the conclusion of the Venice Commission, which came quite recently with regard to the bill submitted by the President of Ukraine, and yesterday on the committee we were re-examined these issues, there is a proposal to send these bills for re-reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-05-m0.u134	Is there no objection? [[B in m in s a l in]] Discussion? All right. Then let's do it this way: per minute. One who insists on speaking, one minute at a time, and one vote at a time. Okay? Write it down: two in, two in, two in. Please have a seat, Valery Vasilovich. Juršin Jaroslav Romanović.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-05-m0.u135	We welcome a decision like this, let's say, turbulence, but it's important for the profile committee to take it and work on the bill. In fact, I don't know who put the judicial reform in the hands of the President. Let me remind you that the bill in the first version suggested that the Supreme Council of Justice be extended. It is the Supreme Council of Justice that is mentioned in the film of the Wolf. It was that High Council of Justice that blocked more than one judicial reform and allowed the judicial branch of power to be virtually nullified by the promotion of corruption and the failure of normal judges to work adequately. So the decision not to simulate work, but to really work and implement the recommendations of the Venice Commission is the right decision. Therefore, we welcome the decision to send for further work. Take into account all the recommendations of the Venice Commission, improve the work of the High Qualification Commission of Judges. Fill it with good members as a result of the competitive process and get quality judicial reform, not imitation. So actually, you have to go to work. The Voice faction will support it, because that was our offer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-05-m0.u136	Irina Volodymyrna's character.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-05-m0.u137	Dear Ukrainians, today is equal to the anniversary of the entry into force of the sad law of Zelensky, according to Zelensky's legal education and law degree regarding the so-called judicial reform. And then the opposition, particularly "European Solidarity," and among our deputies most of them have really legal education, shouted out that these Greens novels, they're not just destroying the Supreme Court of Ukraine, where today more than 40,000 claims of Ukrainians are pending, as the last instance, the right to justice. But in a similar way, the Green bill essentially prevents the possibility of re-election and appointment of new non-corruption judges. And, of course, it was obvious that these novices of his would receive the utter destructive criticism of the Venice Commission. But in "durb" people who also say that they have, as if they had legal education, adopted this law then. The goal was to put 100 percent of the prosecutor on the job, to put the D.B.I. on the job, and to make the Supreme Court, and the entire judicial system, entirely by hand. Obviously, the world did not accept it. But all of this, my friends, takes place in the background of the same effort to make the Constitutional Court pockety. So it's really not the bills that need to be worked out, but in general, it's Greensky's time to answer for what he's doing with reform. And I want to say that this is what his team is already talking about in the Ukrainian Truth interview, Bogdan testified that Zelensky was fully aware of what was going on with the Constitutional Court's decisions. This is his decision, his attempt to put himself in the service of the Constitutional Court, the Supreme Court.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-05-m0.u138	Black Dmitry Sergiyovich. Demchenko Sergey Alexiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-05-m0.u139	Thank you. Friends, enough political manipulation of the judicial system. That's it, that's it! True, it's been over a year. Today we're told to pass the law, tomorrow we're not to adopt. We had this law introduced in July of this year as an urgent one. How long has it been! After the introduction of this law as urgent, what happened? Without telling anyone, the chairman of the committee sent him to the Venice Commission, and he did not send two alternative bills to the Venice Commission. Why is that a question? Our committee sat down yesterday. We have decided to put it to a vote, there is an appropriate decision by the committee. Why do we today learn of another decision by the committee that it seems that I and the other committee members have decided to send him back for a second reading? Guys, enough politics. We need to put a dot in the judicial system, let them breathe. We cannot carry out a new reform with each new President. President Zelenski said that my cadence should be the point of judicial reform so that no new President would be able to look at this issue over and over again. I am firmly opposed to manipulating the committee's decisions, which is that they have not been taken. I ask the regulatory committee to note that the committee head has been violated twice, in fact twice, the Committee Act. The first time was when the powers were exceeded. The second time is when he's here. There was a decision that was allegedly made by the committee, but that's not true, it's not true. I'm a member of the committee. As long as I am a member of the committee, I will not be allowed to violate the law, even if it is against the law of a member of our faction. So, colleagues, I insist that this issue be considered, voted on. And if the Council does not support this bill, it has the right to return it to the first reading again. Thank you, colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-05-m0.u140	Coltunovich Alexander Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-05-m0.u141	Please pass the word to Germany, Vasil Ivanovich, Germany.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-05-m0.u142	Anatoly Semenovich? I can't hear you. German Vasil Ivanovich? Germano Vasil Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-05-m0.u143	Germano Vasil Ivanovich, "The Opposition Platform for Life". Dear colleagues, what we are doing today is all planned actions to discredit the judiciary. That's the first one. I mean, what's said here is how this bill was considered. Secondly, this is already in direct connection with the usurpation of power that our head of state has tried to do with the liquidation and the "cleaning" of Ukraine's constitutional jurisdiction and the intimidation of people. And, unfortunately, it was yesterday because of our representatives, who in the wrong way, in an unconstitutional way, resorted to intimidation by the judges of the Constitutional Court. This has good qualities – that's the first. It's 3711. See when he showed up. When the procedures for the establishment of the judicial system and the filling of the judicial corps were disrupted. They broke the V.S.C. It's July 19th, November 19th. And the last. When we talk about this bill, we should say the Supreme Council. I'll say, I was probably on a committee meeting, but what I heard for the first time. Maybe it's online. It's a lack of work online. I would ask very, very much, my fellow Members, to abide by the Rules, and this bill, as part of the introduction of foreign control over the judiciary, is a disgraceful phenomenon and undermines the sovereignty of the legal system.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-05-m0.u144	Vlasenko Sergei Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-05-m0.u145	Thank you, Mr. Head. One year back from this rostrum, when Bill 1008, we talked to you about, I'm talking to the majority right now, we were talking about that this law is unconstitutional, it's going to be repealed, that the Venice Commission is criticizing it. We were told: no, this is the rule of law, we have to vote for it. Then we got a slap from the Venice Commission, then this law was declared unconstitutional, but as a result, the Higher Qualification Commission of Judges has been working for a year. We have more than 2,000 vacancies in the judicial system that can't be filled today because the Higher Qualifications Commission of Judges doesn't work. We still have two Supreme Courts in our country: the Supreme Court and the Supreme Court of Ukraine. All these problems need to be solved and resolved in a professional way. Yes, indeed, there was no such decision, but this law must be sent to the committee for rereading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-05-m0.u146	Thank you, Your Honor. All those who wish to speak? Please prepare for the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-05-m0.u147	I'll tell you what the committee's decision is. Irina Volodymyrno, don't worry. Put on the mask, because it's the same. [[B in m in s a l in]] I'm on my way now, yeah. I know what you're doing. Dear colleagues, you have heard the committee's proposal. The committee's decision is a little different. I agreed to the proposal, which was made by the deputy chairman of the committee. But rules are rules. First, we make the decision that was made by the committee. If you please, we will not support and support the decision that was discussed by Mr. Christmas. And we're going to re-read it in order to re-produce the bill. No, there's no procedure here. [[B in m in s a l in]] That's right, it's the main one first. Don't interrupt me. It's going to be the main one first. If he does not get support, they will be alternatives. I'm voting on the committee's proposal. I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of a proposal by the committee to take into account the proposed clarifications in preparing for the second reading in accordance with article 116 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Rules of Procedure, the draft Act amending the Law on the Judiciary and Status of Judges and certain laws of Ukraine concerning the activities of the Supreme Court and judicial authorities (registration No. 3700). Ready to vote? [[B in m in s a l in]] Sorry, 3711. Sorry, 3711. Ready to vote. Ready? Please identify and vote. [[14:19:22]] For-22. The decision is not taken. I would like to vote on the proposal to return to the committee for the re-reading of the draft Act amending the Law on the judiciary and the status of judges and certain laws of Ukraine concerning the activities of the Supreme Court and the judiciary (registration No. 3711). Ready to vote? Ready. Please support and vote. [[14:20:09]] For 239. Decision taken. Thank you. Let's see the factions. Next question of the agenda. I understand from the procedure I asked the Gerasims. I'm out of procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-05-m0.u148	Mr. Chairman, honourable colleagues, as you know, this week we have postponed the consideration of Bill 3295, which concerns the support of small farming, which is now in the order of the day. And I have a big request for the presidency today, a big request to all the national MPs right now to consider this law, because it's really a very effective step in supporting small farming in Ukraine. The committee supports this position. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-05-m0.u149	I'm betting on the vote on Gerasimov's proposal. Ready to vote? Is there no objection? Can we just bear this question? Is there no objection? None. Then let's get down to business. Let's vote better so there's no questions later. I am voting on Gerasimov's proposal to change the order of today's plenary session to consider Bill 3295. Ready? Please support and vote for this proposal. [[14:22:17]] For 270. Decision taken. Thank you. The chairman of the Committee on Agricultural and Land Policy, Solski Mikola Tarasovic, is invited to the rostrum. Would you please tell me someone's insisting on their work? Yvchenko. How many bars? Give me a minute, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-05-m0.u150	Yvchenko, Fatherland. Colleagues, I'd like us to support this bill. What an innovation. First. We've made the only agricultural register where agrarians can voluntarily enter this register. That means now there will be no paper burden in the agrarians when they get state support. The other one. We've limited large corporations to 50 million dollars. You remember 2014, 2017, 2018, you got billions of corporations. Third. We gave primary priority to colleagues, small farmers, and middle farmers. So first, the money under this law is going to be small and medium and then only large. Next, colleagues, we have made reparations to manufacturers for the loss of crops as a result of emergency situations. I want to go to all the majors in the south to understand this is going to be possible next year on this program to invest money and compensate for the loss.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-05-m0.u151	Thank you. No, Vadim Evgenovich, you didn't present the papers, none of them did. Let's go to the vote. Let's do it, either by the Rules or not. No, it's not. I am voting on the proposal to adopt a second reading and, in general, with the necessary technical and legal regulations, the draft Law amending the Ukrainian Law on State Support for Agriculture of Ukraine and other laws of Ukraine on the functioning of the State Agrarian Register and the improvement of State support for agricultural producers (Registration No. 3295). 3295. Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[14:24:53]] For 281 Decision taken. The law was passed in general. Thank you. The next issue of the agenda is the draft Act amending article 47 prm. 1 Ukrainian Employment Act on partial unemployment assistance for the quarantine period established by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine to prevent the spread of particularly dangerous infectious diseases (registrations 3010, 3010-1). It is suggested that this issue be considered in a simplified manner. [[14:25:48]] For 217 Decision taken. Needed to Be Discussed? Can we vote? I'm betting on a motion for adoption on the basis of the draft Act amending article 47 pr. 1 The Employment Act of Ukraine on granting partial unemployment assistance for the period of quarantine established by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine to prevent the spread of particularly dangerous infectious diseases (registration No. 3010). Ready to vote? Ready? Please support and vote. [[14:26:40]] For 292 Decision taken. Thank you. The next issue is the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation on social protection of persons with disabilities (registrations 3780, 3780-1). Needed Discussion? Vote? I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation on social protection of persons with disabilities (registration number 3780). Ready? Please support and vote. [[14:27:28]] For 293 Decision taken. The next question is the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Compensation to Citizens for Loss of Part of Income due to Infringement of Their Payment Periods (Registration No. 3817). Needed Discussion? Should I? Come on. Then it is suggested that we consider the matter in a simplified manner. Please support and vote. [[14:28:11]] For 221 Decision taken. Deputy Minister of Social Policy Vitaly Volodymyrovich is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-05-m0.u152	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs! The draft Act amending the Act on compensation for the loss of part of their income due to a violation of their dues is proposed to establish a comprehensive list of citizens' cash incomes for which compensation is due because, according to an anti-corruption study of the law of Ukraine, the corresponding stated position in another in the relevant list leads to or may lead to corruption factors. The bill also specifies the provisions of the law on sources of compensation, since in accordance with Ukrainian Law No. 77, the Social Insurance Fund was established by merging the Social Insurance Fund from accidents in production and occupational diseases in Ukraine and the Social Insurance Fund with temporary loss of employment. The implementation of this law will not require additional public and local expenditure and will create transparent conditions for appropriate payments to citizens. Thank you and ask for your support.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-05-m0.u153	Thank you. The word is given to the author. The word is given to the Head of the Committee on Social Policy and Veterans’ Rights to the Third Party Galina Mikolayovni. Please, Galina Mikolayevna.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-05-m0.u154	Dear Chairman, distinguished national MPs! According to the committee that considered the bill on 2 September 2020, the adoption of the bill would allow for the removal of the corruption factor, which, according to anti-corruption expertise, is contained in section 2 of the Ukrainian Act on compensation for the loss of part of the income due to the violation of their pay-off periods. And it's actually in the absence of a clear list of citizens' cash incomes that are being compensated for breaking the deadlines. Taking into account the above-mentioned and results of the draft bill, the Committee on Social Policy and Veterans' Rights has decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a bill amending the Ukrainian Law on Compensation for the Loss of Part of Income due to the Infringement of Their Payments (Registration No. 3817) to include in the agenda and the outcome of the first reading. Request to support the committee's decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-05-m0.u155	Thank you, Galina Mikolayevna. Is there a need to discuss this bill? Please sign up: two in, two in. Please, Viatrowicz Vladimir Mihajlovich, faction of the political party "European Solidarity".
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-05-m0.u156	I'm asking you to give Paulie Rostislav a present.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-05-m0.u157	Please, Pavelka Rostislav.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-05-m0.u158	Thank you. Good afternoon, dear fellows! The bill seems to have a good purpose, but the instrument is chosen, to put it mildly questionable. The main change is that the word "others" is taken from the list of compensation payments. So we're going to have an exhaustive list, which narrows down virtually the maneuver. If, God forbid, after problems with the coronavirus, there will be other issues that will require rapid changes to legislation, other social benefits, we will have to make changes to the law. We're told that in order to avoid unnecessary disputes, we need to make such changes, but I'm sorry, I think there are other things that matter. For example, it would be possible to make a more perfect list, predict all events, and only then make such changes. That's why we don't consider "European solidarity" appropriate to support it. And, honourable colleagues, another question, but no less important. From open sources, from journalists' comments, we learn from experts' comments that tomorrow it appears that the issue of the Supreme Council's candidature to fill a vacancy with the Constitutional Court of Ukraine is being considered. A very interesting question is, where is the contest envisaged in the Ukrainian Constitution? Why do we learn this from sources other than the Constitution and the Rules? And that's why I'd like to get some explanation here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-05-m0.u159	Mealer Victor Nichiporovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-05-m0.u160	Please give it to Batenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-05-m0.u161	Batenko Taras Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-05-m0.u162	Our MP agrees with the previous speaker, who pointed out that the complete list is incomplete. We point out that, as stated in the explanatory note to the draft, the bill has been drafted in accordance with the recommendations of the Ukrainian Anti-Corruption Expertise on Compensation for Loss of Part of Income due to Infringement of Their Payment Periods, as adopted by the Supreme Council in 2000. So it took the government of Ukraine 20 years to work on this bill, to submit it to the Supreme Council, and as a result we see that this list of reasons for compensation is incomplete. That's why we think that this bill can only be supported on the basis of an extension to the second reading of the citizens' incomes for violating the payment periods for which compensation is made. Otherwise, I think we should send him out for work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-05-m0.u163	Slavic Antonina Kerimovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-05-m0.u164	Please give Koltunovich a word.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-05-m0.u165	Coltunovich Alexander Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-05-m0.u166	Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Head. In fact, we have drawn attention to a very important aspect, because the comprehensive list that exists today would, in principle, satisfy the draft law, but this term is different. He really requires us to work on the second reading and to provide a more complete list, which will make it impossible for certain categories of citizens and certain payments so that someone does not receive something. So from this point of view, well, I'm sorry. Now we will not be able to support this bill based on the circumstances. This time. One second. Today it sounded like there were a number of draft laws that dealt with some sort of social pay. We were looking at the budget today. You have to understand that in order to make social payments of any kind, we have to fill the income part of the budget. We can't do this exclusively on the basis of the National Bank issue, which is set up in the budget, all 45 billion dollars. We can't do that on account of the same 102 billion dollars that were said to be in the revenue line of the budget today. It's nonsense. We have to make, and all of these payments have to be made, including the Pension Fund to be filled with the payment of a single social contribution, from the calculation of taxes and the congregations that are from the companies that work. That's when we're going to have a healthy economic and, as a result, a social process. Because so far we've even got all our minimal powers to raise minimum fixed incomes, wages, pensions, unemployment and so on, and so on and so forth. We're going to face the fact that we're not going to be able to increase that limit. Just like we voted on children today to double the living minimum: from a thousand 700 to 3400. But this number has to be 13400, not 3400, it's not a small number. So again, economic preconditions must now be made to meet real social obligations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-05-m0.u167	Mikhail Mikhailovich Zimbaluk.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-05-m0.u168	Thank you. Mikhailo Cimbaluk, Fatherland. Honorable Chairman, Presidium, Colleagues! Dear government officials! In fact, we think the bill is necessary. There was a discussion on the committee, and we supported the government's initiative. But indeed, the representatives of several factions, the previous speakers, spoke clearly, and this is our position that the second reading should be followed up on the bill, because when government officials propose to take over and other payments, there are some serious things going on about compensation, such as losing partial health or other payments. How can I be? Earlier in the current norm, they might have compensated, but now the indexation does not specifically apply to such things, rather, to pay for the breach of payment periods. For example, there are amounts of damage to the physical person who is disabled, or other damage to the health that I have mentioned, as well as amounts paid to persons entitled to compensation in the event of loss of caregivers, in addition to the amount of payments made in accordance with the legislation on compulsory government insurance. The "Fatherland" faction proposes and supports voting as a basis, and for the second reading we will definitely work out and accept the whole document. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-05-m0.u169	All those who wish to speak? Please prepare for the vote, invite Ukrainian national deputies. Please invite the people's deputies to the hall. Ready to vote? I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on compensation for citizens' loss of part of their income due to violations of their payout terms. Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[14:40:11]] For 247 Decision taken. Thank you. The next issue of the agenda is the draft Act amending article 17 of the Ukrainian Act on Military Duty and Military Service to postpone the term of military service for certain categories of citizens (registration number 3689). No discussion. The committee proposes both on the basis and in general. There's no objection. I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Act amending article 17 of the Law on Military Duty and Military Service on the suspension of the term of military service of certain categories of citizens (registration number 3689). Please support and vote. [[14:41:09]] For 281 Decision taken. I am voting on the proposal for adoption in general with the necessary technical and legal regulations of the draft Law amending article 17 of the Law on Military Duty and Military Service on the suspension of the application for military service of certain categories of citizens (registration number 3689). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[14:41:47]] For 282 Decision taken. The next issue of the agenda is the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation on the organisation of professional (professional and technical education) activities with specific learning conditions (registration number 4139). Even without discussion? One minute, if I give, and still no discussion, the "ES" asks. Heratchenko is a minute, and we vote. No, then let's have a discussion. One minute, Heratschenko, and we're going to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-05-m0.u170	We're in charge of solving vocational and technical school issues. And so we expect from the majority that you will finally appoint a minister of profile who will present a bill and deal with the issue of financing vocational and technical schools, which remains unresolved today. And there's less pay than in the schools you promised 4,000 euros. But we demand that the Head of the Supreme Council give public information immediately, is it true that tomorrow, as a letter from Mr. Costin, the head of the Legal Committee, is asked to vote in favour of the judges of the Constitutional Court? Is that how you're compromised right now and constitutionally going to solve the constitutional crisis? When, without discussion, without a transparent commission, without any clear candidates for the post of judges of the Constitutional Court tomorrow are you going to vote on such matters again in the concerned areas?Oh, my God! We now demand that society provide this information. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-05-m0.u171	Come on, you're not gonna ask information when you vote for the law. We'll vote, and then I'll answer you. I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Act amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine concerning the organisation of the activity of professional (professional and technical education) institutions with specific learning conditions (registration No. 4137). Please support and vote. Thirty-nine, sorry, 4139. Please support and vote. [[14:44:13]] For 281 Decision taken. The committee's asking for it as a whole? I am betting on a motion for adoption in the whole of the draft Act amending certain legislative acts. In general, with technical and legal regulations, the draft Law amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine concerning the organisation of the activity of professional (professional and technical education) institutions with specific educational conditions (registration No. 4139). Please support and vote. [[14:44:59]] For 281 Decision taken. As for the committee. I think you should go to the committee, Irina Volodymyrically, first. As far as I know, all the contests were long gone. There is a proposal to consider ratifications now. I'll be, let's make sure they're not discussed, if that's all right. [[B in m in s a l in]] I am voting on the proposal for the adoption of the entire draft Law on the Ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of Montenegro on the International Carriage of Passengers and Goods by Road (Registration No. 0059). Is there no objection? Please support and vote. [[14:46:11]] For-286 Decision taken. Next question is 0061. I'll bet you a vote on that. [[B in m in s a l in]] 60, Belarus, they insist on discussion. We can come in, but then we can talk. I propose that we vote those who do not have a discussion, and we continue to watch. Is there no objection? I am voting on the proposal for the adoption of the Protocol between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the State of Qatar to amend and supplement the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the State of Qatar on Air Connection (Registration No. 0061). Please support and vote. [[14:47:09]] For 288 Decision taken. I am voting on the proposal for the adoption of the draft Law on the Ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Azerbaijan on the implementation of paid employment activities by members of families of members of diplomatic and consular officials (registration No. 0066). Please support and vote. [[14:47:45]] For 288 Decision taken. I am voting on the proposal for the adoption of the draft Law on Ratification of the Agreement on Cooperation between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Sovereign Military Order of the Hospitals of St. John of Jerusalem, Rhodes and Malta (register No. 0068). Please support and vote. [[14:48:24]] For 277 Decision taken. Which I welcome to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Next question. I am voting on the proposal for the adoption of the whole draft law on the withdrawal from the Agreement on the Implementation of Harmonized Antimonopoly Policy (registration No. 0053). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[14:49:04]] For 264 Decision taken. I am voting on the proposal for the adoption of a draft law on Ukraine's accession to the Inter-American Convention on Mutual Assistance in Criminal Matters and the Optional Protocol to the Inter-American Convention on Mutual Assistance in Criminal Matters (registration No. 0058). Please support and vote. [[14:49:42]] For 240 Decision taken. I am voting on the proposal for the adoption of the Protocol on the Ratification of the Protocol to the Statute of the Organization for Democracy and Economic Development (GUAM) as a whole. Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[14:50:19]] For 272 Decision taken. The next issue of agenda is the draft Act on Ukraine's accession to the Convention on the Establishment of the International Organization of Law Metrology. I'm betting on a motion for adoption in the whole bill (registration number 0067). Please support and vote. [[14:50:55]] For 283 Decision taken. Ratification for Belarus. Shall we come in? Discussed. Let's have a brief discussion. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, then I declare the plenary session of the Supreme Council closed. Thank you all.
