ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-15-m0.u1	Good afternoon, dear fellows! Good afternoon, media officials! It's good to see you all today. Please take your seats, prepare for registration.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-15-m0.u2	Dear colleagues, while Ukraine's national deputies are still coming along, I would like to welcome two of our colleagues with your permission. It's Marguerite's birthday. [[Applause]] And Dmitri Andriyovich Nataluha, I don't see him, but we'll say hello. [[Applause]] Well, he's a noun, he might be a little late. Success, achievement, victory, and always moving forward! Are you ready to register? Dear colleagues, I remind you that registration takes place by clicking on the green button is the first button on the left. Please don't confuse. Ready? Please register. [[10:13:40]] There are 249 Ukrainian national deputies registered in the hall. Dear colleagues, please invite the national deputies to the hall. Because we're going to have to vote on our work regime. I remind you that on the Conciliation Board, we agreed that we would continue to work in the mode in which we worked last plenary week. This is Tuesday and Thursday we work from 10 to 12, from 12 to 12:30 -- break, then until 3 p.m., until 3 p.m. We're working on a regular schedule on Wednesday. On Friday we work: in the morning, "the hour of questions to the government", after that, until the 12th plenary meeting, from 12 to 12:30, we work until the first, at the first, 30 minutes to read the queries, and then 30 minutes to the various. This was the offer of all the MP factions and groups. Is there no objection? Please prepare for the vote. Invite the national deputies to the hall. Ready to vote? Ready? I'll bet on the vote on the above-mentioned proposal. Please support and vote. [[10:15:41]] For 264 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, in accordance with article 25 of the Rules on Tuesday, we have 30 minutes to present statements by authorized representatives of the MPs and groups with proposals, announcements, and messages. Please sign up from the MP factions and groups. Vitatrovich Volodymyr Mihajlovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-15-m0.u3	Please pass the word to Oleg the Synyth. Oleg Sinyutzi.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-15-m0.u4	Blue Oleg Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-15-m0.u5	Dear Mr. Head, the distinguished national deputies of Ukraine! Never since the announcement of Ukraine's independence in this room has the word "deed" been so loud, and for the first time it sounds so cynical and harsh. And it's not just a covert betrayal of national interests, because it's about the so-called Wagnerian case, about professional killers, whose hands are the blood of Ukrainian soldiers, whose hands are the blood of Ukrainian civilians. As a result of the brilliant operation carried out by the Ukrainian Special Forces, these professional killers were to find themselves on the bench of defendants and answer to Ukrainian and international law. Sadly, though, a Russian canned bank broke down in power. And at this point only the creation of a temporary commission of inquiry within the walls of Parliament can place all the dots above "and." Society has no confidence in either its procurator or its friends, who are now in law enforcement. Only here in the Supreme Council by creating a temporary commission of inquiry can we get all the answers to the questions. Another example that is of great concern to society today is the possibility of amending the Local Elections Regulation. Dear "ministers of the people," don't do this for the Kremlin. Do not do so in the face of Ukrainian interests. Because it's not peace, it's surrender under the Kremlin. And that is why we demand an extraordinary session, a closed meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, at which we ask the President of Ukraine to report on the situation on the front, on the state of foreign and domestic politics. Mr. President, don't hide, do your constitutional and political duty! Dear colleagues, it is vital that the authorities stop lying and stealing. And to that end, there was no pressure on independent media. Once again, we urge you to stop the pressure on the "Primary" channel. Stop taking the license on this channel. Dear colleagues, there will be a large meeting of entrepreneurs to defend their rights tomorrow. We demand: don't kill the economy, don't kill entrepreneurs. Please return to the entrepreneurs the rights you took from them in this session hall, because business today is on the verge of survival. These questions are question number one, which the Ukrainian Parliament should consider.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-15-m0.u6	The word is given to the national MP, Polakov Anton Eduardoovich. Batenko Taras Ivanovich, please, MP's Party for the Future.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-15-m0.u7	Dear Dmitre Alexanderovich, distinguished colleagues, dear friends! We recall that on September 13, Ukraine honored the woeful day of the Ukrainians ’ memory. On this day we remembered and mentioned victims, Ukrainians, who were victims of forced evictions from Ukrainian ethnic territories in Poland, from Lemkowščina, Nadsenje, Holmščina, South Podlšća, Lubovovščina, Western Boykovščina in 1944-1951. But more importantly, the "For the Future Party" MPs call for immediate removal to the session hall and review the draft law on the recognition of deported Ukrainian citizens who were forcibly evicted from the territory of the Republic of Poland. The victims of Operation Vistula are getting less and less, and it is our duty to keep them in mind and give them worthy support. Friends, we also want to point out that the complex budget process we are entering today should be kept in mind of unprotected Ukrainians who are engaged in entrepreneurial activities. These are tens of thousands of FOPs that are now in Ukraine and feel fiscal pressure. So in order to relieve the tension in society and to promote small business development, we call for a session hall, the head of Parliament, all the factions, to look at the profile committee first, and then in the session hall, drafts 3853-1, 3853-2, and 3993 on reducing fiscal barriers to small business. Tomorrow the representatives of the FOP will be under the walls of Parliament, and we will hear their demands. The key is for Parliament to hear and support them. The introduction in the turbines of most accounting registers (ROs) for small businesses, contrary to the authorities' claim, rather than promoting business out of the shadows, in fact only leads to the immigration of business from Ukraine and the further Tinning of entrepreneurship. So we call for immediate consideration of these bills. And the budget. The giant budget deficit of 270 billion is 6 percent of GDP. Under acceptable normal conditions, 3 percent of GDP. If we don't put an end to high corruption, our ordinary citizens are facing even more difficult times and middle class and business in general than we feel today. And one simple pierre, such as "The Great Building", is not going to save us. And one more thing. Honorable majority representatives and majority leaders, do not play public opinion polls for the Central Election Commission. Would you like to hold a referendum? Have a referendum. What doesn't stick doesn't have to be shoved in. So our MP faction will strongly protest against such attempts at manipulation by public consciousness, by public opinion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-15-m0.u8	The word is given to the national deputy Black Viktor Ivanovich. Excuse me. Rabbi Vadim Zinovovich, faction of the political party "The Opposition Platform for Life".
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-15-m0.u9	Ladies and gentlemen, right now I am not addressing you as representatives of one faction or another, not for political belonging or views, I am addressing you as citizens of the Ukrainian state. Today we are in a difficult economic situation, which, apart from many officials, is exacerbated by the distribution of the Coronavirus and the absolute stupidity of a government that simply cannot rule the country at such an extreme time. We cannot sit around and just watch what is happening and are obliged to help our people today. So today I came to you with this offer. Until the situation stabilizes, stop any payments for external debt, and they're unprecedented. And ask our creditors not to ask us to pay off our debts for at least a period until we change the government and save the situation. This is vital for our people to endure in any way. I draw your attention to the fact that, during this difficult period, the governments of many countries of the world are supporting their citizens with money. Government officials are doing everything they can to keep their citizens alive, to survive. How do we help the Ukrainian people, how? The government takes the last money from people and lets them pay off their debts to external creditors. Ladies and gentlemen, I am addressing you on behalf of those who are no longer able to feed their families. We can no longer carry on our shoulders the crazy economic policy of the post-mechanical period. So let's do it today, now we're going to make the only right decision, and we're going to give people at least a year so that they can come to their senses so they can just get off their knees a little bit and stop being afraid of tomorrow. If we stop for at least one year from paying off the government’s external loans, we will be able to add more than a thousand dollars to each Ukrainian family today. It's real now. And one more thing. A scandalous law that will block the mouth and the media is still being put into the session hall. And the green buttons promised not to do that. I remind you, this law aims at the following: you will kill the country, and you will not be allowed to talk about it, you will have the right to make a mistake, and you will not be able to say it. You promised a lot of things at all. Do it, do something! Yeah, you made us together once, but it won't happen again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-15-m0.u10	The word is given to National Deputy Sowsun Inni Romanovni, faction of the political party "The Voice".
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-15-m0.u11	Dear colleagues! You know, there are two wars in the country: one in the east where boys die every day at the hands of Russian invaders and the other in the middle. And we have a second war with corruption. I'm now addressing our majority because you know why you came to power. You came to power because they were stealing. They voted for you because they stole and they all saw it. You promised to plant, you didn't plant anyone. Rotterdam's closed. The country is just sitting in the painting. Everyone remembers, don't they, "Swinnerchucks"? So I feel like every president should have his own piggyback. But, you know, the venerable majority of us, you're already turning the country into a pig farm. I'm sorry, but when we see people getting top positions: Godfathers, saints, brothers, or if you and someone sitting on a pot next to you in a kindergarten, you can run the country now -- that's what's killing us from the inside, and that's worse now the Russian invaders who are standing in the east. You know, we've all seen the words about how we appointed a TCC leader. And I'll tell you something else. Do you know who we have, for example, the governor of the Winnitz region? This is your deputy's husband from the Servant of the People. It must be a great honor to be a man and therefore become a governor. But perhaps few of you know that he was the head of DUS, the state administration of the Dustenkov business. And then there were investigations into corruption, about how he wrote his own apartment in Kiev at 190 square feet and privatized it. And now you're this man, those corrupts you were supposed to be planting, you're assigning them to top positions, they're governors now, they're ministers now. Please tell me, don't you think the responsibility for killing the country from the inside lies with you now? You know, the biggest problem right now is that what you're doing from the inside will be used by Russia. The Russians, swinging from the inside and making the country weak, will then take advantage of it and come to power. Now all the laws you're making, or all the decisions of the courts that are now being taken by your run-in courts, everything is being done to make Ukraine lose its train. You appoint corrupters, you vote laws. You now have your own roséblades, against which people voted, sitting there, and now they're sitting here. You know, we've seen some kind of weak statement. But, excuse me, where is your Attorney General? Okay, they had their best man, and where's your Attorney General? Where is this person who's supposed to be standing here because we've all taken down the MP's immunity, and show us why your deputies who took bribes should be sitting behind bars right now? If you don't do it now, you'll destroy the country from the inside and Russia will come here, and it'll be on your hands.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-15-m0.u12	National Deputy Sobolev Sergey Vladislavovich, faction of the Political Party of the All-Ukrainian Union of Fathers.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-15-m0.u13	Dear colleagues, the situation is really critical. You can see that in these days, small businesses, which are almost 5.5 million workers in Ukraine who have not gone to the labor market, and who have created jobs with their own hands, are going to protest. Our inconvenient decision, which actually destroys small businesses, should be corrected immediately. We've got months left. Since January 1st, the legal framework that actually cleanses the FOP completely becomes the norm. Our "Fatherland" faction requires an immediate review of the package of laws that are introduced into the session hall, which are on the profile committee, which yesterday focused on this package of laws that practically represent all factions -- those are laws that really help survive this small business. But this is not the only problem that concerns us. It's the same story with big state-owned businesses. For the second year, I have been raising questions about the deliberate bankruptcy of state ports. The port of Berdjan, the flag of the Azov Sea, which, along with the port of Mariupol, was able to grow during the leadership, the new leaders, under the conditions of military action, under the conditions of the shooting of Mariupol, under the conditions of the port of Ilovia and Debaltsev, were able to raise these ports — Ilyin Mikola Ivanovich, who was budgeting along with a group of half a billion dollars. After their release, these ports are proven "to the pen." I don't want this Parliament and this President to be the "baskets" of Ukrainian ports, which is exactly what it looks like. The last meeting of porters in Berdjansk, the final reduction is 500 people out of 800, and the port is final. And at that time, there are commercial structures that sit in offshore jurisdiction and don't pay taxes to the state of Ukraine, but they do so-called "trafficking." I have a big request, if we don't realize today that those who are both state-owned enterprises and big businesses, and above all small entrepreneurs who are "bearing golden eggs", will be destroyed by our decisions, the state will have the most serious problems in the next year and so difficult. I'm asking you to pay attention to that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-15-m0.u14	The word is given to the national deputy Shahov Sergey Volodymyrovich, the MP's "Trust". Oh, I'm sorry. Kulinich Oleg Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-15-m0.u15	Good afternoon, dear colleagues. Oleg Kulinich, trust MP. Dear Mr. Head, distinguished voters! The daily statistics on COVID-19 disease, unfortunately, confirm the sad statistics and the possibility of a new wave of pandemic. But what I'd like to say is another very important problem that is extremely relevant today is seasonal disease. Social workers remain particularly vulnerable to infectious cold diseases. They are people who communicate directly with people, communicate with the population, and with people of just different ages and social groups. Social workers in quarantine make sure that the elderly, the disabled, other vulnerable groups receive all the social assistance they need. So they, like the medics, are in these extremely difficult conditions, too, and we should not forget that. According to the State, the number of social workers is 825 thousand. In the Poltava region, for example, there are 33,000 regular social workers. In the Winnitz region, it's about the same number. If we're talking about Zakarpathy, that's 22,000 people. They provide food, medicine, other goods for the elderly, and people with disabilities with help in paying bills, preparing meals, doing virtually all the work, and maintaining their vitality. And whether social workers are willing to do their job during seasonal illness depends on their health. So the main function and the task of the state is to protect them. And the most effective way to prevent flu and acute respiratory diseases is through vaccination. Our trust group has always been asked to take measures to prevent influenza and acute respiratory diseases and to vaccinate social workers throughout Ukraine. Personally, I was asked by the head of the Social Protection Department of the Poltava District Administration, Ludmila Kornienko. The Trust MP Group has sent an appropriate request to the Cabinet of Ministers to take the necessary anti-epidemic measures and to inoculate social workers in the areas. Therefore, I would like to urge the Prime Minister of Ukraine to take this issue under personal control, to give a mandate to the Ministry of Education urgently to take the necessary measures, because the Influenza and HWI season has, unfortunately, already begun. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-15-m0.u16	The word is given to the People's Deputy Oleni Volodymyrni, a faction of the political party "Serve of the People".
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-15-m0.u17	Helen's crooked, Curved Rig. Honorable Presidium, Honorable Colleagues, Honorable People of Ukraine! For the time being, there are about 200 employees of the Crevice iron combination in Bloody Rose underground yesterday. We fully support the fair demands of miners to raise their wages, and we call upon the owners to do so. For more than a week, Yuri Koravchenkov and I communicated with both the company’s administration and the miners, both on the surface and underground, in the mine. Therefore, we feel that we can give an objective assessment of these events. First, I would like to focus not only on the meager wages of miners, but also on working conditions that do not meet any standards. This issue needs to be addressed immediately, for it is the life and health of the people. Second, today the owners of the enterprise are hiding behind the community, hiding behind the responsibilities of the head of the government. We urge you to engage in a constructive dialogue with the labor community. And the third. Regrettably, some of the political forces who are present and present in the hall and whose representatives are in place are using this terrible situation to raise their ratings, speculate on the subject of protest, and manipulate people’s moods. It's shameful and rude. It can't be. I'd like to ask such representatives a question. Do you know the consequences for people’s life and health? Is there a catch on that? And a cheap pianist, not for Kryubas, remember. Yuri Koravchenkov and I started a dialogue between the administration and the members of the labor team. A few days before that, there were only mutual accusations. And we insist on continuing it, but under normal conditions, without endangering the lives and health of miners. Once again, we fully support the fair demands of miners. We ask the Ukrainian trade unions to use all the legal resources available to solve the problems of Krivbasu miners.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-15-m0.u18	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-15-m0.u19	Dear colleagues, can I have your attention for a moment? Please invite the people's deputies into the hall. Yesterday at the Conciliation Council, several MP factions and groups were asked to invite the Attorney General of Ukraine to the Supreme Council of Ukraine to inform the distinguished National Deputies about the state of affairs currently under consideration in this important body and on general issues of the activities of the Attorney General's Office, the Office of the Attorney General of Ukraine. I'm asking the people's deputies to come into the hall right now. It is now proposed to vote on the Change Order to the Order of the Day Session. We will then give the floor to the Attorney General of Ukraine. The following rules are proposed: within 20 minutes, speeches, and then within 21 minutes, questions to the Attorney General, minutes to question, two minutes to answer. Is there no objection? None. At the same time, I'll inform you immediately. A statement came from two MP factions about a real break. We'll do it after the Attorney General's speech. At this meeting, I understand, we are asked to invite, Ruslan Alexiyovich, to invite the heads of the MP factions. A real break with the meeting? Then, when the break is announced, I ask the heads of the MP factions and groups to meet in my office. Please prepare for the vote. Dear colleagues, you have been invited to consider the draft Order to make changes to the agenda of the fourth session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the ninth call. I am voting on the proposal for the adoption of the entire draft Order amending the agenda of the fourth session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the ninth call (registration No. 3050a-1). Please take your seats, prepare for the vote. Invite the national deputies to the hall, I would like to stress again. Ready to vote? Please take your seats. Prepare to vote. Dear colleagues, I am voting on the proposal for the adoption of an entire draft Order amending the agenda of the fourth session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the ninth call (registration No. 3050a-2). Ready? Now, someone else hasn't finished the coffee. Please support and vote. [[10:43:56]] For 216 The decision is not taken. The Attorney General of Ukraine, Irina Valentinovna Vendiktova, is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-15-m0.u20	Dear countrymen, dear Ukrainians, Mr. Head, Vice Speakers, good afternoon to all of you! It's so good to see you. And today I'm here by no means in this room. We have a critical mass of events piled up with you, and we can't help but talk to you. I don't think you or I are going to hide their heads in the sand. I suggest that you take the extra questions out of the way. I understand that you haven't prepared for this conversation today, and maybe it's for the best. My colleagues at the Attorney General's Office have now come a hard way when you make complicated and unpopular decisions, you automatically start collecting powerful, smart, rich, talented, but not friends — enemies. And I think that's how some people in this room feel about me personally. In fact, the district attorney’s offices have literally been running for days. And I've had a lot of talk with you about a husband, a sister-in-law, a son-in-law, a brother-in-law, a best man is not a criterion for being a prosecutor in this state. You know, and some of us don't hear that sifting me out of any floor doesn't work, buying the impossible, scaring me didn't work out before, and now it won't work. There hasn't been much media blackmail or fair show rallying. I've done a lot of things in this country for the first time. And I want to point out that we started with you on the committee that I led from the removal of parliamentary immunity. It was just as difficult. And now it's not easy for us to get the Attorney General's Office out of hypnotic anabiosis and translate Facebook into a real processual plane. With all due respect to the audience here in this room, I have no difference between people. I will help protect any person, but I will also help send anyone away for playing if there are sufficient grounds and evidence of crime. You and I are witnessing scandals when the materials of the pretrial investigation simply merge with some MPs or with the media. I've come to tell you specifically what's going on. We all remember the supermedia case NABU and SAP based on OASK film. It's been more than three months since the suspect was reported. As was pointed out at the time, Venedict’s block was blocked. There's even been a media release with the "splits" of prosecutors. What's next? The trouble of disposing of the courts was sent to the SAP by me after the SAP prosecutor's report, with a report that I asked myself. I still don't have the stuff on my desk. I want to emphasize that when we talk about arrests, about going out to play people with special status, and the judges, you like some judges, you don't like some judge, but there's some status and court guarantees. Therefore, the question of arrests and the departure of such things, without the materials of guidance, is impossible. I want to say that I'm not going to let "scrap" in this country because then somehow, it can touch anyone. No less loud was the story of Bachmathuk. And I want to say that the Attorney General's Office has done just as well. For those who do not remember, I will refresh them briefly. We have been criticized for the fact that the Attorney General’s Office carried out a court decision and overturned the decision of the prosecutor - general’s previous deputy. And just a minute later, aware of the investigation agencies, the carefree citizens have announced on every side that the GTR's leadership has taken on some millions of bribes. In some difficult place, the languages of these people came to light when the Attorney General's Office executed both the U.S. Attorney-General's approval and the previous ruling was overturned. Friends, the decisions of our courts are not children's notes, they're all written in the name of the law, and we can't divide the courts into correct and wrong. No one has given us the right to react selectively to court decisions using social networking. Again, what's going on in this case? And then there's silence. Because a few weeks does not come to the next procedural conclusion. And now directly what I came here for. And it's probably wrong in terms of criminal justice, but I'm sure it's absolutely right in terms of respect for MPs and respect for citizens. I'm not going to hide, I'm not going to participate in one or more actors. I'm the Attorney General, not the barker. I'd like to take a brief look at the hall. I can disappoint you colleagues, former colleagues, but in fact there are several cases in this country, investigations on many nationals. And the outcome of these investigations will be that we will either come to legal procedural decisions or not. I'm not the first to inform you about the circumstances that you've been reading on the media for the last two days. And I think it's wrong and wrong to speak in that way. Maybe it's anybody's impression that the Attorney General is trying to protect someone, someone's trying to turn it off -- absolutely not. I mean, I won't cover anyone. If there is a pattern of crime and this pattern of crime is proved, a specific MP with a specific name will be called to account. But for me, I can call it a nickname because it's a jurchenko is a national MP, and again, I say a person with a special procedural status. I respect each and every one of you, and I'm here to protect the idea of parliamentaryism. I won't allow unreasonable events to come to the Supreme Council, directly to this room, directly to the institution. But if there's a reason, I'll have enough evidence, I'll take it directly, I have the courage to make responsible decisions. What is there, doubts that arise? It seems to me that, as the Attorney General, before signing a suspicion made up of the Attorney General himself, not the D.B.I., not the N.A.U.B. detectives, but the Attorney General himself, on the basis of the materials of conduct, I have to have objective information to prove. It's time, place, way of discussing a deputy and assistant to getting an improper benefit; time, place, way of instructing a deputy to take any action aimed at making arrangements with the applicant. The only actual circumstances that I know about today, which I can call proven, are the fact that we are discussing changes to legislation, the adoption of proposals prepared by the applicant, the change in law, the promise of nardep to pass them on to the lawyers. Is it possible to ask questions about the charge of nardep for the above facts at the present stage of the investigation? In my opinion, without establishing the use of a position of service to obtain an improper advantage, the fact that there is an improper advantage to inform anyone about the commission of such a service crime is impossible. And the materials that I have been given today do not contain such information. So I want to report that yesterday I received a letter from the NABU leadership, the letter itself -- whether you sign the suspect, or a draft of the suspect, without any criminal record at 17:20. A letter and a draft, that's all. Once again, we are carefully prepared, the SAP procurators, I personally, to study the materials of criminal conduct, to process these collected materials. If necessary, give additional direction on what needs to be done. And if there's enough reason to report the suspicion, I'll do it and let you know. My colleagues, I understand that we've already made this decision with you and I don't have to come to the General Prosecutor's Hall anymore, and talk to the MPs about it. We've taken the MP's touch. But I'm here today to say that we're not going to cover anyone without looking at the colors of political parties, regardless of the possibilities in government offices. But both manipulating and stifling and talking to you about the criminal conduct that is prescribed in the media, colleagues, it's not civilized, it's wrong, it shouldn't be. So I'm going to answer all of your questions right now. And I'm taking this opportunity, and I have time, and I want to talk to you about SAP. I know that today the Committee of Law will be discussing candidates. Colleagues, it is very important that the selection committee of the Attorney General's Deputy Attorney-General, the Head of the SAP, also work with your candidates. So I ask you, very carefully to come to the selection of candidates and give them to us. Because you know we're following the schedule and now, because the MP Corps can't be determined, we can't start the competition. We're going to run it and that commission that there is. But we have a parliamentary republic, a parliamentary-presidential republic and it's very unpleasant that it's going to be such an important competition for our country, and believe me, the head of the SAP for today's post is not below the Attorney General's office, you're going to feel it. Let us select the head of the SAP, the Deputy Attorney General. My colleagues, I thank you all very much and I am happy to answer everyone's questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-15-m0.u21	Thank you, Irina Valentine's Day. Ladies and gentlemen, please register with the MPs and groups for questions. I remind you: one minute -- to ask, two minutes -- to answer a question. After that, after the questions to the Attorney General, please gather in the hall, we will have to vote on the order of the day session. Polakov Anton Eduardoovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-15-m0.u22	Your Honor, the Attorney General! You say you're not hiding from anyone, but I've already asked you a written question when I can meet you, and they said that if anything, it's like that. The first question I have about my question to ask you is about the raiding of the state-owned firm "Ivkowci Research Farm", in which, according to the criminal conduct of the open, the mixed MPs of the pro-dominant faction "Serve of the People" members of the respective agrarian committee, I will not call the name, but you don't want it. And the second question is about one MP as well. The case is already before the court, and I have repeatedly addressed you, or the prosecutors are either not in court, or the department responsible for the case is being formed before you, not Rybosapca, who also covered it. And two billion dollars can't somehow get back to execution. This case is already in court, why isn't anything done yet? Why are you sabotaging this case?
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-15-m0.u23	Mr. Polakov, Friday 2 p.m. suits you? I invite you to meet with the Attorney General. What we have to say about the cases that are in court is that we have enough to talk about each one. If you are comfortable, share material that is specific. Leaders will be present at the meeting with us, and you will receive the answers that can be obtained.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-15-m0.u24	Shahov Sergei Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-15-m0.u25	Dear Irina Valentinovna, thank you for changing the prosecutor in the Luhansk region. I think he's going to pay attention to 120 criminal conducts that were registered by our group. And there was also Sergey Samarski, who was killed three years ago, and the robbery of a billion dollars in the city of Severodoneck and also in Lysichansk and all factories. The next question. The governor in charge today, the head of the Luhansk region military and civilian administrations, who bought 7 million dollars of property in an accident in Kremenny, could buy 10 homes for the displaced and would normally increase people. So in the state where the house is located, there is no way to repair it. Please note, however, the criminal conduct that has also been violated by our group and investigate and bring it to the right conclusion in the field of law enforcement. And also in Smolyanino, people burned alive, the forest burned, and no one was punished. Also involved is the governor of the Luhansk region.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-15-m0.u26	Thank you for asking. In fact, there is more than one crime scene. I'm not sure I can report something to keep track of the possibilities, but you know they've been going on for a long time, I think we'll get to the logical results. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-15-m0.u27	Oddzuk Andri Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-15-m0.u28	Please, Ustiny Alexander.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-15-m0.u29	Ustenova Alexander Yuriyevna.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-15-m0.u30	Good afternoon. You know, I was surprised to hear the Attorney General say that you're going to help send someone away. I would like to remind you that in this country, the court is currently in office. And the only people who are being sent to jail right now are you, and the prosecutor's office are volunteers. And when I look at how you're standing here and you're talking about that you don't have enough evidence to prove that a national MP can get a suspicion that he was making a deal for money and you've had enough left-wing evidence gathered by the Ministry of Internal Affairs on volunteers, it's strange to me. And now you're taking over the court and you're making the deputies untouchable, and you're putting all the other volunteers and the military behind bars. I have a specific question for you. What would be sufficient evidence to suggest that he would buy a villa for this money to make you suspect? And the second question is on Rotterdam, where 18 billion damages. Will you cancel the prosecutor's decision to close the case? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-15-m0.u31	Madam National Deputy Ustinova, in your first part, you were able to contradict yourself several times. If there is no prosecutor behind bars, how do we send volunteers for bars? We have a court of law for this. Then let us be consistent and understand that in criminal proceedings, every law enforcement body and every judicial body are clearly performing their function. The second question that you have asked. I want to say directly that you know what is going on here. To ask questions about when and how you will inform someone and to whom, when you report them, I also want to answer: In a clearly defined manner. What exactly is the amount of money you're talking about right now? No money found. We realized that it was not possible to determine whether it was money or a copycat. That's why I understand that getting caught on a case is an opportunity for deputies, but the Attorney General and other prosecutors can't afford whatever we want. We remain in the process. And right now, I'm trying to keep track of the possibilities that both the detectives have, and the SAP prosecutors, and I have. And I don't want to tell you the details that I can't hide any worse than someone else.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-15-m0.u32	Please, National Deputy Sobolev Sergey Vladislavovich, faction of the political party of the All-Ukrainian Union of Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-15-m0.u33	Your Honor, the Attorney General! You know, the practice of the Attorney General's Office quite often, as it's called, the Attorney General's Office or otherwise, has been used to reconcile political accounts with opponents. So first of all, I don't even have a question, I have a wish. By no means will the Attorney General’s Office be allowed to involve the prosecutors or prosecutors on the scene, for ordinary citizens continue to suffer. When you, the Minister of Interior and the entire force unit represented the Governor of Zaporozhye region, were announced six criminal organized groups in Zaporozhye region. I have repeatedly addressed you as well. I am very grateful that they changed prosecutors who unfortunately failed the previous case regarding one of the most resonant criminal groups in Anisima. But I have one request: not to get involved in political divisions, or else the matter will suffer.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-15-m0.u34	Thank you. I feel like the last six months I've been proving every day that I'm not involved in political processes. As far as Ansimov is concerned, you know what we do to keep the matter afloat. And as for "Sarmatu," you see that a group of prosecutors are as strong as they are. So, colleagues, I'm trying to keep everything going in the regions, because regional criminal justice is no less important, absolutely right. There are violent incidents that happen in cities, and we're talking about things that don't matter except political emphasis. So I personally promise you that what I came here with is not selling a case, not selling a place in the D.A.'s office, and that's what I've been doing for six months. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-15-m0.u35	The word is given to national deputy Kachuri Alexandr Anatolyyevich, faction of the political party "Slut of the People".
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-15-m0.u36	Dear Irina Valentinovna, we thank you for your first position. You use both support and respect in the walls of Parliament. And we have the hope, first of all, that you're implementing the question of justice, which is the greatest right now in society. That's right, about justice. The former national deputy, David Zwania, is no longer the first day to publish videos that he accuses, confesses himself to be the criminal and criminal of former President Peter Alexiovich Prashenko. Please tell me, was Zwania questioned? At what process stage is the investigation now? Is there a legal assessment of all these statements and accusations, as well as the recognition of yourself as a member of Mr. Zwania’s criminal group? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-15-m0.u37	Thank you. Colleagues, what I started with, I don't want to participate in one or more actors' theaters. When Mr. Zwania first appeared, we sent him messages. He's not in the country. Have Mr. Zwania come to Ukraine, and we will gladly question him as provided for in the Criminal Procedure Code. And making videos, turning around and crying that nobody's missing out on, come, let's ask, you'll have enough attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-15-m0.u38	The word is given to the national deputy of Gnatenka Valeri Sergiyovich, the faction of the political party "The Opposition Platform for Life".
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-15-m0.u39	May I have the floor to Mother Gregory?
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-15-m0.u40	Please give Mother Grigory Mikolayovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-15-m0.u41	Your Honor Attorney General, I won't be long. The presentation was spontaneous and unprepared for questions. I want to prove that all the national MPs already know that the NAB and the SAP are in the process of documenting the national MPs through the National Deputies. That's even the criminal conduct you called. I have a question. If there was an assistant national deputy in a bribe, I don't know the circumstances of the case, I took a bribe -- let him sit down. But it's a question of subordination. Is the case of the NABU and the SAP under investigation in this case? How was the meeting of evidence held? And the second question. In fact, illegal surveillance, the persecution of members of the people from the Opposition Platform for Life, took place five months ago by the Ukrainian Security Service. According to this fact, information has been entered into the GDR. Is criminal conduct under control? And what prospects do we have for investigating and exposing the crime? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-15-m0.u42	Thank you. As far as the first question is concerned, the conduct that I know of follows exactly the NAB. And the National Anti-Corruption Bureau doesn't go beyond its jurisdiction in this case. I can't give you any more details, because, really, 222th, we're going to lose track of the possibilities. But I want to say that there are some questions -- questions, for example, the complicity and the one-minute nature of the search. There is a question. And as Attorney General, I want logical answers to these questions just as well. With regard to some illegal slip or inexplicable investigative search, or operational and technical arrangements for national MPs. There are several criminal conducts that have been filed on behalf of individual national deputies and on behalf of the GO. These conducts are controlled, because once again I say, on the one hand, no one is allowed to sell the law in a literal sense, people have to adopt laws, not sell them, and on the other hand no one is allowed to influence and sell people's deputies. I've been following this closely. So this is my area of responsibility.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-15-m0.u43	Dear colleagues! Now it's Jon's Maria Mikolayevni. And then we go to the vote. Maybe if there's just a few more minutes, if the Attorney General doesn't deny it, we'll write it down. A potter's boy? Hončarenko Alexyyyovich. And invite the people's deputies to the hall, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-15-m0.u44	Alexei Hotcharenko, European Solidarity. Dear Mrs. Vendiktova! When you were elected, I said that I welcome the fact that, for the first time in Ukrainian history, a woman becomes the Attorney General, because the goddess Femida is a woman. Only in the goddess of Femida is a blindfold, and you have a party of "Serves of the People" in your pocket. So it turns out that I was actually, unfortunately, right. Because when it comes to, for example, the "Primary" TV channel, you don't somehow see it investigating the D.B.I., to which it has no bearing at all. You do not see the decision of the Schewchenków Paradise, which obliges you to consider the illegality of this investigation. And it's actually the pressure on the opposition media. And when it comes to Wagner Gate, something you're not in a hurry to register. And we'd like to hear how today's downpour investigation is taking place from the highest echelons of the government of information that has led to the destruction and collapse of the operation so that military war criminals are punished. And the last. You're setting up a meeting right now, I hope you all have the same attitude. So I ask you Friday at 3 p.m. for me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-15-m0.u45	Friday, 3 p.m. Dear National Deputy Honcharenko, will you be able to meet with the Attorney General? If it works out, I'll be expecting you Friday at 3 p.m. As for the second question from the end. We have three criminal conducts of so-called "vagners." And I want to emphasize once again that the first of these was discovered as soon as the media came out. And I think to some extent it was even information that appeared on Facebook from some of the people's defenders. So immediately the D.B.I.'s reaction was and the investigation is ongoing. What about where someone has a party, I think it was a rhetorical question related to the cry of the soul. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-15-m0.u46	Thank you, Irina Valentine's Day. One more question. There have been acts of factions. The factions were already asking questions, Danilo Alexandrovich. Now for the last, a final question from the First Deputy Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Ruslan Alexiyovich Stefanchuk. And if you'd like to invite the people's deputies to the hall, I'd like to repeat. Ruslan Alexiyovich, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-15-m0.u47	Thank you. Your Honor, the Attorney General! Please tell me that bill, which became law, we voted on the reform of the prosecutor's office, you said that by the beginning of October, the redefinition of the district level would be completed. When do we expect the entire prosecution mechanism to be relaunched and work according to those directions to allow the prosecution to carry out its 131st role, part of the first Constitution, which is envisaged there? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-15-m0.u48	Ruslan Alexiyovich, thank you very much, a very state-owned question. I'd like to inform you that the district attorneys are now in office. The district attorneys’ officials submit applications to their first deputies, deputies, and other candidates for administrative positions. The Human Resources Commission, which is one in the Attorney General’s Office, is expected to miss about 1.5 thousand people in all administrative positions. That's how we voted the law. After the district attorney’s office is completed, we go to the local prosecutor’s office. I hope that by the new year, we will have completed the local prosecutor's examination. And here's the question, the people's deputies, which is very important -- administrative reform. I would like to point out that the formation of the OTG cannot be separate from the finding of the courts, cannot be separate from the formation of the local prosecutors, cannot be separate from the Nacpol departments. Therefore, I am very much asking to approach administrative reform carefully. Justice and access to justice begin in places, so note this. So I think we'll be done by the new year. And then I want to understand how you see the implementation of the administrative reform. Taking advantage, I have another 40 seconds. I am very grateful for the time I have been given. I'm glad we talked today. And I hope we've taken down the questions that we have in the air. I want to assure you once again that we will all be you, and we will remain within the limits of the law and work hard on all processes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-15-m0.u49	Thank you, Your Honor. Thank you, Irina Valentine's Day. Please invite the national deputies to the hall. I understand we have some technical problems on our first day. I think we can fix them now. We turn to the issue of the Order for Change in the Order of the Day of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the Ninth Call. Ruslan Alexiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-15-m0.u50	Dear colleagues, with your permission, I'm putting the bill to the vote. Dear colleagues, please take your seats. Dear colleagues, please take your seats and prepare for the vote. Dear colleagues, are you ready to vote? Then, with your permission, I will put to the vote a draft decree amending the agenda of the fourth session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the ninth call (project registration number 3050a-2). It is known that this issue is the organization of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, and according to the Rules, there are no restrictions on voting. Dear colleagues, ready to vote? Ready. Please support and vote. [[11:15:20.]] For 263 Decision taken. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-15-m0.u51	Thank you. Dear colleagues! Let's see the factions. Dear colleagues, let us not engage in manipulations, issues of all factions, important issues included in the agenda and session and today's session. If you don't want your questions to be considered, next time we won't, I think it's the right thing to do. Thank you. Dear colleagues! There's been a statement, once again, from two factions about a break, about a real break. I'd like the heads of the MP factions and groups to meet in my office. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-15-m0.u52	Dear colleagues! Surprisingly, we finished the meeting of the heads of the MP factions and groups as soon as we planned. Please invite the people's deputies to the hall, we'll continue our work. Dear colleagues, there's just gonna be a break right now. I have an announcement. I'm calling on the Public Building and Regional Development Committee to hold a committee meeting from 12 to 12:30 on the basis of the matter discussed at the meeting, at a meeting of the heads of the parliamentary factions and groups headed by Parliament. This issue was reached by consensus among all the MPs and groups. Camera, please report to Klochka Andrija Andriyovich and Korniyenka Aleksandra Sergiyovich. Mayor Andriy Viktorovich, please. There was a statement from two factions about a break with a replacement for the performance. Three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-15-m0.u53	Dear colleagues, good afternoon. Today we talk a lot to you about numbers. And the most current situation today is the figure of 2,000 905, just so many new cases of coronary disease have been discovered in Ukraine in the past era. However, there are far better numbers — 94, just as many artificial ventilation devices have been repaired by us and our team in the last six months. The geography is very wide, from the winegrower’s Zacarpathic region to the Slavian region, Donetsk, from Chernigov to Melitopol. And you're going to ask, why repair machines? The answer is simple: Since repair is much faster, it is much cheaper and more convenient in terms of the ability of health workers to use it. We were discovered in a month of searching, taking these parameters into account, and considering what we needed only the official service centre, it was established that the iVent brand production equipment, which was 450 pieces in Ukraine, was to be repaired. A month of searching has led us to find 94 non-working devices, but it turns out that one thing to do is to find non-working devices, and another thing to do is to find funding for them. It is worth saying that the first part of the cost of repairing 35 devices the size of about 3 million dollars was found quite quickly at the expense of the COVID fund that was created at the office of the President of Ukraine. However, difficulties continued. And even though I'm going to thank you later, now I want to express my individual thanks to Vera Brezhnev, the singer who made a personal contribution, 1 million dollars, and funded the repair of 10 artificial lung ventilators, and the Crushing Company, which funded the repair of 49 appliances. And in fact, speaking of thanks, I'd like to say first of all thanks to the inspired inspiration of this project -- Cyril Timoshenko, the head of the President's Office. In addition, I would like to thank the people's deputies separately -- my colleagues who joined in the search, gathered, waited, repaired and shipped. Thanks to Igor Fris, Olga Koval, Annie Purtovy, Andri Motovilovtsa, Dimi Travel, Mashi Mesentsev and many other national deputies who have joined this project. Some thanks to the Crushing Company and Vera Brezhnev. And also thanks to Alexander Kurddick, Galina Zagradnouk, two lawyers who, on my appeal, when I desperately needed funds to repair the equipment, joined in. In conclusion, the project has worked very well, and we want to continue to repair lung ventilation devices. And we want to get sick every day, and the numbers of the repaired artificial ventilation devices of the lungs are growing every day. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-15-m0.u54	Thank you. Dear colleagues! We've got five minutes to go. Once again, during the break, I had to hold a committee, and a commission was given to me. We're going to ask if we're going to consider it after the break? After the break. There's a break until 12:30. Please don't be late.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-15-m0.u55	Please invite the people's deputies into the hall. Dear colleagues, please invite the national deputies to the hall. Dear colleagues, back to our work. First of all, I would like to inform you that a statement has been made from all the MP factions and groups represented in the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the ninth call, the following text. "The consensus decision of all the MPs and groups asks you to immediately include in the consideration of the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft law amending the Ukrainian Electoral Code on the facilitation of the registration of candidates for local elections (registration number 3995)." Our next schedule is proposed. Now we're looking at the issue of the Belarus ruling. After that, I put the above-mentioned motion to the vote. If it gets 226 votes, I understand that because it's consensual, it should get 300 votes, we're going to include this issue in the agenda of today's ad hoc plenary session and we're going to look at it. We put it in the agenda of the day. Is there no objection? No, I'm fine. We included him today, that's the question, dear colleagues. Dear colleagues, you have been invited to consider the draft Decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine regarding the situation in Belarus (registration No. 3053a). It is suggested to include this issue in the agenda. Please support and vote. [[12:41:52]] For 269 Decision taken. It is suggested that the ad hoc procedure be followed for consideration and decision-making at this plenary session. Please support and vote. [[12:42:14]] For 268. Decision taken. It is suggested that this issue be considered in a simplified manner. Please support and vote. [[12:42:36]] For 233 Decision taken. The chairman of the Committee on Foreign Policy and Inter-Parliamentary Cooperation is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-15-m0.u56	Your Honor, Your Honor, Your Honor, Your Honor! The Committee on Foreign Policy and Inter-Parliamentary Cooperation at its meetings discussed the current situation in Belarus, as well as a number of draft regulations of the Supreme Council of Ukraine proposing to express the position of the Parliament of Ukraine on the events in Belarus. The members of the committee unanimously supported the need for the Supreme Council of Ukraine to react to the situation and decided to take the basis for the Supreme Council of Ukraine's decision on a statement by the Supreme Council of Ukraine regarding the situation in Belarus (registration No. 3053a). The proposed draft Decision is aimed at approving the Ukrainian Parliament's statement condemning the actions of the Republic of Belarus and calling for it to establish a civil and democratic dialogue with society aimed at resolving the crisis that has taken place in the country. The events we have seen in the Republic of Belarus give us reason to believe that the official results of the elections of the President of Belarus do not reflect the real will of Belarusian citizens. The Declaration of the Supreme Council of Ukraine also contains an assessment of the current situation in Belarus, condemns the methods applied by the official authorities of the Republic of Belarus, expresses the inadmissibility of involving the Russian Federation and the ODCB forces to normalize the situation, and calls for a democratic solution to the crisis by involving independent international mediators. As a result of the drafting of the above-mentioned draft, the Committee recommends that the Supreme Council of Ukraine accept it as a basis and as a whole and approve the statement of the Supreme Council of Ukraine in the proposed editorial committee. So please support the committee's decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-15-m0.u57	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please register: two for, two for, and two for the factions. Vasilchenko Galina Ivanovna Bobrovska Solomija Anatoliyevna
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-15-m0.u58	Pass it on to Bobrovsky Solomia.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-15-m0.u59	Good afternoon, Solomia Bobrowski, Voice faction. You know, the next day we're talking about the Republic of Belarus and the protests that haven't stopped since August 9th. You see the full volume and the mass of violence not only in terms of peaceful citizens and journalists, including Ukrainian citizens, and journalists of international publications, which we then receive in Ukraine, and so on. And I'm very sorry that this statement and Parliament's response are quite late because it's supposed to be here in reality, probably five weeks ago, as soon as mass protests and waves of opposition started. Because who, if not Ukraine, should support today’s very civil society that is born, that wants to breathe freely, goes out peacefully and asks for our help. I think it was a good sign when we actually saw three statements about the events in Belarus. And it was a fairly active position and an interfractional merger of Free Belarus and the Voice faction, and then some representatives of the committee, unfortunately not from the entire committee. I'm sorry that this statement came out pretty toothless, because all we're talking about is the condemnation of human rights and the use of violence today, not just in Minsk, but all over Belarus. And you know, for the fifth week of discussion here and supporting those or other members of the people who go out on the street, I'd like to see from Kabmin a real package of help for the Belarusians who are coming here looking for protection and shelter, as Poland did in its time, literally a few weeks ago. Mr. Schmigal, a huge request, and in particular a request to the State Migration Service, to develop a package of assistance to the Belarusians who are coming here to seek safety or to use us as a transit zone when we are not comfortable enough for them. Thank you. Alive Belarus!
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-15-m0.u60	Danuca Alexander Anatolyevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-15-m0.u61	Guys, I don't want to talk about domestic politics in Belarus right now -- it's about Belarusians, and I want to talk about human values right now. I'm a person who's been through two courses and a lot of people are sitting here. And we know where the blood is in the last Maidan. Today, the President of Belarus thinks he has blood on his hands. Today, President Lukashenko of Belarus is a murderer. Today, the president of Belarus is ensnared by the shadow of Belarusian S.I.A. activists, common people. Today, Belarus’s president, Lukashenko, beats women on the marches of heroes. Today, no Ukrainian, no adequate person who is opposed to violence, can stand apart. My friends, the people who are just speaking out with the flag that I have on my shoulders right now, the people who are just standing up for their country to be free, they're suffering today, they're in the shades today. And the Ukrainian Parliament, it must not stand outside. So I ask my colleagues to think about what democracy, and today, by the way, the Day of Democracy, it, democracy, should be free and non-violent. So I support this decision, I urge you. Alive Belarus!
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-15-m0.u62	Pavlenko Rostislav Mikolajovich. Hončarenko Alexyyyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-15-m0.u63	Alexei Honcharenko, European Solidarity, head of the Interfractional Union for Democratic Belarus. Dear friends, it hasn't been six months. Indeed, the second month is coming from the beginning of the Belarusian mass uprising against the dictator, and finally the Ukrainian Parliament is considering this issue. I would like to remind you that literally during the first week, our interfractional association registered a decision with harsh statements and harsh words. The main thing is the words that are missing today in the statement that we are about to vote on not admitting elections in Belarus. I would like to remind you that such decisions have already been made: the Latvian Parliament, the Lithuanian Seim, the Polish Seim, the European Parliament made its statement. The only neighbour-country is the Russian Federation, of course, there is no parliament there. And the Ukrainian Supreme Council was unable to formulate its position. We're finally looking at it. But I think it's a very weak statement. Of course, it must be voted in order to preserve at least the dignity of our nation, but the claim is weak and the reaction of our authority is weak. Where is Zelensky’s reaction to our ambassador’s search at the entrance to Belarus? Where is Zelensky’s reaction to all these ridiculous statements made by dictator Lukashenko about Ukraine, as if we were preventing him from living here? Where is the reaction to all these not merely friendly but hostile words to our side from Lavrov, Putin, and all others? There's no such thing. I heard very important words here, "President Lukashenko." There is no President Lukashenko, there is dictator Lukashenko, usurper Lukashenko. And things have to be called their names. Because whoever's not doing this is a coward. Unfortunately, our president is a Green Coward. Unfortunately, in our Supreme Council we have a toothless statement. But I'm sure the Belarusian people will win. Alive Belarus!
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-15-m0.u64	Sergey Vladislavovich was involved.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-15-m0.u65	Sobolev, the Fatherland faction, the Political Party of Fatherland. The Fatherland Party and its leader, Yulia Timoshenko, on the second day, claimed that the only way out of the bloodshed that is being prepared in Belarus is through a legitimate fair election. And I think this position is dominant throughout the world who wants the good of Belarus and the Belarusian people. There is one very important question. Is this an honest election, a free election of the governor-general of the federal state, or is this an honest and free election of the President of Independent Democratic Free Belarus? I think that's exactly what anyone who understands how responsible the times are now in the state of Belarus. The scenario that is prepared and the trap that is prepared for today’s leader is completely familiar to us. We had a $3 billion loan that we can't find now. So where did that money go? And where are the $3 billion that have been provided in this way? There are 1.5 billion dollars that were offered at the last talks in Sochi. Our faction will no doubt support this decision. Yes, we are late, but rather in this situation, the only position of Parliament in order for the Belarusian people to feel the master of their land. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-15-m0.u66	Bacunec Pavel Andryovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-15-m0.u67	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues! Paul Bakunets, Lvivščina, Žovkovsky, Yavorovsk oblasts, MP group "Trust". Of course, we support this draft regulation, we believe that it should have been voted on a few weeks ago. We certainly have no right to interfere in the inner life of any state and also in Belarus. But it is also obvious that the elections in our neighbouring state did not take place according to democratic standards, and the main thing was violated most importantly: the right to peaceful protest. We condemn the actions of Belarusian law enforcement. We support this most important will of the Belarusian neighbouring people -- the right to choose that is worthy of our respect and that is worthy of our support. And we call on everyone in this room to support this bill of decree. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-15-m0.u68	Thank you. Goose Igor Volodymyrovich. After this. My ass. Out of the way, huh? Out of place, turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-15-m0.u69	Dear friends, no doubt this is a decision of the Ukrainian Parliament, which I hope will now be adopted, it is late. For more than a month now, there have been hundreds of people killed in their fields, and hundreds of people have been killed. Seven thousand people were in the dungeons behind bars. And it's only now that the Ukrainian Parliament is actually responding to this situation. This is a disgraceful position of Ukrainian power. I think it's a disgraceful position of magnitude. We had to respond to these things much more quickly. But in any case, I urge all the deputies here to support this decision. And I will personally say that Mr. Lukashenko is a murderer, not a single Belarusian killer. Thank you. Alive Belarus!
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-15-m0.u70	Duck Alexander Stalinoenovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-15-m0.u71	Dear colleagues, the point is that we have observations and amendments to this bill, this decree. So in general, you will not be able to accept it today. As far as the matter is concerned. Colleagues, you want to teach the independent friendly state of Belarus democracy in the electoral process at a time when you vote for the fact that half a million Ukrainians today do not have the right to choose local authority. First. The other one. Today we have a situation on the streets so democratic that under the protection of our forces today, journalists are being beaten, political opponents are being beaten. This is the democracy you want to teach Belarusians about today. The other one. I mean, you need to look at it more governmentally. Because 1.5 billion dollars is what we are. We're exporting 1.5 billion dollars to Belarus, we're importing 3 billion 700 dollars. And today we're putting relationships on the table.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-15-m0.u72	It's an hour. Dear colleagues, please invite the national MPs, let's go to the vote. Ready? I am voting on the proposal for adoption of the entire draft Decision on the application of the Supreme Council of Ukraine concerning the situation in Belarus (register No. 3053a). Ready to vote? Please vote. [[12:58:05]] For 228 Decision taken. Let's see the factions. Dear colleagues, let's move on to the next issue of the agenda. I've already made an announcement on the consensus appeal of all MP factions and groups. I am now voting on the proposal to support this appeal. Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[12:58:55]] For 289 Decision taken. That is, some MPs feel that there is no need to go into this bill. I got it. Show the factions, please. Thank you. Dear colleagues, it is suggested that this issue be included in the agenda of the sitting. The draft Law amending the Ukrainian Electoral Code on the Simplification of Conditions for Enrollment of Candidates in Local Elections (registration number 3995). Ready to vote? Please support and vote on this proposal. [[12:59:48]] For 321 Decision taken. It is suggested that the ad hoc procedure be followed for consideration and decision-making at this plenary session. Please support and vote. [[13:00:12]] For 323 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, it is suggested that this issue be considered in a simplified manner. Please support and vote. [[13:00:35]] For 290 Decision taken. [[B in m in s a l in]] Wait. Without discussion, it is fine, but it is necessary to speak from the committee. The National Deputy of Ukraine, Lozinski Roman Mikhajlovich, from both the Committee and the authors, is invited to attend. It must be under the transcript of the committee’s decision. Give me four minutes, both from the author and from the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-15-m0.u73	Roman Lozinski, the Voice faction. Dear Ukrainians and fellow MPs! What are we currently looking at in the Supreme Council Hall? Finally, we are discussing the abolition of evidence of insubordination for candidates in the local council. I'm going to explain very briefly as the drafter of the bill first, and what it's for. In Ukraine, on October 25, about 50,000 seats will be held in district and district councils of hundreds of thousands of Ukrainians. These are Ukrainians who are willing to go change their communities. They are Ukrainians who often sacrifice their families, their names, their professional activities to change their communities. And what were these Ukrainians told to do? They said to pay Habakkuk’s money for the evidence of insubordination. I'm going to explain very briefly why this help is worth canceling, because each of these hundreds of thousands of candidates is still in the documents to determine whether he's not a judge, and everyone will be held accountable if he gives false data. And the help on insubordination during the electoral process is 200, 400, 800 bracelets, mediators in the regions, posters, those who answer your questions. It's just business. I'll remind you, business is profiting from who -- profiting from Ukrainians who are willing to go and change their communities. So I thank the representatives of all the factions and groups that we are finally considering a bill that I, Volodymyr Sabal and the Voice faction, registered more than a month ago, and an amendment that I made about three months ago. That's very right. Now from the committee, dear colleagues. As the first deputy chairman of the committee, I would like to inform the Supreme Council Hall and all the Ukrainians. We have considered bill 3995 on amendments to the Electoral Code to simplify the conditions for candidates to be registered in the local elections, which proposes to delete paragraph 9 of the first part of article 222 of the Ukrainian Electoral Code, which requires the provision of information on whether or not there is a case for some candidates in the local elections. In this way, all candidates in the local elections will be in equal conditions, and this is the principle of equality with regard to the confirmation of non-judiciality, and they will report this information only in the autobiography. The committee has just unanimously, I stress, unanimously in its meeting, decided to recommend to Parliament the adoption of a bill resulting from the first reading as a basis and as a whole. The bill only applies to one rule – article 222 of the Electoral Code. In the event of the adoption of the law as a whole, when preparing for signature by the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to undertake, together with the Chief Legal Authority of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, its technical and legal work. Dear colleagues, this Supreme Council has already made a mistake and has not eliminated this help before. Let's fix this mistake and all the candidates who are about to submit documents and apply to their communities will do so without any extra documents. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-15-m0.u74	Dear colleagues, no discussion? I'll bet you a vote. [[Noise Nodes]] No, then, with the discussion, sign up. Well, you betcha. I then put to the vote a motion for adoption on the basis of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Electoral Code to simplify the conditions for candidates to be registered in local elections (registration number 3995). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[13:06:13]] For 317 Decision taken. I am voting on the proposal for adoption in general with the necessary technical and legal regulations of the draft Law amending the Ukrainian Electoral Code to simplify the conditions for candidates to be registered in the local elections (registration number 3995). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[13:06:53]] For 325 Decision taken. Let's see the factions. The law is passed in general. [[Noise Nodes]] Read the regulations, and it's a very useful thing. Thank you. The next issue of the agenda is the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislative acts to improve specific issues of military duty and military accounting (registration number 3553). It is suggested that this issue be considered in a simplified manner. Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[13:07:52]] For 228 Decision taken. Deputy Defence Minister Polishchuk Alexander Mikolayovich is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-15-m0.u75	Dear Dmitre Alexandrovich, distinguished national deputies. The bill was drafted by the Ministry of Defence of Ukraine to implement the decision of the National Security and Defence Council, and was introduced for consideration by the Supreme Council by the President of Ukraine and defined as urgent. The adoption of this law will allow us to establish the legal basis for the establishment and functioning of the regional assembly and social support centres that will replace the military commissions that we have heard about and know about their negative work. To improve the issue of the formation of a military reserve of human resources in the state by introducing a new type of military service in a special period. Such service is scheduled for up to six months. As you know, under the constant threat and war that the Russian Federation is leading against us today, it is very important to have the opportunity to respond promptly to such threats. In this connection, the entire range of social benefits and guarantees provided for mobilized individuals who will be appointed for a special period of service will be extended to all reserves. Including saving jobs, jobs, and middle earnings, as well as getting suspended calls. It is legal to regulate the possibility of introducing military numbers of reserve personnel into a single system, as well as to regulate individual matters of service and the performance of military duties on reserve by citizens. This bill will help to address the tasks of ensuring that the Armed Forces are assembled. I would be very grateful if you would support the President's initiative and support this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-15-m0.u76	The word is given to the representative of the Committee of Coal Marianne Volodymyrical, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-15-m0.u77	Dear colleagues, bill with registration number 3553 (from 28.05.2020) was considered by the committee, and the committee recommended that it be accepted as a result of the first reading. And I should also point out that there are a number of observations, including the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration, the Ukrainian Security Service, the Committee on Budget Affairs. So we're ready to work on this bill. They also had some advice. The bill was discussed at a meeting of the Anti-Corruption Policy Committee and requires additional corrections. The bill is extremely important because the way in which military commissioners now exist is to be reformulated. And now there are experimental projects when military commissioners turn into assembly centers. It's the bill to turn our military commissioners into centres of assembly and social support, and also to normalize the issue of mobilization, namely the introduction of a separate type of military service. However, the decision is made, of course, by the hall. We're ready to work on it. And regardless of the committee's decision, we can work on the committee and read again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-15-m0.u78	One more time, to read again?
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-15-m0.u79	In accordance with the Committee’s decision, recommend.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-15-m0.u80	Thank you. Please sign up: two in, two in, two in, two in. Bigwich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-15-m0.u81	Please pass the word to Zabrodsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-15-m0.u82	Zbrodsky Mikhailo Vitaliovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-15-m0.u83	Dear colleagues, the proposed bill is undoubtedly progressive and, without exaggeration, is a step in the direction of European integration, and particularly in the direction of NATO entry. But I will allow myself to quote General Homczak's Chief of Staff as to what this does not mean that we must take our backs to NATO. A few moments that this law contains at the same time and needs things, and a severe danger. We all know very well how the army system worked tens of years before that, especially how it worked the last five to seven years since the beginning of the East conflict. And if I call things my own names, I'm going to allow myself to be less diplomatic as Deputy Secretary of Defense, we all know the military is mostly associated with injustice and bribes, nothing more. Yes, of course, reformatting military units into district assembly centers is a time requirement. By the way, this work was started in August 2017 and has already been successfully implemented, particularly in the Plains, Clothing, Montenegro and other regions. But the question is, what about the other part of the name, about social support? We know that an army camera only performs one function today -- that's pension insurance, the rest is just a sign-up. With the same success, you could call it "the centre, the office of good services," and there would be no service, nor would there be a bureau. The other one. The question of the conduct of military service in the operational reserve of the first queue. Yes, there is no doubt that the law removes these issues and allows us to call on the reserves of the so-called OR-1 to perform tasks, to quickly fill military units and units. But as always, first of all, he allows it to be done in the current reaction, repeatedly. He's absolutely arbitrary in determining the duration of this service in reserve. He gives the Chief Commander of the Armed Forces a ransom to determine the term in general. In addition, it carries a dangerous package of social benefits and career privileges that may benefit not entirely conscientious people. In addition, the law has a number of significant benefits. The "European Solidarity" faction will undoubtedly support it in the first reading and will work on it further. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-15-m0.u84	Oddzuk Andri Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-15-m0.u85	Please, Sergey Rachmanina's word.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-15-m0.u86	Sergey Ivanovich Rahmanin.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-15-m0.u87	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the Voice faction will support this bill in the first reading, realizing that it needs substantial work before the second reading. In fact, the approval of this law is out of date. It had to be approved earlier, because we were only finally approaching the reform of the military commissioners, on the one hand. On the other hand, there was a need for a human reserve for the Armed Forces. But it does contain a whole series of significant observations. First of all, it contains quite a number of norms that provide for arbitrary interpretation, especially where the Commander-in-Chief is entitled to call people. The other one. In fact, we have a very limited number of people who go into the operational reserve of the first queue. And we will have discrimination against those people who will be called on repeatedly, because they are the most prepared. In fact, we have a certain peroxide. And we have injustices against those who will appeal to the Armed Forces. That's why the Voice faction supports this bill as very important, but it understands that it still has a lot to work on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-15-m0.u88	Murmich Anatoly Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-15-m0.u89	Dear colleagues, first of all, I would like to point out that twice this bill has been considered on an anti-corruption committee and twice has not received a vote on the fact that it does not contain a corruption component. That's the first one. It really contains some of the positions that I would consider, in addition to the positive, that naming from military to recruitment centers is no longer new. Today, for every mistake in the private sector, there are 17 fines available to entrepreneurs for the calculation of military personnel. This law provides for 5,000, it immediately draws up the Labour Code and others, where it multiplies by three. There will be fines of between 15,000 and 20,000 dollars for any error. The other one. At the initiative of the military commission, the police will be able to draw and arrest, in an orderly manner, and to bring to the military the people of their loved ones to whom only the army will point. What's going to happen to them is in the handcuffs, not in the handcuffs, and they're going to be freed, it's not all prescribed. And the third. This bill gives the right to call on the reserve on a number of occasions. This is today, when even the fall appeal has been cut short much, because the army is complete. In particular, the third, when the reservation call is announced, let's say it's 100,000 today, and it's 2,000, it's going to be "dressed" by everyone with money. It's a corrupt component. I think the bill is raw, it needs to be sent for processing. We will not support him in that way.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-15-m0.u90	Please give the floor to National Deputy Yacenko Anton Volodymyrovich, MP Party for the Future.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-15-m0.u91	Please give the floor to Deputy Taras Batenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-15-m0.u92	Taras Ivanovich Batenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-15-m0.u93	Good afternoon, dear fellows! With all due respect to the Ministry of Defence of Ukraine, to the well-respected reporter I have honored, the deputy minister of General Alexander Polishchuk, our parliamentary group "The Party for the Future" is still calling for abstaining from voting for this bill for a number of reasons. First of all, it introduces, in fact, we're introducing a new kind of service. That is, reserve service on call without a call. We remind you, my friends, that now it is only possible for reserve personnel to be enlisted in military service in the event of a mobilization announcement. Now it is suggested that the concept be completely replaced and that, in fact, unilaterally change the promises of the State that it has made to its defenders in its time. The bill is nothing more than an attempt by the authorities to find ways to increase the number of military personnel. However, this is suggested by sacrificing the interests of veterans. No criticism, my friends, endures the fact that such an appeal can be declared by the President unlimitedly many times, completely breaking down the lives of veterans who are now engaged in their social life. This legislative proposal violates social justice standards and makes it impossible for veterans to return to peaceful life, stressing peace of life, obtaining comprehensive psychological support and so on. The law does not provide for clear grounds for such an appeal, apart from the existence of a special period. That's why I think. There are other suggestions that similarly express our warnings, the reformation of the armies in the track. The proposal that a violator of military accounting rules may be delivered by the police to a local assembly center poses significant corruption risks in the activities of certain officials. The capture of war - bounds on the streets will become, we fear, a universal norm. Contracts for damage to a military ticket and so on. So I think that these actions can, of course, do us a lot of harm in the social climate about our veterans. In view of the foregoing, our parliamentary group "For the Future" calls for abstaining from voting for this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-15-m0.u94	Bacunec Pavel Andryovich. Then we go to the vote. Invite the national deputies to the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-15-m0.u95	Paul Bakunec, Lvivščina, MP group "Trust". Clearly, this bill provides for some important changes. First of all, it is the establishment of regional assembly and social support centres by military commissioners. And that's important because in every city, we have these military commissioners, who have long aged their system of work, so we need to change them. It will also be important to address the issue of military numbers of conscripts, military and reserve personnel. Clearly, the positive effect of the adoption of this bill will be to reconcile our military accounting system with NATO standards. That's why the trust MP group will support this bill in the first reading and we urge you in the hall to support it as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-15-m0.u96	Thank you. Invite the national deputies to the hall. I'll bet you a vote. Ready to vote? I am voting on the proposal to adopt, on the basis of the draft Law amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine to improve specific matters of military duty and military accounting (register No. 3553). Ready to vote? Please vote. [[13:23:56]] For 226 Decision taken. Let's see the factions. Dear colleagues, the next issue of the agenda is the draft Act amending article 183 of the Ukrainian Criminal Procedure Code on the right of the investigating judge, not to determine the size of the bail in criminal proceedings (registration number 3915). It is suggested that this issue be considered in a simplified manner. Please support and vote. [[13:24:47]] For 208 Decision taken. The representative of the President of Ukraine at the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Stefanchuk Ruslan Alexiyovich, is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-15-m0.u97	Your Honour, Mr. Head, my fellow officers! Your view is on the draft Ukrainian Law amending article 183 of the Ukrainian Criminal Procedural Code on the right of the investigating judge, the court does not determine the size of the bail in criminal proceedings (registration number 3915) (imposed by the President of Ukraine and designated as urgent). The bill proposes to amend article 183 of the Ukrainian Criminal Procedural Code, aimed at ensuring the irreparability of the punishment of guilty persons and improving the effectiveness of pretrial investigation of crimes in the area of illicit drug trafficking, psychotropic substances or their analogues. The adoption of the proposed initiative will allow the investigating judge, the court, when applying a precautionary measure in the form of custody in criminal proceedings concerning the illicit manufacture, manufacture, acquisition, storage, transport, transfer or sale of narcotic drugs, psychotropic substances or their analogues by an organized group or on a particularly large scale, or committed to involving a minor, or a minor not to determine an alternative measure – a financial mortgage. Such changes will make it impossible for a suspect or accused person to destroy, hide or distort evidence, illegally influence witnesses and experts, or otherwise prevent criminal conduct. In view of the above, please support the legislative initiative of the President of Ukraine and support the draft Ukrainian Law amending article 183 of the Ukrainian Criminal Procedure Code on the right of the investigating judge, and do not determine the size of the mortgage in criminal proceedings (registration No. 3815). Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-15-m0.u98	Thank you, Ruslan Alexiovich. The Head of the Committee on the Law Protection of the Monastery, Denis Anatoliyovich, is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-15-m0.u99	Dear colleagues! The Committee on Law Protection reviewed the draft Law amending article 183 of the Ukrainian Criminal Procedure Code on the right of the investigating judge, and the court did not determine the size of the mortgage in criminal proceedings (registration number 3915). We've determined the direction of improving this bill, in the direction of other articles dealing with the question of the sale of narcotic drugs and their circulation, so that maybe before the second reading, we can work out this bill. What's his point? Ruslan Alexiyovich said it legally, and I'll say it briefly, essentially. When an organized group sells drugs, especially to children, after being detained, they are released. Clearly, people who trade drugs can make any kind of mortgage and that's not a problem to then influence the investigation, the witnesses, destroy the evidence, etc. That's why we give the right to a court, I stress, not an unalternative prison, because this is denied by the European Court of Human Rights, and the right of the court to determine whether or not this person should be held in custody. That's why I think this bill has to be supported, that's why the profile committee is holding up. And a decision was made at the committee meeting to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the results of the first reading of Bill 3915 to be adopted as a basis. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-15-m0.u100	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please sign up: two for, two for, and two against the provosts of the MP factions and groups. Cimbaluk Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-15-m0.u101	Mikhailo Tsimbaluk, "The Fatherland" faction. Honorable chairman of the presidency, distinguished national deputies! It is indeed an important initiative to amend article 183 of the Ukrainian Criminal Procedure Code on the right of an investigative judge to decide irrevocably on the arrest of suspects who, as part of an organized criminal group, organize the sale, manufacture (and beyond) of narcotic drugs. But we think that's what the committee head, Mr. Monastirsky said, is that we need to work on this legislative initiative before the second reading, because it's similar articles. For example, 305 articles of the Criminal Code, which deals with smuggling of the same drugs in the group, may have an alternative. So the investigating judge can make a bet. So what I'm going to do is I'm going to repeat that those people who, as part of an organized criminal group, are involved in the sale, manufacture, distribution of narcotics, they have money. And in the process of pretrial investigation, which may take several months, and this is evidenced by practice, can affect the investigation, can destroy signs and evidence. Moreover, such a criminal case or criminal conduct may no longer have a logical conclusion in court. The Fatherland faction supports such an initiative and will vote in the first "yes" reading, and the second reading will be amended. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-15-m0.u102	Klimpush-Cincadze Ivanna Orestovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-15-m0.u103	Please give the word to Ruslan Knazevitch.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-15-m0.u104	Knyazevich Ruslan Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-15-m0.u105	Thank you, Ivana Orestovna. Dear colleagues! Frankly, I'm very sorry that the President didn't have to present his interest to the Minister of Justice, because it would be perfectly logical for him to be responsible for such things. And why it was important and interesting, because in every single speech, in each interview, the minister of justice convinces the Ukrainian community that our investigative isolations are so crowded that we need to expand them by building new ones. And those who are being held by Ukrainian citizens in detention facilities should immediately get out of there by humanizing articles of the Criminal Code to change the measure of precautionary action because they are inhumane conditions. And what was said from the rostrum, about the practice of the International Court of Human Rights, we want to grossly violate this practice. We have come across these decisions twice before the European Court of Human Rights, including in pilot projects. Now by changing this article we're setting the same mine, believe me, all these cases are going to be in the European Court of Human Rights and obviously they have a chance of cancelling. Why are we doing this? I understand the problem that exists. But believe me, it's about thousands of people, and you're not going to solve this investigative isolation. Moreover, even if you are transferring all of them by arrest, others will take their place. This is not how the matter is resolved. And in Ukraine it is not necessary to make that decision; it is necessary to have a better European experience. And it would be good if the Ministry of Justice, at least until the second reading, expressed its position either orally or in writing, that every MP could see it, because then the Ministry of Justice would be responsible, including in part of Ukraine's international legal obligations. And this is a gross breach of Ukraine's international obligations. So I think we need to put off this initiative, figure it out, hear Minoust's professional evaluation, and then maybe go back to it. We'll hold on to this bill for now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-15-m0.u106	Juršin Jaroslav Romanović.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-15-m0.u107	Yes, please pass the word to Ustiny Alexander.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-15-m0.u108	Sturdy? Ustenova Alexander Yuriyevna.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-15-m0.u109	Dear colleagues, why this bill cannot be adopted. Because we actually have more than 20 articles in the Criminal Procedure Code that are now regulated, they are changing into one. Why are they doing this? So you can retrain and make money on it. Because it actually allows you to say then that it wasn't for sale and instead of 307 retraining, let's say, 309. And that way, a person can go on bail, earning both the judge and the prosecutor with the investigators who led it. This bill does not foresee, for example, the inability to apply a mortgage to articles like 305th, this is smuggling narcotic drugs, this is 317th, let me put it simply, the creation of narcotic drugs. I mean, if you're in business right now, we're going to leave it to you, and if you're a drug dealer, you're a drug dealer, or you're a smuggler, then, no, you're not. This bill is aimed at only one thing if it is not part of the second reading – it is possible to make more money again to our law enforcement authorities and judges by retraining and letting those who are needed go. And those who, excuse me, are a small group, small parties there, I don't know, smoke pot in the yard, sit on their feet, because our law enforcement agencies will have to report on their bright activity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-15-m0.u110	Mother Grigory Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-15-m0.u111	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that Bill 3915 was otherwise introduced to this "The Opposition Platform for Life" under number 2611. In this bill, we asked that 9 articles that are particularly difficult in relation to the section on narcotic drugs should be given the right, not the duty, note the judge’s right to determine whether to apply a precautionary measure or not to allow it to be applied. The bill was born in a different way by number 3915 from the representative of the President of Ukraine, but it defined only an alternative and a prerogative in one article. "The Opposition Platform for Life" will support, on the basis of the Committee's consideration and in fact, the expansion of this list of articles of particularly serious crimes, which will allow the judge not to apply an alternative precautionary measure. Still, we need to determine what we need. We need to get rid of drugs, smuggle drugs, other particularly serious street crimes that really affect the basic value of human beings -- life and health, or we don't need them. It might be said that someone is out of commission, but I think that the Supreme Council of this calling can lead this bill between the first and the second readings to ideality and give the court the right not to apply an alternative precautionary measure to persons who have committed particularly serious crimes in this type of crime. We will support in the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-15-m0.u112	Thank you. All those who wish to speak? Aresonkov, Yatzenka, then we go to the vote. Please invite the national deputies to the hall. Aresonkov Vladimir Yuriovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-15-m0.u113	The "Trust" MP agrees with the logic of our colleagues who say that 307 articles of the Criminal Code of Ukraine, which defines the list of extremely serious crimes, needs special attention. And when we talk today about the struggle of society against such a terrible crime as manufacturing, the sale of drugs, substances, especially in large criminal groups involving minors, minors, children, it's an extremely serious crime. So absolutely, once again, it would seem logical to give the investigating judge the right not to determine the size of the monetary bond when choosing a precautionary measure of being held in custody. The "Trust" MP will vote in the first reading for the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-15-m0.u114	Jacenko Anton Volodymyrovich. Then we vote. Please invite the national deputies to the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-15-m0.u115	Dear colleagues, I express my opinion personally. And to my conviction, if it were my will, I'd be drug dealers, sorry, putting on stakes, because they're breaking the fate of kids, students. And of course, this law is imperfect, as they say, but you have to start with something. And so that drug dealers have to sit in S.I.A. or whatever they call it on the jargon, "on the roof," not walk the streets and distribute drugs among teenagers, children. That's why we have to vote and let's vote. You don't need blasphemy here, you know, "crocodiles of tears" and so on. There are other prosecutions, courts, so let them determine, but I think it would be very appropriate if we were holding drug dealers behind bars. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-15-m0.u116	Thank you. Please prepare for the vote. I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Law amending article 183 of the Criminal Procedure Code of Ukraine concerning the right of the investigating judge, the court does not determine the size of the mortgage in criminal proceedings (registration number 3915). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[13:40:48]] For 246 Decision taken. The next issue of the agenda is the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act. Out of procedure, Schofrich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-15-m0.u117	Thank you. Dear Chairman, dear colleagues! Considering that we have had our breaks, I ask you to take a day-to-day draft of Decree 4071 on Parliamentary hearings on "Freedom of speech or freedom of lie: facts or fairy tales." I'd appreciate it if we voted now. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-15-m0.u118	Is she going to leave without discussion? Dear colleagues, there is a proposal now to consider the question of parliamentary hearings on "Freedom of speech or freedom of lie: facts or fairy tales." Is there no objection? I am now putting to the vote the motion to raise this issue in a day-to-day manner, then the vote in favour of this ruling. Ready? I'm voting on a proposal to change the order of the day. Please support and vote. [[13:42:18]] For 283 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, I am voting on the proposal to adopt the entire draft Parliamentary Hearing Order on "Freedom of speech or freedom of lie: facts or fairy tales" (9 December 2020) (Registration No. 4071). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[13:42:55]] For 296 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, the next issue of the agenda is the Draft Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law "On the Specialities of State Policy for the Provision of State Sovereignty of Ukraine in Interimly Occupied Areas in the Donetsk and Lugansk Area" on the Admission of Researchers, Investigators and Prosecutors to the Area of National Security and Defence Measures, Sections and Restraints of Armed Aggression of the Russian Federation in the Donetsk and Lugansk Areas (Registration No. 3984). It is suggested that this issue be considered in a simplified manner. Please support and vote. [[13:43:50]] For 227 Decision taken. The representative of the President of Ukraine at the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Stefanchuk Ruslan Alexiyovich, is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-15-m0.u119	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues! Your opinion is proposed by the Ukrainian Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on the Specialities of State Policy for the Provision of State Sovereignty of Ukraine in Interimly Occupied Areas in the Donetsk and Lugansk Areas on the Admission of Researchers, Investigators and Prosecutors to the Area of National Security and Defence Measures, Sections and Restraints of Armed Aggression of the Russian Federation in the Donetsk and Lugansk Areas (registration number 3984), introduced by the President of Ukraine and defined as urgent. Since 2014, law enforcement authorities have been deprived of the right to conduct operational and search activities and to investigate criminal offences in the territory of the Anti-Terrorism Operation and since 2018 the operations of the United Nations. This situation is due to the lack of legal regulation of the admission of personnel of the relevant departments who carry out operational and investigation activities, investigative bodies and prosecutors to the territory of the operation of the United Nations. As a result, the United Nations operation does not at the same time search for and record actual data on violations of Ukrainian citizens’ rights and freedoms, such as the death or injury resulting from the shootings, the act of secession, terrorist activity, the involvement of illegal weapons and their financing, which may result in the loss of evidence. Thus, the President of Ukraine, by his bill, proposes: to establish an obligation to admit researchers, investigators and prosecutors to the territory of the United Nations Operation, to authorize the commander of the United Nations to determine the order of admission of researchers, investigators and prosecutors to the territory of the United Nations Operation. In addition, the draft Law proposes to oblige State authorities and their officials to use the mechanism of international cooperation to criminalize crimes against peace, security, and international law. In view of the above, please support the legislative initiative of the President of Ukraine and adopt the draft Law (registration number 3984). Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-15-m0.u120	Thank you, Ruslan Alexiovich. The head of the Committee on Human Rights, Depopulation and Reintegration of Temporaryly Inoccupied Territories in Donetsk, Lugansk and the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, Sevastopol, National Minorities and International Relations of Lubinets Dmitry Valeriyovich is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-15-m0.u121	Honorable Presidium, distinguished national MPs, citizens of Ukraine! The bill is technical. The proposed changes are legally reinforcing the possibility for authorized persons to carry out pretrial investigations and prosecutions to the full extent of their powers in criminal proceedings in the area of national security and defence, to dissipate and deter the armed aggression of the Russian Federation in the Donetsk and Lugansk areas, in a manner determined by the commander of the United Nations. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority of the Supreme Council of Ukraine in general does not object to its acceptance. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that, at our committee's meeting, members of the people's committee raised questions about the importance of adopting the bill. And the committee's decision is to adopt the bill as a basis and as a whole. Once again, I want to explain to everyone, this bill will make it easier for the law enforcement authorities to do their work, so they'll do it faster, they'll do materials for court hearings, including for international criminal courts. Therefore, I ask all the MPs to support this bill. I would like to draw your attention once again to the fact that we voted on the committee's decision – to adopt the bill as a basis and as a whole. Thank you, people's deputies.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-15-m0.u122	Thank you. Dear colleagues, there is a need to discuss this bill, please sign up: two in favour, two in opposition.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-15-m0.u123	Shahov Sergei Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-15-m0.u124	Sergey Shahov, the political force "Our Land" and the MP group "Trust." Dear colleagues, surely our group will support this bill. Those who committed the crime, who killed people, should answer, tortured people who raped people who were still raping Ukraine. Many of them have already destroyed the military personnel who built barracks there. But there are those who killed people and took everything that could be taken, looted today, committed murder, and we support that position. It's different. What are the names of the bandits who sit here today inside our country and who abuse people making genocide and worse for the fascists? In the Luhansk and Donetsk regions there are two governors who left people with voting rights, 500,000 people in the Luhansk region, 1 million people in the Donetsk region. Today, these two governors rob and torture people at crossings. Just listen to me: installation of the "Do Home" plugin – 200 bracelets, sale of seven bracelets – 100 bracelets, sale of telephones from b to new – 4 thousand bracelets, pass on a rickshaw plate – 300 grevens, purchase of a queue – 200 grevens, help pass the COVID test – 150 grevens and 1 thousand 500 grevens test itself costs. The bus ride is 500 bucks. Help needs to be done, waiting for three days. The rent was at least 200 bucks, and so on. Who will be responsible for the torture of the new Chinese, Harkivians, deadlings today? Who will be responsible for the torture of the Ukrainian people today? 1 million 700,000 people today are in trouble. When will the authorities begin to pay attention to people?
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-15-m0.u125	The word is given to National Deputy Laby Mikhail Mikhailovich, faction of the political party "Slut of the People," please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-15-m0.u126	Good afternoon, dear fellows! The bill is written by the President of Ukraine, Vladimir Alexandrovich Zelenski. Difficulties arise from the admission of investigators, prosecutors, and researchers to the war zone. As a result, the president proposes on the bill’s level that admissions to assist investigators and prosecutors in the OAS area are required to command the United Nations. This bill should be supported and regulated, it should be regulated at the level of law, which will greatly improve the quality of crime investigations in these areas. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-15-m0.u127	Thank you. The word is given to the National Deputy Mamyan Suto Cholojevich, the faction of the political party "The Opposition Platform for Life."
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-15-m0.u128	Please pass the word to Schuffritch.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-15-m0.u129	Suffritch Nestor Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-15-m0.u130	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman, Your Honor! Is there a need for investigators in this area? Of course you do. But the question is, why? Explain to me, people voted in the presidential election. Vote? Vote. In the first round they voted for Yuri Boyke, in the second one for Zelenski, they split up. And so in the parliamentary elections, a few months later, we voted in favour of the Opposition Platform for Life, and we won there. Really? Honestly. Is it fair to deprive people of their right to vote in local communities? Today, Severodonetsk wants to have a local council. So what's the line of separation? They say you have to put in a special department, a civilian military administration, to build schools. What nonsense! Better than the locals, no one's gonna figure it out. And to fuck up this city's budget, that's what I believe. Just steal the money. Didn't you learn anything else? Only on roads and local budgets? What Is the Irresponsibility? Clearly, then, investigators must go there and investigate the activities of today’s so - called local authorities. And then you could vote for that law. And in this edition and with that name, this law is not acceptable. Because it will not stimulate the search for compromise and the return of peace to our country, but today it will stimulate further opposition. And there will be no hope of stability, peace and mutual respect, no mutual understanding in our country. So our faction does not vote for this law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-15-m0.u131	National Deputy Yvchenko. Please, Vlasenko Sergey Volodymyrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-15-m0.u132	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. The seventh year is the Russian Federation's armed aggression against our country. Unfortunately, the previous President, instead of offering the country a concept of non-arm aggression, first signed the Minsk Accords, which initially envisioned local elections and then controlled the border, and then he criticized the Minsk Accords. First he greeted Steinmayer's formula and then he criticized her. But by the way, during the war, he continued to trade with the Russian Federation. He didn't offer the country any concept of relationship with the aggressor country, but some dot bills were proposed. The President-in-Office in a year and a half couldn't come up with the concept of return, the reintegration of occupied territories, instead of offering us point-to-point things. The President-in-Office did not offer us a general concept of military justice in occupied areas and territories under Ukraine's control in the Donetsk, Lugansk region. We were not offered the concept of transitional justice; instead, we are offered the bill on the first hand. Which is really necessary, but it's a point-blank bill that doesn't solve all of the problems that are imperfect in terms of legal engineering. That's why the "Fatherland" faction will support this bill in the first reading. We require a second reading, perhaps by a reduced procedure. But I would like to address the President from this rostrum. Dear Mr. President! The entire Ukrainian people expect you to see the return of the occupied territories. Not from any of your people in the immediate environment, but from you personally. So please, in your annual message, give a specific view of how this is going to happen rather than replacing it with a freak show. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-15-m0.u133	All those who wish to speak? A lube? Lubinet Dmitry Valeriovich. Then we go to the vote. Please invite the national deputies to the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-15-m0.u134	Dear colleagues, I will draw your attention from the committee to the fact that this is a technical, small bill that needs to be adopted. I certainly support colleagues who say it's a dot, it doesn't solve global problems. Yes, they don't, but for the time being, this bill solves the topical problem of documenting criminal conduct, including documenting the consequences of armed aggression in the area of national security and defence, interception and deterrence of armed aggression by the Russian Federation in the Donetsk and Lugansk areas. Of course, the MPs of the Party for the Future will vote in favour of this and call upon the entire parliament to vote and allow our legal guardians to do their job and document the facts of armed aggression by the Russian Federation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-15-m0.u135	Thank you. Let's go to the vote. Invite the national deputies to the hall. Immediately, honourable colleagues, the committee recommends the bill as a whole. Who's against it? OPCW, Fatherland, European Solidarity. Shortening the lines is okay, it's okay. I would like to vote on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Act amending the Law of Ukraine "On the Specialities of State Policy on the Provision of State Sovereignty of Ukraine in Interimly Occupied Areas in the Donetsk and Lugansk Areas" concerning the admission of researchers, investigators and prosecutors to the area of action and the provision of national security and defence, the disposal and deterrence of the armed aggression of the Russian Federation in the Donetské and Lugansk areas (Registration No. 3984). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[13:59:08]] For 292 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, according to article 116, part two, put to the vote the proposal to cut back on half the deadlines for submission of rights and proposals and to prepare for the second reading of the bill, registration number 3984. Please support and vote. [[13:59:43]] For 240 Decision taken. Thank you. The next issue of agenda is the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Code of Taxation on State Support for Culture, Tourism and Creative Industries (Registration No. 3851). It is suggested that we consider it as a simplified procedure. Please support and vote. [[14:00:18]] For 223 Decision taken. Minister of Culture and Information Policy Tkachenko Alexander Vladislavovich is invited to speak.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-15-m0.u136	Good afternoon, colleagues! Glad to be back with you in this room. First, I would like to thank you for your previous decisions on supporting the creative sphere, Law 3377. I want to report, he's working now, and the UCF grants are starting to come out, just like the Book Institute. Instead, we continue to move forward and use better European practices when creative economies and cultures help not only direct aid, but also tax benefits or tax credits. That's exactly what this presidential bill is about. Because in our field, they usually work offline and online, and it's extremely difficult to go online. So we think that the reduction in VAT rates is up to 7 percent on specific services. It's theaters, operas, ballets, music, concerts, other shows, professional music groups, original music supplies, movies, and so on, 7 percent of them are also European practices where VAT is taxed from 2% to 9%. The same is true of the extremely large losses suffered by the quarantined tourism sector, to set the VAT rate by 7 percent for the temporary accommodation operation provided by hotels. The bill was extensively discussed in the relevant ministries. Please extend your hand to help with cultural and creative industries at this time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-15-m0.u137	Thank you. The head of the Committee on Finance, Tax and Customs Policy, Danilo Alexandrovich, is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-15-m0.u138	Dear colleagues, this bill has not been given to us simply because it really is about reducing the tax rate to a positive value, which is an unprecedented phenomenon, should be an unprecedented phenomenon in any tax system. But it's really a list of services that carry culture on the one hand, and on the other hand it's not fiscally important: theatre, opera, ballet, music, concert, choreography, doll, circus and other exhibitions and performances, provision of original music, demonstration of exhibition projects, tours for groups and individual visitors, and distribution of public film announcements for visually impaired people and hearing impaired people. So it's actually a small amount of services that are now being provided by these facilities. In addition, by 2023 it is proposed that some films, national films first and foremost, be released under VAT. So there's not going to be any negative effects on the budget. And they also put 7 percent by 2023 on hotel services. I want to point out that the areas of tourism and culture are most affected by the crisis. Only 8 percent of businesses can work remotely, 27 percent cannot move businesses online, and 54 percent need substantial business process restructuring. In view of the above-mentioned committee, he decided to recommend that the Supreme Council accept the bill as a basis. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-15-m0.u139	Thank you. Please sign up from the MP factions and groups. Ironborn Jaroslav Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-15-m0.u140	Dear colleagues, of course, we support this law because we owe you, first of all, to a creative industry that, at the first call for the country to go into quarantine, shut down its activities. And so far many concert halls and other representatives of the creative industry haven't opened up, they survive. And it is our duty to accept any tax benefits immediately in order for them to survive the coronavirus. But let's be honest: we can make any wager, for example, a profit tax, but if there's no profit in the industry, it can't survive and it won't help. And it's very important right now to pay attention, for example, to the budget that we received last night. Let me remind you that the government there boasts that they have added 3 billion to the culture. But let's be honest, they took five billion into culture in this room. So I ask you all very much to support this bill. He was almost unanimously supported on our committee. We'll work on it if it's only accepted on the first reading. But during the budgetary process, I ask the coalition representatives, as well as the opposition, to address the government, to stand up under the Ministry of Finance. So that the money that we want to raise the cost of the President to raise the cost of the BSS, to increase the cost of the Bureau of Investigation, we can focus on culture. Because they are the victims of this quarantine. And of course, the Voice faction will support tax benefits for creative industries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-15-m0.u141	Thank you. The word is given to the National Deputy Nikolainek Andrija Ivanovich, a faction of the political party of the All-Ukrainian Union of Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-15-m0.u142	Nicolanca, Fatherland. We all see every day how the coronavirus actually burned down the Queen of the Ukrainian Industry, the hospitality, and very narrowed down the creative space. In fact, as previous speakers have said, it was the creative industry and the tourism industry that suffered, one of the greatest, from the coronary pandemic. We have adopted many laws to support one economy and its sectors. This bill looks like I'm getting a little late. I wanted him to be early. What's particularly important is that we're finally returning the correct understanding of grant terminology. If grants are given to support especially culture, it seems, especially on the part of the state or local budgets, that it seems a little foolish to tax them. That is, if the municipal community or state has already identified an opportunity and has found an opportunity to support the creative industry, it needs to be supported without taxation. That's why the bill is needed, it's timely. And Fatherland will support it. I also urge everyone to vote with a green button and give everyone who will be affected by this law a chance to be revived. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-15-m0.u143	Thank you. The word is given to National Deputy Heratchenko Irina Volodymyrni, faction of the political party "European Solidarity". Windy Volodymyr, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-15-m0.u144	Good afternoon, dear colleagues. Of course, Ukrainian culture needs support, especially after this unfortunate budget cut that was made in this hall under the cover of the fight against the coronavirus. And of course, we're considering an important bill with you, but a few comments first in the form of this bill. In fact, you and I are considering a revised or alternative bill developed by members of the humanitarian committee under number 3379. And his registration number three months from now, and not as an alternative, is another example of a legal seduction and President Greensky's desire to assign himself to the task of deputies. Now the content is the main point of this law. The current legislation does not contain the concept of a cultural grant. We have in the Ukrainian Cultural Fund Act terms such as "grant," "grant of institutional support." The proposed definition of "culture grant" in the bill is not so specific that it is not really clear that taxpayers will be referring to it. In fact, the very core of this law is so vague that it makes it impossible to use this law really to protect Ukrainian culture. "European Solidarity" will support this bill in the first reading, but on condition of its substantial further development in the second reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-15-m0.u145	The word is given to the National Deputy Kulinich Oleg Ivanovich, the MP's "Trust". Then she asked the "Serve of the People." And please invite the national deputies to the hall. Then we go to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-15-m0.u146	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs! Larissa Bilozer, Winnitzkin, Trust Group. You know, I want to start with good facts and successful casework that creative industries form almost 5 percent of Ukraine's GDP, more precisely formed, compared to the building industry, where for example, 3.8 percent. Yeah, there's a lot of good cases. When the Small Cities projects were recognised by the European Union as one of the most successful cultural decentralization projects. In particular, in my district, we spent three years in a row holding a festival that gathered 60,000 people, 800 artists, opera artists from around the world, and it developed territory. But the thing is, today they're all cultural industries, tourism and culture, stagnation and survival. Of course, pending the inclusion in the tax of a grant received by the FOP or by a legal person, an exemption. Yes, this is a progressive step. But for example, when we introduce this bill with a reduced tax rate of 7 percent added value, that's good. But will this lead to a lower cost of tickets to theatre and theatre? Or when the Winnie’s Philharmonic at the last concert received 1,000 dollars. And lowering VAT to 7 percent won't do them any good here. Still, cultural and business cooperation is needed. Take the experience of foreign countries of success, America, Austria, Germany, when 5 percent of business income is spent, up to 5 percent. And it will stimulate them to invest in culture, in the cultural industries. That's why we, the Trust Group, support this bill. But I also encourage all factions to join in drafting a bill that will support cooperation and synergy and business and culture. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-15-m0.u147	Thank you. Coltunovich Alexander Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-15-m0.u148	Thank you. Reverend Dmitry Alexanderovich! I'd like to look to our colleagues about who have even spoken to this, that we actually have what are the economic preconditions, that we are taking such steps today in fiscal or tax policy. I want to remind you that the budget that you have for 2021 provides for a deficit of 270 billion dollars. There's an extra 702 billion dollars. It's a nonsensus, never in the history of Ukraine. That's 66 percent of the revenue part of the budget we're not making, we're making new loans. And that's why in such economic considerations, we're, to be honest, a little bit surprised by the priority of this tax policy. This time. And the second moment. We would certainly like to see tax incentives primarily, not cinematography, but projects for the modernization and innovation of the national economy that will generate added value within the country. And then we're going to have a really economic effect and a result. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-15-m0.u149	Thank you. Susko Pavlov Mikolaiovich is on his way. Jacenko. And then we go to the vote. Please invite the national deputies to the hall. Susko Pavel Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-15-m0.u150	Dear Chairman, distinguished MPs! Thank you all for supporting this bill. There's a lot of questions that we're dealing with. We introduce the concept of "grant" and in doing so we solve the question of a problem that confused the tax authorities. And most of all, this is a very necessary norm, we make film really inclusive: to get tax benefits you need to show films you have to adapt to people with vision and hearing impairment. I urge everyone to support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-15-m0.u151	Jacenko Anton Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-15-m0.u152	Dear colleagues, we really have a culture today, tourism is going through the worst times because of the coronavirus, because of the limited capacity of people to use it. It means concerts and other activities. For example, in Uman, we have today’s decline in tourism, and so on. I mean, I wish we actually had the benefits. And I would like to remind you that in many parts of the world, tourism is one of such components of economic expansion, and not only is it a tourist congregation, but it's also a job, it's also creating new infrastructure objects, and so on. So let's, really, there's no policy here, let's support this law and work on the second reading of it, so that we still have the opportunity to improve life at such a difficult moment today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-15-m0.u153	Thank you. Let's go to the vote. Please take your seats. Ready to vote? I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Tax Code on State Support for Culture, Tourism and Creative Industries, Bill No. 3851. Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[14:16:30.]] For 273 Decision taken. Thank you. The next issue of the agenda is the draft Act amending article 15 of the Ukrainian Law on Access to Public Information to reduce the publication of draft legislation, decisions of local self-government authorities (registration number 2228), which is the second reading. The chairman of the Committee on Humanities and Information Policy, Poturiev Mikita Ruslanović, is invited to the rostrum. Is anyone going to insist on the readouts? Can we vote? Okay, thanks for coming out. Dear colleagues, I bet. [[B in m in s a l in]] Bakumov Alexander Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-15-m0.u154	Dear colleagues, the honourable chairman!
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-15-m0.u155	What's the number?
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-15-m0.u156	Number 12. Please bet on confirmation.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-15-m0.u157	Why? Explain why?
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-15-m0.u158	President-in-chief, because the first reading of the bill did not contain amendments to the Ukrainian Code of Administrative Offences. The first and second readings include an amendment to the article’s sanction provided for in the Code on Administrative Violations. The profile committee did not see these proposals properly, did not discuss them. So I'm going to ask you to apply this for confirmation.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-15-m0.u159	Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-15-m0.u160	Dear colleagues, the committee does not insist on this amendment. We counted it, but we don't insist that it be included in the text of the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-15-m0.u161	Look, dear colleagues, just so there's no such thing in the future. I remind you that it is only before the text of the law, which was in the first one, that you can apply the rules between the first and the second readings. If we add something, it should have been voted on 116 articles of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules when making a decision, under a transcript, when making a decision to adopt a bill as a basis. That's why I'm putting to the vote number 12 of the People's Deputies. She was counted by the committee, but now she's being asked to reject her. I'm betting on her confirmation. Please identify and vote. [[14:20:16]] For-56 The decision is not taken. Edit rejected. Can we vote for the law in general? I am voting on the proposal to adopt a second reading and, in general, with the necessary technical and legal regulations, the draft Law amending article 15 of the Ukrainian Law on Access to Public Information on the Reduction of the time-limit for publication of draft legal acts, decisions of local self-government bodies (registration No. 2228). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[2:21:02]] For 289 Decision taken. The next issue of the agenda is the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian laws on the extension of the list of credit agreements to which the Ukrainian Consumer Credit Act (Registration No 1109) applies. It's a second reading. The chairman of the committee’s subcommittee on financial, tax, and customs policy, Ripin Ella Anatoliyevna, is invited to the rostrum. Edit the number. Is anyone going to insist on the readouts? Can we vote? Nicolanca. What's the readout? Give me a minute, Nikolainka.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-15-m0.u162	Thank you. Nicolanca, Fatherland. Almost all the amendments I made were taken into account. A few were gone, but I don't find them critical. What I wanted to say is that this is a very necessary bill that will, on the one hand, protect small borrowers. And the standards that are set won't allow the borrowers to then, at the rate of percent, the ones who need the most help. And the next. On the other hand, credit unions will be able to access credit history, thereby protecting them from fraud. So this is an important bill and I ask you to support both the drafter and the rapporteur. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-15-m0.u163	Thank you. Are you insisting on some kind of edit? On which ones, Taras Ivanovich? The number? 42nd.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-15-m0.u164	Dear Dmitre Alexandrovich, 42 for confirmation. So we're talking about a bill to improve the quality of the credit history system of individuals. Here is a proposal to refer to the subject of the credit history of the person who has applied for credit but who has been denied credit. Nevertheless, this subject is credited in credit history. This is illogical, for there are many subjective questions and reasons, refusals, failures. And refusal does not in any way indicate a person’s willingness to fulfill his or her obligations. I mean, I don't think this amendment can be accepted in that context.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-15-m0.u165	Number 42.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-15-m0.u166	42. Please place it for confirmation.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-15-m0.u167	Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-15-m0.u168	The position of the committee is partially taken into account.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-15-m0.u169	No. 42 of Allah’s people were part of the committee. Do you insist on rejecting it? I'm betting on confirmation of the license number 42 of Allahfaith. It's considered by the committee in part. This is what the committee insists on. Please support and vote. [[14:24:20]] For 251 Edit included. Confirmed. Dear colleagues, we're either going to read or let's not do this circus. I was asking you, how are we going? I am voting on the proposal for adoption in the second reading and in general, with the necessary technical and legal rights, the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian laws on the extension of the list of credit agreements to which the Ukrainian Consumer Credit Act (registration No. 1109) applies. Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[14:25:18]] For 310 Decision taken. Thank you. Young Ivan Sergiyovich, of the procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-15-m0.u170	Colleagues, procedural question. Please put Order 3568, it's the TSC on the investigation of corruption in DABI. It's a very important topic right now, it's very resonant. It is this TSC Order in the daytime order. Please lift it up and support it without discussion. Colleagues, please, no discussion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-15-m0.u171	Dear colleagues! Draft Decision on the Establishment of a Temporary Investigation Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the Investigation of Corruption in State Architectural Control and Supervision. It is now proposed to be considered without discussion. Is there no objection? Now I'm putting to the vote a proposal to change the order of the day and then we're voting for it. Yeah? I am voting on the proposal to change the order of business, namely to consider the draft Decree (registration number 3568). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[14:26:54]] For 311 Decision taken. I'm voting on a proposal for adoption in the whole of the draft Ordinance on the Establishment of a Provisional Investigation Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the Investigation of Corruption in State Architectural Control and Supervision. Ready to vote? Please support and vote. Registration number 3568. Please support and vote. [[14:27:44]] For 316 Decision taken. The next issue of the agenda is the draft Act amending the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the schedule of plenary meetings (registration number 3608). The chairman of the Committee on Rules, MPs and the organization of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Kalchenko Sergey Vitaliyovich, is invited to the rostrum. Dear colleagues, will someone insist on the papers? They will be. Let's do some repairs. Second order, Knazevitch.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-15-m0.u172	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues, in fact, this amendment is very principled, I would like everyone's attention! Dear Mr. Head, at your suggestion and at the suggestion of the faction leaders, we have agreed that the work schedule that we use during COVID will be applied together in our changes to the Regulation for the future. So from the very beginning, we suggested that Parliament work on Tuesdays and Thursdays until 15 o'clock, Wednesdays to 14ths and Fridays to 14ths, but from 1:00 p.m. on requests for MPs, announcements, and half an hour on "Rose." Sadly, the first reading has undergone other changes. The session hall was misled. As if under the illusion of increasing working time, on Wednesday, work hours were increased to 15 hours, and on Friday to 16 hours, as if due to a lack of hours of work. I've checked it out, it's not real, because the working hours in this case will be fixed for committee work. And in case it's Wednesday.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-15-m0.u173	Committee position?
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-15-m0.u174	Dear Ruslan Petrovich, distinguished national deputies! First of all, no one was misleading anyone, because this is reflected in the original version of the bill, which was signed by the leaders or co-chairs of all parliamentary factions and parliamentary groups that are in Parliament or their representatives. First. Secondly, indeed, and this can be investigated by a transcript from a committee meeting, when the committee considered this bill before the first reading, some committee members actually checked whether the total amount of time that was allocated to plenary meetings and for consideration of issues essentially during plenary meetings. Because some members of the Committee of Regulatory Affairs have said that if the number of hours is reduced, the salaries of deputies can also be reduced. Because of this, the committee decided to reject your offer.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-15-m0.u175	Wait. Dear colleagues, I'm voting number two, National Deputy Knazevitch. It's rejected by the committee. Yeah? I think the hall will be defined. I'm betting on the vote number two, National Deputy Knazević. Please vote. [[14:31:40]] For 244 Decision taken. Edit included. Next line number 3, Knyazevitch.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-15-m0.u176	I'm not insisting on the next one. I'm asking the 5th, if you don't mind. I'm on 3rd.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-15-m0.u177	No, I don't. Dear colleagues, you're going to miss something, you're going to vote something wrong, and then you're going to work.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-15-m0.u178	I'm not insisting on the third, I'm insisting on the fifth.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-15-m0.u179	It's not heard, it's really not heard. 5 revisions. Turn on the Knyazevich microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-15-m0.u180	I'm asking you to support it, because we've only just accepted 2 revisions, 5 coming out of the 2nd on Friday. That's exactly what I said, we have to support the 5th, then we're going to film it in the complex at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-15-m0.u181	Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-15-m0.u182	The position of the committee is that it should be rejected, first of all, again, because it was the original version of the bill -- once. And secondly, in the committee's opinion, you shouldn't limit yourself, make it clear that it's only a matter of asking questions and it's just "Variance." Since we had increased the number of parliamentary inquiries last year and might be running out of time for their announcement. So here Parliament has to be a little flexible, flexible, and that's why this proposal has been rejected.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-15-m0.u183	I bet. We've got a minute to get to the right. I'll bet you a vote. Dear colleagues, Ruslan Petrovich! I'm betting on the vote number 5 of the People's Deputy Knazević. It's rejected by the committee. The position of both the author of the amendment and the committee you heard. Please vote. [[14:33:52]] For 230 Edit included. Next item. Polakov. Don't insist. Puzichuk. Do Not Urge It's fine. Don't insist. No one insists on editing anymore? Can we get to the vote? I am voting on the proposal to adopt the draft Law amending the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the schedule of plenary meetings (registration No. 3608). Ready to vote? Please support and vote? [[14:35:00]] For 315 Show me the factions, please. "The Servant of the People" – 206, "The Opposition Platform for Life" – 21, "European Solidarity" – 21, "The Fatherhood" – 6, "The Future Party" – 7, "The Voice" – 17, "The Trust" – 16, "the Non-Factional" – 10. 16, I'm sorry. Thank you, dear fellows, for the law has been passed in general. The next issue is the draft Law on Safety and Quality of Donor Blood and Blood Components (registration number 3648). A member of the National Health Committee, medical care and medical insurance, Stefan Olga Anatoliyevna, is invited to the rostrum. There's a lot of law enforcement. Who will insist on their works? Kinsburg, I see. Who else? Papiev. Colleagues, two people? So that we don't add someone else, someone else, and someone else. Papiev Mikhailo Mikolaiovich and the Victoria Alexandrovna of Kinshasa Yeah? Mikhail Mikolaiovich, what are your adjustments? Not audible, Mikhailo Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-15-m0.u184	Amendment 99, 163, 178, 282.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-15-m0.u185	163. Next?
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-15-m0.u186	284 and 294.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-15-m0.u187	99th Amendment, Papiev.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-15-m0.u188	Dear colleagues, you know it's absolutely such a corrupt law. And I would urge all the Ukrainian National Deputies not to talk too much so that you can draw the conclusion of the Scientific and Experimental Authority of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I think you trust this organ and there are professional people. I am reading six norms of the Constitution of Ukraine that are directly in violation of this law. And it concludes: "The above-mentioned provisions of the bill violate the Constitution of Ukraine, the current legislation of Ukraine of the relevant sphere, create competition between the authorities, violate the Constitutional Court's decisions." So this bill, if you take it as cynical, you have to call it "the Ukrainian blood privatization law." So there's some authority that's completely inconsistent with the Constitution of Ukraine. We have central executive bodies that direct and coordinate activities in this and other areas. Why are you creating this artificial organ?
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-15-m0.u189	Ninety-nine. Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-15-m0.u190	Firstly, I would like to say that the creation of an authorised body is specifically in line with the European Union Directive, which requires Ukraine to bring Ukrainian legislation closer to European Union legislation. Do you know how many people are infected with hepatitis and HIV infection in Ukraine every year in blood transfusions? That's about two and a half thousand people. Do you know how many people get infected in the European Union? A maximum of 1-2 people. So if you'll excuse me, we need to improve our blood quality system, and we need to create a competent body that meets these standards. The committee rejected the amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-15-m0.u191	I'm putting number 99 on the vote. The committee has rejected it, the amendment of Papieva. Please identify and vote. [[14:39:15]] Z-77 The decision is not taken. Next Edit Papieva 163.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-15-m0.u192	Thank you. Dear colleagues, dear Mr. Head! You know, I would have called the reporter, so, first of all, to tell the truth, not to lie to the Ukrainian people's deputies. You're absolutely distorting what's written in the bill and what's being discussed. I'd like to send you first, too, to the comments of the Scientific and Scientific Administration. You speak black. Science and expertise tells you that we have a central executive authority, this is the Ministry of Health. You create your own authorized body with a private structure under which you assign responsibility, free of charge, to be provided to this institution in public buildings, equipment, and so forth. Ladies and gentlemen, let's go. Well, where are you gonna blow this money off this bill? It's a totally corrupt law. I'm asking you to support my amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-15-m0.u193	Committee position, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-15-m0.u194	The committee recommended that the amendment be rejected. No private structures under any government will be created. On the contrary, we offer flexibility in legislation. Not to create a separate corruption body of the central executive power, but to create a competent authority, as laid down in the European Union directives. The functions of this body can be partially carried out by both the Ministry of Health and the existing Public Health Centre, as well as by the State Health Service. Everything will depend on how the regulations are prescribed. We do not regulate these matters by this law. Please read the legislation you are voting for.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-15-m0.u195	Dear colleagues, you've heard the arguments. Vote 163 of the People's Deputy Papiev. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[14:41:37]] For-84 The decision is not taken. Next issue is 284. People's MP Papiew, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-15-m0.u196	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I'm looking at the interview and I'm so impressed, well, very interested. If she says the competent authority, show me in the Constitution where such a competent body is written. There are central executive authorities, there's the Law on Central Executive Authorities. You're there. I read your biography once, you even wrote it down, although without education, without it, but you were there too. Dear colleagues, it's a lobbyist law. I'm warning you right now that I'm going to be filing a motion and a motion for a resolution on the non-voting even if you vote on this corruption bill as a whole. I'm going to initiate an application to the Constitutional Court because Victor Fedorovich didn't even pass such laws. This is absolute corruption. Absolutely, it's a lie. People take social security, people take everything for free, and they make money for themselves. They're creating an organ. Surrender!
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-15-m0.u197	Please take the seat of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-15-m0.u198	The committee rejected the amendment. But, you know, I want to tell you, with your Victor Fedorovich, such laws have really not been passed. And that's why 25 years in Ukraine, there's just an inefficient blood control system. For 25 years legislation has not changed. This law will change, in general, it is revolutionary, because it will change all the regulation in the blood system. And, yes, you're right, I have a lot of interest in adopting this law, because I personally know patients who were being treated for 15 years of hepatitis C in this country because your authority didn't provide them with drugs and they just died in blood transfusions. I am very interested in having this law approved today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-15-m0.u199	Dear colleagues, the amendment of the 284 People’s Deputies of Papiev is put to the vote. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[14:43:59]] For-79 The decision is not taken. Next item is 294. People's MP Papiew, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-15-m0.u200	Thank you. Now, I'm talking to those of you who just clapped, so please read what we're talking about. In general, this bill removes contributions from donors, students, and higher education institutions to students and others, i.e. virtually all the social guarantees given by the previous authorities. That's what makes this law different. They gave me extras to donors. You want to take everything for free and take off your pension allowance. You're telling the truth, aren't you? You can read the rule of law that you take out 25 percent of your allowance and pension payments. How does it feel to have such a face as antisocial, while lying to people in the rostrum and taking away from people even these extra payments from the state, and wanting to take everything into a layer and then sell it for dollars. Get your hands off me!
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-15-m0.u201	Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-15-m0.u202	The committee's position is to reject this amendment. I'm just going to give you a little bit of an idea. There is now statistics that voluntary and free donations from the World Health Organization are three times safer than payment donations. But I would like to point out that you, Mr. Papiev, have not read the law either. And we're not taking any extras right tomorrow. For five years, Ukraine will have a transitional period of both the second weekend and the additional benefits to retirees and students. By the way, there were never any students of these benefits. You must have confused something. That's why we're bringing in five years for which Ukraine is going to develop free donation. By the way, colleagues, this is a testimony from the Kiev Blood Center: only free voluntary donors formed the basis for donorism during the SOVID epidemic. These people, who have the mission to save other people, have come and given blood. Pay-per-view donors during the epidemic.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-15-m0.u203	A 294 amendment of the People’s Deputy Papiev is put to the vote, and the committee suggests that it be rejected. Please identify and vote. [[14:46:46]] For-84 The decision is not taken.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-15-m0.u204	It's a great story, 189, my amendment. If you don't mind? First of all, I'm grateful to the committee for taking almost all my corrections into account. But I have a question. Why was the amendment not taken into account, which establishes the principle of liability for injury when it was unreliable, or the incomplete information that led to negative consequences for the recipient’s health? This is a general principle, which is foreseen in the Civil Code, 82 chapters, so I'm very curious, why wasn't that taken into account? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-15-m0.u205	Mr. Ruslan, I am very grateful for the very large number of rights you have passed. And we tried to count almost everyone. After 189 amendments, my lawyers wrote that the position of responsibility is included in article 25 of the law. This is the reason why this amendment has not been taken into account.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-15-m0.u206	All right, then I won't. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-15-m0.u207	Thank you. Your paperwork's over, isn't it, Mikhail Mikolayovich? The Victoria Alexandrovna of Kinshasa What adjustments?
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-15-m0.u208	Yes, hello, I have four tickets: 251.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-15-m0.u209	Take your time, please. 251.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-15-m0.u210	255, 259 and 267. I ask you to give me time for one performance and then vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-15-m0.u211	How much?
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-15-m0.u212	Two minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-15-m0.u213	Two minutes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-15-m0.u214	In the proposed rights to part two of article 22, with a view to ensuring that the population has access to safe and high-quality donor blood, its components and preparations in sufficient quantities, the operators listed in part one of this article have the right to engage in joint activities with private sector owners on the basis of joint venture agreements based on the pooling of participants’ contributions (this is a simple society) or without pooling participants’ contributions, in accordance with the requirements of chapter 77 of the Civil Code. When joint ventures are carried out, the share of statutory capital in the part of the first article should be at least 51 percent. That is, it is proposed that the private sector and subjects of the public and municipal blood systems be allowed to share their activities. But in the case of a simple association for joint activity, the share of a public or municipal entity should be less than 51 percent. This includes investing in the private sector, but maintaining proper control by the state and local self - control over donor blood activities. We have a situation to deal with today where we provide an inexhaustible opportunity for private companies to produce and sell donor blood and its components. Instead, without a strategic reserve, the State will have to spend the budget on the purchase of donor blood. We need to give and preserve the State's ability to make strategic blood supply and its components, as is done throughout the civilized world. Please apply for confirmation.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-15-m0.u215	Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-15-m0.u216	Yes, the committee has rejected these amendments, and I'll explain briefly why. First of all, the activity of operators in any form of ownership is not specifically regulated by this law. Amendments to article 22 were made on June 2, and were voted in Law 644, which was already signed by the President. The other one. For me, as Ukraine and a person who is most concerned about patients, it is important that patients do not lose their blood components. That is why this law establishes certain standards. That is, if the community services for some reason are unable to provide blood to the hospital, private plasma centers begin to produce blood and pass it on to the hospital at a distance and at a cost that is determined centrally by the Ministry of Health. The blood components that produce privatized blood services are implemented in the hospital in order and at the price set by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Private.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-15-m0.u217	Thank you. I'm betting on a vote of 251. It's rejected by the committee. The author insists. Please vote. [[14:51:42]] For-163 The decision is not taken. Amendment number 255. Please vote. [[14:52:03]] For-149 The decision is not taken. Amendment No. 259. Please vote. [[14:52:24]] For-183 The decision is not taken. And extreme 267. Please vote. [[14:52:44]] For 196 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. Dear colleagues, let's move on to voting for the law as a whole. I am voting on the proposal to adopt, in the second reading and in general with the necessary technical and legal regulations, the draft Law on Safety and Quality of Donor Blood and Blood Components (registration number 3648). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[14:53:34]] For 216 The decision is not taken. I am voting on the proposal to return the committee to work with the second reading of the draft Law on Safety and Quality of Donor Blood and Blood Components (registration number 3648). Please support and vote. [[14:54:30]] For 249 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, there are four minutes left, and I would like to ask you not to. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed.
