ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-03-m1.u1	Dear colleagues, please take your seats and prepare for registration. Dear colleagues, in accordance with article 83 of the Constitution of Ukraine, part of article 19 of the Supreme Council regulation of Ukraine today, at the request of 160 Ukrainian national deputies, we hold an extraordinary plenary meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. People's deputies, please prepare for registration. Are you ready to register? I'm reminded that registration takes place by clicking on the green pros button. Yes, Sergey Volodymyrovich Vlasenko, that's right, the first one on the left. On the first left, Jaroslav Ivanovich. You have everything to do with it, but on the left. Please register. [[14:11:22]] There are 317 Ukrainian national deputies registered in the hall. The next meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear colleagues, the order of the day of the non-commissioned plenary meeting is offered to all of you. I'm sure you could get to know him. So let's get to the point. You are invited to consider a bill amending the Ukrainian Higher Education Act on the characteristics of admission to higher education institutions of persons from the temporarily occupied territories of the Autonomous Republic of Crime and the city of Sevastopol, Donetsk and Lugansk regions, as well as other categories of persons. It is suggested that this issue be considered in a simplified manner. Registration number 3734. Let's not discuss this, dear fellows. [[B in m in s a l in]] Do you mind if I don't have a discussion? [[B in m in s a l in]] We have one faction. Two factions insist on discussing it? The procedure is Ivan Grigorovich Kirilenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-03-m1.u2	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues! We voted, including this bill, in the previous sitting of the agenda, I think we made a mistake. This is the law that should be voted in the first and the second at the same time. Guys, there's nothing to talk about. We protect children from occupied areas, we protect Ukrainians who want to learn in Ukraine, in our institutions. Friends, these are the patriots of Ukraine. Are we going to be second reading? We'll be delayed, wasting our time. In the first and the second, we definitely vote yes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-03-m1.u3	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Either by talking, or we vote, or we talk about kids, or we make kids. Vote? I'll bet you a vote. Well, they insist on discussing, talking about children. Then vote against it. All right, sign up for the show. Short-term procedure then. I'm voting on a motion to review the bill for a reduced procedure. [[14:13:58]] For 291 Please tell me, who else is going to talk about the bill and not vote for it? They will be. Then let's follow procedure. Maybe it's better in full? I don't mind. Next, we'll go in full. Ruslan Alexiyovich Stefanchuk, Representative of the President of Ukraine to the Supreme Council of Ukraine No, you asked everyone to come forward.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-03-m1.u4	Dear colleagues, I have a report in writing, but, you know, I'm a supporter of what needs to be stopped talking and taken something for the children. So I ask very much, on behalf of the President, to support the legislative initiative of the President of Ukraine and to adopt the proposed draft Law registration number 3734, which will do anything to fight for children in temporarily occupied territories so that they can feel fully Ukrainian. Thank you. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-03-m1.u5	Head of the Committee on Education, Science and Innovation, Babak Sergey Vitaliyovich
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-03-m1.u6	Dear colleagues, the struggle for the minds and hearts of young people living in the temporarily occupied territories of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea and the city of Sevastopol, the Donetsk and Lugansk regions, the maximum incentive for them to move to the controlled Ukrainian government of the territory, to enter the country's highlands, to bear Ukrainian values, is no less important than the struggle on the front. In connection with the coronary disease pandemic and the closed CERs, combined with the desire of the occupying authorities to isolate the physical and spiritual youths from Ukraine, a large proportion of the graduates this year from the temporarily occupied territories will not be able to participate in external independent evaluation and join Ukrainian universities. However, we have the opportunity to give them the opportunity to introduce themselves to this category of persons. The bill introduced by the President, under registration number 3734, introduces the possibility of entry into pre-trial examinations within the limits of established quotas for applicants whose residence is temporarily occupied by the territory and territory of the population on the collision line to all institutions of higher education. To date, entry by quota was reserved only for applicants whose residence is temporarily occupied by the Autonomous Republic of Crimea and the city of Sevastopol, and yet only to authorized higher education institutions. So young people in occupied areas will be able to enter without creating an external independent assessment of any higher education facility in Ukraine, not with a limited individual list, as it is now. The quotas will be in place in each higher area, and the graduates who enter the uncontrollable territory will compete within this quota. Thus, the adoption of the bill will create favourable conditions for the entry into higher education of persons whose residence is temporarily occupied by the territory and territory of the population on the collision line. The Committee on Education, Science and Innovation unanimously supported the draft law and recommended that the Supreme Council accept it as a basis and as a whole. I would like everyone to support this decision by voting on the basis of the bill and in general with regard to technical legal rights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-03-m1.u7	Yes, I do. I'm not betting yet. Please, but no, you see, they insist on speaking. [[B in m in s a l in]] Write down who wants to speak. Maybe one faction will come forward who just wants to talk. Write down who wants to speak. I'm just in. [[B in m in s a l in]] Is the devil not insisting? He insists. Another Romanovna Sosun.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-03-m1.u8	Inna Sowsun, Voice faction. Fellows, let's be honest, we've been doing what we've been doing all week looking at the gaming bill. And now we hear the thesis that let's take the east without talking about the bill, because we need to take care of the children. It took a week to pass these laws, not sit in the game about the gaming business. Now, let's talk about a question that's being discussed. The Voice faction will support this bill. Yes, we think we need to create opportunities for children from uncontrolled territories to learn in Ukrainian institutions of higher education. This bill does not substantially change how the introduction takes place today. Children from uncontrollable territories and today enter without a KNZ, they just enter a limited number of institutions, but this number is not really very small. They can enter more than 100 establishments. So what's changing now is not a radical change in politics. But I have a few questions before this bill. First. We accept it when the introductory campaign has actually begun. Let's not fool ourselves, we won't attract a lot of people, making decisions at the last minute. The second question is the question of the introduction of unregulated professions into medicine and the law where the higher passing points are established. How will we enter these professions? And the last. And most of all, here is where Mr. Stefanchuk said that let's stop talking, let's adopt laws for the benefit of the children. I mean, let's just stop just passing laws for the kids, and let's start spending extra money on that, because when we do. Because now, open this law, it's written that this law will not require any additional expenditure from the state budget. And that's the problem. If you really want to help these children, there's a particular budget line, there's a separate aid, there's a separate fund for these kids to really learn, and there's no feeling that their rights are being suppressed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-03-m1.u9	Shahov Sergei Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-03-m1.u10	Sergey Shahov, Luhanščina, Deputy Group "Trust". Please pass the word to Larissa Bilozer.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-03-m1.u11	Who, again?
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-03-m1.u12	It's a binoculars.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-03-m1.u13	Larissa Mikolayevna.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-03-m1.u14	My colleagues, I want to make a note of when we talk about the reintegration of territories and the only territory, the only Ukraine, we understand that we have to allow these children from occupied territories, from the line of collision, to be able to learn, because they can't actually give in. But I want to talk about the manipulations that today exist on the Internet in the media. I'm being approached by ATO soldiers who say that their children can't enter without an ATO, and it's like children from the territories occupied and maybe the militias can just take three exams. So I want to calm down the bombers, tell them that there has been a bill since 2015 that provides support for participants in combat, and since then they have been able to learn at the expense of the state, at the expense of local budgets, to receive social scholarships, to live in hostels free of charge. But let us also allow the participants of the ATO, and let their children join all the higher ones without an ATO. So there is a discriminatory norm. But I want to calm down again and say that this bill is good, and it will make it absolutely possible for children to enter any higher, and not only in the 91 higher ones that have been mentioned today, this standard has been in place since 2020. So I ask, however, to support this bill proposed by the President. The "Trust" MP will support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-03-m1.u15	Bondar. Nestor Ivanovich, Bondar. I understand that. A little later.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-03-m1.u16	Dear Ukrainians! In fact, the power of majority, the "ministers" formed such a daytime coup that this week they voted in favour of their lobbyist Act on the Game Business. And they're going to meet near the collision line, in Mariupola, to create a casino, not take care of schools there. That's why it's only now that we've come up with important laws. And I want to say "powerful talk," that it's our responsibility to discuss laws, not just to push buttons. So today we're going to be discussing all the bills that stand in order of the day. For our political team, the struggle for minds in occupied areas was crucial. That's why we've passed laws that give children from occupied areas without the WNZ the right to learn in a number of colleges, in particular, those knots near the colliding line, and the evacuees that we've been able to export in extremely difficult conditions in the 14th year. At the same time, it's absolutely fair that today we get the same kind of appeal from veteran organizations, from the families of the fallen soldiers when they talk about the next thing that the children of the fallen soldiers don't have the benefits that this law now offers "the authority of the basilica." Friends, "powerful basking" is not even responsible for having children from occupied territories brought here to the test zone and forgotten these children, who, at risk of life, crossed the closed KPCs, that they had canceled these actually trial zones and the money, they didn't get their bracelets back. So you, sir, who in the Presidium here speaks of "the power of fairy tales," apologize to these children. We also insist that this bill, which is being passed late in the session hall because of the "authority of the basical" through "servicing" who did anything but the children, today voted only in the first reading to introduce a standard that would allow children to benefit from the loss of Ukrainian soldiers. And we're not going to let anyone on this subject right now destroy the ZO as much as you tried to do, because it was really very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-03-m1.u17	Papiev Mikhailo Mikolaiovich. Suffritch Nestor Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-03-m1.u18	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. Dear colleagues, I think that children should be able to unify this hall. It was fitting to note why this law had not been passed before, and now they are trying to drag it on to the second reading. But because we did the casino, we did the chips instead of the kids. I believe that voting for Donbass' children today is our direct commitment. We have to vote for the children of our Donbas. I'd like everyone to vote. Support and vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-03-m1.u19	Is everyone ready to vote? I'll bet you a vote. Another question: On the basis and in general? [[B in m in s a l in]] Who's "no"? You realize that children are not going to get the chance. [[B in m in s a l in]] The "ES" against it. I'll bet on it. Tell your colleagues. I'm just in. I'm voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Higher Education Act (3734). It's a nipple.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-03-m1.u20	Our faction did not act, so it was motivated. If we're just taking it on the first reading right now, that's all, we're not making it to the opening campaign. The European Solidarity Party, the entire hall is asking you, allow the children of Donetsk, Lugansk to enter! Nearly a thousand children have signed up for an external independent evaluation, and to come, they have chosen Ukraine, not Rostov! Allow the children of Donetsk, Lugansk, to choose Ukraine, to adopt this law as a basis and as a whole! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-03-m1.u21	Dear colleagues, there won't be a replica of the faction, he didn't mention any last name. When he mentions his last name, he will. Don't yell at me, please. You also mention the faction a lot, I won't even comment on you right now, colleagues. Look, we've got a lot of insults to the faction. I'm betting on a motion for adoption on the basis of a draft law. [[B in m in s a l in]] No, you're out, there'll be no lines. On the amendment of the Ukrainian Higher Education Act. Please support and vote. This is not provided for in the Rules. When he mentions the name of one of the national deputies, I will definitely give it to him. Please support and vote. Please write to the Regulatory Committee. [[14:28:51]] For 266 Decision taken. You're going to give it as a whole? [[B in m in s a l in]] Don't yell at me, please don't raise your voice at me, and don't stick your finger at me either. I can tell you again, I can repeat it in Russian and English. You don't need to touch me. Thank you. I don't even have a last name. No, this is not provided for by the Rules. Show me in the Rules, I agree. [[B in m in s a l in]] It's your right, you can block it. You, you can block it, it's your right. In general, isn't it? [[B in m in s a l in]] Wait. Quiet, please. Wait. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues! Dear colleagues, please wait. Wait! There are two suggestions. By regulation. Wait, listen to me. Wait! You don't knock, you break, you pay. At the gym, if you have to. Dear colleagues! Andriy Andriyovich! Andrew Andryovich Klochko. Dear colleagues, there are two options. First option. The EU does not vote in general. Option two. One minute of the show, and we're voting in general. Ready? I'll let them speak. No, wait, that's the deal. Do you confirm the deal? Yes, the minute "ES," and we're voting in general. I think the kids are worth it. Irina Volodymyrna's character. Zbrodsky Mikhailo Vitaliovich. Can you turn it on for a minute, please?
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-03-m1.u22	Dear colleagues, I understand that there are emotions in this room. But understand our position and our motivation. First of all, it's possible to mention the fate of the children, that we're going to be late with you and stuff, but let's remember that for almost a week, the percentage of children in this room has not been mentioned. We have dealt with a few other issues, perhaps no less important to many of us. Secondly, with regard to the law, why we insist on the very first reading: the law, except that it provides direct benefits, is not perfect enough. The inequality we bring up in this law, you've all heard it repeatedly, I don't want to mention it. We have also heard about the potential danger of such a decision, which has been made by law. So I urge everyone to share our position that the law needs balanced work. Let's invent another mechanism if we really don't have calendar terms to do that. Let's ad hoc, let's do a quick procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-03-m1.u23	Thank you. Dear colleagues. [[B in m in s a l in]] No! No! You can't add! Mikhailo Vitaliyovich! All of them. [[B in m in s a l in]] Wait, don't scream! First of all, thank you for the quiet talk. Second, let's move on to the vote, as before. I'm sorry. [[B in m in s a l in]] Who? Am I going to apologize? [[B in m in s a l in]] No! No! From the voice no correction in this room has entered and will not come in. I am. Look, with our vote, we've done a lot of things in this country. There won't be any more of that here, at least for now. With all due respect. Or change. Dear colleagues, I am voting on a proposal for adoption in general with the necessary technical and legal rights, a bill amending the Ukrainian Higher Education Act (registration number 3734). Please support and vote. [[14:34:16]] For 310 Decision taken. Let's see the factions. 310, I'm sorry. Decision taken. "People's Servant" – 226, "The Opposition Platform for Life" – 22, "European Solidarity" – 0, "The Fatherland" – 15, "For the Future" – 12, "The Voice" – 17, "The Trust" – 10, non-fractional – 8. Thank you. The next issue of the agenda is the draft decree for a special meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the occasion of the 30th anniversary of the adoption of the Declaration on the State Sovereignty of Ukraine (Registration No. 3721). Is there a discussion to be made? You should. No, you do, you do. I would like to ask you to support and vote on this procedure. [[14:35:11]] For 296 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, there is an offer to register only the faction that wishes to speak. Then we vote. Okay? But then only the faction that insists is recorded. [[Noise Nodes]] No, it's not. Either that, or we go through with it. Please sign up for the performance. One minute at a time, all of you? Okay. One minute at a time. [[B in m in s a l in]] No, it insists "European solidarity" in its entirety, no, they want to. Then we'll do it the way we do it. Ruslan Alexiyovich Stefanchuk is a national deputy of Ukraine. Yes, the abbreviated one was voted on.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-03-m1.u24	Masterful colleagues! Your opinion is proposed for consideration by the draft decree on the celebration of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the occasion of the 30th anniversary of the adoption of the Declaration of State Sovereignty of Ukraine. On July 16, 1990, the Supreme Council of the Ukrainian Soviets adopted a political act proclaiming state sovereignty, which became the first constitutional act to establish Ukraine’s true sovereignty. This is, of course, only a small stage in the millennium history of the state-building of Ukraine. Therefore, I ask very much, given the importance of this date, to support this draft Decision, which is scheduled to be held on 16 July 2020 at 16:00 in the Hall of Plenary Meetings of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, and to establish a landmark of the Supreme Council of Ukraine "30 years of the Declaration on Ukrainian Sovereignty". Please support and vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-03-m1.u25	Deputy Head of the Committee on Legal Policy, Olga Volodymyrna.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-03-m1.u26	Dear colleagues, alongside the Ukrainian Declaration of Independence Act and the Constitution of Ukraine, the Declaration of State Sovereignty is one of the basic instruments that made it possible to legalize Ukrainian statehood. The Committee on Legal Policy considered a draft decree on the Supreme Council's commemorative meeting on the occasion of the 30th anniversary of the adoption of the Declaration on Ukraine's State Sovereignty and recommended that the Supreme Council adopt this bill as a whole. The draft decided to accept it as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-03-m1.u27	Gerasimov Arthur Volodymyrovich. Young Andrey Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-03-m1.u28	Good afternoon! I remember well the day of the declaration. It was a historic day, and the initiative is very right. On this day, it wasn't just the events of the 1990s, it was the result of a century-old struggle against Ukrainians for their independence. And the Ukrainian People's Republic, and the West Ukrainian People's Republic, and the UPA soldiers, and the members of the Ukrainian Nationalists Organization. And we were able to get out on that day, and it's very important that the declaration be voted in this room, in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Just as the Ukrainian State Independence Act was then voted on. So before us in this room, in the Supreme Council of Ukraine, there is a special responsibility. I want to stress one important aspect. Proclamation of Ukrainian nationality protects the development of the Ukrainian language. It states that Ukrainian language should be used in all spheres of social life. And think of the cynicism! The following week, when there will be a special session for the initiatives of one of the deputies from the "minister of the people," the "minister of the people" proposes in the same plenary week, or on the same plenary day, may consider a bill from another member of this faction intended to destroy the Law on Language and the Law on Education. We don't have to let that happen, it's really crazy in our heads. That's why I urge the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the faction of all "ministers of the people" not to put a bill on the table next week and not to put it on the table, which is intended to destroy the Language Act. I believe this will not happen, and we will win. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-03-m1.u29	Sergey Vladislavovich, a direct participant in the events.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-03-m1.u30	Dear friends, no doubt the Fatherland faction will support this initiative. I really had the honour to vote for the declaration, for independence and for the Constitution. I think that if we had the opportunity to see what was happening on the streets of Ukraine and not only then Ukraine, but many of the countries that were part of the Soviet Union that had elected their independence, I think this would be an example of people with totally different views being able to unite and unite in this session hall. It was a unique moment of connection, and it was also because both those who worked in the KGB and those who suffered at the hands of the KGB and were sitting in the shadows of the KGB. Then they joined together in a single momentum and did everything possible to ensure that our nation became independent. I think there are not many examples in Ukraine’s history, but such examples unite the country, unite the nation, and allow us to move forward. So our faction will no doubt support this idea. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-03-m1.u31	Rudik Sergey Jaroslavovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-03-m1.u32	Dear Ukrainians, colleagues in the hall! On that day, July 16, 1990, I was almost two years old, and it was a completely different state. Many of you were out of the world at the time. It's not a mockery, it's a fact. But it was a completely different country, and then talking about independence was scary. But they did, our colleagues in that Soviet Parliament took a huge step towards what happened in the 91st year. We're much easier now. We all know there's a yellow and blue flag, and it's a national symbol of our country. We respect, hopefully, everyone in this room, the territorial integrity of our country, loves the Ukrainian people. Let's forget about all our misunderstandings on this day and get together in this room to mention Ukrainian heroes who for thousands of years have shed their blood to make it a state. Let us not share in various ways, and on this day we will come and say thank the Ukrainian people for putting up with us as they are. And on this day we're going to come into this room to look each other in the eye honestly and say, let's say that the time that we've been given by God and the Constitution to carry out our parliamentary powers, we're going to do everything we can to make Ukraine the kind of parent who wants to see it. Glory to Ukraine! Our MP group is asking for support.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-03-m1.u33	Thank you. Ioffe Yuliy Yakovich, also a member of Parliament and a direct participant in those events.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-03-m1.u34	Dear colleagues, I fully agree with my colleague Sergey Sobolev that at that time we were all united. We were different, we were "nice" directors, like me, "red," there was a parnomenclature, there were dissidents. But then we voted for an independent, democratic, non-block, non-nuclear state. And we were very proud that it was the only practically Soviet republic in which there was no bloodshed when our independence came. But now we can't be proud of it. We cannot be proud of the fact that we have slandered this declaration and accepted in the Constitution that we want to be in some kind of block. Whether he is or not, we want him to be. We put it in the Constitution, it wasn't in the Declaration. I think when I was speaking here and opening the session as a senior MP, I wanted us both, and our parliament, to enter history as a parliament that achieved peace. We're not doing anything about it. Nothing. We've got it. We're doing, and most of you, especially the majority, are doing the Trinity slogan: "No war, no peace." You're doing this, and we have a minority, and we're here. We don't think about what the state of the economy is today, what is the state of the energy that is dying, and it's stained by the oligarchs. Unfortunately, it is. I still wish we could come back to the east, to our Declaration of Independence. Nevertheless, I still want all of us to go into history as a parliament that has achieved peace. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-03-m1.u35	Thank you. I'll bet on it. Ruššin Jaroslav Romanović, yes. Jaroslav Ivanovich Ruššin.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-03-m1.u36	It just so happens that I'm one of the few of our factions who was directly involved in all these events. And I don't know, Hemingway actually said, "Don't let God live in revolutions. " I've created three during this and I'm very proud of it. But I want to say to many people who were born after the end of the Soviet Union, that the Soviet Union, unfortunately, did not come out of our Parliament. And that's why I want to confirm that this document, which was adopted 30 years ago, the State Declaration on Ukraine's Independence was the very purpose of us getting rid of this Soviet effect and starting to create our own state. Sadly, this did not happen. After that we were on the granite with my colleagues who are also in Parliament to bring back the entire movement of Ukraine from the east.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-03-m1.u37	Thank you. All of them? Shahov Sergei Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-03-m1.u38	Sergey Shahov, Luhanščina, Deputy Group "Trust". Dear colleagues, let's face it. By the way, it's a great initiative. We will vote and support the draft decree of our country of a democratic, sovereign, independent state. But is she like that? Who destroyed it in 28 years? Red directors, or who else? Who has done this privatization and not yet done an audit of businesses that have been destroyed, and our people are working as slaves in other countries? We need to get all the Ukrainians back. Peace can be achieved only by giving people normal jobs, by feeding people, by not comparing the territory and the territory, by not comparing the children who today have been fighting, who have been protecting our nation today, and the children who want to study in our educational institutions in Ukraine, in a peaceful Ukraine. That's why we're going to support this draft decision. And what I'm saying is, don't hit people with your skulls through language, through faith, through the army, and so on. Sergey Shahov, trust MP.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-03-m1.u39	All those who wish to speak? Let's go to the vote. I am voting on the proposal for the adoption of the entire draft Decision on the celebration of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the occasion of the 30th anniversary of the adoption of the Declaration on the State Sovereignty of Ukraine (Registration No. 3721). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[14:49:36]] For 349 Decision taken. Thank you. The next question is the draft Act amending section II, paragraph 3, of the Act on the Finality and Transitional Positions of Ukraine (Registration No. 3720). It is suggested that we consider this question. It is suggested to include this issue in the agenda. Ready to vote? Please support and vote. It's about shorter periods. [[14:50:22]] For 293 Decision taken. It is proposed that the bill be declared urgent and that it should be reduced by half by the time of the introduction of alternative bills. Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[14:50:53]] For 275 Thank you. Decision taken. The next issue of the agenda is the draft Decree repealing the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of 18 June 2020 on the adoption of the second reading and, as a whole, the Ukrainian Code of Civil Procedure, the Code of Administrative Judiciality on the passage of procedural periods during the quarantine established by the Cabinet of Ministers for the prevention of the spread of coronary disease (COVID-19) (registration number 3383-P1 and 3383-P). The authors are Vlasenko Sergei Volodymyrovich and Bondar Mikhailo Leontijovich. No discussion? Discussed. Then a national MP is invited to the floor. No discussion? I'm asking the author. No discussion? My lady, no talking. Do you insist on discussing it? Mikhail Leontijovich, isn't it? Yes. Okay. You're just going to identify yourself. Discussing? The National Deputy of Ukraine, Bondar Mikhailo Leontijovich, is invited to attend. Turn on the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-03-m1.u40	Thank you. Bondar Mikhailo, 119 constituency, European Solidarity. Please support Rule 3383-P1. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-03-m1.u41	Mr. Kalchenko Sergey Vitaliyovich, head of the Committee on Rules, Deputy Ethics and Organization of Work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-03-m1.u42	Honorable Presidium, distinguished national MPs! On July 1st, the Regulatory Committee discussed draft regulations 3383-P, 3383-P1, proposing to repeal the decision of the Supreme Council of June 18 on the second reading and the whole of the Law, registration number 3383), draft regulations by the People's Deputies Vlasenk and Bondar. In particular, the explanatory note to the draft Decree 3383-P indicates that the provisions of the law violate a number of articles of the Constitution, and the consideration of the draft law was in violation of the second reading procedure established by the Rules. The Committee noted that, in violating the requirements of article 48, the national deputies of Vlasenko, Bondar, did not refer to the presiding officer at the plenary meeting with an application for a violation of the procedure established by the Rules when considering the voting of the draft law, but that draft regulations had been tabled for consideration by the Supreme Council. In line with article 48 of the Supreme Council’s Rules of Procedure, the Committee reached a conclusion and decided to invite Parliament to decide how to vote on the adoption or rejection of these draft regulations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-03-m1.u43	Sign up for the performances by MPs and groups. Zinkevich Jan Vadimovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-03-m1.u44	Please pass the word to Irina Heratchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-03-m1.u45	Who? Irina Volodymyrna's character.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-03-m1.u46	Thank you. Dear Mr. Head, our "European Solidarity" faction would like to address you personally right now. The regulations of the Supreme Council of Ukraine make it very clear that if a national deputy of Ukraine or a political faction were mentioned in a negative context, this faction is entitled to a replica, one minute’s replication. And unfortunately, today, because of the indiscretion of the Presidium, not just a bad situation has been provoked when you, as chairman, should have stopped the obscene shouting, the gestures that are rude in this room, and given us the right to a replica that we exactly deserve to explain our position on an extremely important bill that we discussed on education. During this provoked position, unfortunately, also in the stroke that was provoked by the Presidium, just like one of our fellow MPs from the majority, I think by accident, I'm convinced of this, by accident, but pushed that rudely in the walls of this Parliament. That's why we're now addressing you, Your Honor. You are the head of the entire Supreme Council of Ukraine and your task is to conduct these meetings wisely so that there are no factions here that are more of your attention and love and sympathy, the factions that you discriminate against and allow your colleagues to take offense in the first place. And I think it's very right, if we can now conclude from what happened during these first minutes of the extracurricular session, we're just going to lower this degree of emotion. And I think it would be right if an MP who knows who he pushed from our colleagues would come in and apologize. Thank you very much. And we ask for this determination to be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-03-m1.u47	Irina Volodymyrically, I will comment, with your permission. First. As for where there are hurtful words, if you're perfectly correct under the Rules, but that's not the point. If any of the men accidentally, or deliberately, hit Mrs. Jonah, I personally apologize, and I am confident that the MPs will do the same. The person who touched it, I think it was also unintentional, I think it's worth coming up and apologizing. So, Maria Mikolayevna, I hope this doesn't affect our work together. Thank you. Let's go to the vote. No, will you insist? We can vote. Dear colleagues. Sergey Volodymyrovich, will he insist on voting? You won't. Mikhail Leoniovich, will you insist? And we have to vote it all out. Yeah. I'm betting on a motion for adoption in the entire draft Order 3383-P, the author is Vlasenko. Please identify and vote. [[14:58:26]] For-79 The decision is not taken. I'll bet you a vote on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Regulation No. 3383-P1. Please identify and vote. [[14:58:53]] For-63 The decision is not taken. The decree is rejected. Dear colleagues, I said, on the basis of, in fact, the basis and in general. Should we vote? Yeah? None. All right, all right. It's the right thing to do, because we're on the ground. If the base is rejected, it is generally rejected. That's logical. The next issue of agenda is the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine 2020 (registration number 3777). We need to put this issue in order. 3776. We need to include this issue in the agenda of the day session. Ready to vote? We need 226 votes of support. Please support and vote. [[15:00:01]] For 311 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, I would like to remind you that this is a matter of procedure that we used to work to combat the coronavirus. No faction would object to considering this bill in the hall? No one's denying it. We can. It is suggested that this issue be considered in a simplified manner. Please support and vote. [[15:00:55]] For 281 Decision taken. The first Deputy Minister of Finance, Ulutin Denis Valeriyovich, is given for the report.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-03-m1.u48	Dear Chairman, distinguished national MPs! With a view to creating a resource to fund urgent measures to deal with the consequences of emergencies, the Cabinet of Ministers has prepared a draft Ukrainian Law amending the Ukrainian State Budget for 2020 (registration No. 3776). In particular, the bill aims to increase the expenditure of the general fund by 2 billion dollars under the budget programme "reserve fund" on the basis of the general fund's income from the value added tax on goods produced in Ukraine. The bill is balanced. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-03-m1.u49	Thank you, Dennis Valeriovich. I would like to invite the co-rapporteur to the head of the Committee's Committee on Budgeting, the Disturbing Forest Valentine's Day. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-03-m1.u50	Thank you. The Budget Committee of July 3, this year, at its meeting, considered the government bill number 3776. The legislative proposal is balanced by the revenue and expenditure of the state budget. In view of the legislative objective of creating a budget reserve fund, that is, channelling funds to deal with the consequences of emergencies, in line with the explanations given in the material to the bill. The Chief Scientific and Expert Authority of the Supreme Council generally supports the Government's legislative initiative. As a result of the consideration, the committee adopted the following decision. To recommend to the Supreme Council Bill 3776 to adopt, as a whole, as a law that takes into account the need to clarify the budgetary indicators in the text of the bill and the additions thereto when other bills are adopted to amend the Law on the State Budget for 2020 before the draft bill is considered. Accordingly, if the draft budget bill is adopted by the Committee on Budget Issues, together with the GNEU, when it is signed by the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the relevant law should be accompanied by the necessary technical and legal clarifications relating to the approved committee's decision on the bill. Please be supportive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-03-m1.u51	Thank you, Lesa Valentine's Day. Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss? Then please sign up: two in, two in, two in. Ivchenko Vadim Evgenovich, faction of the political party of the All-Ukrainian Union of Fatherland. Krulko Ivanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-03-m1.u52	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear colleagues, we are considering a bill aimed at assisting affected regions from floods in Western Ukraine. But I would like to point out that early this week, the Fatherland faction initiated this very question and registered Bill 3754. It's not in the order of the day session for some reason, even though we've suggested that 2 billion be allocated to the affected regions, like this bill, and 20 billion dollars, and we've shown the resource from which to take it. These are the costs that Naftogaz did not pay to the state budget of Ukraine from a case that was won at the Stockholm Court. 20 billion remain in Naftogaz. We demand that these funds be returned to the budget and go to the aid of the affected region. One moment. And second moment. When we consider this bill 3776, we certainly have to vote for it. But look at what the government budget's full of revenue is now going to go to the reserve fund. Income from the value added tax, which, according to the first half of the 20th year, tends to be overturned. It's in an explanatory note by Minfin. You're asking the efficiency of the temporary commission of inquiry? So the TSC, which is being initiated in Parliament for the initiatives of Yulia Timoshenko and Fatherland on the income of the state budget, which does its work, shows efficiency. The economy is falling, the industry is shrinking, and the VAT in the state budget is rising. Why Is It Growing? Because we were able to stop the VAT strikes, stop the schematics. And that's when the government budget gets the money, and the affected regions can get the money to deal with the effects of the flood. This is what parliamentary control and the work of the TSC means. And I want all the temporary investigation committees to work so effectively. And this law needs to be upheld. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-03-m1.u53	Laba Mikhailo Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-03-m1.u54	Colleagues, please also support this bill. And also about the Zakarpatsky area of the Mižgori district -- submerged areas today, and there are also submerged areas in the Svalivina region. That's why. Of course, there's not enough money. We asked the Prime Minister today, 30 million for the Carpathians. And I don't think that's enough. But these are the first reactions, let's say the Cabinet of Ministers to the area. We're preparing defective acts now. We understand that there are procedural issues. Two billion now, of course, will save part of the situation, and then we'll have to think and prevent those moments when there's no money in the contingency fund. That is why I am now asking for the support of this bill as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-03-m1.u55	Murmich Anatoly Petrovich. Nestor Ivanovich Šufrich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-03-m1.u56	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. Dear colleagues, I would like to pay attention to you, your attention to who represents this law. With all due respect for the position of First Deputy Minister of Finance, I think it is appropriate for him to be represented as a minimum minister of finance, but the Prime Minister himself should come to this room with this question. This is the attitude of you, the majority, and the venerable presidency first. I want to thank the rescuers, the medics, the military -- all those involved in eliminating the effects of this flood. Yes, there are, of course, objective, but unfortunately there are also subjective points that make effective rescue and elimination of the consequences today difficult. Of course, today we have to be able to count these costs for the victims. But I want to pay attention to the day today, Friday night. And we've come together for this issue for the next session, and we've had four plenary sessions -- four plenary days. And what did we do? – We were worried about the casino so that we could play roulette in separate hotels and play one-handed bandits. Somebody named Bagsy Siegel won't rest. So today, of course, I hope that we will vote on this law. I am addressing all of us and the Supreme Council's leadership to give orders to the Court of Auditors to control, verify the effectiveness and legality of the use of funds in this tragedy, and next time, gentlemen "ministers of the people," choose priorities that are more important to you, the fate of the people who are currently experiencing the tragedy, or the chips in the casino? Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-03-m1.u57	Thank you. Cabal Volodymyr Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-03-m1.u58	Dear colleagues, in fact, there was a tragedy in Ukraine, the floods on Prikarpatha caused very negative consequences. And we, the people's deputies, need to do our utmost to help the government and everyone involved in the fight against the consequences of these floods be as effective as possible. But as far as this law is concerned. I want to point out to you that this law was passed by the government only yesterday. So how many days has it been since the flood? It's been a long time. And they only passed that law yesterday. Next. The amount they've pointed out in this law is 2 billion. It's good, the more, the better, because there's really bad consequences. But I have a question. Where is the financial and economic justification for this? I mean, how can we be sure that this money will go into liquidation? Because the money is going to the reserve fund. And I'll remind you that the reserve fund can be used as anything. Now we're going to vote for the money to go to the reserve fund, thinking they're going to eliminate the consequences. And then after three or four weeks, the government will start making decisions that will channel this money into something else, because using the reserve fund, even the budget committee can't control, the government itself can't control what it wants to do. That's why I'm calling you. Indeed, this law must be upheld. But I call for two things. First. I urge Mr. Schmigal and the government not to pass such laws at the last moment when people are all tired, on Friday, after voting for "Igorka". And to prepare these laws in advance so that everyone can learn, understand where the money goes. And secondly, what I call us all to, especially, major MPs from those districts where all these floods were, and where this money is to go. Please check that this money is going to eliminate the consequences that this money, which is 2 billion and the other 4.5 billion that are in the reserve fund, is worth 6.5 billion dollars that they're going to go there, not to some other government and Mr. Schmigal that we don't know about yet. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-03-m1.u59	Thank you. We had a deal. One minute, Nina Jujanini. Please, Nina Petrovna. And after that, I'll ask the deputies to meet us in the hall and we'll vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-03-m1.u60	Dear colleagues, honourable Ukrainians, not too long ago, April 13, you adopted a budget sequester that reduced the total fund by 119 billion, including a tax revenue of 145 billion. You can imagine, we have a figure for today in the first half of the year, January-June not to implement the government budget is 34 billion. The internal VAT balance minus 1.7 billion, and now in the explanatory note we're told that there's a trend towards an expected increase in VAT. So the adoption of this law is not balanced, it's not delusional, there's no cost in the state budget, and there's no calculation for the explanatory note. And this project, which was just registered yesterday, once again stresses that the authorities didn't spend time calculating and, in fact, finding sources, didn't discuss with us the source of these expenses. So if you'll excuse me, we have what we have. You have a budget failure like that.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-03-m1.u61	Thank you. They're burning? Who, Horvath? Lucznak, turn on the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-03-m1.u62	Dear Lord Chairman, fellow national MPs! Mikola Lušnjak, 166th District, Trust Group. Of course, tens and thousands of people today are awaiting this law. Tens and thousands of people who have suffered as a result of natural disasters today. But I would also like to point out that the administration of the government has forgotten the Ternopil region, the Winnitz area, which has also suffered damage, and there are just as many affected people who people today don't even have drinking water. Therefore, I would like to remind the Prime Minister that he will immediately collect all supporting documents and allow for compensation and compensation for the residents of Ternopilska as well as Vinniczykina. The law certainly needs to be upheld. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-03-m1.u63	Thank you, Mikola Volodymyrovich. All those who wish to speak? Vote. I'm betting on a motion for adoption on the basis of the draft Act on Introduction. That's right, on the basis and in general then. Amendments to the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine 2020 (3776). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[15:15:14]] For 344 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, I am voting on the proposal for adoption in general, taking into account the Committee's proposals and the necessary technical and legal rights, the draft Law amending the Ukrainian Law on the State Budget for Ukraine for 2020 (registration No. 3776). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[15:15:49.]] For 350. Decision taken. Thank you. The law is passed in general. Dear colleagues, you have been invited to consider the draft Resolution on the Liberation of Smolius Jakov Vasilovich from the post of Head of the National Bank of Ukraine (registration number 3772). According to article 85, part one, paragraph 18, of the Constitution, the Supreme Council of Ukraine is the head of the National Bank of Ukraine for the submission of the President of Ukraine. The President of Ukraine submitted an application for the release of Smolija Jakov Vasilovich from his post as Head of the National Bank of Ukraine. In accordance with article 207 of the Supreme Council’s Rules, the next procedure for dealing with the matter is proposed. Presentation by the representative of the President of Ukraine, within 3 minutes; presentation by the representative of the profile committee, within 3 minutes. Discussion of the results of the activities of the Head of the National Bank of Ukraine. Address by the Head of the National Bank of Ukraine for up to 5 minutes; answers to questions from MPs and groups for up to 21 minutes; answers to questions from MPs for up to 6 minutes; statements by MPs and groups for up to 21 minutes and statements by national deputies for up to 6 minutes. After that, the decision was made. Is there no objection? Ready? Are we going to work on that? Is there no objection? The representative of the President of Ukraine, Ruslan Alexiyovich Stefanchuk, is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-03-m1.u64	Dear Mr. Head of the Supreme Council, the distinguished national deputies of Ukraine! In accordance with article 85, paragraph 18, of the Constitution, the President of Ukraine submitted to the Supreme Council of Ukraine an application for the release of Smolija Jakov Vasilovich in connection with his application to resign as Head of the National Bank of Ukraine. Please support this submission. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-03-m1.u65	Thank you. The chairman of the Committee on Finance, Tax, and Customs Policy, Danilo Alexandrovich Hetmantsev, is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-03-m1.u66	At his meeting yesterday, the committee reviewed Jacob Vasilovich Smolia’s application for resignation and recommended that the Supreme Council take a decision and support the application. But I want to add a few words to this statement from myself. In our association with Jacob Vasilovich, when we, the committee’s national deputies, came to him at the end of March of this year, when the course’s fluctuation was quite severe, we thought that we should take steps to respond administratively to such a fluctuating course, and Natzbank did not use it, and we went and talked about the problem. Jacob Vasilovich took a very principled position and said that he was asking the question and Nazibank was handling it with market mechanisms. Jacob Vasilovich was right, and the problem was solved. So I would like to report on this decision, to thank Jacob Vasilovich not only for this decision, but also for the achievements that have obviously been made during your office at the National Bank. It's the lowest inflation, it's true, it's the lowest national bank account rate of 6 percent, it's the stability of the banking system, it wasn't recognized in 2019 by any bank, currency liberalisation and a significant increase in the gold reserve. At the same time, we should be objective and talk openly and openly about the fact that there were certain calculations, some errors in the activities of the National. We're referring to the lack of cheap credit with them, the lack of cheap money and the de-blooding of our nation's economy, which so requires cheap lending, is to strengthen the currency exchange rate in the second half of 2019, which was affected by the budget and suffered by exporters, which is a cash currency deficit again in March 2020. We should give an objective assessment of each other and an objective assessment of what is happening in the country. Not to be divided into white and black, not to hang a label, but to be responsible for making decisions and making responsible conclusions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-03-m1.u67	Thank you, Danilo Alexanderovich. The head of the National Bank of Ukraine, Jacob Vasilovich Smolius, is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-03-m1.u68	Ladies and gentlemen, I have made a difficult but necessary decision to resign, because for a long time, the National Bank is under systematic political pressure, pressure to adopt decisions that are not economically sound, that focus on short-term simple victories and that can cost Ukraine's economy and Ukrainians in a longer-term perspective. As head of the National Bank, I have been on the watch for more than two years for the institutional capacity of the central bank. Together with the members of the government, we are a shield that protects ours. and an apolitical institution from the influence of politics, and this shield has been constantly trying to break over the past year. The pressure from the courts, the paid rallying at the Institute and under the home of the members of the government, the information attacks based on manipulations and lies, the unwarranted political evaluations of the NBA policy and my direct activities as head of the institution, the use of the NBA Council to create a corporate conflict inside the institution -- all elements of a single chain. This makes it more difficult for the central bank to work effectively because the National Bank is not an island, although some people are trying to identify the independence of the NBA with a desire to separate themselves from other government authorities, we are not really working in isolation, as are economics and financial markets. They don't just depend on NBA politics, they depend on the ability of all state institutions to find a common language, and so do we at the National Bank. But pressure is an Antony of an effective dialogue. A conversation where one speaks professionally of economics and finance, while the other only hears his political interests doomed to defeat. Does my resignation mean that the NSA's independence has been broken? No, it's a protest, it's a signal, it's a warning, it's a red line. With my resignation, I want to warn against further attempts to undermine the institutional foundations of the central bank of Ukraine. So far, the government team and several thousand high-class professionals are still working at the NBA to preserve macroeconomic and financial stability, the institutional capacity of the central bank. However, it is vital that their work stop hindering the President, government, and politicians from finally working effectively with the central bank. Because the National Bank has done much for the development and economy of the financial markets and the welfare of Ukrainians, and much more can be done if it is not hindered. I will only stop at what was done during my cadence at the head of the NBA since March 2018. We've finally suppressed inflation, we've updated the record every year, bringing inflation closer to the optimal level for the economy, and now it's less than 2 percent. In our ability to achieve the goal of stability, despite political cycles, the international community celebrated the Global Markets issue last year. The calculation rate for the first time in the history of independence of Ukraine has been reduced to 6. Two years ago, when Parliament appointed me head, the bet was 17. Today we have an enabling monetary policy aimed at reviving economic growth. We didn't stop there and move on. We've put in place completely new tools to support the economy, such as bank financing credits under five years old and interest swaps for banks, currency swaps with international organizations. We've made definite interest rates on loans a reality. Yeah, we're for a while, while low inflation, the low rate of interest is going to have a full impact on the value of the loans. But that will certainly happen. We continued to follow market flexibility while ensuring the stability of the bracelets. We were criticized for strengthening the bracelet last year, as the NBA’s monetary market policy was too passive. However, we bought a record amount of $8 billion from the market to the reserve. Today, we have a gold reserve of 25.5 billion. This increased from 18 billion to 28 billion years in gold reserves. At the same time, our critics ignored the fact that, not least, because of the arrival of currencies from nonresidents, our reserves grew. Thanks to this, we suffered quite painlessly and quickly in the currency market in March. In 2019 we started massive monetary liberalisation. It was a real revolution that Ukrainian businesses and citizens had been waiting for a quarter of a century. We've already lifted about 40 currency limits. The banking system is healthy, highly efficient, and profitable. Ukrainians vote in favour of it when they are deposited. Since the beginning of 2018, the population’s monetary contributions have increased by one and a half times. Moreover, thanks to the continued multi-year preparation of banks for potential problems, the banking system has entered the coronary crisis as strong as ever. Now it's a financial stability prophylactic and a life cycle for the economy. I'm going to add two minutes. Cashless is gradually becoming an everyday phenomenon in the lives of Ukrainians. Thanks to the numerous initiatives of the NBA during my cadence, the proportion of non-cash transactions using credit cards has increased from 39 percent to 55 percent. Nazbank became even more transparent and open. Today our policy is based on dialogue with business, banks, non-bank financial institutions. Our achievements have been appreciated by the international professional community by the Central Baking Awards in the category of transparency. All of this is very easy to cross out. One step back is much easier than three steps ahead of what we've been doing for years. There's still a lot of work to be done at the National Bank. Don't forget, the coronary crisis is going on. We need to maintain financial stability, help Ukraine regain economic growth. You have to finish what you started. To bring currency liberalisation, to make the market for non-bank financial services that came to us yesterday secure consumer rights. And lastly, I want to thank everyone at the National Bank, all of our partners and customers who went along with us on the path of reform. They are participants in the financial market, in business, in the scientific community. We had the right decisions in our discussions, and your support was inspired. Thank you to our fellow thinkers, national deputies and colleagues in other state institutions, who have promoted reform with us on one front. Thank you to our financial partners and colleagues from other central banks. You supported us not only with finances, but primarily with knowledge and faith in us. Thank you to journalists who have worked hard to help the NBA to become more transparent and understandable. I am extremely grateful to the entire National Bank team. You have been my support, and what Nazbank has achieved, we have achieved together. Thank you to all Ukrainians who trust the profession of the National Bank. Trust for a centrifuge is the most important recognition. Her mother's proud. I'm leaving the National Bank with a whole institution worthy of a reputation among the world's leading central banks. I go with my head up high, I leave the NBA under your responsibility. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-03-m1.u69	Please sign up for a question to the reporter. That's a question for the reporter. Sukhov Alexander Sergiyovich. The alien Boris Viktorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-03-m1.u70	Thank you. Boris Adjective, "Trust" group. Dear Jacob Vasilovich, I have a brief professional question for you. We all understand that the government-provided 5-7-9 program, both the current and the previous failed. In this context, the question. What do you think is the reason for what happened? Do you share this idea from the beginning, and do you think that there is no fault in the NBA that the execution of this program is broken? And what were the real steps taken by the National Bank of Ukraine in this direction? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-03-m1.u71	Thank you for asking. 5-7-9 didn't work for several reasons. We participated in the development of this product together with the government and made our proposals, but not all of them were included. What was required of the National Bank to ensure the liquidity of the banking system, we did, and I spoke in my report. We've developed several mechanisms to support funding in the short, medium and long term for five years. And for that, everything was done on the part of the National Bank. And the 5-7-9 program is a government program.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-03-m1.u72	Bondar Victor Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-03-m1.u73	Dear Jacob Vasilovich, ask a few questions. First. Why did the National Bank not implement the decisions of the Supreme Court of Ukraine, which were obliged to resume operations at the time of your leadership of eight banks in Ukraine? Why did the National Bank not control where and at what prices the assets of the banks were sold? And the whole country saw the assets sold for 3 percent, 4 percent, 5 percent of the value. And in fact, people lost their investments and their expenses because they had such a low cost of assets. Question three. Why didn't you control where the state and commercial banks are being refinanced? In fact, because of the refinancing, you've made them rich by going to the OCHA market, by buying at least 6-8 percent of Nazbank's minimum refinancing, and the OCHA was buying 16-18 percent, and the government bonds, and actually getting rich at the expense of the state again. So what was your role in these processes? Why didn't you trace it?
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-03-m1.u74	Ironborn Jaroslav Ivanovich. Excuse me, excuse me!
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-03-m1.u75	I'll answer your questions in the sequence. The procedure for the withdrawal of banks from the market is laid down in the Banking and Banking Act and the Deposit Guarantee Fund Act. However, there was a gap in legislation that prevented banks from being marketed after they were in liquidation. This failure was made by changes to the Banks Act, which was recently adopted by you. And in the future, there will be no such proceedings, and bank owners will be able to get compensation if proven in courts that bank withdrawal was illegal. It's about government bonds. Ladies and gentlemen, you're approving the State Budget. You're approving the government budget deficit. The government and the Ministry of Finance plan to cover it. One source is borrowing from the internal market through the DDP mechanism. The National Bank does not take part in the trade in securities. We can only issue a refund, as you said, or maintain liquidity in commercial banks. The cost of borrowing and volume are planned and agreed upon by the Ministry of Finance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-03-m1.u76	Ironborn Jaroslav Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-03-m1.u77	Jacob Vasilovich, the news of your resignation has become sad. Hearing about the results of the National Bank of Optimism is not added. But I want to go back to the main reason for your resignation is the systemic political pressure. I want to ask you, and I'm sure there's a lot of media monitoring. Who was the one who exerted this systemic political pressure? Was it related to the fact that they wanted to print money? Was it related to the fact that they wanted to return the bank to one of the famous oligarchs? Was it related to the fact that these politicians wanted to engage in populism instead of a normal state financial policy? I have a question for you. Would you now tell us, the national deputies and the people of Ukraine, who caused this systemic political pressure, and in what form did it take place? And thank you again for your work.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-03-m1.u78	Thank you for asking. Ladies and gentlemen, in my speech, I said that during the last year, the National Bank had paid off the rallies that were being held here in the National Deputies Hall. A month of blocking my house. A month of blocking the houses of my deputies. It's systemic year-round pressure. And what I want to tell you about the decision that I made, and I want to tell you that over the last year, there have been calls from the National Bank to raise money, to abolish the basic principles of regulation of the banking system, to set a course for exporters to be better, to put inflation at 11 percent and a rate of 30, because these are set into the State Budget. For these reasons, these slogans have made me make this decision that I've informed you about today.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-03-m1.u79	Thank you. Ivchenko Vadim Evgenovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-03-m1.u80	Vadim Yvchenko, "The Fatherland" faction. Jacob Vasilovich, you did not give an reasoned answer to the questions of your colleague, my colleague. I'll tell you what, the whole country is watching what's going on, including with the National Bank's independence. But at the same time, Fatherland, you know, we were in opposition to that monetary policy that Mrs. Gonnaarev was conducting. You were on the team of the man who was disposing of 150 banks in Ukraine. Many of the licenses you took have already been executed by the courts. You were on the team of those who, with a discount, were actually selling the property that was in the banks, and the people who bought it were making money on people's property. You were on the team of the man who lost his savings in 150 banks. And those rallies that were, believe me, most of the people just came here to say no to that monetary policy and to those UDP machinations that she was running.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-03-m1.u81	Turn on Smolia's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-03-m1.u82	Thank you. There was no question. So I didn't realize you had a report or a question?
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-03-m1.u83	We often do, Jakov Vasilovich. Gerasimov. Gerasimov. Gerasimov Arthur Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-03-m1.u84	Please pass the word to Nina Petrovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-03-m1.u85	Dear Jacob Vasilovich, distinguished colleagues! I may be the witness of the very political disrespect, if not the political pressure that some members of the profiling committee -- the Committee on Finance, Tax and Customs Policy -- have experienced. It's even hard for me to talk because what I've heard about the work of the National Bank and about you personally deserves to be condemned by all the colleagues in this room. You can't do that. And here's my question. Here we have in the committee's decisions that it was the National Bank's policy that did not contribute to expanding the government's ability to finance extraordinary costs in the context of an epidemic of coronary disease. How much money were you asked to print that was not provided? And how did you manage to refuse to print money and violate the monetary policy of the state?
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-03-m1.u86	Thank you, Nina Petrovna. It is difficult to name a specific figure because the budget deficit that was to be adopted was to provide funding partly from the concession of funding from the International Monetary Fund, the World Bank, the European Commission. Some of them have already been received. Another part was planned to be involved in the internal market. The accounts provided by the Ministry of Finance, of course, provided that this would not be sufficient and where funds would be sought was appealed to the National Bank. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-03-m1.u87	Murmich Anatoly Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-03-m1.u88	Please pass the word to Coltunovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-03-m1.u89	Coltunovich Alexander Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-03-m1.u90	Thank you, Reverend Dmitri Alexanderovich. I refer to those deputies who have no questions to the Head of the National Bank, and we have direct results from their activities that have killed the national economy and citizens of Ukraine. To remind you, sir, how was course 8, people took loans five times eight, and they pay off 27 today. Official course of the National Bank. You'll recall when people in the 15th year had to close their loans, because your devaluation of the national currency actually left them homeless, without transportation, with other things. You'll recall when you only have a little bit more than $1 billion in gold reserves of 25 billion. Is that what we have in reserve? Is that how we enter and form a strength reserve for the future? A colleague said minus 105 banks. Where is the share of the lenders and depositors of the banks? The question of refinancing banks. And a lot of other things. Today we sentence your authority and your leadership of the National Bank. And what we're interested in is getting rid of not just the head, but the Nazbank leadership. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-03-m1.u91	Kamelchuk Yuri Alexanderovich
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-03-m1.u92	Jacob Vasilovich, I want to thank you for 6 percent of the bill but at the same time ask why it's so long, why it's so late, why it's only for your guidance for 2 years, and it's taken so long for the NBA to understand that in order to stop the decline of the Ukrainian economy, it's necessary to make a decision to cut the bill much earlier. You're welcome by those investors who still haven't returned 3 billion dollars. And I think you're going to get a little different greeting from the owners of the banks that made 79 billion dollars last year. It's the price of the Ukrainian economy still not coming out of the gap. Please tell me, do you feel responsible for the outstanding loans? Do you feel responsible for the difference between talking about economic liberalisation and the political so-called pressure you're talking about? Answer whether deposits will be returned and why the Ukrainian economy.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-03-m1.u93	I mean, I'm a self-sufficient person, and I live not only on wages. And I don't need a return on the income part of the bank that you've just been hinting about.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-03-m1.u94	Thank you. Question time's up. Please sign up for questions from Ukraine’s national deputies. Rules - 6 minutes. Katchura Alexander Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-03-m1.u95	Alexander Kachura, "Serial of the People" faction. Dear Mr. Head of the National Bank of Ukraine, please tell me that you have been subjected to political pressure by the President's Office. Give at least 2-3 examples of what kind of political pressure is being exerted on you. When, give, the names of these people, and the period of time during which this occurred. If not, correct this information publicly from the Supreme Council’s rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-03-m1.u96	..information that you said I was under pressure from the President's Office. I didn't say that in my speech. However, I noted that at all the meetings, at most of the meetings where representatives of the national deputies were present, representatives of the government, the Prime Minister, the President of Ukraine, also their advisors, the National Bank, my colleagues were appealed that the economy needed to be filled with money, that the basic principles of regulation of the banking system should be abolished, that a course for a particular category of the economy sector should be set at 11 per cent of inflation and 30 per cent of dollars per dollar, because such parameters were placed in the state budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-03-m1.u97	Thank you. Kucherenko Aleksei Yuriovich
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-03-m1.u98	Thank you. Alexy Kucherenko, Fatherland. Mr. Head, please answer such a principled question. For many years now, we've been hearing, well, from you, from the leadership of Nazbank and from the political power that has taken great care of you and put you there, to some wonderful preconceived banking reform from the banking sector. But let's be adults. They destroyed a lot of banks, 150, people lost a lot of money, but the banking system never worked for the real economy. He's not being credited. Only speculative schemes are being credited. Well, what can we call all of this a successful banking reform and with the help of foreign experts paid, of course, by whom, to try to convince all of society that this is a successful reform? Please tell me, do you honestly believe in the success of your reform? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-03-m1.u99	Not only do I believe, but I have reported in my report on the achievements that I and the National Bank team have made during my tenure. I won't repeat myself because the time for my report was less than I expected, but I said in my speech about these achievements. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-03-m1.u100	Clemensa Julia Leonidivna.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-03-m1.u101	Dear Mr. Head, I have one more question. Today, Ukraine has again become a laughingstock in all international media. That's because Zelensky tells us about the "investment nanny" and the large number of investments that will come to Ukraine. That's my question. Yesterday, Minfin was unable to place the bonds, so Ukraine did not get $2 billion for the budget. And the second question. Some of the "ministers of the people" were talking about the 200th issue, and even the presentations were about 200 billion dollars. Confirm these two digits. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-03-m1.u102	The placement of Eurobonds and the completion of the subscription was $1 billion, 750 million, not 2 dollars, as you say. This is the first time I've heard of 200 billion emissions from you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-03-m1.u103	Thank you. Question time's up. Thank you, Jacob Vasilovich. Please sign up from the MP factions and groups. Anna Constantine's speedboat.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-03-m1.u104	"Give me control over the release of money in the state, and I don't care who writes the laws in it," said Mayer Rothschild. We all know for a long time that NBU is sick. He suffers from IMF and the World Bank, which put our country on its knees, destroying the economic and social sphere and the sovereignty of our nation as a whole. We exchange our land and the future of our children for small loans to pay off interest on previous loans. For a long time and a detailed consideration of all the thefts committed by the team of Smolia, Rozkov and Pottery and so forth. But recent history deserves special attention. His public declaration of resignation hours before the start of the deployment of Eurobonds is one of the most destructive gifts for the economy of Ukraine that he could make. Regrettably, the ministers were given an antibanking law that would prevent Mr. Smolius and their criminal group from taking responsibility for the destruction of Ukraine. I think it's been a long time since the TSC was created to carry out a full audit of the activities of the NBA, which our colleagues from the Fatherland faction and the Opposition Block for Life announced yesterday, and other political forces. So I urge all my colleagues to vote in favour of Jacob Smoliya's resignation, but by no means will he be able to buy a ticket to a friend in London.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-03-m1.u105	Please, Nikolainko Andri Ivanovich, faction of the political party of the All-Ukrainian Union of Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-03-m1.u106	Andrew Nikolaynko, "The Fatherland" faction. I'm the final speaker on both the committee and as a member of the profile committee, systematically criticizing the management of the National Bank and its governance today. To tell you the truth, like most Ukrainians don't care about the family and shouldn't bother the family of his employer, I'm concerned that this one of the main institutions for financial stability in the system of state institutions does, actually does. And I can see that today, when these people are yelling and these people are talking about independence, they're talking about independence from, above all, the Ukrainian State and the Ukrainian people as the bearer of this sovereignty. I think the level of communication of today's National Bank and its government with parliament, with a profile committee, and above all with the government, is not what's insufficient, but not what's not acceptable. As a result, we see that despite the high levels of financial stability, the price stability that is so praised by the management of the National Bank from this rostrum, and indeed, the bankers have become much more profitable. Ukrainians are finding it increasingly difficult and the level of decline in the real economy is accelerating. Why is this happening? Because, as we were reminded on the committee literally yesterday, the monetary policy that the National Bank is supposed to be doing and the monetary policy that the National Bank is supposed to be doing is made up of three elements. Only the National Bank and its government, starting with the Hontareva, forgot about the two ingredients and only stopped at price stability and financial stability. If you read the National Bank Act carefully, you will see the need for economic growth. And one of the components of monetary policy is the struggle, including by stimulating the economy, fighting unemployment. Today, unemployment is rising in Ukraine, the economy is falling, but everything is quiet. In our history, in Ukraine's history, there were times when the economy was going to break down, and everything was quiet and stable, and we were told that everything was okay. So if the National Bank continues to operate independently of Ukraine, the Ukrainian people, the Ukrainian Parliament and the government, but very much depending on those who give them any standards, it prescribes what courses there should be, how to work with domestic loans, and even more with deposit certificates, there is no future in Ukraine. I want to remind everyone who's watching us that finance is the blood of the economy and the blood of every state. If we don't get not just a new head of the NBA, but a supervisor who understands the real essence of the National Bank's work, there will be no change. Therefore, we must say good - bye not only to Mr. Smoliya but to the entire management of this National Bank. Assigning professional direction to save.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-03-m1.u107	Scorch? Scroak by Mikola Leonidovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-03-m1.u108	Honorable Presidium, distinguished colleagues, respected citizens of Ukraine! People's MP Skork, faction "The Opposition Platform for Life." Our faction does not plan to take part in these human resources ballots, and I will explain why. First of all, we think that before we can give our consent to Mr. Smolius' resignation, there should be an investigation into all the activities that took place not only during the management of the National Bank, but also during the management of Mrs. Hontareva's. I think that society needs to have an answer to what was happening with the bankruptcy of the Ukrainian banks, which was a political element. Because it was only the National Bank’s management that decided which banks were to leave in the market and which banks were to go bankrupt, and in many ways they were not economic assets. When Mr. Smolius made such a statement about political pressure, I agree with his colleagues that he should or should apply to law enforcement agencies, we have many of them, including anticorruption. Because if it was required to produce an unwarranted edition, it was such a serious offense, it was a crime against the Ukrainian State, and if it was not, such a high official should not make such statements. We also believe that before we change, more precisely, to give our consent to Mr. Smolius’ resignation, we need to understand who will take his place. Because leaving Mrs. Rozkov in charge is totally unacceptable to the country, it is also a group of Gontarev-Smolij-Rozkova, and nothing good about it is going to get the country or the banking system. I agree with the comments that came out of this rostrum today that the National Bank should be an independent organization. Indeed, the Constitution sets out the main responsibility of the National Bank, namely to maintain the stability of the national currency. But that monetary policy that was run by the National Bank in the last year has led to a catastrophic decline in industrial production in Ukraine, which is measured today by almost 10 percent in relation to 2019, a catastrophic decline in our nation's exports, and we need to understand that not only monetary policy, the National Bank's leadership has to maneuver in order to actually stimulate development, to increase the domestic economy. What has happened in recent months and actually more than a year is unacceptable, more precisely, the last six years, unacceptable to the Ukrainian economy, to Ukrainian society and to Ukrainian citizens. First by investigating Smolius and his predecessors, then by resigning. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-03-m1.u109	Jaroslav Ivanovich Železniak.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-03-m1.u110	Jacob Vasilovich, I was in this room when you were appointed a few years ago, and I am very glad that during this period your name as a professional and decent person remained that way. And I prefer that the name of the Head of the National Bank of Ukraine is not known to most of our citizens, because the Head of the National Bank was not in a scandal, the Head of the National Bank was not in criminal investigations. The head of the National Bank came, the bracelet was 26 and coming out of the bracelet 26. And that's the quality I'd like to see from your successors when we only mention the Head of the National Bank when the account rate is declining. And I'm very concerned about the question that I raised today, the political pressure. Political pressure is a verdict of independence of the central bank of the country, political pressure, it's when the President calls one of the bank's handlers and requires restructuring of credits. I'm sure you'd say no. Political pressure is when you need to turn on the printer and print the bracelet. We have a very short memory in politicians, and I will make a short prescription. The crisis in the '90s, and we're running out of currency. The second crisis in the 98s, and the dollar is twice as expensive. The third crisis, 2008-2009, and the dollar again cost almost twice. The 2014 crisis, the dollar is already worth three times. And the last fifth crisis, of which we are witnesses, is the coronavirus. The Ukrainian national bracelet stood still and remained virtually unchanged. Dear colleagues, today and during airtime, there are so many thoughts that it was necessary to do otherwise. You have a chance who's willing to take responsibility that in a few months, the bracelet won't take off 30 bucks a dollar? Whoever's ready, raise your hand. Who will then take responsibility? Not a hand. Because, my friends, the responsibility will be on the board of our exchangers, the responsibility will be when the money is converted into paper, the responsibility will be when the exchangers fail to change the table, the responsibility will come when you press the green button in one unison today, then you assign your own, 100% of your Head of the National Bank, and you will be fully responsible for what will continue to happen to the economy. And thank you, Jacob Vasilovich, for your work.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-03-m1.u111	The alien Boris Viktorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-03-m1.u112	Boris Adjective, "Trust" group. While appreciating the work of Jacob Vasilovich as Head of the National Bank of Ukraine for a period of three years, the following should be noted. So let's start with a positive, what's worth noting. One is the targeting of inflation. Indeed, inflation has dropped from 10 percent in the last three years. In the first half of 2020, the expected value is about 2 percent. That's a big plus. The other one. Non-depreciation of national currency. When Jacob Vasilovich arrived in March 2018, the course was higher than 27. Now, by the end of June, he was a little bit lower in relation to retirement, and he was a little bit higher than 27. The third is to develop cooperation with the International Monetary Fund. Although we did not get the promised funds under the previous IMF cooperation programme, a few weeks ago we received 2.1 billion dollars under the new cooperation programme, which allowed for full macroeconomic stability in Ukraine during this period. This is almost the end of the prize. And the negative is much more, but it's not Jacob Vasilovich's personal merit, actually a team that works at the National Bank. The first one is keeping a high account rate. We all know that only recently did it become 6 percent. However, the decisions were too late, and the time to provide the economy with cheap credit was lost. The second is a significant decline in the level of lending to the economy, and I want to draw your attention here. Because of the high accounting rate of the NBA, commercial banks have stopped lending to the real economy. Instead, they invested in bonding domestic government loans. This policy has led to a significant decline in lending to the economy. The share of loans in the economy has dropped to almost 20 percent of GDP, which is unacceptable. The third is the misunderstanding of politics in the public securities market. You all know that in the 19th year, there was a significant increase in speculative capital, which was established under the purchase of GDP. One such reason was the high level of interest rates in Ukraine, as well as the passivity of the NBA in the market. In summary, we should thank Jacob Vasilovich for his work and for his work as head of the NBA, something has succeeded, something has failed. Thank you for your courageous act, and we will hope.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-03-m1.u113	Nataluha Dmitry Andriyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-03-m1.u114	Dear Mr. Golovo, honourable colleagues, you have heard a talk that during a meeting with representatives of Parliament, the government, the President's Office, there have been repeated accusations that the course would be better for exporters, that money would be spent on the economy, that economic growth would be ensured against low inflation, and that would be seen as part of political pressure. With all due respect, the question of setting a course for exporters is how difficult it is for exporters to fall in industrial conditions due to the extraordinary pathological strengthening of the national currency. The question of how you say "watering" the economy with money is a question of pathological sterilization of the national currency, which has led to the fact that there is simply no money in the real economy. The issue of economic growth is a matter of targeting inflation, which does not allow economic growth to be achieved at an extremely high rate of the National Bank of Ukraine. And I would like to remind you that by April of this year -- and I say this absolutely officially -- the National Bank was holding one of the world's highest accounts. And just because we had a crisis, it was, thank God, that moved the National Bank to lower this bill. They rejoice in low inflation — 1.7. But how can low inflation be achieved? That's right, an extremely high billing rate. But once again, how does this high inflation help stimulate? low inflation stimulating the economy if there's no money? There is no money because he was introduced, as colleagues said, a speculative capital. And this speculative capital led to, you know, what. So, dear friends, I have a very simple request: let's distinguish between sober and healthy debates on the adequacy of monetary policy from political pressure. It's completely and fundamentally different things. But the only thing that was required of the Head of Nutzbank was to come and report to the Supreme Council Hall in accordance with current legislation. It's not something extraordinary. To attend meetings with the President, the Cabinet of Ministers and the Council. It's not something extraordinary. Participate in the meetings of a profile committee. It's not something extraordinary. Therefore, the venerable Nazbank must have God in his belly, you know, and answer not only for his actions but also for his words. And when you use words like "political pressure," you have to understand how this can be perceived, and take direct responsibility for such manipulation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-03-m1.u115	Thank you. Porcelain Peter Alexiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-03-m1.u116	Dear Mr. Head! Dear Jacob Vasilovich! You can't imagine that by performing their constitutional function, by going to a record level of inflation in 28 years of our independence, they're going to take off the head of the National Bank. Inflation is a tax that, unlike you, cannot be avoided. All pay it, the poor suffer it, and the oligarchs get rich. So far, 28 billion dollars. $28 billion in gold stocks is also being dumped on the National Bank. The pressure that happened, it's not pressure, it's grass. Grass organized by Mr. Colomoysky and his factions and groups located in this Council. Why would they do that? Because it seems that when the state needed money, they passed an appropriate law, which by signatures required the State’s leadership to carry out the mandate by giving the National Bank, and now, by trying to fool our international partners, they want to change the leadership of the National Bank. My friends, our partners will not accept this kind of behavior. Mr. Janukovic, at the head of Nazbank Arbuzov, once conducted such a thing. When no one else in the world gave money to Ukraine, he ran to where? To Moscow. As soon as this is over for the country, everyone knows it. We certainly shouldn't let this scenario repeat itself. I want to thank the brilliant team of the National Bank of Ukraine. I would like to point out that when they came to the country, the money did not go, the banks were stopped because the owners had stolen the funds. And I'm sure it's the first crisis, when the banking system works effectively, the first crisis, when the course is saved, the first crisis, when low inflation, the first crisis that shows stability and stability. And what ended it? The pressure and grass of Nazbank. A billion $750 million signed yesterday was called off by investors. This is money.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-03-m1.u117	Ladies and gentlemen, please sign up for the floor. There are two other speeches. Shahov Sergei Volodymyrovich. Sergey Volodymyrovich, will you speak or not?
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-03-m1.u118	Sergey Shahov, Luhanščina, Deputy Group "Trust". Dear colleagues, as Boris the alien has said, our colleague, who has done many good things, but many have been done bad. And much depends on this room, on the Cabinet of Ministers, and not only on the Head of the National Bank of Ukraine. I have repeatedly said that we must all unite and complete the IMF course in our country. We need to look in the middle of the country here, not on the outside running and on our knees, asking someone for money for crazy percentages, laying people's souls and making people slaves. I have repeatedly said that the devaluation of a 300 - percent bracelet is a crime that robbed people of all the last money that even lay on a coffin in their grandmother. And that's about $100 billion. And people in our country today are starving, they're not looking at how to run to the office and buy dollars, because you're welcome. What can we talk about in general about over or understatement of a dollar when miners have nothing to eat? When teachers, when doctors are standing in Kabmin today asking for an increase in wages, or if they are allowed to exist normally in Ukraine. We are the richest nation in the world and in Europe. We have 25 percent of the country's black people. We're talking about the National Bank today, which is not just supposed to do its job, it's working for the Ukrainian people. Colleagues also talked about the need to think about who is assigned to this position, whether the situation in the country will be worse. The dollar has already taken off by 12 percent. The main thing is that there's no devaluation again and no one's playing the dollar course in the state, and they're still not robbing the state. We need to do an audit of the entire banking system that went down in six years of war in our country. They literally destroyed all the banks, and there were over a hundred. And somewhere the money was given to people who couldn't reach anyone -- not to the national MPs, not to the officials, not to the Cabinet. There are people who haven't gotten their money back and lost their property. I was also approached directly by Parliament that people were taking apartments for dollars and handing over bracelets. 300 percent was raised by the dollar. How Can I Give My Money to People? Today, collectors went to kick money out and throw people out of their homes. So all of us need to work.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-03-m1.u119	Dear colleagues, the final speech is Bondar Viktor Vasilovich, and then we go to the vote. Please invite the national deputies to the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-03-m1.u120	Dear colleagues, today Jacob Vasilovich complained that he had been under a lot of political pressure lately. I'm going to say that if Nazbank's leadership had behaved for six months, it wouldn't have been just political pressure, I think Ukrainian citizens would have come, entrepreneurs, industrialists, businessmen to take you out of those offices, not push you out. And you should be glad that you made that decision on time, and I'll explain why. Several factions today protect him and all the leadership of Nazbank. Why Are They Protected? Because for six years, you've been robbing this country, the economy, and the banking sector. Because for six years, they've been making bonds, making payments to themselves, to their banks, and buying government loans, which, along with foreigners who are financial speculators, have made $11.3 billion in recent years only in percent of the country of Ukraine. It's more, in fact, the same amount that you and the governments have involved with the former government in Ukraine's so-called loans. They were robbing industry, business with you. Look at how they're getting credit today, they're on their knees in front of banks, because you've created these conditions to get credit, you have to come and put together these stacks of paper and take a 20 percent loan. Nowhere in Europe and the world has that percentage. What do we need to do to get these loans back? Weapons, drugs, anything else? Normal production does not last. You're the one who sold out the state. In fact, banks were robbed along with the Deposit Guarantee Fund. For 500 billion assets, banks that were eliminated, sold less than 100 billion. What is 500 billion assets? Each bank took only assets at least twice the cost of the loan itself. This means that the assets were almost 1.5 trillion dollars and sold for 100 billion. It's a robbery because it's an unreturned investment, it's an unreturned fund to the banking sector. And there are a lot of such questions. Where are the cheap loans that the President has entrusted, 5-7-9? Where are the percentages? Tens of thousands of businessmen walked around banks collecting papers, and only those papers were kept in their eyes and said, “Come back later. ” Where are foreign banks in Ukraine? But no big foreign bank wants to come to this banking sector, because the rules that you and your team have been carrying out with the team in the last few years have led to the fact that no powerful foreign bank wants to come here even a bank kiosk opens up to give cheap housing loans to people, to the industry under 1.2 percent of the 15-year-olds, by 20, by 30, as is done in Europe. So what banking system? Who likes this banking sector that today? Who likes this activity? I think you'll see the answer now.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-03-m1.u121	Dear colleagues, let's move on to acceptance. No, there's no procedure here. No, there's no procedure here, dear fellows. Please prepare for the vote. Ready to vote? In accordance with article 85 of the Constitution of Ukraine, article 207 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Regulations puts to the vote the entire draft Decree (Registration No. 3772) on the release of Smolius Jakov Vasilovich from office as Head of the National Bank of Ukraine. Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[16:18:03]] For-286 Decision taken. Thank you, Your Honor. Thank you, Jacob Vasilovich. Let's see the factions. Dear colleagues, you are invited to consider the draft Decision on the Liberation of Terentiev from the post of Head of the Antimonopoly Committee of Ukraine. According to article 85, paragraph 12, of the Constitution of Ukraine, the Supreme Council of Ukraine is to be dismissed from office as Head of the Antimonopoly Committee of Ukraine. The head of the Antimonopoly Committee of Ukraine, Terentiev Yuri Alexanderovich, wrote a corresponding statement on July 1, 2020, under the name of the Head of the Supreme Council and the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The next procedure for consideration is proposed. Presentation by the profile committee in 3 minutes. Presentations by representatives of the MPs and groups for up to 21 minutes. Then we move on to making a decision. No notes? Dmitry Andriyovich Nataluha is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-03-m1.u122	Dear Dmitre Alexanderovich, dear colleagues, I'm very quick. On 2 July 2020, in accordance with the mandate of the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for urgent consideration of personnel matters, in particular the consideration of the relevant statement by the Head of the Antimonopoly Committee on his resignation and the submission of appropriate proposals to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the Committee considered the application. On the basis of this statement, the committee reached a decision to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, in accordance with article 85, paragraph 12, of the Constitution of Ukraine, to release Terentiyev Yuri Aleksandrovitch from office of the Head of the Antimonopoly Committee of Ukraine on his own initiative in connection with his application. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-03-m1.u123	Thank you. The head of the Ukrainian Antimonopoly Committee, Yuri Alexanderovich Terentiyev, is invited to attend. Please. Dear colleagues, let's move on to the speeches from the MP factions and groups. Please sign up. National Deputy Shahov Sergey Volodymyrovich, Deputy Group "Trust".
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-03-m1.u124	Sergey Shahov, trust MP. Dear colleagues, we have three questions and we will vote in favour of resigning the head of the Antimonopoly Committee. The first is COVID. We need to find out who brought the masks, the suits, all the protective materials. We haven't heard that before. Secondly, I've repeatedly asked for external electricity, which costs three times as much as it costs to use in society. Please tell me why there's 90 copies and the outside there is 2.62. Third. Tell me again in the coal sector. Why do we have coal from Africa, Russia, and Belarus today? And who is controlling this process in the coal sector today? Why was the Antimonopoly Committee silent? Trust Group supports the resignation of the head of the Antimonopoly Committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-03-m1.u125	Ironman Jaroslav Ivanovich, faction of the political party "The Voice".
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-03-m1.u126	Dear colleagues, of course we have many questions for the Antimonopoly Committee. Because it's the same institution that should destroy the monopoly. And that is the institution that depends on what tariffs our citizens will pay for their utilities, the institution on which they will charge their cars, the institution on which they will charge their cars, the institution on which they depend, the prices, including the products in our stores. But it's not about the Head of the Antimonopoly Committee, it's about the institution, it's about the independent body. When we have the Head of the Antimonopoly Committee on Wednesday, after we hear that, we have a statement with Mr. President. This is the same thing as political responsibility and political pressure on him. When he withdraws his application the next day, and the committee still considers submission, it's the same thing that we're talking about political pressure. When he withdraws his application for appeal today, it shows that exactly what is going on in this country’s government is going wrong. We, as the Voice faction, have a lot of questions about antimonopoly politics, about the formation of legislation, about public procurement, about the very large resonance issues on monopolies, which unfortunately exist and are only increasing in our country. But today's vote is not a fact vote for the Head of the Antimonopoly Committee, it's a vote about whether we can let the President's Office go on, some politicians influence independent bodies. If so, further action on the existence of monopolies, by way of tariffs, at higher prices for products, will be entirely in the responsibility of these politicians, and the next day you can ask them. If not, we cannot support this resignation despite the number of calls and calls. And they have to figure out first, as well as with the Head of the National Bank, who was exerting pressure, why they were interested. And most importantly, what we have to do is finally get the Antimonopoly Committee to work properly in Ukraine. Only in these circumstances can we support such decisions. So today, the Voice faction will not vote in favour of this resignation and will urge all colleagues to listen again to the reasons. And the reason is very simple: political pressure on independent bodies and institutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-03-m1.u127	The word is given to the national deputy Kucherenka Alexi Yuriovich, a faction of the political party "The All-Ukrainian Union of the Fatherland".
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-03-m1.u128	Thank you, Mr. Head. Alexy Kucherenko, faction of Fatherland. Dear colleagues, you and I are chosen by the people of Ukraine, by our citizens, so if we evaluate the work of the Antimonopoly Committee, it is now desirable to go out on the street that Kiev, that Zitomir, that Lviv and ask, and what do you people think about fighting the monopolies that surround us. And I think we'd hear the very professional and the very real assessment of what people think, I think we should definitely rely on them. I'm like a person who's long-standing in dealing with monopolies both in the housing and utility spheres, and in energy, I can say one thing: I'm absolutely not happy with what's going on today, and I'm appreciating my unsatisfying activities of the Antimonopoly Committee. But that's not even the point. First. We don't understand until now, and, Mr. Head, if you could clarify, Mr. Head, Mr. Dmitri, if you could make it clear to us, Mr. Dmitri, if you could explain the situation to us whether there's a statement of appeal. He can't hear. Dmitry Alexanderovich, clarify the situation as to whether or not there is a response. Because I don't understand this position, I just know exactly one thing: to lead an antitrust body in a country like Ukraine, has a man, sorry, with eggs, with a hard will, who understands that it's a struggle, that it's a war. And it's a personal question for me that's not clear with the statements. And now, secondly, dear friends. The situation with independent regulators is a myth. You can't be working in the state, and being independent, it's completely misunderstood. And so our task with you is not just to give some kind of mythical independence to this body, not in this panacea, we need to guarantee, to any person or Terentiy if he stays in office, or to another person, and to all the authorized states of the Antimonopoly Committee that neither the President of Ukraine nor the deputy nor the government nor the oligarchs will interfere with their work, there will be no pressure. And that's the main question today: did the President of Ukraine really do everything possible to ensure the work of this independent body and other regulators? That's why, in making these decisions today on human resources policy, the main issue is what the Head of the Antimonopoly Committee said about his dismissal. If we don't answer that question, we won't be able to make a professional decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-03-m1.u129	Alexi Juryovich, I'll give you the information. As of today, only the first declaration of resignation remains true in Parliament. Coltunovich Alexander Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-03-m1.u130	Thank you. Honorable Presidium, venerable national electorates, and our listeners! To this day, it would be vital to listen to the Head of the Antimonopoly Committee. And not just his head, but his report. Report on its activities since 2015. What is this period for us? This is the period when we have the largest price increase for certain goods and services. For example. The price of gas at the time of the Head of the Antimonopoly Committee rose by 9.5 times, the heating tariff rose by 11.3 times, cold and hot water by 5.5 to 6 times. Where was the Antimonopoly Committee, and why did it not affect the natural monopolies that exist in Ukraine today? Another very important point and what the workers who once worked on the Antimonopoly Committee are talking about. That, in fact, the Antimonopoly Committee has been demolished today, so it doesn't actually work, it doesn't have the most professional professional staff, and so today there's really no one to carry out real antimonopoly policies. Another very important moment that wasn't made. But we need to modernize Ukraine's antitrust legislation, we need to introduce better international practices on demonopolization and delligarchy, overcoming the monopoly and actually dispersing, distributing those monopolies that are being abused today. Well, and the energy complex, the electricity, when we actually see a full cycle, when we produce electricity, or if it's thermal power plants, mine mining, electricity production, cloud power and so on, it's a complete cycle. And today we see that the result of this is an increase in electricity tariffs, especially in industry, and including, this is further reflected in inflation. And now about inflation, and already in the discussion about the Head of the National Bank, many people have told us about what to look at, we've managed to overcome inflation. So, I can assure you with all my responsibility that there should be, not inflation, but deflation, that is, actual price cuts for goods and services. For example, if the price of imported gas is going down three times, it makes sense that the price of gas should also go down inside the country. Deflation must be right! What may inflation be like when it comes to nominal increases in tariffs, such as utilities? It's the same with the oil products. The price of petroleum products is substantially decreasing, and as a result of gasoline and other fuel-oil materials. There should be not a minimal increase in prices, but a significant decrease in prices. That's why minimal even inflation is criminal instead of deflation. We're going to vote in favour of the head of the Antimonopoly Committee, but once again, we need new antimonopoly legislation on delligarchization. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-03-m1.u131	Katchura Alexander Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-03-m1.u132	Alexander Kachura, "Serial of the People" faction. You can see that Yuri Terentieva isn't in this room, so we don't have an Antimonopoly committee in the country. And that's what all Ukrainians in our country feel. What has happened in recent times and why I will personally vote in favour of Terentiev’s resignation. Remember when we had the Coronavirus pandemic when there was a peak, and the speculators talked to each other about how the masks would cost 2.5 thousand dollars of a packet at retirement in the country of 1,700-1600 dollars? At the time, the Antimonopoly Committee made decisions about television operators and IT companies, and they also think that the biggest problem we had at the time was the conspiracy of individual IT companies. At a time when huge shopping centers, supermarkets were increasing food products at the time COVID-19, they were dealing with the question that the companies that were doing road construction would actually get the tenders that were needed, not the ones that really won those tenders and would deprive them of their right to do business. The issue of tobacco producers is a separate issue, because in the last year, the Antimonopal Committee has established a cartel conspiracy between huge tobacco companies, which is a loss of almost 6.5 billion to the budget. We ask where the social guarantees, where the pensions, we need credit from the International Monetary Fund? Here, the Antimonopoly Committee could only be a month before a court on tobacco monopolies, admitting cartel plots, putting at least 8 billion dollars into the budget. Is this the work of the Antimonopoly Committee? This is the work of the Monopoly Committee. Because in Terentieva's time, the Antimonopoly Committee has turned into a monopoly committee, we don't need an organ leader who's completely inactive, who can't do anything about monopolies who can't do anything about international corporations that don't pay any taxes, because I've seen how much these companies pay. One of them, who spends more than a billion dollars a year, 200 thousand dollars, is 200 thousand dollars a coffee shop at a subway station a year and pays more. What's going on? What did this leader do? Where's his report? Where is he, the head of the Antimonopoly Committee? Why did he not now appear at the meeting of the Supreme Council? So with such disrespect for parliamentaryism, for the tears of the people who paid for the goods of the first necessity, we vote green and good-bye, Mr. Terentiev, if you are watching us on television right now, because you have not been able to get to the walls of Parliament.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-03-m1.u133	Jacenko Anton Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-03-m1.u134	Dear colleagues, I now express my opinion as a national deputy major, and I want to say what I have encountered in the district -- the question of milk, when farmers buy milk cheaper than water, but it's anti-monopoly, I've got a whole folder of documents, I haven't taken any steps, and, for example, in the Cherkas region, Mr. Terentieuve has put his own incomprehensible acquaintances, the woman he's been studying with, I don't know what he's done with her, but she's only worked on the principle of "his own foreign" and "the treatment of business." Therefore, to my deep conviction, I remember when he was appointed, he also did not appear in the Supreme Council five years ago who remembered the ancients here, and now he did not come too, because he was sure that he would be well and he would spit on the Supreme Council, on the Ukrainian people, on the peasants. So I urge everyone to vote in favour of his resignation, and that on karma will be a bill, as they say. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-03-m1.u135	Dear colleagues, let's go to the vote. Ladies and gentlemen, please invite the national deputies to the hall. Dear faction leaders! No, they say we can. I'm just in. Did everyone come in wanting? Okay. Can we vote? Now, let's vote. Yes, it is. What's wrong with you, Nestor Ivanovich? Support the offer. Thank you. In accordance with article 85 of the Constitution of Ukraine, I am voting for the whole draft Decree (Registration No. 3784) on the release of Terentiev Yuri Aleksandrovitch from the post of Head of the Antimonopoly Committee of Ukraine. Please support and vote. [[16:39:49]] For 226 Decision taken. [[B in m in s a l in]] Orders adopted in general. Someone had gray hair. Let's see the factions. [[B in m in s a l in]] I'll be sure to say. "The Servant of the People" – 183, "The Opposition Platform for Life" – 23, "European Solidarity" – 0, "The Fatherland" – 0, "The Future Party" – 6, "The Voice" – 0, "The Trust" – 10, "the Non-factional" – 4. The next issue of the agenda is the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation on specific issues of the health education process (registration number 3671). It is necessary to include this issue in the agenda of the day session. Please support and vote. Please take your seats. Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[16:41:16]] For 257 Decision taken. It is suggested that this issue be considered in a simplified manner. Please support and vote. [[16:41:37]] For 227 Decision taken. Needed to Be Discussed? Or we can. [[B in m in s a l in]] Is it possible that the "ES" could just be a performance and we could vote? Is there no objection? Two minutes, turn on the E.S. Zinkevich Jan Viktorina. She's Vadimovna, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-03-m1.u136	The adoption of the project will allow for the improvement of the health education process through the realization of the right to medical care for higher education institutions and the exercise of the right to participate in the provision of medical care to intern physicians. This bill is extremely important and requires immediate adoption in connection with the Coronavirus epidemic and a large number of patients among medical personnel. We will support this bill on the basis and in general.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-03-m1.u137	Dear colleagues, are we all ready to vote? I'm betting on the voting proposal for acceptance as a basis. The committee's proposal, on the basis and in general, first on the basis and then on the whole. I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Law amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine on specific issues of the health education process (register No. 3671). Invite the national deputies to the hall. Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[16:43:17]] For 281 Decision taken. I am voting on the proposal for adoption as a whole with the necessary technical and legal regulations, draft Law (registration number 3671). Please support and vote. [[16:43:43]] For 285 Decision taken. The law was passed in general. The next bill is 3668, the draft Act on Rehabilitation of Persons with Restricted Activity. We need to include this issue in the agenda of the day session. Please support and vote. [[16:44:13]] For 297 Decision taken. It is suggested that this issue be considered in a simplified manner. Please support and vote. [[16:44:34]] For 249 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, no discussion? Zinkewich? Let's not discuss this law. It's a motive. Give me a minute, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-03-m1.u138	Dear colleagues, unfortunately, this bill will be maintained at this time. We ask him to be further developed, and we will continue to express our support for him. The bill as a whole is good enough, but there really are a lot of comments from the GNEU. And I want the authors to be able to complete it.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-03-m1.u139	Thank you. It is offered in the first reading and between the first and the second workings. I'll bet you a vote. [[B in m in s a l in]] No, on the ground. The committee proposes a foundation. I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Law on Rehabilitation of Persons with Restricted Activity (registration number 3668). Please support and vote. [[16:45:52]] For 265 Decision taken. The next issue of agenda is the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine 2020 (registration number 3664). It is suggested to include this issue in the agenda of the day session. Please support the vote. [[16:46:20]] For 268. Decision taken. It is suggested that this issue be considered in a simplified manner. Please support and vote. [[16:46:39]] For 252 Decision taken. Ready to vote? [[B in m in s a l in]] It's a motive. Is everyone having a discussion? Write down who wants to speak. Sign up, let one of you perform. Lozinski, will you be speaking? Vasil? Lesya Volodymyrna.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-03-m1.u140	Congratulations, colleagues. Finally, the government corrects the mistake that it has made itself by bringing together two ministries and by allowing energy to regenerate ecology. We have been observing the results of this raid for more than a month. All these fires are unprecedented in Ukraine, in Ukrainian forests, floods that destroy and demolish entire populated areas, as a result of the lack of environmental policy in our country. This error must be corrected. And the Ministry of Environmental Policy has finally been created. But in order for it to start working, it needs money. You need money for environmental programs, you need money to recruit a team, and you need a staff. As long as this ministry does not work, we will continue to bear witness to the adverse effects of the lack of environmental policy. And we will continue to observe with you how the fundamental right of Ukrainians to environmental security is being violated, as enshrined in the Constitution of Ukraine. The Voice faction will support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-03-m1.u141	Jon’s Maria Mikolayevna
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-03-m1.u142	I ask you to pass the word to Alexia Hotcharenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-03-m1.u143	Hončarenko Alexyyyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-03-m1.u144	Pottery, European Solidarity. Dear friends, you and I see an over-the-term issue, and we must consider it very urgently in the next session. What is this? And the thing is, a year ago, the "ministers of the people" and Zelensky were amazed when they took and merged the Ministry of Energy and the Ministry of Environmental Protection. This strange hybrid Frankenstein existed for a while, and it became clear to everyone that it was absurd, so it can't be, and let's just say, separate. And now, a year from now, we urgently need to change the state budget so that at least the money will appear in this new ministry. What do we do? What is the CPD of this activity? Why did you destroy the ministry that you are now playing in such a torture? And I want to remind you that there are consequences. During this year, we have lost completely money on environmental programs. You cut them by 96 percent. You've stopped subsidizing conservation activities to the local communities. What did they spend it on? West Ukraine to fight floods. In our north to fight forest fires. And then you say, God, God, we have floods. God, God, we've got forest fires. What did you think, you destroyed the environmental field, destroyed the ministry, and then it came to you. The same thing you did everywhere, your reforms: the Henprosecutor's Office, that's for it. You've changed ten times, you can change as much as you want, but the 95 Quarter remains the 95 Quarter. If you don't sit down, you don't like musicians.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-03-m1.u145	Alona Ivanovna's starch.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-03-m1.u146	Alona's splinter, Fatherland faction. Colleagues, on August 29, last year, the President supported the decision and gave it to the Supreme Council to unite various ministries, including the Ministry of Environment and the Ministry of Energy. The opposition then said that such decisions did not work, that it would be, firstly, an absolute conflict of interest within such a ministry. And secondly, it doesn't suit the public interest when one policy becomes a hostage of another. Three months later, all they said was that these decisions were not working and that both the Ministry of Economics, and the Ministry of Agriculture, and the Ministry of Energy, and the Ministry of Ecology should be separated. And here, quoting Zelensky, in January, Greensky said that you know that we had a merger of some ministries. At first it was probably the right decision, because we have a professional staff hunger and a small budget, but now, I think, time has shown that some ministries should be divided. My colleagues, you haven't saved your budget, your budget hasn't changed to a bracelet. For three months the Ministry was separating, and the State Service suffered. You will now spend at least a month separating ministries and reestablishing new salaries, jobs, and professional history for government officials. The economy didn't happen, and human hunger only happens because we don't have a general strategy for the country's development. And because you passed the reintroduction law in September, when any professional civil servant can be released for a politically motivated article just like that, that's why human hunger is happening. And in order to solve this problem, it is necessary to have a strategy for regulating the public service and government, not to unite or disunite specific ministries. So please take a strategic view, do not change your strategic vision every three months, stop arbitrary political releases of government officials, and guarantee people professionally normal work in the public service. And then maybe something will work.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-03-m1.u147	Coltunovich Alexander Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-03-m1.u148	Thank you, Mr. Head. I would like to go back to history and remind you that our party was and the faction was against the unification of these ministries, as well as the Ministry of Economics, Trade, and Agriculture. Today, thanks to God, you have found that they needed to be separated. And now we're making appropriate changes to the State budget for the recipients of these funds. But we would like to point out to you that please be kind, pay attention and listen to the opposition that the Ministry of Economics and the Ministry of Agricultural Development of Ukraine need to be dismantled. Because such an important sector as agriculture should have a separate coordinator of the processes that are taking place today. Another very important point for the Ministry of Nature and Environment. Today, the issue of environmental policy and the financing of measures that will alert us to the consequences we have today, particularly in Western Ukraine. Therefore, our first request is to make changes to the budget just one of the conservation measures that will make it impossible for us to do so. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-03-m1.u149	Thank you. Now Jacenko Anton Volodymyrovich, Shahov. And then we go to the vote. There are two speeches left.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-03-m1.u150	My dear colleagues, the Supreme Council now reminds me of Soviet Communists who first created difficulties and then successfully overcome them. In fact, the entire system of ecology was destroyed when the two ministries were merged, and then now we're splitting them up and allocating them. But today we're left with zero bracelets of zero copies absolutely for all environmental programs, that's 1,270 so-called 1,500, subsidies to territories and so on. So a big request to the budget committee, well, and our Committee on the Environment has asked twice, three times to re-establish these programs and the ministry worked normally, the environment worked. The earth is one and the nature is one. We have to understand that. I'm asking you to support me. And thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-03-m1.u151	Shahov Sergei Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-03-m1.u152	Sergey Shahov, Trust MP, Luhanščina. Dear colleagues, indeed, today must be quoted, and Anton Yatzenk, our colleague, was very pleased with the words that we make problems first and then solve them. Let us not cause any problems, but let us immediately resolve all the issues that are at stake today in the state. You don't have to patch holes. They're assigned first. All the ministries are united, and now they are separating. In fact, it was our proposal and our trust group, which should be the Ministry of Energy and Ecology. Everyone knows that today's environmental disaster, the technological catastrophe in our country, has to be solved. But people cannot work without wages, without funding, that volunteers and public officials today must carry paper or carry pencils or pens. We really need to support and vote, today, to support the Ministry of Ecology and to pay attention in general to all ministries that are not working today. If you don't work, you'll have to work with a broom. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-03-m1.u153	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I'll put it to a vote. Please prepare for the vote. I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine 2020 (Registration No. 3664). Please take your seats and prepare for the vote. After that, in general. Invite the national deputies to the hall. Ready to vote? I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine 2020 (Registration No. 3664). Please support and vote. [[16:57:50]] For 247 Decision taken. I am voting on the proposal for adoption in general, taking into account the Committee's proposals and the necessary technical and legal remedies, draft Law 3664. Please support and vote. [[16:58:16]] For 238. Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Thank you. Dear colleagues, next question, for the last time, if I'm not mistaken, the order of the day. This is a draft law amending the Ukrainian State Service Act concerning the candidate reserve (registration number 3491), which is the second reading. Would you please tell me who's going to insist on editing? I am voting on the proposal to adopt a second reading and, in general, with the necessary technical and legal rights, the draft Law amending the Ukrainian Law on State Service on the Candidate Reserve (Registration No. 3491). Please support and vote. [[16:59:08]] For 258. Decision taken. Next question. This is a draft law amending some Ukrainian legislation on improving the conditions for electricity generation from alternative sources of energy (registration number 3658 and 3658-1). Out of procedure, Schofrich. There's no Schuffritz? Okay. Nestor Ivanovich, you have a procedure. You can't leave the rostrum, you can leave.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-03-m1.u154	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues! During this vote, I would like to state that there is a conflict of interest in the fact that our family belongs to a company that produces alternative electricity. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-03-m1.u155	Dear colleagues, would you please tell me what you need to discuss? Can we vote? We can vote. I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Law amending certain laws of Ukraine to improve the conditions for the production of electricity from alternative sources of energy (registration number 3658). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[17:00:55]] For 268. Decision taken. The committee suggested that the bill should be reduced by half by the time of submission of the rights and proposals and the preparation of the bill for the second reading. Please support and vote. [[17:01:21]] For 222 Unfortunately, 222. The decision is not taken. Thank you. The next meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed. Thank you.
