ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-18-m0.u1	Good morning, dear fellows! Good morning, media officials! Please invite the national deputies to the registration room. As long as my colleagues are meeting, I ask you to approach the rostrum of MP factions and groups. There is one question that needs to be discussed. Dear colleagues, please prepare for registration. Are you ready to register? You need to remind yourself how the registration takes place, don't you? If necessary, the registration takes place by clicking on the "for" button on the first left. Please register. That's the green one. [[10:13:30.]] There are 170 Ukrainian national deputies registered in the hall. The plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear colleagues, Prime Minister Denis Anatoliyovich Schmigal and members of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine are taking part in the meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Please welcome a colleague. Dear colleagues, there has been a statement of a real break at the request of two factions. Denis Anatoliyovich, your honor, I have to apologize, but we're going to have to take this break right now. Only after that will we be able to go back to the question of listening to "the hour of questioning to the government." I can't hear you, I can't hear you. Denis Anatoliyovich, colleagues are asked, if possible, to join appropriately. The faction of European Solidarity and Voice, I take it? There's a break at 10:45. I'd like you to meet the leaders of the MP factions and groups in my office.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-18-m0.u2	Dear colleagues! There's just been a really good meeting. Galina Mikolayevna, come back, there's no place to vote. Ladies and gentlemen, please invite the national deputies to the hall. Dear colleagues! Can I have your attention, please? Ladies and gentlemen, could I have your attention, please? Jaroslav Ivanovich, can I have your attention? Dear colleagues, a meeting took place. Arthur Volodymyrovich, a meeting of representatives of all MP factions and groups took place. The Prime Minister and I discussed a situation that may have taken place yesterday. This has already been written in the media, and this is what our colleagues are talking about. I mean this phenomenon, which, fortunately, has become an exception to the walls of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the ninth call, but it sometimes returns. It's called non-personal voting or "buttoning." I think the attitude towards this means of working Ukrainian national MPs in all is negative. However, from time to time, such information appears in the media, and some of the facts we had at the beginning of our work, and you know that too. We even adopted the Law on Responsibility for Unpersonal Voting, which entails criminal responsibility. But today all colleagues say it doesn't work. So we agreed on the following. First. We have a regulatory committee -- I'm talking to you, Sergey Vitaliyovich, to you, to the Apparatus, I'm sure he'll join this process. By January 15 (this is not my proposal, this is the common position of all MP factions and groups, so I hope that it will be the same in the committee) to develop changes to legislation that would make it more difficult to be responsible for non-personal voting, and to increase criminal responsibility, and to increase fines for such acts. This needs to be done by January 15th in order for us to be able to consider this bill as one of the first since the New Year. [[Applause]] Thank you. The other one. Also, all the factions have asked me to install additional cameras in the hall to record a non-personal vote, which, God forbid, will take place in the hall. Third. [[B in m in s a l in]] No, where there are no beds, for example. No, no, in beds, for example. I'm telling you what they're asking for, and I'll make sure of it. In all the beds. Next. [[B in m in s a l in]] Even where the green button works, yes. Next. Another offer I support and was accepted by all factions. At the beginning of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the ninth call, a preparatory parliamentary group was working, and we clearly identified the locations to which the faction was assigned. We have a reserve, because unfortunately today we have temporarily occupied areas of Donbas and Crimea, and not all of our possible colleagues can choose there. That's why we're a little bit smaller than the Constitution provides. As a result, we were left with vacant seats, which were called spares, but they became permanent for the people’s deputies. So we go back to the position of the MP factions and groups that were at the time of the distribution of seats between factions and groups at the beginning of our work. All other voting venues will be disconnected from the "Council" system. [[Applause]] Thank you. I hope I've made all our suggestions, dear colleagues? And another position, no. [[B in m in s a l in]] I can't hear you, first. Second of all, I didn't agree, Inna Romanovna. I'm going to the committee. A statement came from two factions, and it would be written down and sent to the committee. At the next committee meeting, which will take place according to the schedule, we will consider a situation that may have taken place with regard to one vote yesterday, everyone knows about it, everyone has heard about it, and everyone has learned about it on the regulatory committee. All the materials that come to me, I'll sign up for a profile committee. Everything? That's it. Thank you. Let's get to work. Dear colleagues, the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Denis Anatoliyovich Schmigal, is invited to the floor. Dennis Anatolyovich, excuse me, one minute. A break with a replacement for the show? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-18-m0.u3	Good day to you all! Ladies and gentlemen, you all know that yesterday our mayor, Kharkiv Gennady Kernes, was gone. This is an incorrigible loss for all of Ukraine. But for us Harkowians, it is a special loss because our entire city’s era has gone with it. Kharkiv to Gennady Adolfovich are two different cities: before and after. He made Kharkiv a European and successful city by his hard work. But most of all, it is thanks to Gennady that the Kharkivites love their city so much and are proud of it. We will forever remember Gennady Adolfovich as one who worked for the city and its inhabitants taught himself to the full and was able to make Kharkiv better. I offer to honor the memory with a minute of silence.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-18-m0.u4	The Prime Minister of Ukraine, Denis Anatoliyovich Schmigal, is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-18-m0.u5	Good day, distinguished national MPs, distinguished lord presiding, distinguished Ukrainians! The crisis of 2020, associated with the coronavirus pandemic, has become one of the greatest crises in human history in 100 years. 75 million people worldwide have contracted COVID-19, almost 1 million 700,000 people, unfortunately, died in the world. In Ukraine, the total number of cases detected by the end of the year will reach 1 million. Today, the government has a complex vision of the pandemic's response from the anti-crisis steps here and now to clear plans for the coming months and the coming years. What steps we plan to take in the next few weeks and months. The first is the introduction of an optimal model of enhanced quarantine. The second is an increase in the number of tests. The third is free vaccination of critical social groups. I'll go back to this plan in more detail. Another very important decision that we have been working on for several months now is the improvement of the system of self - isolation supervision. And the next front of the job is to increase the ability of the medical system that we do all the time. On vaccination issues. The Ministry of Health has developed a National Vaccine Plan, which is now being discussed at government level. Yes, next week this plan will be approved. It is worth noting that the work on the preparation of the COVID-19 vaccination campaign has started since September this year at the State Health Centre of the Ministry of Public Health of Ukraine, a working expert group was convened to which Ukrainian doctors and experts, representatives of the World Health Organization Office in Ukraine, UNICEF and others have entered. I can give you the following details of the National Vaccination Plan, which contains complex measures and recommendations and criteria, as well as clear tasks. So the main task of the vaccination plan is to cover the vaccine against COVID-19 50 percent of the population of Ukraine, that's almost 21 million people. In view of the fact that the purchase of vaccines cannot be performed immediately for all citizens, it is necessary to identify the priority population groups to receive the vaccine in the first place. On the basis of the recommendations of the World Health Organization, the previous framework for a fair distribution of vaccine from COVID-19 and other expert groups, I will separate a number of priority vaccination groups from COVID-19. These are health workers, including those who are directly involved in the response to the COVID-19 epidemic; military personnel who are involved in the United Nations operation; social workers, including social workers, persons living in facilities for long-term care and support, and personnel of such facilities; workers of critical public security structures, including DSNS, National Police, Nazgwardia, military personnel of the Ukrainian Armed Forces, IMF; teachers and other education workers; elderly (60 years of age and older) who are at risk. It is worth noting that there is also a gradual spread of the vaccine depending on the number of vaccines received. The next issue that concerns society and national MPs is how to organize a vaccination campaign. The vaccination is planned to be carried out on the basis of existing vaccination offices, according to the Ministry of Profile Information, and by December of this year there are more than 11,000 in Ukraine. With regard to other vaccination routes, mobile brigades are envisaged as well as the involvement of a network of family doctors through which vaccination will take place. The most important question is the source of the vaccine. The first vaccines are expected in February. To this end, the government is negotiating in two ways: directly with vaccine manufacturers and with the leadership of the states where such vaccines will be produced or already contracted. In March, the first batch of 8 million vaccine doses is expected for 4 million Ukrainians under the Kovacs initiative. Costs of purchase are placed in the budget. Thank you, distinguished national deputies, for voting in favour of creating a suitable special fund. In the following year this special fund will actually be used to buy and provide vaccination to Ukrainians. Thank you for your attention. I'm ready to answer the questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-18-m0.u6	Thank you. Please sign up for questions from MPs and groups. Coltunovich Alexander Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-18-m0.u7	Thank you. Mr. Prime Minister, there will be two questions. The first is about record borrowing, the inclusion of funds in auctions on domestic government debt to cover government budget deficits. The sum of over 51 billion dollars, with an income of between 10 and 12 percent. I understand you have a deficit of 11 months of 111 billion dollars. But don't you think that being a free-for-nothing borrowing and actually making money on a national economy is a criminal thing? That's the first one. And how will you decide that? And the second question. We got payments where the price for gas is 8.8 plus the fare for delivery. That's about 9,000 700,000 per country on average. How do you explain that if the customs value of the imported gas fell from $339 to $182? Why do we, when we have a gas drop, I don't talk about a gas of our own, which is cheaper, why do we have a gas price rise? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-18-m0.u8	Thank you. So it's about the loan. In fact, the Ministry of Finance has done and is doing a tremendous job of working with investors both internally and externally. And within the budgeted deficit, not more, but actually to cover the expenditure planned by the budget, including the protected articles, the employees and specialists of the Ministry of Finance are working, and the funds are involved in both the external markets and the internal markets. Last week, over $600 million was involved under 6.2 percent for 4 years, a record loan at an extremely low rate. This week, on Tuesday, in the internal market, but especially with foreign investors, which makes Ukraine more interesting and attractive today, and that's a very good indicator, there was a really record number of 51 billion dollars involved. What enables us to end this year peacefully, to make social commitments to people, to retirees, to pay appropriate wages in the social sphere, and to close all liabilities on capital investments. As far as gas prices are concerned. As far as you know, from this year on, gas prices have moved into the market, gas supplies refer to market relations. Every consumer in Ukraine today has the right to choose and let you know that the price of NAC Naftogaz, a state company, is 2 or more thousand dollars less than the price of supply, for example, the corresponding archergo. So please, I urge people to analyze, see where. Today gas prices are market prices, they are different, and I call for contracts with a government company that actually sells gas at cheaper, much cheaper prices than it sells on a commercial market today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-18-m0.u9	Katchura Alexander Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-18-m0.u10	Alexander Kachura, "Serial of the People" faction. Dear Mr. Prime Minister, the vaccine issue. What's wrong with the vaccine for Ukrainian production? Because, remember, all of us had editions on each of us that Ukraine was developing a vaccine. What about this vaccine? And the second question. Is there a strategy and a plan for mass vaccination of the Ukrainian population? And is there a free vaccination program for people? Because there's a warning that the vaccine will either be inoperable, in a country where 1 thousand 600 dollars of pension will cost a lot more, or we'll get a vaccine when the whole world is vaccinated, and we'll get it last. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-18-m0.u11	Thank you, Mr. Alexander. In fact, in my speech, I made it very clear that I had a detailed plan for vaccinations and a list of people who would be vaccinated, so I sounded, beginning with medical personnel, including those who were directly involved in the response to the epidemic, military personnel who were involved in the United Nations operation, and the list that was appropriate in the national plan. With regard to vaccination and basic tasks, the vaccination plan of the population of Ukraine next year, I also sounded it. Since February, we plan to start vaccinations for doctors, in the next month, as of March, the first million doses of the global Kovacs initiative, which will give us 8 million doses of the vaccine, will start to work. We're going to need 21 million doses to actually inoculate 50 percent of the population. So all of these things are wiretaps, they're scheduled and they're going to be properly approved and published next week. As far as I'm concerned. So all of these things are, we're going to publish them.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-18-m0.u12	Please don't interrupt.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-18-m0.u13	Ukraine will receive vaccines no later than Europe. Access to vaccines is a voluntary matter, and it will be accompanied by a free vaccination plan, based on the state of those groups that are defined, including the recommendations of the World Health Organization. And in parallel, it will be a commercial product that everyone who wants can buy and get this vaccination in the appropriate offices or in the appropriate infrastructure. Regarding the Ukrainian vaccine, I would like to ask the minister of health to answer that question from the National MP.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-18-m0.u14	Thank you. What's happening with the vaccine candidate, because it's not a vaccine, it's a vaccine candidate. You know, we've been through, we've been through, we've been through, we've been through, we've been through, we've been through, An appropriate base, a manufacturing base, was selected to produce this vaccine before clinical trials began. It's one of the Ukrainian companies. Because for starters, at least 100,000 doses of the vaccine must be produced. So there's a process going on. But this process cannot be completed in one month. There everything is moving forward in order for Ukraine to reinvent vaccine production, which has been destroyed in our country for the past 29 years in its entirety.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-18-m0.u15	Friz Irina Vasilovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-18-m0.u16	Please give the word of Volodymyr Váterović.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-18-m0.u17	Excuse me? Vitatrovich Volodymyr Mihajlovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-18-m0.u18	Vladimir Vjatrović, European Solidarity. Dear Mr. Prime Minister, a man who has obtained a scientific title through intellectual theft, or plagiarism, a man who has become a minister because of another violation of the law, is a buttoning. Are you comfortable working with such a person in government? And what other offenses do you need to initiate Mr. Scarlett's resignation? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-18-m0.u19	Dear Mr. Vitatrović, a minister appointed in accordance with the legislation in force, read the oath and proceeded according to the law to carry out his duties. If you have a warning, please, Ukraine is a democratic state, go to the courts, give evidence, if you have evidence for criminal conduct, give decisions to the relevant experts or judges, we will deal with them with you, with the regulatory committee, with the Supreme Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-18-m0.u20	Bobrovska Solomija Anatoliyevna
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-18-m0.u21	Please pass the word to Inni Sussoon.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-18-m0.u22	Sussun Inna Romanovna
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-18-m0.u23	Inna Sowsun, Voice faction. Mr. Prime Minister, yesterday, we saw the man who stole the dissertation steal the post of Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine, with the hands of the OPCW in disgrace. I don't know how I'm supposed to come to my students as a teacher after that and say that stealing is bad. I have one question for you, Prime Minister, one way or another. Aren't you ashamed?
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-18-m0.u24	Do you have any evidence of the charges you're currently making from the parliamentary seat? Please give them to me. If this is a court decision taken in the name of Ukraine, please provide it. If these are your guesses, please refer to the court and provide information as required by Ukrainian legislation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-18-m0.u25	Kucher Mikola Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-18-m0.u26	Dear Denis Anatolyevich, I'd like to address you on the matter of our military. I want to say that you know that our brigades, at least for six months, are in the area of operations of the United Forces, then they return for six months to a permanent location where they live for about two months -- the ATOs. So I'd like to talk about the conditions of the military. Here I have been approached many times by the military on the issue of the transfer of property to them, to the 59th Brigade, which is constantly in the area of operation of the United Forces, about the transfer of property to the Vinnick National University, which is a former person who has been standing for almost three years, is not being used. I went to the Ministry of Education many times, to the ministers, to the executive ministers, to the deputy ministers, to the acting deputy ministers, to resolve the matter. No one seems to be doing what they can't, they just don't want to solve these questions. That's why I'm addressing you as Prime Minister to help me with this. Because when the 59th Brigade comes from the front, they're right away.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-18-m0.u27	I see. Thank you. I'll take your address as a parliamentary address. We'll work it out and give you the right answer. Thank you. If there is another written appeal, I will be grateful. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-18-m0.u28	Krulko Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-18-m0.u29	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. Mr. Prime Minister, during the adoption of the budget for 2021 from the "Fatherland" faction initiative, a special fund was set up in the budget structure, called to deal with the consequences of COVID, and to purchase free vaccines for the population and to increase the wages of the medics. In this regard, please provide a clear answer on how this special fund will be filled to purchase free vaccines for the population? How will medical wages be raised, and how much more so? Will 300 percent be saved for doctors who work directly with COVID and other workers? And also, I'm asking you to answer how much Ukraine is ready, because we're going to get into the new year, before the COVID results are effectively addressed and people are able to heal and they're ready for beds? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-18-m0.u30	Thank you, for that question, absolutely up to date. First of all, I thank you for supporting such an initiative to the people's deputies. This special fund is an extremely important tool for us to be able to purchase the necessary vaccines and take the necessary measures to inoculate the population in Ukraine since the end of this year. There are several ways of filling it or filling out the fund, and now the Ministry of Finance is still working on a number of sources for the following year, including some of them listed in Transitional Positions and National MPs' initiative, I will not list them now, they are in law and will be published by the Ministry of Finance. Regarding the increase in medical wages. Of course, more than 300 billion were put into medicine last year and 65 billion more than last year. This allows more money to be spent on raising the salaries of health - care workers. We plan to save in appropriate medical care packages the necessary amount of money to make 300 percent of the payments to those doctors who are fighting directly with COVID in designated hospitals with the Ministry of Health, who are actually called to fight COVID. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-18-m0.u31	Jacenko Anton Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-18-m0.u32	Give me your word, Father Taras.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-18-m0.u33	Batenko Taras Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-18-m0.u34	Thank you. Colleagues, after vaccination. It's important for us to go on vaccination on the way to developed countries, to European countries, not to be vaccinated as anyone would like to do with the Russian Satellite V. Therefore, it is important that every citizen waits for a fine vaccine next year. What do I mean? I mean, now every day, about three or over three thousand of our fellow countrymen in the hospital are in need of oxygenic emergency masks. And the question of oxygen supply in our hospitals is, well, it's like Auggie stables. I addressed this question to the minister of health, who says that people would die and die if they rephrased his words, the minister of health. So, Mr. Prime Minister, deal with this issue, on the issue of oxygen supply, this is a priority issue for hospitals right now. And the second and final question. The following year, 30 years of Ukrainian independence. The question of creating a museum of Ukrainian troops based on the Dachovsky Gardens, a question addressed by our Churchmen. Please, come on. Regrettably, the money is not budgeted in the state budget, so give appropriate instructions to the Ministry of Profiles to move the matter out of place and close it next year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-18-m0.u35	Thank you. With regard to vaccination, we will simultaneously move as Europe moves, as the civilized world moves. This week we met with the European director of the World Health Organization, discussed this issue, and the result is the development of the National Vaccine Plan. Yesterday we had a substantive conversation with the Prime Minister of Poland. And in principle, every week we communicate, and at the level of the President of Ukraine, and at the level of the Prime Minister of Ukraine, with the leaders of the states, we coordinate our actions. And as I said, since February, we intend to start vaccinations in Ukraine. With regard to oxygen. If today the number of beds loaded with COVID in Ukraine is falling from 28 to 27, to this day, slightly over 26,000 beds, the number of beds provided with oxygen is now over 34,000. And every week, this number is added. By the end of the year, the Ministry of Health had been tasked and commissioned to provide 80 percent of the city’s beds under COVID with oxygen. This task is being accomplished. And at the level of district administration there are almost one and a half billion dollars allocated for this goal from the state budget, they're distributed among hospitals. Today's work continues, and by the end of the year, I'm sure the number of beds with oxygen will be much higher. With regard to your second part of the request, we will also define it as a reference and give appropriate instructions to the Ministry of Profiles. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-18-m0.u36	The word is given to the Deputy Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Condratiuk Oleni Konstantinovni.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-18-m0.u37	Mr. Dennis, I have a question. I want to go back to the vaccination issues, because that's really the question that's very interesting to Ukrainian citizens right now. And I don't want to look at the leading countries, there's the United States, there's Britain, there's Canada, and they've already started vaccination. You know that in Britain more than 150,000 citizens have already been vaccinated. I can only turn to our neighbors, your colleague Mateusz Moravetsky Prime Minister of Poland, who bought 60 million doses of vaccines from six leading companies worldwide. Eight thousand vaccinations for 180,000 people are already being allocated. So now Poland starts vaccination free of charge from the February month. Please tell me, do we have any of these vaccinations now? When exactly who are you negotiating with, what kind of vaccine are you talking about? When we finally have a period of vaccination, is it February, or is it March, or is it May, the month? So that people can understand and have this normal dialogue with people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-18-m0.u38	Thank you. So it's about vaccination. I already said, first of all, that I had a conversation with the Prime Minister of Poland literally after yesterday. The vaccination in Ukraine is planned to be carried out on the basis of existing vaccination offices. According to the Ministry, I've also been sounding that there are more than 11,000 of them in Ukraine today. There will also be other ways of distributing vaccines, as well as the creation of mobile teams, as well as the involvement of a network of family doctors, through which vaccination will also take place, the ministry is currently working on this. Regarding the source of the vaccine. Two levels. We are negotiating at the level of heads of state, and we are also negotiating with all of the vaccine producers except Russian. All international manufacturers, of course, are now licensed vaccines, have three levels of certification and have appropriate permits and licences, and with all these manufacturers, health ministers are negotiating at the level of the managers of these companies. With regard to the beginning of free vaccination. I've already said, like in Poland, that the Prime Minister of Poland and I discussed this, we plan to get the first batch of vaccines in February, and the free vaccination of doctors who, respectively, are working on an advanced, struggling with COVID, we plan to start in February. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-18-m0.u39	Thank you, Dennis Anatolyovich. Time for "the hour of questioning to the government" is up. And now we're moving on. Dear colleagues, we agreed that the first issue would be the question of personnel appointment and consideration of the appointment of a minister for Ukrainian veterans. Is there no objection? In line with article 83, 85, of the 114th Constitution of Ukraine at the suggestion of a parliamentary faction of the political party "Staff of the People", which includes most Ukrainian national deputies from the Constitution of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, and which has the right to coalition of the parliamentary factions in the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Prime Minister of Ukraine Denis Anatoliyovich Schmigal brought to the Supreme Council an application for the appointment of Laputin Yulia Anatoli's minister in matters of Ukrainian veterans. The time for consideration is the same as yesterday. Is there no objection? Denis Anatoliyovich Schmigal is invited to represent the Minister for Veterans of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-18-m0.u40	Ladies and gentlemen of the people, Your Honor! In accordance with article 85, paragraph 12, and article 114, part four, of the Constitution, the Constitution of Ukraine proposed by the parliamentary faction of the political party "The Servant of the People", which according to article 83, part ten, of the Constitution of Ukraine has the right to coalition of the parliamentary factions in the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the Ninth Call, to submit the application for the appointment of Laputina Julia as Anatoliovna minister in matters of Ukrainian veterans. The candidate has considerable professional experience in the area of security, the national defence of Ukraine, and knows the issue of veterans, not in words, but in practice. Please support and vote in favour of the appointment of Anatoliyovna Laputina Julia as Minister for Ukrainian Veterans. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-18-m0.u41	Thank you. The candidate for the post of minister for Ukrainian veterans, Julius Anatolyevna Laputina, is invited to the floor.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-18-m0.u42	Dear Mr. Head, Mr. Prime Minister, distinguished national deputies! In Ukraine, there are about 400,000 participants in fighting. These are the people who went to war on Donbas, and that's more than the total number of military personnel in the Armed Forces, the National Guard, the State Border Service, the Air Force, intelligence and combat units. In fact, it's our second army that's been tested, motivated and able to fight. When there's a message of loss on the front, we all see it as a tragedy, but when there's information that another veteran has lost control of post-traumatic syndrome and committed suicide, isn't that the same tragedy? That's right, because it's all lost because of the war. The consequences of this war prevent a person from returning to normal work, to peaceful life. Veterans support is a rather difficult question facing all the states that fought: United States, United Kingdom, Croatia, Israel, and others. Even very rich countries have problems. I remember very well what the army was like in the 14th year, when in April 2014, my comrades and I entered the Kramator Airport, which was then under siege. How many volunteers have left peace and come to the ranks of our army to protect the state: financiers, lawyers, management representatives, artists, singers -- they've all gone to the front. And we have to support them. Those people who went through the war. [[Applause]] These people who went through the war are completely different people. These are the people who. It's just a very sensitive question for me. Because I've seen them, I've lived with them a lot, and many here also know what war is. [[Applause]] Today, how do I see a solution to the veterans ’ issue? First of all, it has to be a system of state work, where the efforts of parliament, government, the public sector, veteran organizations and, of course, ministries are combined. I see a few components. This is, first of all, fruitful cooperation with the committees on the drafting of drafts, their implementation and the implementation of legal mechanisms.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-18-m0.u43	Thank you, Julia Anatolyevna. Wait, there'll be questions now, you'll have time to answer to the Ukrainian National Deputies. Please sign up for the interview. Six minutes, six minutes. Questions from the National Deputies. Coltunovich Alexander Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-18-m0.u44	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to ask you a question, considering that you claim to be a minister in veteran affairs, about the number of veterans of the Great Homeland War, the Afghans. What social and economic instruments will be used to support these categories? That's the first one. And the others. What development programs and other social aspects of things, perhaps defaulting on municipal debt? Anything else? What tools are planned to support veterans? And I would like to point out that we're interested in the category of veterans of the Great Homeland War. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-18-m0.u45	Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would like to say that in order to answer your question very professionally, you need to work in the Ministry. And I want to study it perfectly, and I think I'm going to give you the answer. But I believe that veterans who have made an effort to protect our nation have all the categories of veterans that are worthy of protection. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-18-m0.u46	Duck Alexander Stalinoenovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-18-m0.u47	Please pass the word to Coltunovich Alexander.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-18-m0.u48	Coltunovich Alexander Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-18-m0.u49	Thank you. I asked you again because I didn't hear your question. You go, you claim to be minister. Yesterday, when we listened to ministers and suggested: (a) strategy; the second, absolutely clear understanding, even though we didn't vote for them, whether it's the Minister of Agrarian Policy, or whether it's the Minister of Education, is full understanding, there's an institutional approach to settling this issue. And I'm going to repeat why I've been focusing on the veterans of the Great Homeland War and the Afghans, and I haven't heard from your report on this, and I've heard about the participants in the conflict in the areas of the Donetsk and Lugansk regions. So do not forget, please, your activities and the veterans of the Great Homeland War. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-18-m0.u50	Thank you. But the schedule's pretty tight, and there's more I wanted to say. If there is further cooperation, we are ready to join the committees and so forth to discuss all these issues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-18-m0.u51	Irina Volodymyrna's character. Jon’s Maria Mikolayevna
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-18-m0.u52	Good afternoon, Mrs. Julia! We really respect you because we've known you since 2014, all the credit. Thank you for serving the people of Ukraine. You know, I'd just like to draw your attention to what, you know, when the Department of Veterans was being created, actually Mrs. Irina Fries, it and the register were being implemented, and a lot of programs were being put in place, and as you say, there was proper communication and cooperation with veteran organizations, with the public sector, with internationalists. Counsel: Unfortunately, the previous minister did not advocate a budget suitable for the Ministry of Veterans. And we'll be within our power, Parliament, I'm sure, and the majority will try to help change your ministry's budget. But we ask that we not forget to introduce also the funeral ceremony of the military and very many of the initiatives that have been put in place, but unfortunately, they are now suspended. The request simply continues, and we too will be willing to help. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-18-m0.u53	Mrs. Mary, thank you very much. I think that the question of the ceremony and the traditions that have already come together are such traditions of the military that have already come together, and we have to institutionalize them at the level of the state. And we will do so, for it is dignity and respect for our heroes. Another question is the budget. Unfortunately, yes, the budget is quite, I've looked at it a little bit. I'm what depends on me, I'm going to work if I can change it in terms of expansion, because the leading states of the world that went through the war spend much more money on veterans. And I'll only be happy if you help. I'll do what's right, it's up to me, I'll do it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-18-m0.u54	Sussun Inna Romanovna
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-18-m0.u55	Please pass the word to Andrew Sharaskin.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-18-m0.u56	Sharaskin Andrey Andriyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-18-m0.u57	Give God your health. Andrew Sharaskin, veteran. Julia, I have a question for you. Rumors are that they will close the commission's work on the participants in the fighting by confession, on the volunteers. That's the first one. How can you comment on that? The other one. In the 14th year, Ukraine and the President of Ukraine called on all parts of the world to help Ukraine. You know how many citizens of different countries have responded to us and fought and fought until now. The situation for now is the Sheikh Mansour battalion, with only 11 left. Papers are about veterans. Now there is no either -- as long as the commission is being translated from month to month, there are no final terms. And so is the commission that recommends after obtaining the citizenship of Ukraine that they claim to be. That's the second question.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-18-m0.u58	Thank you for asking. I personally know about the participation of representatives of our friendly partner countries who have helped Ukraine, and in general the participation of them in supporting us with various equipment and with certain military items. And what's up with me, I'm going to do it to give them what's right. I just, frankly, know that these issues have been discussed for many years, but there is no solution so far. If we can work this out, let's get together separately, and we'll figure it out. Because when the world supports our country, and people personally in their civic position, they need help, and this strengthens the partnership. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-18-m0.u59	Thank you. Please have a seat. The head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Social Policy and Veterans’ Rights, Galina Mikolayovna Trelyakova, is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-18-m0.u60	Mr. Razumkov Dmitr Aleksandrovič, President of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, discussed at his meeting on 17 December 2020, Protocol No.58, the submission of the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Denis Schmigal, dated 16.12.20, on the appointment of the Luputinian Julia Anatoliovna as Minister for Veterans of Ukraine, and decided to recommend to the Supreme Council that the matter be determined by means of a vote at the meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. From me, it's a candidate whose soul and mind will be exactly with the veteran community. And my personal request is to support this candidacy. Thank you, distinguished national MPs.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-18-m0.u61	Thank you. Dear colleagues, he is now speaking from the MP factions and groups. I'm still offering two minutes to vote before. We're not voting until the 12th, as agreed, so I'm offering two minutes. Please sign up for 2 minutes from the MP factions and groups. Presentations from MP factions and groups. Eutusek Sergey Mikolaiovich. Cimbaluk Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-18-m0.u62	Mikhailo Cimbaluk, Fatherland. Dear Mr. Head, presiding, Mr. Prime Minister, national deputies! The actual situation with the Ministry of Veterans is not easy, but the fact that it exists is a positive thing. In our view, the work of this institution for the protection of veterans’ rights is being improved today. But before the government in general and before the government in general, the ministry is faced with a challenging task. I want to focus on a few aspects. First. We should not forget that much of the responsibilities and functions depend on local authorities. This is the provision of shelters for veterans, land for construction, the creation of the conditions for extended transportation and use, and the provision of utility benefits. As a result, the Ministry's task is to produce policies to ensure that veterans, regardless of where they live and how local authorities treat them, still have equal access to these benefits. Next thing. The situation was not easy for the veterans themselves to function. And we had a temporary commission headed by Jan Zinkevich, and we discussed and managed to stop the system of reforming these hospitals. The Ministry should stand back and not only treat these hospitals but also rehabilitate those soldiers returning from the ATO zone. And I want to emphasize one more thing. There's the Law on Retirement of Military Workers, War veterans. The Ministry has to play a role. And to the end. Put on your military uniform.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-18-m0.u63	It's freezing.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-18-m0.u64	Please pass the word Coltunovich Alexander Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-18-m0.u65	Coltunovich Alexander Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-18-m0.u66	Coltunovich, "The Opposition Platform for Life." Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues! Even though we're discussing the issue of the minister of veterans today, the most important thing here is the socio-economic aspect of supporting veterans. Why were these questions asked and formulated by me? Because we've studied international practice, we've looked at what are the actions and priorities for supporting veterans in general. And this is the first, for example, what will be the compensation for care? This time. The other one. What will be the amount of financial assistance that goes to retirement each year? The same is true of the size of the pension that will be considered in the future. Another very important moment we haven't heard. What will be the budget of the Ministry of Veterans for all these programs? Another important moment that we haven't heard about today. What's the question if we call it not mortgage lending, housing? Because they are not just veterans, they are families who have lost loved ones, and so on. These are all steps that have an economic and social nature. And so from this point of view, it's the economic and social aspects that we and our colleagues are always discussing here. And in our view, first of all, we have you, for example, to listen in the short term and to hear from you the indicators that will be taken to support veterans in each direction, including, first of all, the veterans of the Great Homeland War, like people of old age, the people who need those categories that I've been talking about: compensation for care, monthly payments, and many other things. We are certainly not going to support your candidacy right now, but we are looking forward to a clear plan of support for veterans today, including, above all, the Great Homeland War. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-18-m0.u67	Mokan Vasil Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-18-m0.u68	Colleagues, I won't talk for long. First of all, I want to say that the candidate that we are considering today is a person who is an expert in his business. Mrs. Julia is a person who has concrete merit in front of the state. I want to call the entire hall, all the factions and groups, let's be friendly and collectively support today's proper and very strategic staff assignment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-18-m0.u69	Bacunec Pavel Andryovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-18-m0.u70	Dear Mr. Head, Mr. Prime Minister, distinguished national deputies! Paul Bakunec, Lvivščina, MP group "Trust". Dear colleagues, we don't have time to wait for our defenders, our soldiers, our military personnel to resolve the thorny issues. The war in our country has been going on for six years. And we have several demands for you, an honorable candidate for the post of minister. First of all, it's definitely the social support of our defenders and their families, it's the payment of pensions for our military personnel, it's the creation of rehabilitation centers for our people who are coming back from the East from war with an aggressor. For example, in Lviv, there's a glass sanatorium that's going down, and you can turn it into a rehabilitation facility for our defenders. The second is the sure provision of a stable medical package. And the third, very important, is housing. Housing for our East - fighting heroes ’ families and their families do not believe in the small rooms of various military dormitories throughout the country. And we need to make sure that many barracks, such as a barracks in the military town of the legendary 24th Brigade, are converted into a family-type building, and our military and their families have the opportunity to live in dignity and beauty. I think we should also talk about electrifying block blocks for ATO participants, giving land to ATO participants as well as to other cities in our country. I wish you a fruitful job in your office. Hopefully, together, we'll solve a lot of questions for our defenders. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-18-m0.u71	Batenko Taras Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-18-m0.u72	Dear colleagues, the first thing I want to say is that we strongly condemn any type of buttoning that happens in the Ukrainian Parliament. Unfortunately, this has become a tradition for all of Ukraine's parliaments of previous convocations and we do not want this tradition to continue in one way or another. That's why we support all the initiatives that are being made here in the hall, and we are ready to take our own initiatives, so that after Christmas, we will work out a system of legislation that will be exactly the deterrence factor and the criminal responsibility for the facts of the clicks in this session room. That's the first one. Second, we see a majority vote for some ministers, we saw it yesterday. Friends, which one of us is responsible, are we or are you? You're a majority, aren't you a coalition where your votes are for one, two, three, and so on? So when you ask the minister for something, you wait, because you are not members of the coalition, but when you give the votes, of course, we wait with open hands. So I want us to remember and remember the Prime Minister, and every minister we support in this session room. And the third. We have great respect for Julia Anatolyovna Laputina. I mean, it's one of the most important ministries. I want Julia Anatolyevna, listening to the MPs, to share these notions that we have different veterans. We have veterans of World War II, we have veterans of the Soviet-German war, not the Great National War. And let's give up these steel clichés that are still ringing in this session hall. I treat Julia Anatolyevna with respect as a warlord general of counterintelligence who doesn't know what a war is that she's actually been through, and her family has passed. And it's only enough that our entire MP faction and this session hall, with respect to this warlord general, should vote for it. It's an honor and a thank you! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-18-m0.u73	Bondar. Heroceno? Irina Volodymyrna's character.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-18-m0.u74	Dear Ukrainians, of course, Julia Laputina is one of the best candidates for the post of Minister of Veterans. A female general, a woman who had personally been through a war. Unfortunately, Mrs. Julia is going to the wrong team -- a team for which the issue of the country's defence, the issue of veterans is not a priority, and that's why it hurts. You know, Mrs. Julia, you said quite correctly that there should be a very close collaboration between the department of profile and the committee of profile. The problem is that this Parliament "killed" the veterans' profile ministry -- it just doesn't exist. But we, as an opposition faction, realizes that the security and defence issues, the protection of the army and veterans are the top priority for the country -- we'll always be ready to lay your shoulders on this. You know, Mrs. Julia, it's a shame, in fact, that veterans and volunteers are being judged today. And it's happening, for example, the Riffmaster case, which is now suspected of being infected with COVID, and they don't even let doctors into it. A professional minister and his ministry were never even in these courts. You know that this authority has reduced the prosthetic program for our warriors. You know there's no clear coordination of the efforts of the professional ministries: defenses, social policies, the Department of Veterans to solve the problems of military hospitals, to employ veterans to reintegrate them. It pains me that this Parliament blocked the adoption of the Second reading of the Law on the Status of Prisoners, Hostages, and Prisoners. And today, when the issue of liberation is blocked, they cannot even help their families. Mrs. Julia, our shoulder, our support is always with you. We can't take responsibility for the Green government, and this is a collective government. But we're willing to work with you so that if you get sticks in your wheels, we'll come as opposition to both the minister and the veterans and that common path to protection.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-18-m0.u75	Kira Ruddick, Voice faction, please. Please, the Voice faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-18-m0.u76	Dear colleagues, we remember the creation of this ministry. It was generally thought of as another element that would complement the security and defence sectors. What did we get? We got another underfunded ministry for social protection, a ministry funded by at least all ministries. So we immediately show how we treat our veterans. We change ministers every six months. And what does that give us? This indicates that the person who came only met her, brought her deputies, and immediately replaced her. Then a new one comes along without having to figure it out. Mrs. Julia, you're going to have the main task right now, in terms of low funding to provide our veterans. So, colleagues, first of all, when we talk about veterans, we need to ensure proper funding and proper care for our veterans, not just for ATO veterans, but for the veterans of all the wars that we have in our territory. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-18-m0.u77	Dear colleagues, let's go to the vote. Please prepare for the vote. Please invite the people's deputies into the hall. Prepare to vote. A couple of cameras? Well, if you ask, we'll put it right over you. It's on you. Ready? In accordance with article 85, 114 of the Constitution of Ukraine, I am voting on the proposal to appoint Laputin Yulia Anatoliyovna as Minister for Veterans of Ukraine. Is everyone ready to vote? Ready? Please support and vote. [[12:01:15]] For 248 Decision taken. [[Applause]] Hello, Minister. Please make a decision on the outcome of the decision with the Apparatus. Pursuant to article 10 of the Ukrainian Law on the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, a person appointed as a member of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine shall, on the day of his appointment, serve at the plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. In order to make an oath to the rostrum, the minister is invited to the affairs of Ukrainian veterans, Julia Anatolyevna Laputina.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-18-m0.u78	An oath made by a member of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine I, Laputin Julia Anatoliyevna, aware of the high responsibility of a member of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, solemnly swear allegiance to the Ukrainian people. I commit myself to upholding the Constitution of Ukraine and the laws of Ukraine, strengthening Ukraine’s sovereignty and independence, upholding human and civil rights and freedoms, and caring for the welfare of the Ukrainian people, the constant democratic development of society.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-18-m0.u79	Congratulations again! I wish you success in office and new achievements. There's a break until 12:30. Please don't be late. Let's get to the vote now.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-18-m0.u80	Dear colleagues, please invite the national deputies to the hall. Dear colleagues, I remind you that during our meeting with representatives of the MP factions and groups, we agreed to vote on Bills 4464 and 4472 without discussion. Ready to vote? Please take your seats. I put it on the ground first, then the whole thing. Is there no objection? None. I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Law on Amendments to Article 77 of the Basic Law on Health (Registration No. 4464). Ready to vote? Everybody ready? Please support and vote. [[12:34:53]] For 278 Decision taken. I am voting on the proposal for adoption in general with the necessary technical and legal regulations, the draft Law amending Article 77 of the Basic Law on Health Protection of Ukraine (Registration No. 4464). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[12:35:25]] For 283 Decision taken. I would like to vote on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Law amending Chapter IV of the Final and Transitional Provisions of the Law on State Financial Guarantees for Public Health Care (as regards the suspension of the entry into force of Part Ten of Article 10) (Registration No. 4472). Ready to vote? Please support and vote? [[12:36:04]] For 290 Decision taken. I am voting on the proposal for adoption, as a whole, with the necessary technical and legal regulations, the draft Law amending Chapter IV of the Act on State Financial Guarantees for Public Health Services (Registration No. 4472). Please support and vote. [[12:36:35]] For 282 The decision is adopted, the law is passed in general. Knotchuk Eugenia Mikhailovna from the procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-18-m0.u81	Colleagues, I have a request to consider now 4413 and an alternative. It's very important to accept this particular plenary week, because we can block the normal work of the Supervisory Board of Social Affairs and select new members, thank you if you don't accept it.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-18-m0.u82	One more vote. The faction doesn't deny, I'm putting to the vote a proposal to change the order of the debate at this plenary session and to now move on to question 4413. Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[12:37:40]] For 240 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, you have been invited to consider the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on Social Television and Radio Broadcasting of Ukraine on the elimination of the conflict in the matter of appointment and the release of members of the Supervisory Board of the National Social Broadcasting Company of Ukraine by deputy factions and groups (registration No. 4413, 4413-1). We need to make a decision to include this bill in the agenda. This requires 226 votes. Please support and vote. [[12:38:28]] For 245 Decision taken. It is suggested that the ad hoc procedure be followed for consideration and decision-making at this plenary session. Please support and vote. [[12:38:49]] For 245 Decision taken. It is suggested that this issue be considered in a simplified manner. Please support and vote. [[12:39:08]] For 248 Decision taken. The Deputy Head of the Committee on Humanities and Information Policy, Kravchuk Eugenia Mikhailnovna, is invited to attend. Two minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-18-m0.u83	Dear colleagues, your attention is drawn to the draft Ukrainian Law on the Elimination of the Colosseum on the Appointment and Liberation of Members of the Supervisory Board of the National Radio Society of Ukraine. The current law does not provide a clear and comprehensive answer to the question of how to ensure the right of MPs and groups of newly elected parliaments to delegate representatives to the NHRI Supervisory Board if the terms of the members' credentials from the previous call have not been completed. It is this brief, very short bill that removes this conflict. It is very important that the change in the composition of the Supreme Council will not result in an automatic change in the composition of the Supervisory Board, which is also a guarantee of independence. By agreeing on this bill, by voting, we will keep the Social Supervisory Board a truly democratic and balanced body that guarantees the normal activity of the speaker. The Committee on Humanities and Information Policy at its meeting on December 16, this year, considered Bill 4413 as well as an alternative bill. In general, the committee noted that the provisions of the alternative bill covered a much broader range of issues compared to the points of change that were being addressed by the main bill. In summary, the committee adopted a decision to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the adoption of Bill 4413 on the basis and in general, taking into account the proposals made by the committee on the text of the bill, where it refers to the representation of parliamentary factions and groups on the Supervisory Board of the National Social Broadcasting Company of Ukraine, the words “delegate, delegated, delegated” to replace the words “chosen, elected, elected” with the alternative draft of Law 4413-1 to reject. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-18-m0.u84	Thank you. The National Deputy of Ukraine, Pavlenko Yuri Alexiyovich, is invited to attend. It doesn't, does it? Then please sign up: two for, two for, against, speaking from MP factions and groups. Chigos Ahtem. Princess? Princess Mikola Leonidovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-18-m0.u85	Dear colleagues, there will be voices, but I want the Voice faction to listen to me in particular, our brothers in democracy in this room, and others who stand for democracy here. So the bill actually proposes that the members of the Supervisory Board be released for lack of any legal basis, contrary to the Constitution and contrary to the Social Television Act itself, which expressly prohibits it. The bill is called the removal of the coalition in the matter of appointment and the release of members of the Supervisory Board of the Social Language by MPs and groups. The Collision is, the law has not settled the question of how and by what procedure the members of the Supervisory Board should be appointed instead of the ones that occurred, if the subject of the appointment is a faction of the previous calling. In order to resolve this conflict, it is simply necessary to prescribe a proper procedure in the law. But instead, the bill proposes just in time in an illegal way, without any reason to release the members of the Supervisory Board of the Social, appointed by the parliamentary factions. This is provided for in paragraph 3 of the Final Provisions. And it's really just for this point of the bill that it's written. Article 10 of the NHRI Act provides an exhaustive list of the reasons for the early termination of the term of office of a member of the NHRI Supervisory Board. Part two of article 10 establishes the imperative that the permanent suspension of the powers of a member of the Watch Tower Society on other grounds is prohibited. But by this bill, we're actually proposing what's forbidden by this law. The Supreme Council is the body of the legislative authority, so the Supreme Council must adopt a law that would actually remove it. And letting people go is not just to solve the conflict, but to put their people there is not a function or a mandate of the Supreme Council. The mandate of the Supreme Council is solely defined by the Constitution, and there is not a word about the release of members of the Supervisory Board of the Social Languages. Thus, the law that allows this is in direct contravention of article 92 of the Ukrainian Constitution. Please don't vote on anyone who cares about law and democracy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-18-m0.u86	Thank you. Alexander Danutz, "Serve of the People".
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-18-m0.u87	Please pass the word to Mikiti Poturayev. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-18-m0.u88	Please, Mikita Poturaev, "Serve of the People." Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-18-m0.u89	Dear colleagues, the law aims to ensure equal and transparent representation in the Social Language Supervisory Board of all factions and parliamentary groups of Parliament. Nothing more. I want to make it clear, colleagues, that in fact almost all the members of the current Supervisory Board of the Social Language, they're already running out of time, they're running out of time at the beginning of the new year, so there's no long-term release. But there's a couple of people out there who have a term of office that ends in the 23rd year. One person represents a nonexistent parliamentary group, which is strange, and another represents a faction that does not exist in this Parliament, even though it is its successor. So, of course, I understand that maybe that faction would like to have a double representation, which, please agree, is a little unfair in relation to other MP factions, as if we didn't treat them. Because the law is very simple: from each faction and group per person, and each faction and group decides for themselves. It's a completely democratic story. No one's affected. Each faction and group will decide who to delegate. And then the National Television and Radio Council just confirms, it doesn't even intervene in this process. So that's exactly what this law is about, so I'm asking it to support the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-18-m0.u90	Sussun Inna Romanovna Bobrowsky? Bobrovska Solomija Anatoliyevna
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-18-m0.u91	Dear colleagues, Samantha Bobrowski, the Voice faction. First of all, it would actually be perfect to draft this bill and work with all the factions to balance interests and so on. But we understand why there will be a vote today, and in general, in connection with the completion of powers in some people in the 21st year and in some people in the 23rd. And this bill is called upon to actually balance the actual representation of a particular call of the Supreme Council in the Supervisory Council of our community in order not to have a coalition of representatives of the previous vocation and today's vocation. What this is actually about is that from 4 to 5 years, the term on the Supervisory Board continues. Which, by the way, was an entirely different alternative bill, it was three years old, and it would be a complete mess at all. The Voice faction will support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-18-m0.u92	Suffritch Nestor Ivanovich. Then we go to the vote. Please invite the national deputies to the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-18-m0.u93	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. Before I express my position on the bill, I would like to say that, unfortunately, not all Ukrainian national deputies now have a voice-fixing signal called the thumb. Please pay attention to that. And I know that this is not just a problem in our faction. As for the bills that are proposed. I have a question for the profile committee and all my colleagues. Tell me, please, what prevents us from doing the rotation of those members of the Nakrad, the terms and mandates of which, if I'm not mistaken, occurred in the past and past years, as a minimum, last year, in the 19th. Now we could re-assign them immediately and there wouldn't be any colossal. So I think, on the one hand, this bill is definitely appropriate. We certainly support the alternative bill of Yuri Pavlenko. But I do have one question. Why do we not just rotate in Nacrad on television and radio? Why do we not appoint judges of the Constitutional Court? Why do we today not use our own authority as conferred upon us by the people of Ukraine? There should be our representatives. And it's absolutely unfavourable when people who have completed their duties continue to work. That's why I want to recommence our position. We demand that we rotate as quickly as possible the representatives of our Supreme Council of Ukraine in all the bodies to which we are authorized, not only in Nacrad, but also in the Constitutional Court. It's fair and it's legal. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-18-m0.u94	Please prepare for the vote. Take your seats. Ready to vote? The committee suggests that we take this as a whole. [[B in m in s a l in]] No, it's not. Don't yell, I see. Please invite the national deputies to the hall and prepare for the vote. One minute and we'll go to the vote. Ready? I am voting on the proposal to adopt a draft Law amending the Ukrainian Act on Social Television and Radio Broadcasting of Ukraine on the removal of the coalition in the matter of appointment and the release of members of the Supervisory Board of the National Social Broadcasting Company of Ukraine by MPs and groups (Registration No. 4413). Ready to vote? Ready? Please support and vote. [[12:51:22]] For 260 Decision taken. Let's see the factions. Arahami David Georgiyovich of the procedure
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-18-m0.u95	Colleagues, please raise, considering that there was a bill 3196-d in the long-awaited agenda, a bill on BSS, please bring it up in order of the day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-18-m0.u96	Because of the vote? Remind me again, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-18-m0.u97	3196 B.C.E.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-18-m0.u98	Dear colleagues, I am voting on the proposal to change the order of the day. And it's suggested that colleagues now go to the consideration of Bill 3491-d. Right? 3196 B.C.E. Ready? Please support and vote. [[12:52:51]] For 208 The decision is not taken. Bakumov is from procedure, Alexander Sergiyovich. Not Bakanov-Bakumov.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-18-m0.u99	Dear colleagues, there is a proposal to consider the 4203 Bill on Amendments to the Police Act on the Assignment of Police and the Assignment of Special Appointments. We agreed that we wouldn't even go into discussion on the first reading, because there is a general position on supporting the bill. I'd like to support you very much. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-18-m0.u100	Is there no objection? Colleagues, are we voting without discussion? I'm betting on the voting proposal for acceptance as a basis. Don't yell, please don't. No one's denying it. I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Act amending the National Police Act (on the assignment of police officers to public authorities, enterprises, institutions, organizations, higher education institutions with specific conditions of education and the assignment of special names to the police (assigned)) (registration No. 4203). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[12:54:50]] For 296 Decision taken. The procedure is Klimpush-Cincadze Ivanna Orestovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-18-m0.u101	Thank you. Colleagues, I'd like to take a look at regulation 2454, and it's been waiting for us for a year. We would like you to rename us from the Committee on Integration with the European Union, so that we can integrate ourselves into the European Union and change our powers a little bit in order to engage in the "transport". I think he doesn't need a discussion and we can vote, there's a common position of the committee of our foreign affairs.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-18-m0.u102	Don't shout. Doesn't anyone mind? Wait, we need a committee decision. Calchenko Sergey Vitaliovich. Now let's listen to the committee's position and vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-18-m0.u103	Honorable Presidium, distinguished national MPs! Indeed, on December 11, last year, the regulatory committee reviewed the draft Decree - Procedure Number 2454. I decided to recommend to the Supreme Council that the draft regulation be considered and adopted as a whole, but taking into account the comments, suggestions made by the committee regarding changes to the name and text of the draft regulation. In particular, the name of the 2454 registration project should be changed to read: "To amend certain decrees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine regarding the name, subject of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Integration of Ukraine with the European Union." To complete the draft decision with a new paragraph, inserting it as follows: "In the paragraph of the first draft of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Decision of 29 August 19 on the selection of heads, first substitutes, head representatives, secretaries, members of the 9th Council of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, paragraph 1 of Sub-paragraph 10 should be inserted in the following wording: "The Committee on Integration of Ukraine into the European Union." Similarly, the regulatory committee pointed out that the draft Decree 2454 did not provide for the validity of the order when it was adopted. In addition, the regulatory committee drew attention to some editorial inaccuracies in paragraph 1. The authors of the project refer to part of the first Supreme Council Regulation: the list, the number of compositions, and the subject matter of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s ninth vocation, but the structure decision provides for items and sub-items, not parts. So again, the Regulatory Committee recommends, taking into account the comments, the proposals of the Regulatory Committee to adopt draft Decree 2454 as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-18-m0.u104	Thank you. I am voting on the proposal for adoption as a whole, taking into account the Committee's proposals and the necessary technical and legal regulations, the draft Ordinance amending the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Order on Listing, Quantitative Composition and Subjects of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Ninth Call (Registration No. 2454). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[12:58:19]] For 280 Decision taken. Arachami of procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-18-m0.u105	Colleagues, we still have a final debt of 3,432, the Temporary Investigation Commission on Abuses at Ukrazalznice. Let's support it.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-18-m0.u106	Is there no objection? [[B in m in s a l in]] No, the Motives don't. And the procedure doesn't. Do you mind? Colleagues deny it. [[B in m in s a l in]] David Georgiyovich, colleagues deny it. You're either going to identify yourself. Then no. Well, we're not going to talk about it. [[B in m in s a l in]] No, you can't. No, it's not. The vote is no, it is not included in today's agenda. Dear colleagues, this can only be done if the full consensus is open to all to vote. If you don't, I'm sorry. When you came along, you said something else, colleagues. Ladies and gentlemen, please don't disagree, because now there will be three more requests for the President of Ukraine, sent by the people's deputies, they need a vote. We've got a minute before we read the questions. Personally, I would like and, I am sure, from the entire Presidium of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, whom I will not see until the new year, to greet with all the festivals, to wish success, health, strength, victory and good holidays! [[Applause]] Thank you, dear friends. We now have 30 minutes to read the questions. And after that, there was an agreement today not to have "Victory." That's why we're now voting for the President's requests and reading requests. Thank you. All with the holidays again!
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-18-m0.u107	Thank you, Dmitri Alexanderovich. I join your wishes, too. Powers and Beautiful Celebrations! However, during the plenary week we had 135 parliamentary inquiries, honourable colleagues, from you, and there were 3 parliamentary requests to the President of Ukraine. Thus, there is an open-ended roll-call vote in support of Irina Borzowa's request to the President of Ukraine for a simplified acquisition of Ukrainian citizenship by the widow of ATO participant Firsova Tamar. Please vote. [[13:01:17]] For 288 Decision taken. So, colleagues, we are voting on the decision to send a preliminary request to the President of Ukraine. Please vote. We need 226 votes to correct it. Please vote. [[13:01:45]] For 285 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, support for the request by Yuri Kamelchuk to the President of Ukraine for the suspension of the Ukrainian Cabinet Order of 9 December 2020 No. 1236 on the grounds of the inadequacy of Ukraine's Constitution, and at the same time to the Constitutional Court of Ukraine on its constitutionality. Please vote. [[13:02:25]] For 203 Decision taken. There is a vote on the decision to send a pre-supported parliamentary request to the President of Ukraine. Please vote. [[13:02:49]] For 193 The decision is not taken. An open-ended roll-call vote supports the request of a group of national MPs (Solomczuk, Zamlocksky and others, only 53 deputies) to the President of Ukraine for the definition of Bill No. 3704 of 19 June 2020 as urgent. Please vote. [[B in m in s a l in]] I don't know what that is. There's a request on the Supreme Council's website. [[13:03:27]] For 208 Decision taken. There is a vote on the decision to send a pre-supported parliamentary request to the President of Ukraine. Please vote. [[13:03:52]] For 210 The decision is not taken. So, honourable national MPs, I'll ask for silence in the hall. If you wish to leave the hall, please leave quietly. Because I'm reading your MP's questions. Thank you. Thus, during the plenary week, 135 parliamentary inquiries were made: to the President of Ukraine - 3 parliamentary requests; to the Supreme Council bodies - 1 parliamentary request; to the Cabinet of Ministers - 59 parliamentary requests; to the heads of other public authorities and local self-government bodies - 68; to the heads of enterprises, institutions and organizations located in Ukraine, irrespective of their subordination and forms of ownership - 4 requests from national deputies.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-18-m0.u108	So the questions. Mikhail Zimbaluka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the status of implementation of the tasks and actions in 2020 and the funding levels in 2021 of the State Development Programme of the Ukraine Carpathian Region for 2020-2022. Andrea Boblach to the Minister of Health of Ukraine on the need for payment of one-time medical and other health care workers who became ill with COVID-19 acute respiratory disease caused by SARS-COV-2 while performing professional duties in high - risk conditions. Michaela Kryachka and Roman Soha to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, Attorney General, Acting Director of the Specialised Anti-Corruption Prosecutor’s Office, Head of the National Police of Ukraine, Acting Director of the State Bureau of Investigation, Head of the Security Service of Ukraine, Director of the National Anti-Corruption Bureau of Ukraine for possible misconduct on the part of the chief physician of the Zaporezka Regional Hospital of Shiška I.V. Michaela Kryachka and Roman Soha to the Attorney General's Office on illegal actions with the GDR by prosecutors and criminal offences of Fedorov I.S. Irina Borzova to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Community and Territory Development of Ukraine, Minister of Finance of Ukraine, Minister of Infrastructure of Ukraine on the implementation of the tasks and actions of the State Airport Development Target Programme until 2023. Olga Savchenko to the head of the South Office of the Derjaudit Service in the Hersson region, the head of the Geniche District Attorney’s Office, the head of the Herson District Attorney’s Office for the abuse of law enforcement officials. Groups of National Deputies (Larina, Bort and others, only 8 deputies) to the Head of the Court of Auditors, the Head of the State Audit Service of Ukraine, to carry out an audit of the efficiency of the use of the State budget allocated to the Mine Integration Fund. Alexia Zmerenecki to the Attorney General, Head of the Kyiv District Attorney's Office, Head of the National Police of Ukraine on possible violations of the rules of law by a representative of the private shareholders' association "The Ukrainian Construction Company" and the leadership of the Solomonian UPP NP in Kiev to cover such violations. Alexia Movcana to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the implementation of the Ukrainian Law on measures aimed at repaying the debt created in the wholesale electricity market, and Presidential Decree No. 406 of 22 September 2020 on urgent measures to stabilize the situation in the energy sector and to further develop nuclear energy. Alexia Silent to the Attorney General about the provision of information on the move and the state of pretrial investigation. Sergey Demchenka to the Head of the Security Service of Ukraine on the delay in resolving the illegal construction of a gas station on Polygonny Street, 11, the village of Research, the Dniprovsky district of Dnipropetrovsk. Sergey Demchenka to the Attorney General for the illegal mining of granite in the village of Voiloque Dniprovsky of the Dnipropetrov region. Sergey Larina and Vitaly Bort to the head of the government, the Director-General of the Private Shareholder Society, Kyivwater Channel Share Company, on the issue of the realisation of housing rights of a resident of the famous group on the street of Gorlovsky, 124/4. Sergey Minka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on ensuring the right of notaries of Ukraine to receive extracts directly from the State Land Cadastre on land according to the requirements of Ukraine's Notaryate Act. Solomonia Bobrovsky to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine regarding the use of the Peterburg family in the production of the original laws of Ukraine, the Supreme Council of Ukraine and other acts of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Igor Negulewski to the executive responsibility of the head of the government of the Private Shareholders Association of Kiev-Dniprovsky Inter-branch Industrial Railways for providing information. Oleg Kolewa to the Odessa City Head about the provision of incomplete information on a parliamentary inquiry into the technical condition of children’s playgrounds in Odessa. Alexia Zmerenecki to the Attorney General for the execution of the court decision No. 2 of the Kyiv District Attorney’s Office. Alexia Zmerenecki to the Attorney General on improper investigation of criminal conduct. Michael Bondar to the head of the Lviv District State Administration to address the issue of settlement in the psychological boarding house of the sick Vershin Mikoli Aleksandrovitch. Michael Bondar to the temporary duty of Director of the Lviv Municipal Institute of the District Council of the Lviv Regional Clinical Psychneurological Dyspnoea to resolve the question of continuing treatment of Veršin Mikoli Alexandrovich until he is settled in a psychological boarding school. Anton Kisse to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the repair of the roadways of general use of local value in the Odessa region. Anton Kisse to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the repair of the roadways of the general use of the state value T-16-44 checkpoint "Listen" is a checkpoint "Maloyaroslavic First" and "T-16-08" for Balgrad - Cuba - Arciz. Vitalia Bort to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine on the examination of the facts of the improper conduct of criminal investigations in a number of criminal conduct by individual law enforcement officials. Sergey Nagornyaka to the Attorney General's Office on the improper conduct of criminal investigations since 11 July 2016. Sergey Nagorniak to the Ministry of Energy of Ukraine for the statutory functions of the State Energy Company in part of the payment of the "Chercasioblanergo" PAT. Sergey Nagorniak to the State Property Fund of Ukraine for improper management of shares in the statutory fund PAT "Chercasioblanergo". Jaroslava Dubnević headed by the State Agency for Road Traffic in Ukraine on the use of road safety measures on the M-11 section of Lviv - Šegini R-40 Rava-Rusca - Yavorov - Sudova Višnja. Jaroslava Dubnević to the Ukrainian Minister of Health on the purchase of the ORFADIN medical device for citizens suffering from metabolic diseases at the expense of the Ukrainian State budget for 2020. Andrija Derkacha to the Minister of Health of Ukraine on the results of settling the debt obligations of international health providers and equipment. Alexander Gerega to the Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine regarding the granting of land tax benefits. Alexander Gorenyuk to the Minister for the Development of Communities and Territories of Ukraine on issues related to an outdated housing fund in Ukraine. Alexander Gorenyuk to the Odessa City Head on issues related to an outdated housing fund in Odessa. Alexander Gorenyuk to the Odessa City Head on the use of measures to repair and build sewerage networks and sewerage networks in Odessa. Sergey Ljowczina to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the need to strengthen social protection for persons affected by the accident in CHAES. Igora Abramovich to the Minister of Social Policy of Ukraine, Minister of Youth and Sport of Ukraine, Minister of Finance of Ukraine, Head of the Court of Auditors for the Equal Rights of Persons with Disabilities and for their integration into the State Financial Support Act. Solomonia Bobrovsky to the head of the National Council of Ukraine for Television and Radio and Television on the results of the National Council of Ukraine on Television and Radio and Non-Programming of Our 365. Igor Guza to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the need to take all the criteria into account in the distribution of educational subsidies for the city budget of Vladimir Volinsky. Igor Guza to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the establishment of a free economic zone in the territory of Novovolinsk and Vladimir Volinsk territorial communities. Tetjana Grishchenko to the Minister of Justice of Ukraine, Attorney General, on the raiding of the reformed Ukrainian-Chernyahov-1 CSP. Alexander Aliksiyczuk to the deputy head of the State Service of Ukraine for geodesy, cartography and cadastre, the head of the Plain District State Administration, the head of the Equality District Council, the head of the State Service of Ukraine for geodesy, cartography and cadastre in the Plains region for information on land transfers and land accounting. Igora Abramovich to the Minister of Finance of Ukraine, Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine on the use of measures aimed at ensuring the proper level of pay for teachers and educators. Anatolya Kostuha to Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine, Prime Minister of Ukraine on the implementation of Cabinet Order No. 822 from 10 July 19th. Victor Mjalik to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Ministry of Environment and Natural Resources Protection of Ukraine, head of the State Forest Resources Agency of Ukraine to take note of the observations in the development of the State Forest Management Strategy by 2035. Alexander Tkachenka to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine for creating the right conditions for farming. Alexander Tkachenka to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine regarding the possible purposeless use of the budget of the Killian United Territorial Society. Groups of National Deputies (Tkachenka, Slavicsky, Shinkarenka) to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on the use of effective measures to provide adequate services to residents in the area of housing and utilities. Groups of National Deputies (Shinkarenka, Tkachenka, Slavicka) to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on the need for a comprehensive review of citizens' appeals to improper housing and utility services. Alexander Tkachenka to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine regarding the need for a comprehensive review of residents of the Odessa region regarding the order of use of land. Alexander Tkachenka and John Shinkarenk to the National Architecture and Construction Inspection of Ukraine for the introduction into operation of social infrastructure objects in the city of Kilia. Groups of national deputies (Tkachenka, Shinkarenka and others, only four) to the Killian City Head on the implementation of the constitutional right of citizens to housing. Mikhail Zimbaluka to the Minister of Health of Ukraine on the implementation of the Act on Amendments to Certain Legislative Acts of Ukraine on Certain Issues of Education in the Health Sector. Natalia Pippa to the director of the Cartograph Collective Enterprise for the construction of the project by the Land Administration of the Forest Recreation. Alexander Kachura to the Minister of Social Policy of Ukraine for the prompt initiation of changes to the relevant regulations and regulations and for the recalculation of social payments. Alexander Kachura to the Sumskie City Head, head of the Sumu District State Administration, to consider the possibility of providing material aid. Vladimir Ivanov to Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Finance of Ukraine, Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine on the implementation of Cabinet Regulation of 10 July 2019 No. 822 "On the payment of pedagogical, scientific and scientific staff of institutions and educational and scientific institutions". Vladimir Ivanov to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine, Minister of Finance of Ukraine, Head of the State Treasury Service of Ukraine, temporarily acting as Head of the Herson District State Administration on the need to resolve problems in the implementation and transfer to the municipal property of individual construction sites in the territory of the Supreme Regional Council of the Kakhov Region of the Hersson Region. Andrija Sharaskin to the Attorney General regarding the circumstances of the arrest of a volunteer battalion fighter, Akiew R.J. Andrija Sharaskina to the head of Ukraine’s State Border Service regarding the circumstances of the arrest and extradition of the volunteer fighter Akiev R.J. Andrija Sharaskin to the head of the National Police of Ukraine on the grounds for the arrest of a volunteer battalion fighter Akieva R.J. Andrija Sharaskina to the head of the Ukrainian Security Service on the misconduct of Ukrainian security personnel. Anastasia Lashenko to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the issue of the reduction of the tariff on natural gas distribution services for AT Lubnigaz. Anastasia Lashenko to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine on the possible misconduct of AT "LUBNIGAS". Alexia Zmerenecki to the director of the Director of State Bureau of Investigation for improper paperwork at the Territorial Office of the State Bureau of Investigation, located in Kiev. Anatolia Kostuha to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister for the Development of the Communities and Territories of Ukraine, Head of the State Audit Service of Ukraine, Head of the Court of Auditors for the approval of the National Authority for Project Control of the Danube Transnational Programme in Ukraine. Paul Melnik to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, Minister of Environmental Protection and Natural Resources of Ukraine, Minister of Infrastructure of Ukraine, Head of the Zaporozhye District Council, Head of the State Service of Ukraine in Exceptional Situations, Head of the Yakimiv District State Administration of the Zaporozhye Region, Zaporozhye District Public Administration on the implementation of effective response measures regarding the elimination of the consequences of natural disasters in the village of Kirilivka and the surrounding settlements of the Yakimiv district of Zaporez Region. Paul Melnik to the Minister of Environmental Protection and Natural Resources of Ukraine, Minister of Infrastructure of Ukraine, Minister of Community Development and Territory of Ukraine for the Revitalization of the Ukrainian Government's Drafting Bill on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on the State-wide Targeted Program on Drinking Water of Ukraine 2011-2020 on the extension of the programme until 2025. Alexander Kovalova to the Chief of State Security of Ukraine regarding the financial security of military personnel, who have been appointed to participate in hostilities and other matters relating to the social and legal protection of military personnel. Alexander Kovalova to the head of the Ukrainian Department of State for Epidemiology, which consisted of the Administration and medical care of military personnel and members of their families. Alexander Kovalova to the Head of the Ukrainian Security Service regarding the situation in the Ukrainian State Protection Authority. Alexander Kovalova to the head of the Ukrainian Department of State Protection for the development of the special composition of governance on the examples of the heroic actions of the leadership of the U.S.O.D. in the ATO/OOO zone, and the military and patriotic upbringing of young people on these examples. Alexander Kovalova to the Minister of Defence of Ukraine, Chief of General Staff, Commander-in-Chief of the Armed Forces of Ukraine for information. Rostislava Tistik to the Minister of Health of Ukraine, the Lviv City Head, head of the Lviv District State Administration, for the failure of the hospital to provide quick medical care to the city of Lviv for the provision of oxygen to the bed fund. Solomonia Bobrovsky to the Attorney General on the availability of open criminal conduct in relation to persons with Ukrainian State Prizes and who support or form part of the occupational administrations of the temporarily occupied territories of Ukraine. July of the Lighthouse to the National Commission, which regulates national energy and utility regulations for the settlement of the relationship between KP "Heatwater Services" and AT "NAC "Naftogaz Ukraine". Gennady Watzak to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, Ministry of Infrastructure of Ukraine, State Road Agency of Ukraine, Road Service in the Vinnitsky area, on the need for repairing the road T-02-02. Groups of National Deputies (Pushkarenka, Kuzminy, and others, only 5 deputies) to the head of the Zitomir District Administration on the appropriateness of the acting director of the Department of Health of the Zitomir District Administration, Suslik Mikli Petrovic. Helen Copanczuk to the Attorney General, Director of the National Anti-Corruption Bureau of Ukraine, Head of the Security Service of Ukraine, First Deputy Head of the State Service of Ukraine for Geodesy, Cartography and Cadastre for the verification of possible illegal actions during the course of the duties of the Head of the General Administration of the State Department of the State Department in the Hmelnick district of Klimka U.O., and the use of appropriate measures to regulate the return of state and municipal property to its owners. Groups of National Deputies (Pushkarenka, Gerasimenka and others, only five), to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, on the need to verify the area of Žitomir in part of providing vital measures to combat the pandemic of coronary infection. And, last question. Marina Bardinau to the Minister of Justice of Ukraine for failure to execute a court decision in case No. 917/28/19. Dmitri Alexanderovich, these are all questions for today. Thank you, dear colleagues, for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-18-m0.u109	Thank you, Helen Constantine, for your help and support, and for your requests separately. Dear colleagues, thank you all again. There's a tradition -- who wants to, we can take a picture. And all with the upcoming festivals, again. I declare the plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine closed.
