ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-19-m0.u1	Good morning, dear colleagues, distinguished journalists, guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine! Please prepare for registration. Dear colleagues, while we're preparing for registration, I'd like to. Dear colleagues, I'd like to welcome the National Deputy Prescek Edward Petrovich to his birthday. Wishing for success, accomplishments, and health. [[Applause]] I think it's probably the most important thing that any person can have. Are you ready to register, Your Honor? Please register. [[10:05:09]] There are 283 Ukrainian national deputies registered in the hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear colleagues, according to article 25 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Regulations, we have 30 minutes on Wednesday for speeches by national deputies with proposals, statements, and messages. People's deputies would like to sign up for the speech. Klimpush-Cincadze Ivanna Orestovna. Nina Petrovn Yuzanin.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-19-m0.u2	Good morning, Presidium! Good morning, colleagues! I would like to draw your attention to the fact that, today or not for the first time, since 2010, a large number of entrepreneurs have gone to the Office of the President for microbusiness. It seems to me that from September 20, 2019, to today, laws that are harmful to microbusiness have passed a long time. You, your esteemed colleagues, you've been to places, you've seen the state of business now that gives 20 percent of the revenues to local budgets, there's a lot of major MPs. I urge everyone today to join the action and take the right steps in the future, because you can also make mistakes. You had the opportunity to get to know, and what was the goal before us, before you, the government about the total fiscalization of entrepreneurs. There's no point. So far, no one has explained, but what are the benefits or budget surpluses of the adoption of these laws. But entrepreneurs have already calculated that between 10 billion and 20 billion will have to spend extra on all of these measures that are foreseen by the use of RROs. It's not just purchasing RROs, it's much more and more difficult for those people who have to work exclusively for themselves, taking care of those 2 million people who are engaged in this difficult everyday work. So I'm talking to you. We have the opportunity today to support these people under the Office of the President. And in the coming days, consider bills 2644 and 2645, signed in very different ways, in positions of political power, by the people's deputies. This will allow us all together to correct the error and then to work only further to promote microbusiness in order to provide, on the contrary, additional tools to increase the number of these people. I urge you all to reject all your ambitions now. I repeat, all mistakes are made. "European Solidarity" calls for all of us to go out to these people together, to support them, and we will support in the Council Bills 2644 and 2645. And to go with you further, to work out worthy laws to make them harmless to the economy of Ukraine. So let's all go to Midan together.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-19-m0.u3	Vitatrovich Volodymyr Mihajlovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-19-m0.u4	Good afternoon, fellow MPs! Yesterday in this room, we all celebrated all the dead on Maidan six years ago. Tomorrow at the national level, we will celebrate the State Day of the Celestial Heros. It is important for us to keep in mind the Dignity Revolution, since it is a guarantee of the irreversible democratic development of our country, it is a guarantee of the pro-European direction of our country’s development. That is why Russia has been violently attacking that memory for six years. But this week it is most evident that these information attacks against Maidan, against the Dignity Revolution, have been joined by pro-Russian media in Ukraine, which spread information that discredits Midan and the Dignity Revolution, representing them as a coup that discredits the Heroes of Heaven. But it must be understood that this has become possible because of the position taken by the leadership of the State. The appointment of lawyer Yanukov Babikov as deputy to the State Bureau of Investigation is not only a violation of the relatives of the fallen Heroes of the Heavenly 100, it is a contributing factor in the Maydan review of the Russian Federation. Moreover, here in Parliament, the deputies of the Opposition Platform for Life have registered a bill on social protection of the Berkut fighters, the very ones who killed the Heroes of the Heavenly 100th. Obviously in this situation, it is this very week that we very much need the approval of a statement by Parliament that would give a clear assessment of Maidan, the Dignity Revolution. And so the application is ready. Its authors are representatives of almost all political groups and factions of parliament except for "The Opposition Platform for Life." This statement was made through the Committee of Humanities and Information Policy. That is why I am calling on Parliament's leadership to convene an extraordinary session to approve this statement. We know that our position is supported by the Fatherland and Voice factions. Convinced that such a statement is necessary in order to demonstrate to the Ukrainian society that, for today's parliament, Ukraine as a whole, these values are important for the deaths of the Celestial 100 heroes. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-19-m0.u5	Salichuk Alexander Viacheslavovich
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-19-m0.u6	Please pass the word to Katchuri Alexander.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-19-m0.u7	Katchura Alexander Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-19-m0.u8	Alexander Kachura, "Serial of the People" faction. Ladies and gentlemen, distinguished Ukrainian citizens, I address you first. I want you to hear what I'm about to say. Don't give in to manipulation, because if you turn on the TV right now, you can just blame President Greensky and the "Slut of the People" party for all the mortal sins that there are. Now the opposition, the old politicians are trying to impose on us that the earth market is bad. But can we trust them? I think the conclusion is clear: no, we can't. All 28 years they've become richer, they've built a country for people, but they've built a country for their people with their rules, with their values of life, they've sent children to live and work abroad. So today I want to be the destroyer of fairies, which is what they're talking about. First of all, no foreign sales will take place. Banking institutions that will lend our agrarians will be able, yes, to get land, but they must also sell land for two years at an open auction, according to our bill. Otherwise, they'll be liable to confiscation. Next. One MP here said that there would be limited access to rivers and forests. So it's not true, it's about agricultural land. One of the national deputies generally said that his parents were buried there. Excuse me, this is the land of farming, this has nothing to do with the subject of what individual national deputies are talking about today. So, what's this bill about? This bill means that you can manage your God - given property. The rent will go up. Not like now, for two bags of grain, you're renting a local feudal land plot, but we estimate it's going to be at least 30,000 dollars. And for 30,000 dollars, you can teach your child in Kiev. Think about it. Sales will increase, but no one will oblige you to sell your land. It's your right. So this is what we have in total. They want to keep you back in chains. They want you to be slaves. They want you, like 28 years from now, to be robbed, for these totals to rent your pies. We want to stop it. We want to stop slavery in Ukraine and we will. We'll do it with the "Serve of the People" team. We will go for article 14 of the Constitution.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-19-m0.u9	Thank you. No, no. Bacunec Pavel Andryovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-19-m0.u10	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs! I'm forced to raise a subject that's disturbing the world today -- the coronavirus. On the Day of Remembrance of the Heroes of the Sky, on February 20, this year, the plane returning the Ukrainians from China is due to land in Ukraine. Yes, it's the right thing to do, because the safety of its citizens is the most important task of the government. But while the authorities are taking care of the security of the Ukrainians in China, they have little to do with the security of the Ukrainians here, within their own country. I am now referring to this panic and uncertainty caused by the lack of proper communication between the government and its citizens. During the weekends and to this day, residents of the region of Jaborov, other areas of Lviv, Terebovljan region of Ternopolska are in great panic because there are rumors that local sanatoriums, such as the Glass near the great city of Novojavorov, will bring people into quarantine. The government doesn't explain to its citizens what's really going on. First, the places where the Ukrainians evacuated from China will be kept quarantined should be remote, properly furnished and protected, not in populated areas where housing is located along the road, like in the village of Glass. Secondly, the government has to name the locations where the quarantine will be to stop this panic among the population. Openness to the community in crisis situations is also very important. And while there is no threat to the security of the people in Ukraine, there is a big request: Do not create it artificially, explain to people how and where this quarantine will take place. And thirdly, while people are anxious about this world epidemic, we have other problems inside the country that kill hundreds of Ukrainians every day. In just the last week, I've had several terrible accidents in the district: this is also a tragedy in the village of Kota, it's also a frequent accident and tragedy in the village of Nacional, which is on the M10 international route. So I encourage the government to look at these problems on the roads, to light up places on international routes, and to increase patrols there. With appropriate references, I addressed all the organs. We're waiting with the community for a response. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-19-m0.u11	Shahov Sergei Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-19-m0.u12	Sergey Shahov, Luhanščina, Deputy Group "Trust". Dear colleagues, yesterday there have been events that have not occurred since 2018. There were huge shootings in the Lugansk region, there was a fight, and a Ukrainian military officer, four wounded, was killed. Please honor the memory of the silence of those who died in this hybrid war.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-19-m0.u13	Thank you. The cities of Novotoskovka, Toshkovka, were shot, and I received a phone call from Stahanov, my family, Zoldé, from Papazny. Can you please tell me who's controlling the area? People can't leave the gray zone because they're mining cities, and I've talked about it over and over again. For eight months, wages have not been paid. Why would people go to a peaceful Ukraine? Children today suffer in kindergartens, in schools. When will this end, this epidemic, this epidemic? When people are stationed in a peaceful Ukraine, they will provide normal jobs, pay wages, even if people could leave the area. People live right where shootings go, where houses are being destroyed, where bombs are being bombed at schools, and no one is responsible. The "Trust" group requires an immediate or invocation, an out-of-the-box call for parliament, to inform us of the Secretary of Defense what we will do with the "cheese" zone when the people are resettled and taken out of that territory. We've fulfilled all the mine agreements, we're showing the whole world a democratic approach. We do not want to fight, we want this war to end, and people should not suffer from it, but children first. Please tell me one of the soldiers died, four of the wounded. How many have died from the heart attack of this war? How many have suffered trauma, psychological trauma, and how will they be treated? Post - military syndrome or military syndrome. Next. As far as the Luhansk region is concerned. I have repeatedly claimed that people today are not only under attack but also starving in the 21st century. Who will be responsible? Let the Minister of Energy, Ecology, come out and tell us what he'll do with the miners. We also demand that the Minister of Reintegration of Donbas give an answer as to how they will rebuild there, in that school area, kindergartens, houses. Three years of gunfire. A military base exploded in the Swatov region, and 2,000 houses were not covered. Not only are civilian housing covered today, but I want to say again, state institutions, schools, and so on.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-19-m0.u14	Thank you. Constanceevich Irina Miroslavovna
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-19-m0.u15	Dear fellow national MPs! I have the authority to contact you from the Group of People's Deputies for the Future, who are majors and represent 4 million voters. In my address, I appeal first to MPs, too, who need to know the latest information regarding today’s government meeting. In particular, there is a document that is to be followed by an optimisation of educational institutions. If you don't have that kind of information, I'd like to inform you that today's regulation on changing the way in which education subsidies are given to rural schools, which, as of September 1, 2020, stops funding schools where there are 30 or less children. So note that there are almost a thousand such schools in Ukraine. This puts nearly 15,000 schoolchildren at risk of discrimination. And I have a question. Please tell me, what did the government do for 15,000 schoolchildren in six months? Is there even one rural school open? Has one rural road been repaired? Is there a well - funded and well - funded resilient schooling facility? I'm telling you, no. So here, I urge the government to immediately suspend these actions regarding discrimination against rural schoolchildren. Until proper work is done for rural schools, rural schools cannot be explicitly closed since 2020. I'm asking you, Marjorie MPs, to pay attention to this terrible situation. You have to go back to your constituencies. What will people tell you? And I say to everyone who has ever studied at school: Remember where you come from, where your way came from, and where it came from. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-19-m0.u16	Ironborn Jaroslav Ivanovich. Oh, I'm sorry. Fraud.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-19-m0.u17	Please pass the word to Alexander Kachuri.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-19-m0.u18	Alexander Anatolyovich Kachura
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-19-m0.u19	Alexander Kachura, "Serial of the People" faction. Colleagues, let's keep talking about manipulation. Now all Ukrainian citizens, I want to read article 14 of the Constitution of Ukraine, because the national MPs from the opposition factions, they only want to read the first part. So I read the first: "The Earth is the main national wealth under special protection of the state." We read: "The right to property on earth is guaranteed. This right is acquired, implemented by citizens, legal persons and the state solely in accordance with the law." I would like to remind all my colleagues that there is a decision by the European Court of Human Rights that recognizes that the moratorium on land is illegal, that it limits the rights of citizens. You see how they scream, see? We're on the right track. We're on the right track, dear Ukrainians! We'll give you back your legal rights. So here, by the way, the representative of your faction spoke of President Lincoln yesterday. So President Lincoln returned, more specifically, that all citizens of the United States were equal. That is, he abolished slavery in the United States. I watched the recordings at the time, the phonographs of his performance in the United States of America in Parliament. The MPs said it was bad, said it would take another 20 years to abolish slavery in our country. They said it's not in time, President Lincoln is killing his ratings, he'll never be in politics again, he's not on the right track. But he did it, he went into history. We will then be able to make adjustments, implement the Law on the Opening of a Clear Market for the Land, empower Ukrainian citizens to rule and manage and manage. Imagine, dear Ukrainians, if you had an apartment, but it had a castle on it and you couldn't use it, you wouldn't be able to manage it. So they introduced a moratorium on your rights in the land market. What will happen next? They say they'll sell everything, they'll take the aliens. In fact, our bill provides that all lands of state ownership and utility will be handed over to local communities, united territorial communities. This means that they will decide whether to give you this land, distribute it to the community, sell it, and build hospitals and new schools, roads, or rent it, and earn a steady income. It is you who will decide by choosing your deputies to the local councils and authorize them to do so. No civil servants in Kiev are going to decide who used to buy different Rolls-Royces here for themselves, apartments, they won't do that anymore. Only local authorities will decide what to do and how to do with the land you own.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-19-m0.u20	Thank you. Jaroslav Ivanovich Železniak.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-19-m0.u21	Good afternoon, dear fellows! We have a lot in this room that we're dedicated to economics, and unfortunately, one problem that we haven't solved is the involvement of law enforcement in the economy. You know, literally, yesterday, when people who were fighting hand-to-hand B.S.A. in 2015 or 2016 put a "stop" to the external economic activity of the license, they already started catching up to the B.S.A., coming up with messages for taking down the sanctions that B.S.A. imposed just to actually get bribes, they were delegating their people to the ministries. And this question was, unfortunately, only resolved in 2017, but now these people, like Dennis Butenko and other employees of the Ministry of Economics, are getting messages about what they were doing at the time. But I want to raise this question more globally today. We've had a month, even more, since the bill on the Bureau of Financial Investigation was repealed in this room, which denied the BSS economic intervention. We have 10 months since the President of Ukraine promised in his electoral programme that the BSS would be denied the right to intervene in the economy. Sadly, though, we have not yet received an analytical body. What's happening now is, well, it's actually an improved analog of the Soviet KGB that interferes with the economy every day. You know, they even have a favorite article -- tax evasion. A thousand and two hundred cases were opened in 2019. Only one percent went to court. Half the sentences were justifiable. And that definitely gives us proof that they can't do this anymore. The exports of nuts, the sanctions on the imports of cremated gas, the searches in the IT company are all we see in the news, and that's all the BSS is involved in. And because there is no possibility now and there is no bill, the only option is to introduce a new bill on a special analytical body whose main idea is to deprive all law enforcement agencies of their right to intervene in the economy. We're introducing this bill today. He will have limitations on the number of employees of such an organ, on what they can do. This will become an analytical, not an investigation, or a Soviet organ. He's going to have a clear selection of the manager. And most importantly, it's going to have clear and clear performance indicators. If the President can't pass this bill and we can do it and help him with it. And you. Please support and vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-19-m0.u22	Thank you. Lubinet Dmitry Valeriovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-19-m0.u23	Honorable citizens of Ukraine, distinguished presidency, distinguished national MPs! I'd like to go to the previous speaker right now who said we need to get into history, and now we have such a historic chance. I'd like to say. History needs to be entered, not entangled. What's going on? On earth, we can long argue whether we need to do so or not. But remember what happened to privatization. The same nice words, there were some vouchers. There are no enterprises. There will be no earth. What our government does. The government was also entangled in history. Education is the basis for the development of any state. Rural education is closing. They want wages to tie teachers to the number of students in the classrooms. Rural schools will be closed automatically. There will be a decision that there are fewer than 50 children who need to be closed and done quickly. No one says that it is necessary to buy school buses, build roads, and drive to other schools. This is not the point; it is done to have rural schools shut down. The next is medicine. Rural medicine. Since April 1, for those who do not know, respected national deputies have translated maintenance into local budgets, and there are no funds in some rural councils. What will happen? Close. So education was closed in the country, and medicine was closed in the country. In the district centers, the cost of maintaining central district hospitals came to 50 percent, while others say, look at local budgets. Hospitals are also closed in the district centers. What do you think that's for when it's closed in the country? Perhaps the earth will be without humans, and then you will adopt a law that allows 10,000 acres [10,000 ha] of land to be bought in one hand. There will be huge companies, huge agroholdings -- they don't need people, they need land. And the last is the economy. During all five months of government, the economy is falling. And what do we see? We see that there are initiatives for the discovery of the "Departments of Happiness", and people are being appointed. What kind of happiness are we talking about if we have an economic downturn? I call upon everyone in this room to unite, and the only thing that can save our country is the Cabinet of Ministers united, where all factions will be represented, is what can save Ukraine. And we cannot vote in favour of such an edition of the Law on the Earth. Don't get caught up in history.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-19-m0.u24	Thank you. Scroak by Mikola Leonidovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-19-m0.u25	People's MP Skork, faction "The Opposition Platform for Life." Honorable Presidium, distinguished colleagues, respected citizens of Ukraine! First of all, I would like to thank the leadership of the Supreme Council for the fact that yesterday, when we honored the memory of the victims of the tragic events of February 2014 in Kiev, the leadership of the Supreme Council offered to honor the memory of all those who died in those events. I think you know that one of the main achievements of the new power is that it's been able to lower the level of public opposition and mutual hatred. In any case, I feel this compared to the previous call in the session room. It seems to me that the next anniversary of these events is about time, and I would very much like to see enough political will in the leadership of the state, lower the degree of civil opposition and generally in society. That's what I think we need to do. Taking into account the number of media reports, both foreign and domestic media, the circumstances of the Mayan events of February 2014 and all their ambiguities. It seems to me that in the parliamentary-presidential state Parliament should be interested in this. I spoke repeatedly from this rostrum about the need to set up a commission to investigate the events of May 2, 2014 in Odessa. And every time I spoke on this point, I always stressed that I think we should take the same steps with regard to the events in Maidan. The country and the whole world need to know what was going on there. Until we punish, really, those responsible for those events, to talk about what we can go back to the rule of law, it's very, very difficult. In the leadership of the State, I think there are those intentions. In any case, they demonstrated them by the resonant murder of Paul Sheremet. And I would very much like it to be enough political will again to give way to the investigation. I'm sure all this evidence is in our law enforcement agencies, and we have indeed found those responsible for these tragic events. I believe that this would really unite society and give new impetus to Ukraine’s development, give the world society’s head office, which in Ukraine, in fact, is governed by law. And that would be a great deal of justice on the next anniversary of these tragic events. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-19-m0.u26	The word is given to the Deputy Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Oleni Constantine Kondratuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-19-m0.u27	Thank you, Dmitri Alexanderovich. Dear colleagues, dear society, you know, I'm not very abusing to speak in the Supreme Council from this rostrum, but today I would like to speak out, because for me, as a citizen, as a national MP, these are the world-renowned ideological things that have to do with the events of February 18-21, 2014, which have become truly decisive and tragic episodes of the Dignity Revolution. You know, everyone who was part of Maidan has their memories. Of course, these are memories of events that took place near the Marijinski Park, in Gruszewski, in Kriposna prolok, people mention dozens of people killed, countless injured. Many families have actually lost their loved ones, loved ones, and loved ones in the world. This is especially painful for the youngest sons of the Celestial 100, namely, Nazareth Vojtowicz, the Hungry Lip, Dmitri Maximov, and Roman Guriq, who died. They were only 17 to 20 years old. It's been six years. But first of all, the families of the Heroes of the Celestial 100, unfortunately, didn't get the most important -- it was a sense of justice. A just and irreparable punishment for perpetrators and buyers of crimes against Maidan, who was subjected to the Yanukovich regime. The previous authorities had plenty of time to hold all those involved accountable. She didn't do it, and it's a bad thing. Nor did we await the arrival of a full memory museum in Maidan that would honor the memory of the heroes of Maidan. But it is also the debt of present - day authority to the heavenly One. Because if Midan hadn't won then, most of them wouldn't be here in the official offices. Yes, it is necessary to complete the investigation of all matters. The perpetrators must be brought to justice and the entrance of a fair and impartial trial brought to justice. Further delay in this matter is unacceptable. I am convinced that not only because of the possible conflict of interest but even morally, but also because of the memory of the Heroes of the Celestial 100 and their families in the leadership of the DBR, the lawyer who defended Yanukovich cannot work. This assignment actually discredits the authority and further investigation of the Maydan case for which this body is now responsible. I support the decision and support the next session, a separate meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, which should adopt a special statement on the sixth anniversary of the Dignity Revolution and listen to the report on the current state of investigation of crimes against Maidan. "The sky is falling" is the last words of the 20-year-old Hungry Lip. I ask, however, to honor the memory of the Heroes of the Celestial 100th and the Dignity Revolution by a moment of silence. [[A Minute of Silence]] Thank you. And let us keep in mind the peaceful heavens held by the Heroes of the Celestial One.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-19-m0.u28	Dear colleagues, we've got 483 people's deputy Krulka to deal with, and she wasn't voted before the closing of the evening session. She was rejected by the committee. Please identify and vote. [[10:42:28]] Z-70. The decision is not taken. 484, Mayditch. Don't insist. 485th, Royal.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-19-m0.u29	Good afternoon, dear fellows! And here we begin today by continuing to consider the bill on how to sell out Ukraine. We've heard so many interesting speeches here today, we've been quoting the Constitution, we've been talking about Lincoln, we've been talking about how you "ministers of the people," you're going to go into history. But you were right to pair up here, that you wouldn't go into history, and you're going into history. And you want to get into this story, you want to get into our whole country. That's why "The Opposition Platform for Life" strongly opposes the sale of Ukrainian land. And we insist, 300 times we've already told you, and another 3,000 times we'll remind you that only after the U.K. referendum can we ask the question of how the earth market will continue to function in Ukraine. I therefore insist on voting on this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-19-m0.u30	Mikola Tarasovich. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, come on. I understand. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, this is on the other hand, I understand, the next. Mikola Tarasovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-19-m0.u31	Mr. Head, I'd like to ask you for some damage to your leg, if you'll excuse me, today. And on this side, the committee's been rejected.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-19-m0.u32	I think there's no objection. Please. Is there no objection? About Natalia Yuriovna's work. I'm betting on a vote of 485 Royals. Not supported by the committee. Please identify and vote. [[10:44:51]] For-72 The decision is not taken. 486th, Leonov. Don't insist. 487th, Bondarev. Don't insist.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-19-m0.u33	He insists.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-19-m0.u34	Dear colleagues, let's keep an eye out. Thank you. Turn on Bondareva's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-19-m0.u35	Dear friends, honourable chairman, I ask from this point forward, and until the conclusion of this bill, I insist on all my writings. And I'd like to make a statement about that. And unfortunately, I want to say that today there is no discussion, but there is a purely technical misunderstanding of the opinion of the opposition. I, Bondarev Constantine Anatoliyovich, Ukrainian National Deputy, Fatherland faction, reiterate that today is an inappropriate adoption of this bill. And what we've done is we've done our best to keep people from being deceived and the country from falling into crisis. And that's why we did the right thing to do with this bill. I ask you to put my bill to the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-19-m0.u36	Thank you. Do you insist on voting? I'll bet you 487 Bondarev's vote. The committee was not supported. Please identify and vote. [[10:46:43]] For-74. The decision is not taken. Pavlenko, 488 straight.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-19-m0.u37	Yuri Pavlenko, "The Opposition Platform for Life." Dear Ukrainian people, "The Opposition Platform for Life" has consistently opposed the brutal sale of land offered by the active authorities. Each of our amendments is such a blockade on the protection of Ukrainian land, the non-derogation of Ukrainians from their right to land, and Ukraine from the future. Dear Mr. Golovo, distinguished national deputies, you are being approached by farmers of the Novograd-Wallin district of Žitomirščina. I quote, "We're in favour of putting the question of opening the market for land in an all-U.S. referendum. Without understanding the opinion of citizens, owners of rations, renters, farmers, national electorates chosen by the people to protect their interests, they have no right to sell land. ” That's what people tell you. Listen to the farmers, hear the peasants. It is my amendment to meet the requirements that are being applied to us national deputies.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-19-m0.u38	I'm betting on the vote on this very amendment, the 488th Pavelek. I wasn't supported by a committee. Please identify and vote. [[B in m in s a l in]] [[10:48:19]] Z-62 The decision is not taken. Edit rejected. 489th. Grief. 490. You're an outcast.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-19-m0.u39	Nadajchenko, faction of the Fatherland. I insist on that. We, the Fatherland faction, Julia Timoshenko, like the vast majority of Ukrainian citizens, stand for genuine, real, Ukrainian decentralization, where united territorial communities, people on earth will rule, rule, and earn money on Ukrainian land. We insist that we exclude the standards that are being promoted and that new latifundists within the united territorial community appear to possess, as they imagined, 35 percent of Ukrainian land in one hand, agricultural land. It's a disgrace, it's anti-Ukrainian. Fatherland points out that we're not going to let you stretch out our Ukrainian land, the more in one hand, the more latifundists. We insist that this is an antinational norm, there must be an all - Ukrainian referendum, and Ukraine, every united territorial community will decide.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-19-m0.u40	Thank you. 490 law enforcement. The committee didn't support her. Please identify and vote. [[10:49:58]] For-80 The decision is not taken. 491, Timothy. Don't insist. Schol's next. Won't you insist? Thank you. Puzanov, 493rd. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-19-m0.u41	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to refer today to the members of the "Serviary of the People" faction to remind you that in the name of your faction there is a reference to the people of Ukraine who, according to sociological surveys, do not support the idea of opening up the agricultural market in the way you propose. People don't support this idea, especially because society isn't ready for this, the legislative framework isn't ready for this. People do not believe that courts can protect their rights. People are familiar with the example of privatization of industrial enterprises, resulting in the completion of such activities that take place in haste and of such a large asset as the land of agricultural assignment. This will be accomplished by the fact that this asset remains in the hands of several people – a few oligarchs who will continue to use it according to their own wealth, and the people, the people of Ukraine, will have nothing left. I ask you to support my amendment and protect Ukrainian land from concentration in one hand.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-19-m0.u42	Alexander Hennadijovich, do you insist on voting? I'm betting on a vote of 493 Puzanova. The committee turned her down. Please identify and vote. [[10:51:41]] For-72 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. Mother, 494. I don't insist, I see. Oh, you insist. I just couldn't see right away.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-19-m0.u43	I'm sorry, I want to go to the National MPs anyway. Let's work our jobs instead of blocking the speakers and misleading the chairman. My point is that the bill indicates not total figures, but interest rates. 35 percent in the hands of the territorial community, there's a natural person. Where did they come from, what, 35, not 20, not 15? Because the land inventory has not yet been carried out. All the "ministers of the people" also tell the executive authorities what it is, but not in full measure. So what's the problem with adopting the law now if there's no absolute interest rate figures? But my job is to reduce the rate from 35 percent to 15. Please put to the vote, support and vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-19-m0.u44	Yes, it is. I'll bet you 494 Mama's vote. The committee's dismissed. Please identify and vote. [[10:53:13]] For-80 The decision is not taken. Next line is 496, Ducky.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-19-m0.u45	Colleagues, we return to the cost of Ukrainian land today. The score of our land, the best in the world in quality, is 25,000 dollars on average. As far as our neighbors are concerned, there are about 5,000 euros. When it comes to Britain, it's 32,000, when it comes to the Netherlands, it's 73,000. Please tell us, under such conditions, can we sell out our land today? "The Opposition Platform for Life" is strongly opposed to today's sale of land. The review first, then, of course, should raise the question of the referendum. So please put to the vote my amendment, which applies today to the paragraph of the first part of article 130 of the Ukrainian Code of Land. The words "one united territorial community" are replaced by the words "in the framework of local self-government." Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-19-m0.u46	Thank you. I'm betting on a vote of 496 Kacny's. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[10:54:42]] For-66 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. Next 497 revision, Ducky.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-19-m0.u47	Colleagues, let's go back to what we talked about from the beginning. Today, the whole country is talking about our opposition to the sale of land. The "ministers of the people" are afraid today to look into the eyes of all those who are going out on the street today, who are standing on this Maidan today in front of the Supreme Council. We bring you all back to your senses and ask you to see what the Ukrainian people are talking about today. Dear colleagues, 497 papers, Kacny, in the first part of article 130 of the Ukrainian Code of Land, replace the words "35 percent" with the words "1200 hectares". Please vote and answer to the head of the agrarian committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-19-m0.u48	Thank you, Alexander Stalinovich. But tell me, please, a little bit similar, yes, you can. We can put it to a vote, right? Thank you. 497 amendments, I put it to the vote. Please identify and vote. [[B in m in s a l in]] [[10:56:15]] For-74. The decision is not taken. Next issue is 498, Ducky.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-19-m0.u49	Colleagues, today we've accepted, we've accepted a budget with you today that doesn't run nearly 25 percent of this budget. If this trend continues, by the end of the year we'll be under 250 billion dollars, that's more than you want from the land market. That's the kind of hole you want to cover with all our land. Dear colleagues, this is a very serious question. I ask all "ministers of the people" to return with eyes and faces to the Ukrainian people. Please vote on Amendment 498. Paragraph 2 of article 130 of the Ukrainian Code of Land, delete the term "close relatives or family members". Thank you for your attention and please vote. The committee's not telling us anything. Dear head, please get up to the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-19-m0.u50	Thank you. 498 revisions, Kacny. Please support and vote. [[B in m in s a l in]] [[B in m in s a l in]] [[10:57:54]] For-66 The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, I'm just worried, actually. Because if there's a "referendum on your every turn!"then by the end of your rights your faction may lose its voice. I'm just worried. Let's move on to the next one. 499 law, Taruta.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-19-m0.u51	Sergey Taruta, faction of Fatherland. Well, first of all, in shape. It's a very important question. And I think it needs a committee representative to be on the rostrum. I understand that Mr. Solski is ill. Let him go to the hospital. And yet the deputy will come out and answer. Because this issue needs to be seen in the eyes of both the deputies and the Ukrainian people. It's a relative adjustment. It refers to the concentration of the earth in one individual. I suggest there's not more than 100 hectares. Why is that? Because it's an economically sound opportunity for development, first and foremost, of small and medium-sized business. Only small and medium-sized businesses will enable us to improve efficiency.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-19-m0.u52	Thank you. Committee position. Turn it on.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-19-m0.u53	Sergey Alexanderovich, from which economy did you assume that this was economically justified: 100 hectares? The committee's position is to reject.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-19-m0.u54	Thank you. I'm betting on a vote of 499 Taruts. The committee's been rejected, it's just been explained. Please identify and vote. [[11:00:01]] For-73 The decision is not taken. 500 fines, Kaltsev.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-19-m0.u55	Thank you, Dmitri Alexanderovich, for your word. Caltz, Zaporozhye. Last night, unfortunately, we failed to finish the debate with Mr. Nicholas because we were talking about banks that would get the right to own the land for two years. Mr. Mikola, I'm asking you and your lawyers to consult, because banks are getting the asset they can manage, and formally at the end of two years, in this term, they can mortgage another bank for interbank loans to this land and formally, from the point of view of the law, they will get rid of it. But this land will not go into circulation; it will also go into another bank, perhaps related. And that's what we're opening up the opportunity for.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-19-m0.u56	Thank you. You insist on voting, don't you? I'll put her to the vote, 500 percent. The committee's dismissed. Please. He already answered. It was just very similar, and the position of the committee hardly changed. Committee position. [[B in m in s a l in]] No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. You don't want to hear the answer, then the vote. 500 Caltsev. Not supported by the committee. Please identify and vote. [[11:02:03]] Z-62 The decision is not taken. Tischenko, 502 right. Sorry, 501, Caltz.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-19-m0.u57	Dmitri Aleksandrovitch, we've consulted here and we've committed ourselves to a more "referendum" later on. So, Mr. Mikolo, please let him answer after my speech.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-19-m0.u58	Oh, after the show. Okay. We're listening.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-19-m0.u59	So this is a very important problem in this bill. Because if we let speculators do this market, believe me, it's not in the hands of farmers, it's not in the hands of small and medium-sized farmers or farmers. This land will fall into the hands of latifundists, into the hands of bankers, which are often the same faces. So it's dangerous for our nation and it's dangerous for this market. I'm trying to get it from Mr. Solski.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-19-m0.u60	It's all right, isn't it? Head of the committee, position of the committee, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-19-m0.u61	Mr. Volodymyr, the amendment was about another, it was rejected. What about your question? The only thing that banks can clearly do to the land that they have received in the order of conversion and withdrawal as collateral is to sell through land auctions. They can't do any other legal action on the land. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-19-m0.u62	Thank you. I'm betting on a vote of 501 Caltzeva. Please identify and vote. [[11:04:15]] For-64 The decision is not taken. Double, 505.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-19-m0.u63	Dear colleagues, dear people of Ukraine! Our "Fatherland" faction, our leader, Julia Timoshenko, like 72 percent of Ukraine, in wartime, is definitely against the sale of Ukrainian land, against this law on the sale of agricultural land. Every day my younger son Elijah comes up to me and says, "Daddy, are they going to sell our Ukrainian land?" And he's asking me to speak so they don't vote for it. I promised that I had turned to the majority, to every MP, especially who took the oath for the first time. When you took an oath you said, "I swear allegiance to Ukraine. I commit myself to upholding Ukraine’s sovereignty and independence by all my actions, caring for the welfare and welfare of Ukraine’s people. I pledge to abide by the Constitution of Ukraine and the laws of Ukraine, to carry out my duties in the interests of all compatriots." Concentration in one hand of land and the sale of aliens in war conditions is a crime. Please make an amendment to support.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-19-m0.u64	I'll bet you 505 votes for Dubella. Please identify and vote. [[11:05:44]] For-68 Thank you. For 68. The decision is not taken. The duck insists? Don't insist. Dear colleagues, still in the table, there is a technical error in the regulation of 694 Germans. Wait, can we go through it now? You insist that it is later. Okay. Then the next line is 508 Bat.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-19-m0.u65	Thank you, Dmitri Alexanderovich. Colleagues, from most times to the abolition of slavery and Lincoln, as the mantra calls this parallel, I think it's a kind of manipulative technology that is now being applied by the majority. Let's think about it, people, friends, how much America has gone to abolish slavery, at least from this point of view, by going through the Civil War. And does this reporter who appeals to Lincoln that this 13th amendment, which annuls slavery, is the last state ratified to abolish slavery, is 2013 Mississippi, which is 1865 to 2013 America abolished slavery, from the point of view of legislative institutions. Let us not engage in manipulations in this room, nor do we associate the experience of America, which also wanted to buy Greenland. Ukraine is not for sale. And please put my amendment to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-19-m0.u66	508th, I put it to a vote, the committee rejected it. Please identify and vote. [[11:07:24]] For-78 The decision is not taken. 509, Dirdin. Don't insist. 510th, Krulko. Don't insist. 511th, Pawel. Don't insist. 512th, Gnutenko. Pauline, I'm sorry, 511. No, no. Dear colleagues, from your seats. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues. Dear colleagues. The time to move will then be taken away from your time, will that be correct? Then, please, get out of the way. Yuri Alexiovich! Dear colleagues, then the time will begin when I give you my word. Well, because. Yuri Alexiyovich, no, I'm sorry. Well, let's see you lead here. [[B in m in s a l in]] The position of the committee then. Ladies and gentlemen, after that, we shall proceed to the vote. After a break, Solski will go to the rostrum, if that is the case with you. Okay. Thank you. Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-19-m0.u67	Edit is the same as the current one. The position is to reject.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-19-m0.u68	The position of the committee. [[B in m in s a l in]] Mikola Tarasovich, please leave. No! No! Your time is up. [[B in m in s a l in]] No! No! Committee position. Mikola Tarasovich, please. [[B in m in s a l in]] Position of the Committee on the Right of Pauline. [[B in m in s a l in]] If you turn around, you have the right to turn around. You will certainly be able to do so when you take up the time of other national deputies, so let us respect everyone. Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-19-m0.u69	It's similar to others. The position is to reject.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-19-m0.u70	Please identify and vote. [[B in m in s a l in]] [[11:12:47]] For-64 You, dear colleagues, I'm sorry about the Rules you just mentioned. Your behavior is now in line with the Rules? No, he's not. I think Mikailo Mikolaiovich will confirm this as an expert on the Rules. Thank you. Next line is 409, Dirdin. Don't insist. 10th, 510th, Krulko. Don't insist. 511. Pauline. You're missing again. Your actions are so important to you that you can't even hear them. Dear colleagues! 511th, Pawel.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-19-m0.u71	The distinguished Ukrainian people, the Honourable Head, are unfortunately continuing their consideration of this brutal bill, in violation of the Rules. And that gives us every reason to press charges if he's approved in the Constitutional Court and he's canceled. Moreover, I would like to stress that we are now looking at in Parliament a comforting one has come. A comforting report from the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. So from this report it turns out that today's Cabinet of Ministers is unable to bring about a system of land issues, not to prepare cadastres, not to estimate, not to separate the land, that is, to sell land for transnational companies and foreigners. And that's what we have to resist. And my amendment is that only after the referendum can this law come into force. I insist on headquartering.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-19-m0.u72	I'm sure I'll put it to the vote right now. Yuri Alexiyovich, I would like to remind you that, according to the Rules that you just mentioned, you have to report on the case, essentially the case. If you're going to do, well, speaking from other questions, I don't think that's in line with the Rules, I'm sure you know that, and unfortunately, I'm going to have to stop. I think it's going to be both incorrect and wrong. Yeah? Thank you very much. I'm betting on a vote of 511 Pauline. Not supported by the committee. Please identify and vote. [[B in m in s a l in]] [[11:15:21]] For-66 Sergei Mikolaiovich, don't break the book, please. Yeah, it's important. Don't hurt the Supreme Council furniture. I think it's going to be. Thank you, Sergey Mikolayovich. Thank you. And unfortunately, this is not supported, 66 for. Let's move on. Gnutenko, 512 right. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-19-m0.u73	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman, for the opportunity to express your opinion. Amendment 512. "The Opposition Platform for Life," Gnatenko, 49 constituency. In the third part of the second part of this article, 130, please delete the word 'one'. I also ask you to keep that opinion, and most of the halls also support me that the money we needed to buy these areas for our farmers is not enough for fuel-oil, herbicide and so on, that is, to take loans to buy land from people will be nothing. And so, the person who takes the credit goes into the debt pit. I mean, I'm asking you to back up my bill and vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-19-m0.u74	Thank you. I'm betting on a 512 vote. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[11:17:00]] For-64 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. 513 law. Gnatenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-19-m0.u75	Thank you for being able to prove this. 49 constituency, Donetskina, Opposition Platform for Life, Gnatenko. In the third part of article 130, of course, of the Ukrainian Code of Land, the words and the digits "8 percent" should also be replaced by the words and digits "2500 hectares". This is also an important correction, and I ask you to support it and not reject it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-19-m0.u76	Thank you. I'm betting on the 513 vote of the Racer. Not supported by the committee. Please identify and vote. [[B in m in s a l in]] [[11:17:51]] Z-62 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. 514 law, Gnutenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-19-m0.u77	Yeah, 514 revisions. 49 constituency, Gnatenko, Life. Please note the amendment: "In the third part of article 130 of the Ukrainian Code of Land, in the following paragraph: "Between the territory of the area. shall not exceed 3,000 hectares of agricultural land for commercial agricultural production or farming." This is also a very important treatise, and I ask her to put it down and vote for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-19-m0.u78	Thank you. 514 law, Gnutenko. The committee's dismissed. Please identify and vote. [[11:18:48]] For-66 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. 515 law, Kabachenko. None. Ah, let's go to the right of Ponomarov. 516 law.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-19-m0.u79	Thank you. Ponomárov Alexander, 78 constituency, Zaporozhye district. You and I need to consider the opinion of the Ukrainian people. Because the earth is its national wealth and a unique object of legal relations. So I say, in paragraph 1 of section 2 of article 130 of the Ukrainian Code of Land, replace the word "one area" with the word "one region". To supplement article 130 of the Ukrainian Code of Land with the following paragraph: "It is prohibited to introduce land rights (pai) to statutory capitals of agricultural societies, to transfer ownership by sale to the holding and to establish the results of the U.S. referendum on the purchase and sale of agricultural land." Please put to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-19-m0.u80	Alexander Sergiyovich, shall we put it to a vote? 516 Ponomarov. The committee didn't support her. Please identify and vote. [[11:20:29]] For-59 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. Next up, Alexander Sergiyovich, 517.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-19-m0.u81	Thank you very much. We must work with you to promote equal ownership of the land by all Ukrainian citizens. Our faction advocates a nationwide referendum on the earth market. I propose in paragraph one of the second part of article 130 of the Ukrainian Code of Land to replace the word "one area" with "one region". And also add the words "to establish the results of an all-U.S. referendum on land sales." Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-19-m0.u82	Thank you. I'm betting on the 517th vote of Ponomarov. Not supported by the committee. Please identify and vote. [[11:21:33]] For-63 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. 518 correct, Germano Vasil Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-19-m0.u83	Dmitri Alexanderovich, I would very much like to ask you how you call for compliance with the Rules, these amendments, there are 4 legal definitions regarding inventory, regarding non-sales and so on, and two more. So I ask, in accordance with article 6, article 45, more faithfully, part six, to put each specific legal position as legal to the vote. I support her. As for anyone who loves Lincoln there, I would like to turn to Roosevelt during the Great Depression. Let them read or stand in line where it stands, a monument, behind a piece of bread, and when they decide that the land is not to be sold. Read history. Thank you. Please vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-19-m0.u84	Vasil Ivanovich! Vasil Ivanovich, you just didn't say anything. I'll put her to the vote, 518 revisions. Please identify and vote. [[11:23:03]] For-68 The decision is not taken. Edit 520, Ponomarov.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-19-m0.u85	Thank you. Ponomárov Alexander, 78 constituency, Zaporozhye district. Our faction "The Opposition Platform for Life" insists that without a referendum on land sales, the Earth Code cannot be adopted. If the authorities continue to ignore the peasants ’ thoughts on the land issue, we will receive considerable social upheaval. In Ukraine's history, the land issue is one of the most painful and socially vulnerable. Such reforms without the permission of the Ukrainian people are simply dangerous. Therefore, I propose that article 130 of the Earth Code should be supplemented by an article that reads: "It is not possible to carry out and establish the results of an all-U.S. referendum on land sales", to be completed.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-19-m0.u86	I'll put her to a vote, 520. Not supported by the committee. Please identify and vote. [[11:24:36]] For-60 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. 521st Ponomarov.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-19-m0.u87	Thank you again, Dmitri Alexanderovich. By all means, we can see that no amendment to protect the interests of small and medium - sized farming is going through. Neither the profile committee nor the parliamentary majority may be interested in the opinion of our voters. I demand support for the rights to impose restrictions on land purchases, as well as a change in the target destination of agricultural land prior to the referendum. I propose to complete article 130 with a new paragraph: "Agreements made during the ban on the sale and sale of agricultural land until the outcome of the country-wide referendum on the purchase and sale of agricultural land."..
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-19-m0.u88	I'll put this right to the vote. Please identify and vote. [[11:26:06]] For-64 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. 524 revisions, Ponomarov.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-19-m0.u89	Dear colleagues, why are we so opposed to having a complete inventory of the land first before the Code is adopted? What are we afraid of? In the country and without us, people know very well who processes the land, who uses it, and what conditions. First you have to do inventory and then you have to set the percentages. I say, "In paragraph one part of the second Ukrainian Earth Code, the numbers and the words "8 percent" are replaced by the numbers and the words "3500 hectares." Thank you. I also point out that the faction has consistently opposed the opening of the land market without the consent of the Ukrainian people. Please put the vote to the vote. Thanks again.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-19-m0.u90	Thank you. I'll bet you a vote. Please identify and vote. [[11:27:32]] For-66 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. Next issue is 527. 526th, Frost.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-19-m0.u91	Good afternoon, dear fellows! Good afternoon, Ukrainian people! I'm saying that you never heard from Mr. Solski what you wanted to hear from him yesterday. And that's why all the farmers, and the people who have pies, want to come to the agrarian committee today, especially to Mr. Solski, and ask him. So they're getting ready for this arrival, and I think you should get ready for it too. In article 130 of the Ukrainian Code of Land, in part three, replace "8" with "5". Complete article 130 of the Codex earth. They say they've missed the paperwork. Dmitri Alexanderovich, let's go back to the right of the colleague.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-19-m0.u92	No, you finish yours and then we'll come back.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-19-m0.u93	I'm not allowed to talk.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-19-m0.u94	I'll bet on the 526th vote. Please identify and vote. [[11:29:15]] For-63 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. We're going back. Yes, there were important revisions of Ponomarov. 522, please, Alexander Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-19-m0.u95	I'm sorry, 523rd. We already voted with you in the 22nd.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-19-m0.u96	523rd. Okay. They're just all significant.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-19-m0.u97	I want to take another look. Residents of my district of Berdjansk, Chernigovski, Bilmak and Rozow region, both small and medium-sized farmers and landowners, have requested that the opening of the land market in such important countries be passed on to the people’s deputies, who believe that the opening of the land market in such an important country will lead to the loss of Ukraine’s agriculture. And they collected thousands of signatures asking to hear them. So in response to their request, I propose article 130 of the Codex Earth, well, follow the text.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-19-m0.u98	I'll bet the vote on 523 Ponomarov. Please identify and vote. [[11:30:54]] For-65 The decision is not taken again. 525 Ponmarov.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-19-m0.u99	Thank you, Dmitri Alexanderovich, but 524th.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-19-m0.u100	No, 24 was under the stenographer, right. You can check it out later. 525th.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-19-m0.u101	Okay. Territorial communities, I stress once again that territorial communities should be active participants in the market for agricultural land. For the earth is not only a financial resource to address local issues, but also a basis for their development. This codex was written without their participation. So our faction insists on holding a referendum. And I'm asking my colleagues to support all our changes. This may sound ridiculous, but we are willing to repeat it as many times as it takes for everyone to hear the voice of our people who chose us. I insist on voting the following.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-19-m0.u102	What's the readout? Give me the number. What's the number? I just lost track of the text. Oh, 525, yeah? I'm betting 525 of the Ponomarov bill, not supported by the committee. Please identify and vote. [[11:32:50]] For-59 The decision is not taken. Next item is 527, Frost.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-19-m0.u103	Moroz Volodymir, 59 constituency, Donetskina. Here a colleague from the People's Service said that people have apartments that they wanted to sell, he compared it to the ground. So what I'm saying is that those people who have these apartments on the line of separation today, you have your pies and your rations, those people who are going to have them, when they're going to sell them, when they're going to walk and when they're going to get their profits, those people are going to be moaning and watching people from the "Serve of the Nation" who sold this land. In article 130 of the Ukrainian Code of Land, in part three, replace "8" with "5". To supplement article 130 of the Ukrainian Code of Land with the following paragraph: "Agreements (including trusts) have been put in place for the implementation and establishment of the results of the U.S. referendum."..
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-19-m0.u104	Thank you. 527 correct, Ice cream. Please identify and vote. [[11:34:23]] For-59 Thank you. 59-yes. The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, I'm not commenting, I'm just going to tell you that I'm looking at what just, with every turn of the way that you want to hold a referendum among you, is less than a vote. Thank you. 528 revisions. It's freezing.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-19-m0.u105	59 constituency, Donetskina, Frost. I think we're all in the referendum, all for the people, and the people need to decide whether or not to sell our land today. In article 130 of the Ukrainian Code of Land, in part three, replace "8" with "5". To supplement article 130 of the Ukrainian Code of Land with the following paragraph: "If the outcome of the U.S. referendum does not approve the decision on free sale and purchase of agricultural land, the prohibition on the purchase and sale of land and other means of alienating land and land particles (pail) in part of their sale and other means of alienation shall be maintained until 1 January 2030." Please support this revision.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-19-m0.u106	Thank you. 528 committee corrections rejected. Please identify and vote. [[11:36:06]] For-60 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. 529th. It's freezing.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-19-m0.u107	Moroz Volodymyr, 59 constituency, Donetsk's Opposition Platform for Life. The Opposition Platform for Life faction against the sale of land. And so I would like to support the 529th amendment, which emphasizes: the third part of article 130 of the Ukrainian Code of Land, paragraph 3, should include the sentence: "The act of paragraph 3 of Part Two becomes effective after the conduct and establishment of the results of the U.S. referendum on free sale and purchase of agricultural land." I repeat that we need a referendum, we need a people to determine. We especially need to talk about the need to end the war and then return to the earth. No one sells the land in time of war for it. They're defending her. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-19-m0.u108	I'm betting on the 529th vote of the Frost Amendment. It's rejected by the committee. Please identify and vote. [[B in m in s a l in]] [[11:37:38]] Z-62 The decision is not taken. 530 correct, Frost.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-19-m0.u109	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. From this very morning, people who live on the line of separation before I came to the Supreme Council, the phone was, in principle, red from the bells, they were on the phone and they were talking, and what they could do to help prevent their land from being sold, because today not only blood, but also the tears of mothers on the line of separation. Not only can they restore their dwellings but they are unable to receive their rations for their pies today. And so paragraph 12 of paragraph 1 of section I reads as follows: "It shall not exceed 50,000 hectares of agricultural land for Ukraine." Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-19-m0.u110	Can I ask you a question? We're talking about 530 right now, it's a little bit different, there. No, well, whatever it is, well, that's important, people are going to vote now. Oh, we got it all mixed up. No, 530, there's a little bit more to it, there's "the boundaries of one area or the Autonomous Republic of Crimea shouldn't exceed 3,000 hectares." Yes. We're in charge of this right now, aren't we? I'll put 530 of the Ice to the vote. Please identify and vote. [[11:39:34]] For-60 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. 531 Culinic. 532th, Halimon. Steppa, 537. Stupefy. Royal, 539.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-19-m0.u111	Dear colleagues, "The Opposition Platform for Life" is strongly opposed to the sale of Ukrainian land. We insist on holding an all-U.S. referendum. Because the model proposed by the government does not allow the concentration of land, resources, and land market monopolization to be avoided. Selling land will give birth to new oligarch magnets, give birth to new foreign speculators. You cannot allow monopolies to land, which is what your authority is today. The land belongs to the Ukrainian people and the only owner of the Ukrainian land is the Ukrainian people. No president, Parliament has no right without the people to start selling land. A Ukrainian citizen has the right to vote, has the right to participate today in a referendum, and I insist on voting on this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-19-m0.u112	Thank you. I'm betting on the 539th Royal vote. It's not supported by the committee. Please identify and vote. [[11:41:27]] For-67 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. 540th, Bondarev.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-19-m0.u113	Dear friends, on the other hand, repeat that unfortunately, the debate in this room does not take place, but there is a technical misunderstanding of the opinion of the opposition. At first, we didn't see the position of the committee. Then, when some deputies became active, the committee head appeared, but the committee did not explain to the Ukrainian people why the land should become a commodity. And the land will be sold with the bones of the Ukrainians who fought for the sovereignty of this country for the same land. I've made an amendment that concerns why 8 percent in some region should belong to one person. And will that man be Ukrainian? Have you decided to sell everything, not just the Crucifixion, not just the Crucifixion, the Earth? What else? You've decided the Ukrainians.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-19-m0.u114	Thank you. 540 correct. The committee didn't support her. Please identify and vote. [[11:43:00]] For-65 The decision is not taken. Masuras. Don't insist. Petty Officer, 543rd.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-19-m0.u115	Nadajchenko, faction of the Fatherland. I insist on this amendment, and we, as the Fatherland faction, have conducted a reception throughout the country and continue to receive Ukrainian citizens. We clearly understand people's concern about why people are against this bill. They call it, people, Ukrainians, citizens of Ukraine call this bill "a bill of land oligarchs." Don't be silly. People from every area are watching the broadcast of this Supreme Council. Describe and prove how much power, how many citizens of Ukraine under the current Earth Code have received land. In every area. Give me the stats! Don't quote. I'll tell you why. Because they put 35 percent in one hand, 8 percent in the area, and so on. A prescribed oligartic vertical on Ukrainian soil. So we are firmly against this bill, as well as against such a concentration of land in one hand.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-19-m0.u116	I'll bet on the vote on the offer of the landowner. 543rd, not supported by the committee. Please identify and vote. [[11:44:35]] Z-70. The decision is not taken. Puzanov, 544 lashes.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-19-m0.u117	Thank you. The honourable chairman, respected colleagues, is referring to a limitation on the possibility of excessive concentration of agricultural land in one person. It predicts that a person cannot own land for agricultural purposes within one area of more than 1 percent of the land for agricultural purposes or of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea. Dear colleagues from the majority, from the "Serviary of the People" party, if you no longer want to ask the people of Ukraine -- the only legitimate owner of this land, his permission to open this market, if you don't want to hold a referendum, support at least the limitations on the possibility of large agrohholdings with foreign capital, the oligarchs buying this land and making people poor accordingly, taking away the opportunity to work on this land. Please support my amendment and put it to the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-19-m0.u118	I'm betting on a vote of 544 Puzanova. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[11:46:04]] For-66 The decision is not taken. 545th, Mama.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-19-m0.u119	Dear national MPs, in the law, I'm again paying attention to the interest rates that are reflected. But percentages can be calculated after we see on a paper sheet or in an electronic database the results of inventory, cadastral results and everything else, the correction of errors, where not one ground or one point on the other, will be reflected, but a real picture with real numbers. Then you can talk about interest. Eight percent, really, in one hand on the edge of the area -- that's a lot, and my revision says it needs to be reduced to 5 percent. But this is what we see in the law that went through the first reading, and in the second reading of the committee's revisions that haven't yet been made, I think that they've reworked and reprocessed these interest rates. Please support me to reduce my interest rate from 8 percent to 5 percent.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-19-m0.u120	545 editing Mama's committee isn't. The position of the committee, yes, if possible, briefly.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-19-m0.u121	Dear colleagues, 5 percent in some areas, we have an area of over a million acres. This means much more than the committee's proposed edition, so the readjustment is rejected.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-19-m0.u122	Thank you for your position. 545 Mama's turn. Please identify and vote. [[11:47:58]] For-69 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. 547th, Ducky.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-19-m0.u123	Dear colleagues, there is a situation in which we, "The Opposition Platform for Life," have stressed more than once that the head of the committee, Mikola Tarasovich Solski, has a conflict of interest. The "Fatherland" faction referred to the NABU for this reason. I don't know if they got the answer or not. We see today that members of the agrarian committee also refer to agrarian business. It's also a conflict of interest. Unfortunately, today we see no reaction from the power structures, from the prosecutor's office, from the National Anti-Corruption Agency. That's why we're forced to work today with those who are being given to us by the "ministers of the people." And we see that no one wants to hear the Ukrainian people, and the Ukrainian people say that more than 70 percent against the sale of land and more.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-19-m0.u124	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we haven't heard from you again. If possible, follow the Rules and follow procedure. Because it's actually an important position here to change the area into a region. This is a key position for the law. We can vote, right? Thank you. 547 Kacny's right. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[11:49:54]] For-66 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. Next copy of Ducky, 548th. Once again, however, Alexander Stalinovich, if possible, on an amendment procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-19-m0.u125	As part of the territorial and administrative reform, we talked about the region and the area, and now we're talking about 548 laws. In the first part of article 130 of the Ukraine Code of Land, the figure and the words "8 percent" should be replaced by the words "3200 hectares". Dear colleagues, it's very important that we understand today that, so that we don't have opposition today or what adjustments we haven't made today, the "ministers of the people" don't want to hear us. Unfortunately, today we are the only faction that stresses that without a referendum, without a referendum, we have no right to make such important decisions. And I am addressing all the national MPs today: please support us in this matter. Thank you for your attention. Please answer the questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-19-m0.u126	I'll bet the vote on 548 Ducky. It's rejected by the committee. Please identify and vote. [[11:51:25]] For-66 The decision is not taken. 549th, Ducky again.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-19-m0.u127	Dear colleagues, we've heard here that MPs from the "ministers of the people" are offering us a great holiday -- the opening of the market. And those who talked about this holiday and just referred to their relatives who live in separate regions, such as the Kharkiv region, and talked about what Grandma really wants, really wanted to sell the land. And when the journalists came and found out that this grandmother wasn't even talking about what she wanted, she was talking about the only thing: what are we going to do here without land in Kharkiv district? Therefore, dear friends, this is a powerful example of how honest our deputies today are in keeping with the promises they have made to their voters. Please put my amendment to the vote, 549th: "In the first part of the second part of article 130 of the Ukrainian Code of Land. "0.5 percent" is replaced by numbers and words."..
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-19-m0.u128	I'm betting on the vote of 549 Ducky. It's not supported by the committee. Please identify and vote. [[11:53:02]] For-59 The decision is not taken. Ducky, 550. But on the right, if I may, Alexander Stalinovich. Because I didn't see it in the papers about Grandma.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-19-m0.u129	There are different grandmothers. And in the Kirovograd district, there are which. There's barely a dog left. Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to emphasize this. That we have today, indeed, a situation where 250 deputies are solving the issue of our entire nation, our entire Ukrainian people. Once again, dear friends, we will pass the time and you will be ashamed to look into the eyes of all our constituents. Unfortunately, today you don't hear what the Opposition Platform says in life, the Fatherland faction and other parties who today hear that they want to see and hear our Ukrainian people today. That's why I'm calling you again. Please note that a referendum is the only way to hear and resolve this issue without conflict, without problem, and somehow you don't want to do it. That's why I'm still here.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-19-m0.u130	550 Kacny's right. I'll put her to the vote. Please identify and vote. [[11:54:34]] For-59 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. 551 axles.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-19-m0.u131	My colleagues, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that in the Declaration of Ukrainian Sovereignty, this is the only declaration that was adopted in the referendum, it says that our Ukrainian land is the land of all the Ukrainian people and is the guarantee of our sovereignty. If our land is sold, we practically sell our sovereignty. I'm sorry. In recent times, Ukraine has virtually no opportunity to speak of being an independent state. Our independence is dictated by the very main criteria of the peoples of the country that you spoke about in your program. Unfortunately, today you're afraid to execute your program and adopt a referendum law in which we can solve this issue today without conflict and without any problems. I therefore submit my amendment 551: after the fourth paragraph.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-19-m0.u132	551s, yes. I'll put her to the vote. Please identify and vote. [[11:56:07]] For-57 The decision is not taken. Next amendment, Kaltsov, 552nd.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-19-m0.u133	Thank you, Dmitri Alexanderovich. In fact, 552 is correct. So in this direction, article 130 proposes to change the digits "8 percent" to replace the words "2000 hectares." That's the whole point of editing. But I would like to continue the discussion with Mr. Nicholas because he was already bored in the rostrum. Mr. Mikolo, from the point of view of suggestions. I'm going back to the subject of banks. This, indeed, from the lawyer's point of view, is a place where it is possible to organize schemes, in fact, perhaps to support the land over two years of different schemes. And we know that we have a lot of masters who will be able to organize this in a very short time. So I would probably suggest, while there is a possibility, that something might change in this law. Maybe it'll be better to change the term, not "two years," but change the term to "six months." Because the bank really has six months to do it.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-19-m0.u134	553. I'll put her to the vote. Committee position. Mikola Tarasovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-19-m0.u135	You've got a different job.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-19-m0.u136	That's not the job. On the right hand side, please state your position.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-19-m0.u137	Edit rejected.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-19-m0.u138	Look, there was something else about it. Your question was far from correcting 552. Dear colleagues, I'm voting 552 of the Kaltsev amendment. She's not supported by the committee, which we just heard a reasonable answer about. Please identify and vote. [[11:58:11]] For-58 The decision is not taken. 553 revision, Kaltsov.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-19-m0.u139	553 correct. At 130, change the words "within Ukraine by 6,000 hectares the ability to limit land tenure." But, Dmitri Alexanderovich, Parliament, this is a place for discussion. First of all, I'm offering a proposal, a real proposition, based on it. So I'd like to hear from Mr. Mikola's answer, that's a short answer, there's nothing there, and that won't delay the discussion. I think we can change something else in this law, so it's probably the right thing to discuss and discuss in this room. Perhaps this will help to make this law more effective. So I'd like to invite Mr. Nicholas to pay attention to this proposal, maybe by limiting the term of being in banks for six months, it'll be more effective, and we'll be able to remove the speculators from that land market and deny the different schemes.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-19-m0.u140	Thank you. I think if you invite Mr. Solski, he won't say no. Yet, if it is according to the Rules, it is right. Because we're not going to be able to influence, this is a place for discussion, but it's important to move in the Rules, and you're telling me. 553 correct, Caltseva. Please identify and identify yourself. [[11:59:59]] For-64 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. 554 correct, Taruti.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-19-m0.u141	My rights apply to land restrictions within the farm. But I would like to answer the previous question right now, because unfortunately, there's very little time, and we didn't discuss it on the committees where the grounding is. I mean, when I was seven years old, I worked on the ground for 30 years. And I know with my hands what the best model is. And what's more, when you prepared three years ago a doctrinal vision of Ukraine's development by the 1930s, it's the agricultural sector in this 30th year's GDP that's 100 billion dollars. That's more than three now. And there's a clear argument, only no one wants to look at this, and they don't want to talk about it. Then there would be a clear answer to what risks we have and what these risks will lead to. And that's why, Mr. Solsky, I'm from you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-19-m0.u142	Thank you, Sergey Alexiovich. Committee position, if possible, extended.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-19-m0.u143	Sergey Alexanderovich, not just you, but many who worked on the earth. And I think you worked on the ground like you did when you applied for the previous 100 hectares. You actually know that the question isn't really in the model. For something, this is a lot of land, for example, for the berries and for something very small, for example, for the grains. And I think you've been working in the grain field. The averages of up to 100 hectares in Europe are mostly subsidized, the average grain size is much higher, including in Europe, I'm not talking about the United States. Let's let the market determine what he's doing. All we need is to restore people’s right to rule the earth. All of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-19-m0.u144	Thank you. Sergey Alexiyovich, since we are now on break, we will be voting for the amendment after the break. There's a break until 12:30. Please don't be late.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-19-m0.u145	Let's get back to work. Dear colleagues to vote in favour of the 554th National Deputy of Taruta. I bet on the vote, please support and vote. I'd like to make a statement. [[12:31:58]] For-24 The decision is not taken. 555th, Taruta.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-19-m0.u146	By factions, how many people were here in the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-19-m0.u147	Here's the next question. Sergey Alexiyovich, do you care about the next readout?
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-19-m0.u148	It's important. I wanted the factions. Okay. This next amendment also applies to the limitation of the number of land in a connected community. I'm going back, we're not going to end our conversation here, which is why 100 hectares. 200 acres [100 ha], 500 acres [500 ha], and associated individuals in the local community. I'm going back to the exact strategy of how Ukraine can reach $100 billion in agrarian sector by the 30th year. Why is it 100 hectares? Because we were just designing to form a class of cooperatives by 30, where there will be 1 million valid cooperatives, where there will be 400,000 farm holdings. There will be those who will be.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-19-m0.u149	Thank you. 555 Taruta's amendment was not supported by the committee. Please identify and vote. [[12:33:34]] For-34 The decision is not taken. Let's see the factions. Tischenko. Don't insist. Double. None. Is it? Turn on the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-19-m0.u150	Dear colleagues, dear Ukrainian people! Our leader, Yulia Timoshenko, and the "Fatherland" faction, is firmly opposed in terms of war, and 72 percent of the people are also opposed in terms of war to this Ukrainian land sale bill. I want to make sure that we all listen together to our middle and small farmers, which today preserves the Ukrainian village, which today creates jobs and supports infrastructure. The big agroholdings only need one thing: to make big profits from our fertile lands. And thanks to our farmers, if we support them, we'll save kindergartens, schools, field homes, libraries. My point was that in one hand, within 500 hectares and no more, that's an economic justification of a total of 300. There is an example of Poland, Uzhgrad. Please apply for support.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-19-m0.u151	I'll put her to the vote, 558 revisions, Dubil. The committee was rejected. Please identify and vote. [[12:35:10]] For-41 The decision is not taken. Kunaev. Double, 562.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-19-m0.u152	Dear colleagues, dear Ukrainian people! Our leader, Julia Timoshenko, and the Fatherland faction, and 72 percent of the people who are at war when our soldiers protect our Ukrainian land, are taking a firm stand against this Ukrainian land sale bill. Without two aspects, that's what you promised people in the election, in your election team, the majority. The first is the holding of the Ukrainian referendum, and only after the permission of the Ukrainian people can we consider this bill. So I ask that you listen to the people of Ukraine, our Constitution, which says that the earth is Ukraine’s national wealth and is under special protection and is an object of the people of Ukraine. Please apply for support.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-19-m0.u153	I'll bet you 562 Dubella. The committee's dismissed. Please identify and vote. [[12:36:43]] For-40 The decision is not taken. Taras Ivanovich, 563, you don't insist.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-19-m0.u154	Dear colleagues! The logic of our amendments is that we want to limit and protect the interests of the country and small Ukrainian farms. To the OTG level, we propose to limit 75 hectares, to the district level, and to the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, to the property of citizens, legal persons, to leave 150 hectares. And then my amendment, I'm not going to take the floor again, I'm going to limit the legislative limit of 300 hectares for. within the entire country, owned by citizens and legal persons. Please comment on this logic and then put amendment 563 to the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-19-m0.u155	Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-19-m0.u156	There is no logic in this direction, as I see it, because 150 hectares against it are farmers themselves. By 60 percent of the land cultivated by farmers, the volume of leased land is much higher. Edit rejected.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-19-m0.u157	Thank you. I'm betting on a vote of 563 Bat. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[12:38:17]] For-51 The decision is not taken. Gnutenko, 564.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-19-m0.u158	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. 564 axle. 49 constituency, "The Opposition Platform for Life," Gnatenko. Please consider, in the fourth part of article 130 of the Earth Code, the words and figures "0.5 percent" should be replaced by the words and figures "5,000 hectares". Everybody's talking about a referendum today, and people are saying, maybe a referendum is held to hold a referendum on the ground. I mean, a referendum. Perhaps it is worth raising the question among the people. Thank you, please, for the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-19-m0.u159	I'm betting on a vote of 564. It's rejected by the committee. Please identify and vote. [[12:39:26]] For-43 The decision is not taken. Show the factions, please. Not even your colleagues support this initiative. Yeah, and somehow, "Referendum!" - a little bit of a fall. I think there must be some kind of discipline. Gnutenko, 565.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-19-m0.u160	Yeah, the next one. Thank you for the opportunity to express yourself. "In the fourth part of the second part of article 130 of the Earth Code, after the word 'destination', add the words 'inside the territory'. It's also an important readjustment. Please listen and speak. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-19-m0.u161	Thank you. I'll put her to the vote. 565 law, Gnutenko. The committee turned her down. Please identify and vote. [[12:40:30.]] For-47 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. Bondarev, 566.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-19-m0.u162	National Deputy Bondarev Constantine Anatoliyovich, Fatherland faction. Once again, I confirm that "Fatherland" is against turning the earth into a commodity, and selling Ukrainian land is not on time in wartime. I made an amendment to rule out the fourth part of article 130, which says that the total area within Ukraine is owned by one person, which is 0.5 percent of the land of Ukraine, which is 214,000 hectares in one hand. I want to say that this is the return of the fortress in Ukraine. If we're assuming that the total property could be 500 people, banks could be owners, and foreigners could be owners, then I applied -- 300 hectares maximum, and unfortunately, they didn't vote. You're returning the fortification to Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-19-m0.u163	Thank you. I'm betting on the 566 Bondareva vote. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[12:42:06]] For-50 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. Gnutenko, 567.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-19-m0.u164	Mr. Chairman, 567 rights, National Deputy Gnatenko, Opposition Platform for Life. Please correct the fourth part of article 130, paragraph 4, of the famous Earth Code and place it in such a way that it does not exceed 5,550 hectares [5550 ha] of agricultural land for commercial agricultural production or farming. Thank you. Please put it to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-19-m0.u165	I'll bet on the 567th draft. The committee turned her down. Please identify and vote. [[12:43:02]] For-54 The decision is not taken. Pavlenko, 568.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-19-m0.u166	Yuri Pavlenko, "The Opposition Platform for Life." My amendment relates to the third part of article 130 of the Code of Earth, and this amendment is, in fact, supported in many ways by humans today. In these moments, farmers and farms of Lugansk are gathered in Severerodonetsk, demanding that this law be not approved. Let me quote: "We, Luganskian agrarians, who were among the first in that turbulent 14th year to provide assistance to the Armed Forces of Ukraine, to organize food, to repair the destroyed technology, to clothe the boys, but today everything is forgotten, today many of us are sowing and collecting under bullets because they have a great responsibility to their people in front of their country. We see a violation of constitutional norms. Follow the constitutional norm, ask the people." Farmers, farmers demand Luganskian agriculture. Please put to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-19-m0.u167	I'm betting on a vote of 568. The committee turned her down. Please identify and vote. [[12:44:29]] For-49 The decision is not taken. Next line is 569, Pavlovenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-19-m0.u168	Yes, Your Honor, Mr. Head, the distinguished national MPs! Yuri Pavlenko, "The Opposition Platform for Life." In fact, my right relates to the need to introduce this law only after an all-U.S. referendum. And these are the requirements today for people under the walls of Luhanské ODA, namely Love Polakova, Nina Nedola, Olena Laskovic, Irina Corlakova, Alexander Sleptec, Vladimir Galusko, Oksana Konik, Sergey Hodov, Igor Litwin, Alexander Zhuwaka, Sergey Pajunov, Svetlana Shevtsov, and hundreds of other people who are living in war every day today are addressing you. Do not pass this law without considering their point of view. Do not pass the law by ignoring the point of local self - government, the point of united territorial communities, and ask people, and only then begin to consider the land issue that applies to every citizen of our nation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-19-m0.u169	Thank you. I'm betting on a vote of 569. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[12:45:58]] Z-62 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. Next line, Pavlovenko, 570. Yuri Alexiyovich, still on the right, because you call the regions, and they're not in the right. If possible, follow the Rules. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-19-m0.u170	I'm asking you to start first, a minute. First, you took 10 seconds from me, Mr. Head.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-19-m0.u171	Add five seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-19-m0.u172	Honorable National Deputies, reverend Ukrainian people! In fact, this amendment also refers to the need for a referendum and corresponding changes to article 130 of the Ukrainian Code of Land. And it's in the referendum. And now I have representatives of the agrarians, the farmers of Ruzhinski, Andruszewski, the Popilnian districts of the Žitomir region. Today, the whole of Ukraine is united against this law: Lugansk, Žitomirščina, Lvivščina, Kirovogradština, Poltavščina. Everyone demands a referendum. So I ask you to remove this law from consideration, declare a referendum and only then move on to the land issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-19-m0.u173	570 line Pavlovka. Not supported by the committee. Please identify and vote. [[12:47:28]] For-58 The decision is not taken. Next item. 571, Pavlovenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-19-m0.u174	Yuri Pavlenko, "The Opposition Platform for Life." This amendment likewise amends 130 articles of the Code of Earth and requires that the bill be effective after the results of the U.S. referendum have been established. And first of all, we stress that people need to hear the opinion of people in order to solve this issue. Because the vast majority today are against it. The state, and this is confirmed by the so - called report of the Cabinet of Ministers, is not ready for the launch of the land market this year. So we demand that the Cabinet of Ministers first show its ability to bring about the land system: to conduct the necessary inventory, to create an inventory, to give each land area a number, because there are thousands of references that there are no such numbers and there are simply disturbances in these issues. And only then do we go to the question, because.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-19-m0.u175	571 straight, Pavlovenko. Please identify and vote. [[12:49:05]] For-60 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. 572, Frost.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-19-m0.u176	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. Frost Volodymyr, 59 constituency, Opposition Platform for Life. Our faction against the sale of land, and I'm asking you to support 572 amendments. In the fourth part of article 130, paragraph 4, of the Ukrainian Code of Land, insert the sentence: "The act of paragraph 4 of Part Two shall take effect after the holding and establishment of the results of the all-U.S. referendum on free sale and purchase of agricultural land." I ask you to vote and support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-19-m0.u177	It's the 572th draft of the People's Deputy of the Frost. The committee's offering to reject it. Please identify and vote. [[12:50:19]] Z-62 The decision is not taken. Next issue is 573, People's Deputy Frost.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-19-m0.u178	Thank you. Moroz Vladimir, "The Opposition Platform for Life." Once again, the Opposition Platform for Life is definitely against the sale of land. The only source of authority in the State is the nation. And I think how can we make this shameful decision to sell land in the wake of a referendum. I'm asking you to support Amendment 573. It should not exceed 5,000 hectares within the state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-19-m0.u179	It's the 573rd draft of the People's Deputy of the Frost. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[12:51:24]] For-64 The decision is not taken. Next issue is 574, People's Deputy Frost.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-19-m0.u180	Moroz Volodymir, 59 constituency, Donetskina. Dear Chairman, my amendment contains several parts, each of which has its own legal meaning. Therefore, in accordance with part six of article 45 of the Rules, I request that a procedural decision be taken on the examination and voting of each part separately. In article 130 of the Ukrainian Code of Land, in part four of the second digit, change "0.5" to "0.2". To supplement article 130 of the Ukrainian Code of Land with the following paragraph: "If the outcome of the U.S. referendum does not approve the decision on free sale and purchase of agricultural land, the action of the ban on purchase and sale or other means of alienating land and land parcels, in part of their sale and other means of alienation, and also in part in the transfer of rights to alienation."..
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-19-m0.u181	There is a vote of 574 members of the People's Council of the Frost. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[12:52:54]] For-64 The decision is not taken. Next issue is 575th People's Deputy Frost.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-19-m0.u182	Thank you. Moroz Volodymir, 59th constituency, Donetskina. I still insist, Mr. Chairman, that my amendments contain several parts, each of which has its own legal meaning. So in accordance with part six of article 45 of the Rules, I ask you to take a procedural decision on the consideration and voting of each of my individual rights. In article 130 of the Ukrainian Code of Land, in paragraph 4 of Part Two, change the digit "0.5" to "0.2". To supplement article 130 of the Ukrainian Code of Land with the following paragraph: "Agreements (including trusts) put in place to hold and establish the results of the All-U.S. referendum on the free sale and purchase of agricultural land and land particles (pays) are invalid from the time of their establishment." Thank you. Please vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-19-m0.u183	Thank you. There is a vote of 575 people's deputies of the Frost. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[12:54:20]] Z-62 The decision is not taken. Next issue is 576 people's deputies of the Frost.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-19-m0.u184	Mr. Chairman, I insist, however, that my amendments contain several parts, each of which has its own legal meaning. Therefore, in accordance with part six of article 45 of the Rules, I request that a procedural decision be taken on the examination and voting of each of its parts separately. And that's why in 576: in article 130 of the Ukrainian Code of Land, in paragraph four of the second part, replace "0.5" with "0.2". Complement article 130 of the Ukrainian Code of Land with the following paragraph: "It is prohibited to introduce the right to land (pai) to statutory capitals of legal persons whose documents provide for agricultural production, to hold and establish the results of the all-U.S. referendum on free sale and purchase of agricultural land." Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-19-m0.u185	Please tell me, which parts exactly in the particular direction were you referring to on a separate ballot? Turn on the microphone, national MP.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-19-m0.u186	576 to the right?
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-19-m0.u187	No, specifically on this side, what does "separate parts" mean?
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-19-m0.u188	I want you to divide my revisions into a few.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-19-m0.u189	Did I understand exactly what parts?
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-19-m0.u190	Part one, part two.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-19-m0.u191	No, no, it's not like that. On the right.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-19-m0.u192	"0.5" to "0.2". Complete article 130.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-19-m0.u193	I got it. It's a little different, dear colleagues. You're confused with the Rules, so I think you'd better look at the Rules. Thank you. Let's go to the vote for the amendment. 576 revision of the People's Deputy of the Frost. Please identify and vote. [[12:56:38]] For-66 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. Cool. None. Ponomariov, 578. Alexander Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-19-m0.u194	Hello again. Thank you for the opportunity. Ponomary Alexander, 78 constituency. The support of Bill 2178-10, and you and I understand well, it's a fake form of surrendering national interests. This project has led to the expansion of land surveying and the deforestation of Ukrainian peasants. Almost all agricultural manufacturers are now experiencing a severe decline in demand for long-term equipment. The village’s representatives do not understand what awaits them tomorrow, nor do they dare to invest almost small amounts of money in early equipment. We're with you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-19-m0.u195	Thank you. Vote 578 of the Ponmarov People's Deputy. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[12:58:14]] For-66 The decision is not taken. Next issue is 579, Ponomarov People's Deputy. Please, your turn.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-19-m0.u196	"The Opposition Platform for Life" insists that without a popular referendum, the Earth Code cannot be adopted. I'm stressing my work again. All clarifications are aimed at making it impossible for manipulations to take place after the adoption of this law. See, life under the new Earth Code. Not only will the government live, but the whole country, every citizen. Therefore, all Ukrainians must make decisions as to what this code should be. We need to adopt laws with clear language. In paragraph one part two of article 130 of the Ukraine Code of Land, the figure of 0.5 percent should be replaced by the numbers and the words "6,000 hectares".
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-19-m0.u197	Right! There is a vote of 579 of the People's Deputy of Ponomarov. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[12:59:45]] For-66 The decision is not taken. Next item is 580 of the Ponomarov People's Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-19-m0.u198	Thank you. I understand that it's very convenient, with most of it, to ignore the opinions of others and not support any other amendment to the code. But realize that you may have the majority in this room, but on the street most of the citizens of the country are against opening up the land market without a referendum. But they don't understand why they can't hear them. Before making such decisions, we must ensure in practice the protection of property rights for property, land, crops, corporate rights for natural and legal persons. This requires improving legislation, improving the work of law enforcement and judicial authorities. Regrettably, as long as ownership schemes are in place in Ukraine. No market in the earth can be talked about. The issue of raiding cases in the country is not the case.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-19-m0.u199	Thank you. There is a vote of 580 people's MP Ponomarov. The committee proposes to reject it. Please identify and vote. [[13:01:17]] For-61 The decision is not taken. Next issue is 581, Ponomarov People's Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-19-m0.u200	Thanks again. I talked to farmers and peasants a lot. Everyone's convinced that when there's a war going on in the East, the decision to sell land is a big mistake. The land will be sold, not at market price, but intruded at no price. The budget will be quick and, most likely, foolishly spent on the land’s sales, and the country will be forever without a major strategic resource. That is why the next time I propose article 130 of the Earth Code to be supplemented by paragraph: it is prohibited to introduce land rights, pies to statutory capitals of farms, societies, ownership by sale and the establishment of a referendum on the purchase and sale of agricultural land. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-19-m0.u201	Thank you. There are 581 drafts of the Ponomarov People's Deputy. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[13:02:46]] For-63 The decision is not taken. Next issue is 582 National Deputy Royal Natala Yuriovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-19-m0.u202	Dear fellows, the honourable ones are present! "The opposition platform for life" is definitely against the sale of Ukrainian land. We insist on holding an all-U.S. referendum. Dear "ministers of the people," don't be afraid to ask people what they think is right today. We'd better have people tell us how to make a decision right now. So we're asking you not to waste your time, not to pay money, not to pay wages to MPs who are sitting there, and who are just buttoning up now to send this money to a nationwide referendum, to ask people and then to make an already, really important decision. We insist that we now join forces to prevent the barbaric use of Ukrainian lands. Please vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-19-m0.u203	Thank you, Natalia Yuriovna. Just a little bit of an adjustment. But I'm voting 582 amendments to the Royal People's Deputy. Please identify and vote. [[13:04:14]] For-65 The decision is not taken. Next line is 583. National MP Gnatenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-19-m0.u204	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman, for the opportunity to speak. Amendment 583. National Deputy Gnatenko, 49th constituency, Donetsk district. Please consider the amendment in this section: in article 130, paragraph 7, of the Land Code, after the words “and also for the forced alienation of land” add the words “in court”. This is very important, and I ask you to also settle this issue and allow you to speak out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-19-m0.u205	Thank you. There is a vote of 583 people’s deputies, Gnatenka. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[13:05:16]] For-64 The decision is not taken. Next line is 584. National deputy Kostuk. Don't insist. 585th. People's MP Maydic. Don't insist. 586. People's Deputy Batenko. Taras Ivanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-19-m0.u206	Dear friends! Our position, the "For the Future" MP group, is that we must defend the maximum concentration of agricultural land in the hands of several oligarchic groups and foreign groups and companies. And we have to make all the legislative limits, both at state level and at district level, OTG and individual small ones, to protect small Ukrainian farms. And our position at the level of Ukraine, in Ukraine as a whole, should take into account the 300-acre limits for our small farms. And the request of the hall to support this position. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-19-m0.u207	Thank you, Taras Ivanovich. Vote 586 of the Batenka People's Deputy. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[13:06:39]] For-72 The decision is not taken. Next line is 587, National Deputy Germany. Vasil Ivanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-19-m0.u208	I want to ask a lot of questions because we're left with a salary, if we don't vote, then please, the committee head, you have to answer -- that's the voting element, that's your duty and that's being on the pulpit. If you have a disease, let's wait and see if you have a substitute. And now for the amendment. I would like you to answer, as head of the committee, please tell us on today what is the natural source of our society or our people's existence, except for the land? And the second. Please tell me, are people renting land in hectares and selling it in cubes or not? Please give me an answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-19-m0.u209	Vassil Ivanovich, I just want to remind you that we don't have to hand over the Jolly Questions Club, but we have to report on this. Please -- you can answer, you want to -- no, but I still ask you to comply with article 120, paragraph 5, of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules. Please. There are no answers, are there? It's happening. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-19-m0.u210	Vassil Ivanovich, with all due respect, is completely correct about the other and the correction is rejected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-19-m0.u211	Thank you. There is a vote of 587 people's deputies in Germany. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[13:08:33]] For-64 The decision is not taken. Next line is 588, National Deputy Mazurasu. Don't insist. Next line is 589, the people's deputy Dubnov. Don't insist. Next line is 590, Zablotsky People's Deputy. Are you insisting? Don't insist. Next line is 591, National Deputy Timothychuk. Don't insist. Next line 592, national deputy Kabachenko, please. None. It is, isn't it? Put the card in, your microphone's not working. Please. I've got a letter from the Honourable People's Deputy Kabachenko. Your microphone's not on because there's no card. Please, it's on. It's working, speak up. It's working. It's working.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-19-m0.u212	It's okay. It's okay. It's okay. Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, Mikola Tarasovich, and especially the distinguished colleagues of the "Serve of the People" faction, I am addressing you. In the Ukrainian Law on the Status of the People’s Deputy, article 1: The People’s Deputy is a representative of the Ukrainian people. Thus, the Ukrainian people gave 72 percent of the vote against the opening of the earth’s market. If for some reason you don't trust this number, please conduct the referendum and get a clear answer anyway, how many Ukrainians against opening up the land market as you suggest. In fact, it's the right thing to do. Making adjustments to article 130, part two, paragraph 4, is to eliminate it completely, thus eliminating the situation.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-19-m0.u213	Thank you. 592 Kabachenko's amendment is not supported by the committee. Please identify and vote. [[13:11:03]] Z-70. The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. Dirdin. Don't insist. 597th, Nadvajchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-19-m0.u214	Nadajchenko, faction of the Fatherland. I insist on my amendment, like all the faction of Fatherland, that the market for land, and essentially the sale of land that is presented and imposed on Ukrainian citizens, is contrary to our nation's national security. We took a close look at what developed European countries are doing. And I, the citizens of Ukraine today, am informing you what Finland is doing is the country that is least corrupt in Europe. Since the beginning of this year, they have been restricting the sale of land to foreigners. They immediately introduced changes in the legislation by empowering the minister of defense, I repeat, the minister of defense of Finland, to restrict and prohibit the sale of land if it is sold to foreigners. Where are such responsibilities in the Ukrainian people? Where is such national security on our earth? We need the best experience, not latifundists and oligarchs on Ukrainian soil. We are opposed to the approach now offered by power.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-19-m0.u215	Thank you. I'll bet on a vote of 597. The committee turned her down. Please identify and vote. [[13:12:46]] For-69 The decision is not taken. Puzanov, 598.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-19-m0.u216	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. Dear colleagues, the law I am proposing stipulates that one person cannot own agricultural lands within our country more than 0.05 percent of Ukraine's agricultural land. I want to remind you that the committee is proposing a standard that one person cannot own more than 10,000 acres [10,000 ha] of agricultural land, with both a natural person and a legal person involved. In this context, I have a question and a request to the committee head to comment on what is going to happen to the lands that are now working on large agro-holdings, such as Kernel, UkrlandFarming and so on, which process between 400 and 600,000 hectares of land? Please support my amendment and put it to the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-19-m0.u217	I'm betting on a vote of 598 Puzanova. Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-19-m0.u218	Committee position. The 0.05 percent you're changing by is much more than the committee's output is 10,000, actually. First moment. The other one. This law, article 11, does not regulate or impose any lease restrictions. Businesses that you have named, like others, are mostly based on rent. So nothing will happen. They'll work in competitive conditions.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-19-m0.u219	Let's go to the vote. 598 Pusanova was rejected by the committee. Please identify and vote. [[13:14:45]] For-64 The decision is not taken. Correction not counted. 599 straight, Krasov. Don't insist. 601 revisions, Ponomarov.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-19-m0.u220	Thank you. Ponomariov, 78 district. You and I understand that the property of the earth must be transparent. Transparency begins with inventory. I assure you, we are now making a big mistake. It is impossible to open up the market without understanding its scope. The market for the earth cannot be opened before all citizens have been given the opportunity to exercise their constitutional right to obtain it. I'm sure that letters like me were received from the residents of the Zaporozhye area, demanding that the opening of the land market be suspended, were given all the nards. Now you're ignoring people's trust, ignoring their opinions, not hearing them.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-19-m0.u221	Thank you. A vote is taken on amendment 601 of the Ponomarov People's Deputies. The committee proposes to reject it. Please identify and vote. [[13:16:34]] For-60
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-19-m0.u222	The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. For -60. 602 revision, Ponomarov.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-19-m0.u223	Thank you. What is happening in this room today is conveniently for transnational corporations and monetary funds that lobby for the earliest adoption of such a law. But this is inconvenient to Ukraine and inconvenient to the Ukrainians. We are risking the situation of Indian chiefs who gave the land of ancestors for buses, taking away their children’s future. Small and medium-sized enterprises will not be able to survive and compete with large agroholdings, more with foreign capital. The same is true of the leading economists. I therefore propose to listen to people’s thoughts and to support the drafting of the U.S. referendum. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-19-m0.u224	602 Ponmarov. I'll put her to the vote. Please identify and vote. [[13:18:07]] For-63 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. Next line 603, Ponomarov Alexander Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-19-m0.u225	Thanks again. All over the country, Ukrainian citizens are now protesting against authorities ’ plans to allow the sale of land. The rallies and protests are constantly coming under the walls of parliament, almost constantly. In all areas of Ukraine, agriculture, farmers, farmers, farmers, landowners. Surrenders, claiming to be a threat to raiding and their businesses, and fearing the loss of their land rations. Citizens of Ukrainian cities demand that their right to land be guaranteed, to open up the land market. To date, only 7 percent of Ukrainians have rations. And even if they want to use their property, they need to make separate decisions, not open up the entire earth’s market. Paragraph two parts of the two 130 articles of the Ukrainian Code of Land read: "The term "close relatives or family members" is used in terms of meaning.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-19-m0.u226	Let's go to the vote for 603 Ponomarov. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[13:19:42]] For-60 The decision is not taken. Next line, Ponomarov, 604.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-19-m0.u227	Thank you. Our faction "The Opposition Platform for Life" is opposed to making this kind of decision on a quick hand, under pressure from external monopolies. Strong countries do not let strangers in by protecting their inhabitants and their producers. It is impossible to launch a civilized market for land without the concept and strategy of agricultural development in Ukraine. This is how peasants destroy agroholdings, and without State support the Ukrainian village can cease to exist at all. I am sure that such important decisions for the country can only be made by the Ukrainian people themselves in a nationwide referendum. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-19-m0.u228	Mr. Ponmarov's 604th revision. I'll put her to the vote. Please identify and vote. [[13:21:09]] For-59 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. 605 revisions, Ponomarov.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-19-m0.u229	Thanks again. Colleagues, we continue to demonstrate total indifference both to the thinking of Ukrainians and to the right comments that will help improve the standards of this law. I insist that only a referendum should determine the fate of the land market. And I call on all colleagues, allow us to speak to our voters. Article 130 of Ukraine should be supplemented by the following: "Agreements made during the ban on the purchase and sale of agricultural land before the outcome of the U.S. referendum." continue to follow the text. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-19-m0.u230	Thank you. I'll bet you 605 on the Ponomarov vote. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[13:22:27]] For-64 It's 604. I'm sorry, 64 for that. The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. 607 revisions, Ponomarov. Maybe you won't insist.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-19-m0.u231	Let's go for a walk.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-19-m0.u232	I see, so I'm asking, I see that preparations.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-19-m0.u233	I refer once again to the parliamentary majority. I want us to understand what we're doing. We are forced to sell out Ukrainian land, force people to give up their property, and turn a Ukrainian peasant into a Batrak. That's what's happening in our session room today. And we demand a referendum and a vote for our amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-19-m0.u234	Thank you. I'm betting on a vote of 607 of the Ponomoryov. The committee is not supported. Please vote and determine. [[13:23:51]] For-63 The decision is not taken. 608 right. Alexander Sergiyovich, yours again.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-19-m0.u235	Thank you, Dmitri Alexanderovich. Once again, I demand to protect a peasant who, after opening up the market, could become a fraud. We insist on banning the introduction of land or pie rights to statutory capitals of farm societies before holding and establishing the results of the U.S. referendum. Because this opens the way to land surveying, and we have to predict it. In my draft, I propose, firstly, in paragraph one of the second part of article 130 of the Ukrainian Code of Land, to replace the word “related persons” with the words “persons who are close relatives and family members”. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-19-m0.u236	Thank you. Put it to a vote? Yeah. I'll bet you 608 votes on the Ponomarov. The committee's dismissed. Please identify and vote. [[13:25:15]] For-64 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. Gnatenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-19-m0.u237	49 constituency. Have you missed one yet? 49 constituency, Donetsk district, Gnatenko. Please make 609 changes, following adjustments. Paragraph 5 of the second article 130 of the Codex earth should be deleted altogether. In fact, our faction "The Opposition Platform for Life" against this Raider law, which will push all agriculture into its settlements and eliminate the Ukrainian village in general. For some financial signs, Ukraine will lose its basic means of production. I ask this question to be considered and put to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-19-m0.u238	Puts to 609 Gnatenko. The committee didn't support her. Please identify and vote. [[13:26:27]] For-63 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. 610 straight, Solod. Natalia Juryovna Kraljevska.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-19-m0.u239	Dear colleagues. Thank you, Your Honor. You and I have already made 610 amendments, and I'm sure that each of you is almost beginning to realize that if Ukrainian land is now sold to international speculators, we will never return it. And we think that the people's deputies, it doesn't matter whether or not they are of any size, from any fraction, they don't have the right to decide the issues that are so important, so historic to our country. And that's why we insist that this is a matter that can only be resolved in a nationwide referendum, that citizens of our country have the right not only to go to elections, but not only to listen to election promises, but they have the right to go to a referendum and make decisions that are favorable to our country. Please place this amendment on confirmation.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-19-m0.u240	Natalia Yuriovna, once again, I would like to point out that I would like to understand the position in the right direction. [[B in m in s a l in]] Wait, wait! I understand about the referendum. Paragraph 13, paragraph 1, delete - what does it mean, Natalia Juryovna? Turn it on, turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-19-m0.u241	Dear Mr. Speaker, we're ready to talk to you all over the place.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-19-m0.u242	No, well, that's your job, right?
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-19-m0.u243	Yes, of course. And my amendment 610, it refers to what in paragraph thirteen, paragraph thirteen applies to us.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-19-m0.u244	What does he mean, Natalia Yuriovna, I just want to understand, paragraph thirteen?
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-19-m0.u245	We have no right. We have no right.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-19-m0.u246	Natalia Juryovna, paragraph thirteen, what do you propose to exclude?
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-19-m0.u247	Once again, Mr. Speaker, I insist that we have no right now without having to spend.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-19-m0.u248	Is that in paragraph 13?
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-19-m0.u249	We don't have the right to decide the cadastral, distribution and volume of land you're offering to sell right now.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-19-m0.u250	Mikola Tarasovich. Thank you, Natalia Yuriovna. Mikola Tarasovich, paragraph 13.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-19-m0.u251	Well, I take it it's about the predominant right of article 130 in the first edition. The committee's been rejected.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-19-m0.u252	Thank you, Mikola Tarasovich. Let's go to the vote. 610 edition of Natalia Juryovna Royal. The committee feels that it is impossible to support it. Please identify and vote. [[13:29:53]] For-69 The decision is not taken. Yvchenko, 612.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-19-m0.u253	Vadim Yvchenko, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear Head, you know, just now. I just got off the street. Under the Cabinet of Ministers, there is actually a rally, a big rally for the Labour Code, against shutting down small-scale schools, against the government directly reducing educational subsidies for such schools. Under the Office of the President, there are small entrepreneurs, and under the Office of the President there are agrarians. And I get the impression that after this law is passed, you're not just going to go out on the street, you're going to be talking to anyone who's going to fall under the wrong policy that's going on today. Therefore, of course, we would like to have a more detailed and meaningful discussion in this Hall about the Law on the Market of the Earth. And believe me, we've been making those adjustments that we could compose in such a way that it's the least negative of adopting this law, so it's not a doorway.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-19-m0.u254	Let's go to the vote. 612 Yvchenka's law. Please identify and vote. [[13:31:30.]] For-66 The decision is not taken. Vlasenko, 613.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-19-m0.u255	Thank you, Mr. Head. But 613 revisions have to be looked at in the context of all of my other rights, because they don't seem to make any sense at all. All my other claims are that first the referendum and then the law. The other one. If the Ukrainians say yes in the referendum, they only have to sell the land to Ukrainian farmers who work on this land. And no more than 500 acres in one hand. And then the question of connected persons has nothing to do with this design. Because if a farmer’s family is willing to take a little more land and cultivate it, then the associated ones do not play a role. If the concept of looting is still proposed by the committee and supported by the majority when foreign banks are free of restrictions, when legal persons appear to control the land of Ukraine, then, of course, connected persons should be left behind. That's why. But I'm asking you to support my work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-19-m0.u256	I'm betting on the vote of 613 of the People's Deputy Vlasenka. Please identify and vote. [[13:32:54]] For-72 Supported by 72. The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. Let's see the factions. Next line is 614, County. The city’s Yuri Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-19-m0.u257	Thank you, Dmitri Alexanderovich. It's really a question that we're discussing in the hall that concerns all of the citizens of Ukraine. And we're being approached, called, wrote by Ukrainian citizens on this issue. For example, information: "People's Servants" hastens to open the market for the land, and there is no rush to do so. Earth is all we have left. Hence, the law required is balanced so that there is clear control, not a desire to make a quick living by selling everything. If the law is passed in haste, Ukraine will be left with only a name and a historical reference, and no more." Now for the readjustment. I propose that the second part of article 130 be deleted from the text of the reference to the Tax Code on the definition of "related persons". Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-19-m0.u258	Thank you. I'm betting on the vote number 614 of the City Hall. Please identify and vote. [[13:34:20]] For-65 The decision is not taken. Next line is 615 Papiev.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-19-m0.u259	Thank you. Dear Ukrainian National Deputies, honourable colleagues, I reiterate the Chairman's concern that we do not comply with articles 119, 120, 121 of the Rules on the Articlely Review of the Bill and the Statutory Vote. In view of the fact that you have failed to arrange for the 576 - line national MP of the Frost, I will say that it consists of two parts that have a separate legal meaning. The first is to replace the 0,5 with the 0,2 and the second is to complete the article. I mean, if the Ukrainian People's Deputy requires a procedural vote and I want to look at parts, I would ask you very much to put it down. It takes 150 votes, and it's a perfectly simple procedure. As far as I'm concerned. It's very serious and complicated, and so I'd like to increase my time. But I would like to delete paragraph 2 of this article altogether. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-19-m0.u260	Thank you, Mikhailo Mikolaiovich. I'm sure Vladimir Viktorovich will be able to answer the questions himself and when the next amendment will be. As for your amendment, I am sure that I will put it to the vote of Edith number 615 of the People’s Deputy Papiev. Please identify and vote. [[13:36:15.]] Z-70. The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. Taruta, 616.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-19-m0.u261	Sergey Taruta, faction of Fatherland. This amendment states that the violation of the requirements for the acquisition of agricultural land over the established area entails not merely the compulsory alienation of the land but alienation on competitive grounds. So we're going to make a fair distribution of those lands that unsuspecting buyers acquire beyond their established limits. Transparent and fair procedures will increase the trust of our citizens both in the national parliaments and in the entire state system. Ukraine needs a balanced, what I have always said, land reform. We need to put in place a set of legislative and organizational measures to change ownership systems to land and land use. And it's thoughtless.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-19-m0.u262	I'm betting on a vote of 616 Taruta. The committee's dismissed. Please identify and vote. [[13:37:49]] For-74. The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. Next amendment, Kaltsov, 617th.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-19-m0.u263	Vladimir Kaltsev, Zaporozhye. Thank you, Dmitri Alexanderovich, for your word. The editing, I understand, will be rejected. This is an amendment to rule out the fifth part of the second article of the earthly code. But as we go back to the conversation, I'd like to hear, Mr. Mikolo, but if we were to reduce the term "holding land by banks to six months," we could prevent a whole range of factors that wouldn't allow speculators to work in this market. As you think, and what was the point of giving banks 2 years to implement land.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-19-m0.u264	Thank you, Vladimir Fedorovich. I'm betting on a vote of 617 people's deputies. No, it's time, sorry, National Deputy Caltsev. The committee didn't count it. Please identify and vote. [[13:39:29]] For-69 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. Kristenko, 619.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-19-m0.u265	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. Considering that the position of the project is largely related to restrictions on the content and extent of ownership on land of agricultural purposes and that they have a retroactive effect on the violation of article 58 of the Constitution, the application of the institution of land confiscation may lead to the cessation of the activities of agricultural enterprises, participants, shareholders who are foreigners, or other legal persons who in turn have wrongly acquired such a right more than a year ago. The lack of proper regulation, including social relations resulting from the taking of legal effect, can lead to a violation of article 14 of Ukraine, which guarantees ownership of the land. This right is acquired and implemented by citizens and legal persons and by the State alone and in accordance with the law. Please put my order to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-19-m0.u266	I'm betting on the 619th edition of Christenka's vote. She's not supported by the committee. Please identify and vote. [[13:40:59]] For-66 The decision is not taken. Scrum, 620 straight.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-19-m0.u267	Alona's splinter, Fatherland faction. Thank you, colleagues, for your opportunity to speak. In fact, both 620 and 621 revisions relate to a similar issue, and they need to be read in a complex with my other rights. So the main position of the Fatherland faction, Julia Timoshenko and mine personally is 500 hectares of land in one hand and priority for those who work on this land, who rent it, and who will actually make us a small farm class. Not for huge agroholdings, but with foreign capital that would actually make the land monopoly. That's why I'm asking you to read these amendments in the complex. Also, colleagues, you know, there are economic errors that are important in the economic course that can be corrected. Well, for example, the same mistakes, in my sense, under the regulations of the FOPs that are under the President's Administration and the Cabinet of Ministers today, are the mistakes that are potentially not yet made under the Media Act, because the media people are standing there today. But there are mistakes that will be very difficult to correct. And that's just a mistake about the land market. If it opens up in the way it opens up today, it will be very difficult to turn it back and correct the inadequacy of economic policy. Please make an amendment for confirmation.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-19-m0.u268	Dear colleagues, I'm betting on 620 Schrum's vote. It's not supported by the committee. Please identify and vote. [[13:42:35]] Z-71 The decision is not taken. 621s, Schrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-19-m0.u269	Thank you, colleagues. Alona's splinter, Fatherland faction. And again, we're talking about what should be the right economic course for small, medium-sized farming and that we should create, like in Poland at least 1 million and 600,000 private farms and small, medium-sized farmers, not the 10 richest, for example, companies in Ukraine that will have a full monopoly on the land market that is opening up today. And that's what's going to happen, it's going to be a land monopoly. Also, colleagues, I'd like to take this opportunity to contact my colleagues from the People's Service and other factions and come along after 14 hours, finish our meeting, talk to the people who are under the President's Administration today. These are both FOPs, and agrarians, and mediators, and bloggers, and journalists, and there are a large number of people who have gone out of solidarity to support each other according to those requirements, including this Land Market Act. I think that such peaceful communication can help us in a lot of ways not to make the mistakes that we can make today and can make "Serve of the People" and President Zelensky. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-19-m0.u270	Do you insist on voting? I'm betting on 621 Schrum votes. Not supported by the committee. Please identify and vote. [[13:44:05]] Z-91 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. The factions, yes. Pauline. Oh, no, I'm sorry, Germany, 622 revisions. Vasil Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-19-m0.u271	Germany, "The Opposition Platform for Life." I'd like to point out that for those of you who are here, this includes the right of the state to land. Like article 14 of the Constitution, when it comes to State ownership, it is a matter of defining the territory of our State, a state territory. And that's what you want to sell, circumcise and restrict the material basis of sovereignty as part of the territory. That's the first one. And the second. I would like to say that it is a matter of making changes in articles 13, 14. The 156th Constitution requires only a referendum solution, only through a referendum, when it comes to land. Please join the fairway of constitutional activity, the honourable Parliament of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-19-m0.u272	Edit 622, Vasil Ivanovich Nimchenko. I'm not going to ask essentially, it just says, "Exclusion." So let's move on. Please identify and vote. [[13:46:05]] For-67 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. Pavlenko Yuri Alexiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-19-m0.u273	Yuri Pavlenko, "The Opposition Platform for Life." My amendment refers to the amendment in part two, paragraph five, of the Earth Code 130, concerning the term “affiliated persons”. It is designed to prevent the concentration of large latifunds in one hand from allowing and definitively banning the sale of land to foreigners. Because it is no longer a secret for everyone who listens to our discussion of what the bill provides and gives the opportunity for foreigners to buy land. That's why I'd like to quote people's speeches (so you can hear them, not hide them) Chernyachovsky, Baranowski, Romanovsky, Malinsky: "We definitely oppose the sale of land to foreign citizens. Selling land to foreigners will destroy Ukraine as a state itself and make Ukrainians strong on their land." Hear the people. Please put to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-19-m0.u274	Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-19-m0.u275	Yuri Alexiyovich, correcting as usual about other things. Foreigners. There is no possibility, according to the committee, to buy to foreigners, this is clearly written. And there's a separate question on this in a referendum, according to the committee's editorial. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-19-m0.u276	I'm betting on a 623-seat vote. Please identify and vote. [[13:47:51]] For-68 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. They're burning, 624. Germany, 625.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-19-m0.u277	Dear colleagues, you have adopted laws on language here in turbulent mode. They've brought Ukraine to a membership, or whoever it is. So I want to tell you, look at why this terminology here is: beneficiary owners etc., etc. Tell the people, the villagers, what are the beneficiaries? Why are you applying this term? Is it mandatory? What can't be written about the question of "final owner"? So I would ask you not to have double standards. Now the second is about a specific amendment. I would like to see that when the terms in the legislative act are applied, there is no such thing as binding persons. What kind of link is that? Now we're talking about Turgen heroes again or what are we talking about here? Therefore, it is proposed that it be applied, not a binding, but a binding.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-19-m0.u278	I'm betting on a vote of 625 Germans. The committee turned her down. Please identify and vote. [[13:49:30.]] For-68 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. And finally, we're back to Alexander Sergiyovich Ponomaryov's right hand. 626th.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-19-m0.u279	Thank you. Ponomary Alexander, 78th District, Berdyansk. Every person in accordance with the Constitution of Ukraine has the right to receive land, but most of it has not been realized. At the same time, every local authority points to the impossibility of such an exercise in connection with the restrictions on free land. I am sure that to conduct the land market, we need to find the opportunity to give every Ukrainian a piece of land so that everyone can manage it. Earth is our only treasure to be valued, not destroyed or sold quickly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-19-m0.u280	Thank you. I'll bet you 626 votes for Ponomarov. The committee's dismissed. Please identify and vote. [[13:50:57]] For-64 The decision is not taken. Next issue of the Ponomarov 627.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-19-m0.u281	Thank you again, Dmitri Alexanderovich. Our authority says that the owner of the pie can get the money and put it somewhere, we've been through it. We had already invested in vouchers, and what led to this? The city’s average population has become virtually depraved. If the pie owner does that and sells his own few hectares, he'll get a thousand or two thousand dollars for them, that money won't help solve any global problems or open up some business that's normal. The sale of land could now be the beginning of the end of the peasant population. Paragraph 2 of the second article of the Ukrainian Code of Land in the Ukrainian law on prevention and opposition.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-19-m0.u282	I'm betting on a 627 vote on the Ponomarov amendment. The committee's dismissed. Please identify and vote. [[13:52:30.]] For-63 The decision is not taken. 628 revisions. Ponomarov.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-19-m0.u283	Thanks again. We, the deputies of the Supreme Council, and all Ukrainian citizens, have been assured that the adoption of this rightful law for every Ukrainian will take place strictly in accordance with the Rules. Each revision will be considered. But what we're seeing right now in the hall, well, is just a simulation of meeting the requirements of the Rules. The right-wing authors try to argue their position, explain why they're proposing this kind of amendment, but most of them don't listen, I have a majority, nobody gives any arguments. The amendment is simply put to a vote with a predetermined result. We understand this perfectly, but the interests of the Ukrainian people, the interests of the Ukrainian state require us not to be afraid to look ridiculous. Again and again, I emphasize.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-19-m0.u284	I'll bet you 628 on the Ponomarov vote. The committee was not counted. Please identify and vote. [[13:54:01]] For-60 The decision is not taken. 629 Ponomarov.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-19-m0.u285	Thank you. My colleagues, once again, I want to read out the demands that the Ukrainians, farmers and peasants, are passing on through us as deputies. This is the opinion of the inhabitants of my district, and I insist that it be heard. For example, members of the Montenegrin District Council ask for the protection of the interests of the territorial communities. I quote, "We declare our firm disagreement with attempts to introduce the so-called "earth market" in Ukraine, which poses a threat to national interests and stability in the economy and state sovereignty." So I'm asking you to put the issue of the land market in the U.S. referendum. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-19-m0.u286	Puts to 629 votes in favour. Not counted by the committee. Please identify and vote. [[13:55:22]] Z-62 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. 630 revisions, Royal.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-19-m0.u287	Dear colleagues, Mr. Speaker! I want to explain to you the substance of the amendments to "The Opposition Platform for Life." We believe that at this stage of the Earth Code you have no right to change. You have to hold a referendum, and only after the referendum decision do you and I change the Earth Code. The bill currently under consideration is a collection of amendments and amendments to the Earth Code. So now my amendment is to rule out the sixth part of the second part of article 130. These amendments are complex. We want to destroy your initiative for sale, for robbery, for sale in Ukraine. And that's why all of our amendments are aimed at holding an all-U.S. referendum. I ask you to vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-19-m0.u288	Yes, it is. 630 edition of Natalia Juryovna Royal. Not supported by the committee. Please vote and determine. [[13:56:52]] For-60 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. Dear colleagues, there is an offer to continue for 15 minutes to hear the message. No, well, how do you not think to hear it? Yes, yes, thank you for your support. Thank you, Your Honor. Let's keep going. 631st, Pawel.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-19-m0.u289	Dear Head, distinguished Ukrainian people, I will remind everyone that they are about to begin the work of the Committee of the Supreme Council, where ministers are to report for their work. Because one of the risks of implementing this law if approved is the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. I don't think anyone has any doubts about his skills. But it seemed that at least they were able to draw presentations and pictures, and at the same time, even they couldn't do that by writing off crazy awards. That's why the government is retired, the land law is a referendum, and only then will we go back to the matter, and now end this farce. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-19-m0.u290	Thank you. You have a committee at 2:30, if I'm not mistaken, and I'm sure you'll be able to visit in 15 minutes. I bet on the 631 vote. Please identify and vote. Thank you, Sergey Volodymyrovich, for supporting the proposal for continuation. Thank you. [[13:58:34]] Z-62 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. Kabachenko. We'll listen to the Fatherland representatives. Sergei Volodymyrovich, you don't mind.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-19-m0.u291	If you don't trust sociology, if you don't believe that 72 percent of Ukrainians definitely oppose the opening of the land market, you have a very good chance of going out right now, where the rallyers are meeting, asking them questions, and why they don't support your over-popular initiatives. I think they're going to give you very clear answers, and you're going to accept these answers and delay the consideration of this bill. In fact, it's the right thing to do. My amendment is purely technical and is that paragraph 6 of the second part of article 130 of the Ukrainian Code of Land is amended: instead of the term "beneficiary owner", which does not exist in Ukrainian legislation, the term "end-of-life beneficial owner" should be prescribed. Please be professionals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-19-m0.u292	I'm betting on the Kabachenko vote, 632 revisions. The committee's dismissed. Please identify and vote. [[14:00:04]] Z-70. The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. Sphinx. Don't insist. Vlasenko Sergey Volodymyrovich, 634 law.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-19-m0.u293	Thank you, Mr. Head. You stole three seconds from me. So this is also not to be considered without the context of my other rights. Because once again, my rights are aimed at asking the owner of the Ukrainian people first, and if he says yes in the referendum, then adopt the law, as provided for in the 14th article of the Constitution. But then sell the land only to Ukrainian farmers, to those who work on the land, and not more than 500 acres [500 ha] in one hand. But there is no Ukrainian farmer and there is no beneficiary. And then I ask you to exclude this notion from the terminology of this bill. And once again, first the referendum, then if the Ukrainian people say yes, then the sale to the small and medium-sized farmers working on this land is not more than 500 hectares in one hand. Thank you. Please support the amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-19-m0.u294	634 Haircut. Not counted by the committee. Please identify and vote. [[14:01:33]] For-65 The decision is not taken. 635 correct, Zagradni.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-19-m0.u295	Thank you. Yuri Zagradny, "The Opposition Platform for Life." You know, in some ways, the position of the Opposition Platform for Life and the People's Servant match. We advocate that the issue of Ukrainian land be dealt with only in a referendum. In your election program, the word "earth" is missing at all, but there is a position: to produce a mechanism for the influence of citizens on government by means of a Ukrainian referendum. So we propose to withdraw this bill, to consider a bill in the Supreme Council on Ukrainian, U.S. and local referendums, registered by the Opposition Platform for Life, to hold a referendum and then determine the fate of Ukrainian land. And as for the amendment, I propose 635 amendments: "The term 'beneficiary owner' should be replaced by the term 'end-of-life beneficial owner'. This formulation is more correct because in modern law.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-19-m0.u296	I'm betting on a 635 vote, it's rejected by the committee. Please identify and vote. [[14:03:07]] For-59 The decision is not taken. Puzanov, 636.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-19-m0.u297	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. Dear colleagues, the amendment I'm proposing is of a technical nature. It is designed to improve the terminology of this law. And it predicts the introduction of the term "essential participation." Such corrections are called upon to reduce opportunities for manipulation by various individuals, including foreigners, with the structure of ownership and thus to be controlled by large, extremely large arrays of agricultural land. Last time the committee head commented on my amendment, he mentioned that large agrohholdings in Ukraine were mainly using Ukrainian agricultural land for lease rights. So what I'm saying is that it's common knowledge, and it's not particularly hidden by anyone, is that these agrohholdings use exactly different ownership structures, different to hundreds of sometimes enterprises, to hide their own.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-19-m0.u298	Let's go to the 636, Puzanov vote. Please identify and vote. [[14:04:43]] For-58 Thank you. The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. 637 straight, Puzanov.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-19-m0.u299	Yes. Thank you. The amendment is also designed to improve the terminological apparatus of this law. It defines the notion of a chain of corporate rights. Please support this amendment and vote, Your Honor Chairman. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-19-m0.u300	I'm betting on the 637 Puzanova vote. Not counted by the committee. Please identify and vote. [[14:05:29]] For-61 The decision is not taken. Papiev, 638.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-19-m0.u301	The honourable Ukrainian national deputies are approaching the conclusion of the morning planning session, and I am addressing the Ukrainian citizens first. You can see that the faction of the "Serial of the People" has actually deviated from a serious consideration of this bill. The chairman of the committee avoids commenting on why all the proposals made by the Ukrainian national deputies are unaccounted for. And in fact, you're not ready for a serious job and a serious discussion with our faction "The Opposition Platform for Life." To no question, you did not find any normal, reasonable answer to any of the amendments. That's why we're proposing. I suggest in my right hand that we use the other terms in terms that are used in the Civil and Economic Codes. Explain to me, please, what I'm doing is wrong and why you didn't take it into account.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-19-m0.u302	I'm betting on the vote number 638 Papieva. Papieva's edit, it's not supported, unfortunately, by the committee. Please identify and vote. [[14:07:11]] For-60 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. 639 revisions, Ducky.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-19-m0.u303	Dear colleagues, honourable citizens of Ukraine, we see that the practical decision is already made, no one wants to hear the voice of the Ukrainians or the voice of the national MPs who have a separate opinion from the thought of "Serves of the People." We can see that decisions are not made in this room, but are only being made here. 639 axle. The second part of the second part of article 130 of the Ukrainian Code of Land is proposed in the following wording: "The term 'beneficiary owner', i.e. controller, is used according to legal acts." Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-19-m0.u304	I'll bet you 639 Kacny's vote. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[14:08:29]] For-52 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. Taruta. Don't insist. Caltz. Princey.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-19-m0.u305	Dear colleagues, well, first of all, my amendment was about a point that was completely different in the committee's approval. Because this is about the maximum amount of land that can be in one hand. We applied an amendment that limited the amount of land as a percentage, as was the case in the first version. Now it's turned into hectares. The correct correction to the second reading was obviously not possible. Therefore, we insist that the law be reinstated for the first time, as our legislation and our practice generally require. Because we cannot be involved in discussing this amendment. Obviously, I don't insist on that. Because the committee changed its approach! I changed the law illegally, forging the law. And "European Solidarity" requires that laws in the Ukrainian Parliament should be adopted exclusively in accordance with Ukrainian legislation and that all MPs could submit their rights to the one they had previously seen, not the one the committee secretly approves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-19-m0.u306	I'm willing to vote 642 Princely. The committee is not supported. Please vote and determine. [[14:10:13]] For-50 The decision is not taken. 643, Gnutenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-19-m0.u307	Thank you, Your Honor, for the opportunity to announce your amendment. And 643 amendments: In the eighth part of article 130 of the Earth Code, replace the words "Office of the Ministers of Ukraine" with the words "the Supreme Council of Ukraine." Ladies and gentlemen, this law that we are enacting today is now being considered on the Supreme Council is the most important in the history of Ukraine's independence. And acceptance of it might refer to it as a landlady. It should be taken seriously and considered in every way possible. Actually, we're against this law and we're offering to support us.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-19-m0.u308	I'll bet you 643 votes. The committee's dismissed. Please identify and vote. [[14:11:18]] For-48 The decision is not taken. Gnutenko, 644.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-19-m0.u309	In article 130, paragraph 8, of the Land Code, article 130, paragraph 8, of the Ukraine Code, replace the words “to ensure that the land owner or owner of the land is satisfied with the requirements laid down in the Code for the acquisition of the land of agricultural destination” with the words “to maintain the border area of agricultural land that may be owned by citizens and legal persons of Ukraine”. Please consider and accept this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-19-m0.u310	I'll bet you 644 votes. She's not supported by the committee. Please identify and vote. [[14:12:12]] For-50 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. Again, Gnatenko, 645.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-19-m0.u311	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. Gnutenko, 49 constituency. We ask that we consider our proposals in this part, which refers to the second part of article 130 of the Code of Earth. Add paragraph nine to this effect: “Controlling compliance with land law requirements for land ownership of agricultural land is carried out by the central executive authority, which ensures the implementation of State policy in the area of supervision or control in the agricultural complex.” Please comment on this article to the committee head, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-19-m0.u312	Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-19-m0.u313	The text is similar to that of a similar one. The position is to reject.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-19-m0.u314	I'll bet you 645 votes. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[14:13:24]] For-51 The decision is not taken. Gnutenko, 646 straight.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-19-m0.u315	Your Honor, you're paying attention to the fact that we have the same rights. And we want you to notice that the same comments in this situation are on our equal rights. I'd like to take a look at 646 revisions, too. Part two of article 130 of the Ukrainian Code of Land should be supplemented by paragraph ten of the following: "Part two of this article of the Code becomes legal after the official publication of the results of the U.S. referendum on the sale and sale of land for agricultural use." We're going back to the referendum. Please note.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-19-m0.u316	I'll bet you 646 votes. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[14:14:27]] For-47 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. Kristenko, 648 right. None. Germany, 649.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-19-m0.u317	Dear colleagues, first of all, I'm with the Legal Forces of the People's Servants, there's a lot of lawyers. So I want to tell you that for today, today or tomorrow, or that Sunday, the Constitutional Court will make a decision, is on a case-by-case basis whether a referendum is needed, in fact, can be passed by the Constitutional Court. Tell me, please, what we're doing right now, what are some people on earth going to get out of this? And the second factor I'd like to say is that it also applies to lawyers. I mean, so far a criminal case has been committed against the fact that the very fact that the idea of selling land to foreigners is treason to the Fatherland, article 111 of the Criminal Code. The signature under the law is the subject matter of the commission of this crime. So I'd like to know about that. Thank you. And the amendment is to support it.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-19-m0.u318	Thank you. If you don't mind, we'll be at the next night's meeting. Because the morning meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. [[B in m in s a l in]] Oh, today is Wednesday. I'm sorry. Dear colleagues, the morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed.
