ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-03-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national MPs! Good morning, media officials! I'm glad to see you all in the Supreme Council Hall. Please prepare for registration. After many references to the Motherland faction, I remind you that registration takes place by clicking on the green button, the first button on the left. Sergei Volodymyrovich, I can't hear you. I don't hear it, but I totally agree. Are you ready to register? Please register. Green, green, I said green, first left, yes. Please register. [[10:11:34]] 279 Ukrainian national deputies registered. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear colleagues, a statement came from two factions. From the faction and the MP's group on intermission. Boyko Yuri Anatoliyovich is invited to attend. I understand he's not the only one.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-03-m0.u2	When half a million citizens in the country are left without the right to vote for power, it is a crime. Like any crime, he has customers and he has performers. The buyers of this crime are either the Office or the President's Administration. Call it what you want. The perpetrators of this crime are military-civil administrations that have given false data; they are law enforcement officials who have also given false data; they are members of the CLTC, who, despite all circumstances, have made an anti-national decision. But we have a constitutional guarantor in the country, the President. The acting President of Ukraine is the guarantor of the Constitution, who ensures that the constitutional rights of citizens are not violated. And here are two options: either the guarantor of the Constitution knows about this crime and is his accomplice, or he doesn't know it, and today's task is to remind him that it guarantees citizens' rights to constitutional decision-making in elections. Therefore, our request to President Zelenski. President Zelensky, secure the right to choose the residents of Donbas. Secure your right to choose! Secure your right to choose! Secure your right to choose! Secure your right to choose!
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-03-m0.u3	Dear colleagues, the pace of our work, we return. Dear colleagues, back to our work. Alexander Sergiyovich Korniyenko is from the procedure. Turn on the Corney microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-03-m0.u4	Colleagues, as we have people coming in now, and we have an important first bill, I suggest we move it to the second or third if there's no objection. 3971.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-03-m0.u5	Wait, there's a proposal for Bill 3971 to consider a little later today. Objection. [[B in m in s a l in]] I'll put Korneyenka's proposal to the vote. I'm voting on a motion to transpose Bill 3971 one hour later. Please support and vote. The proposal came, I'm putting it to a vote. Alexandre Sergiyovich. I'll bet you a vote. Please support and vote. [[10:17:52]] For-166 The decision is not taken. So let's move on to the day-to-day issues. First question. Dear colleagues, you have been invited to consider the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislative acts to clarify individual electoral procedures (registration number 3971). It is suggested to be considered in full procedure. Is there no objection? Okay. Then we don't put the ballot cut short. I'm putting a shortcut, a proposition about. I would like to vote on the motion to consider this bill with a reduced procedure. Please identify and vote. [[10:19:20]] For 109 The decision is not taken. The question will be discussed in full. The Deputy Head of the Committee on Public Authority, Local Self - Rule, Regional Development, and Zagreb’s Alina Leonidivna are invited to attend. She's a reporter from both the committee and the authors.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-03-m0.u6	Good afternoon, Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs! Bill 3971 is before you. This is a draft of the Ukraine Act amending certain Ukrainian legislative acts to clarify individual electoral procedures. This bill has been drafted by me and our colleagues, members of our committee in view of the need for its technical and legal development, the elaboration of its individual provisions and other laws of Ukraine. Colleagues, I would like to point out that this is a very urgent and necessary project, and all subjects of the electoral process are eager to accept it. So let's talk about what we're amending with this bill. The proposed changes are aimed at clarifying and harmonising individual rules of law; considering electoral commissions of complaints sent by electronic means; also how electoral ballots are handed over by the electoral boards; listing information about candidates who are required to be included in information posters as well as information booklets. The changes also apply to the procedure for the formation of the electoral boards during the re-voting process when the full composition of the electoral commission is suspended for the term. In addition, the bill proposes to exclude the specifics of the territorial organization of the election of city council deputies, the city by district division of the number of voters, 2 million or more, as well as the formation of territorial election committees that prepare and conduct appropriate local elections. This, if you remember, was our colleague’s vote, but by the time the election committees began to form, especially in Kiev, we realized that the bill could not be implemented, so it was necessary to rule out the situation. We are also invited to amend article 57 of the Electoral Code regarding the maximum value of advertising materials that are not considered bribes. This standard corresponds to the appropriate size set by the Criminal Code of Ukraine and is set at a minimum of 3 percent for working persons. We also require that complaints be made to the election commissions by means of electronic signatures. As for the content of information posters and tracts. It is stated that in the absence of information from the candidate’s autobiography, which is necessarily in accordance with the requirements of the code, and such information cannot be found from the other documents provided, it is noted that the applicant has not provided the relevant information. We're also adding to the new administrative-territorial system the logistics of the electoral commission. In particular, as part of a clear definition of the areas to which the respective election boards are extended, the logistics of transport and the transfer of election documents to the territorial election boards. Colleagues, there is another point that draws particular attention to the subjects of the electoral process, namely the candidates. A lot of references have come to us, and we respond to these references, of course. And with these changes, we propose to exclude the requirement to provide evidence of whether or not there is a case for candidates in the local elections, as well as claims that there is no debt for child support alimony. A great deal of change is also involved in bringing into line with the provisions of the Electoral Code on voter voting or establishing a non-reality of election ballots in connection with the introduction of a new form of electoral ballot from the election of the local councils of the territorial communities with a number of voters of 10,000 or more. There were also many questions and ambiguities that prompted 216 articles of the Electoral Codex, which applied simultaneously, so to speak, to parallel chatter. We reconcile this article, make it more understandable. From this high rostrum, I want to remind both the candidates and the voters that the possibility of parallel babbling is being preserved. Candidates can stand up. the candidates for the council may be appointed at two levels of council. Candidates for rural, rural, and city heads are also able to run parallel to the council. We also have one block of supply that applies to the protection of the premises. In the Electoral Code, it was stated that the security of ballots was carried out by the National Police for 8 days. The Ministry of Internal Affairs has shown its concern about this: there is no special ingredient for such a long period of protection. So we supported the Ministry of Internal Affairs proposal, made changes, and now it's down to three days. Also, if the people of the National Police are not enough, such functions can be performed by the National Guard of Ukraine. I would like to point out that the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority, by its conclusion of 14 August 2020, notes that the results of its first reading may be accepted as a basis. Colleagues, I also point out that, following a general discussion, the committee has taken a decision and recommends that the bill be adopted as a basis and as a whole with the committee's proposals. The committee's proposals were supported in three sessions -- August 25, September 1st and September 2nd. I also call your attention to the urgency of adopting this bill because, as you know, September 5 is already beginning the electoral process, and really all the subjects of the electoral process are waiting for the change. That's why I'm asking for your support. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-03-m0.u7	Thank you. Any questions to the reporter? In three minutes, it's time to ask. Sign up for a question to the reporter. Kaltsev Vladimir Fedorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-03-m0.u8	Please pass the word to Coltunovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-03-m0.u9	Coltunovich Alexander Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-03-m0.u10	Thank you. I have a question to ask you about an honourable report on the issue of election in Donetsk and Lugansk regions. You all know that more than 500,000 voters in the territory of the controlled Donetsk and Lugansk regions will not be able to make their choice. I remind you that the presidential and parliamentary elections, and the presidential elections are two tours, took place in 2019. How will this issue be settled, and how will the voters of the Donetsk and Lugansk regions be able to cast their votes and implement their constitutional right — the right to choose? Because you and I understand that other illegal acts, which included a genuine vote in the first reading, make it impossible for Ukrainian citizens to participate and express their will. So we ask you not only to give you an answer but to give you a specific date when citizens and residents of Donetsk and Lugansk regions vote and choose the local authorities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-03-m0.u11	Thank you for asking. Well, my fellow Members, I can tell you for sure, please note the title of the bill, this is a bill to amend some of the legislative acts to clarify certain electoral procedures. And your question is certainly not the subject of this bill. That's the first one. The other one. The question you're asking is really, really important, but I'm going to remind you of history. Nevertheless, decisions on the inability to hold elections in some areas of Lugansk and Donetsk have been made by the Central Election Commission on the basis of the findings of the military and civil administration. So I think that's a good question to ask. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-03-m0.u12	Suffritch Nestor Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-03-m0.u13	Thank you, Your Honor. With all due respect to the reporter, I don't see the logic in the previous answer. That is, when presidential elections were held during parliamentary elections, elections could be held there. At that time, our citizens were not deprived of the constitutional right to vote. Now, when it comes to actually being elected by local councils, the Central Election Commission takes decisions on the basis of an expert view of civil society. Civil-military administrations that have a conflict in this matter. I want to remind you that we are a parliamentary republic. The Central Election Commission, it's up to us and the executive power is up to us, and these decisions are to be made in the Supreme Council of Ukraine, not at the level of some civil-military administration. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-03-m0.u14	Thank you. I stress once again that your question is important and urgent, but it is not the subject of this project. On the other hand, given its urgency, I think you could be the initiator of a separate bill in order for the Supreme Council to consider it and make the appropriate decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-03-m0.u15	Thank you. Question time's up. Thank you, Alina Leonidina. Presentations from MP factions and groups. Sign up for the performance. Sergey Vladislavovich was involved.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-03-m0.u16	The Fatherland faction has taken an active part in ensuring that all the disadvantages of the Electoral Code are corrected at least so that our citizens have a legitimate right to vote in these elections. It's very good that we're going to be able to make appropriate changes in the legal time frame, which regulates the issues of the participation of directly candidates in various levels of councils, and it's very good that there's going to be a settled issue, for example, directly from the single election fund, that the committee has supported as a proposal made by different factions. It's a good thing that this bill found a reflection of the norms that are notoriously absurd when candidates were sent to take dozens of help until they became real and were not elected deputies of different councils. But we were surprised by a standard that had come up in some strange way, and these days that had been tried on the committee. This is the norm that applies to the possibility of an election day, someone calls it a poll, someone calls it public opinion, and it's actually a pseudo-eferendum that will allow public consciousness to be manipulated. And that is why the election laws of many countries in the world, including the Elections Act, which has been in place in recent years in various editions in Ukraine, have prohibited surveys. This was not just a ban on election day but a clear deadline for these polls not to affect public opinion, since we know how they were manipulated by polls when single-party companies came along, which put their name on the page and continued to print as if the numbers of the winners of those or other candidates had been printed, or a non-existent public opinion had emerged. That's why the position of our faction -- the fact that the committee today did not support this position -- is very crucial. Our faction will vote for this bill to have the right to life. Moreover, we do not object to the committee’s decision, since all other normative matters are regulated so that this law is voted not only on the basis but also on the whole. Because the electoral process is actually starting in two days, and all the voters in the electoral process, including the voters, have to know what rules they're going to vote on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-03-m0.u17	Rušin Jaroslav Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-03-m0.u18	I'd like to give the Lausinian Roman a word.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-03-m0.u19	Roman Lozinski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-03-m0.u20	Dear Ukrainians, fellow MPs! Roman Lozinski, the Voice faction. Two days before the election and 53 days before the election. That's all we have left, and today the Supreme Council is looking at further changes to election rules, changes to the Electoral Code. Clearly, this is an absurd and absurd situation that has led us to a turbulent situation. So, dear fellows, let's give up our second year of activity at last. This is not normal when, two days before the election, and when 53 days before the election, Ukraine still does not understand how the elections are going to proceed. Ukrainians do not understand why they have to pay 900 bracelets of Avakov in order to obtain help on the matter. Ukrainians do not understand whether they can run for office at the same time, because each time this formulation changes. Ukrainians don't understand whether they're going to change the ballot or not, because these discussions continued two days before the electoral process and 53 days before the election. That's absurd. That is why these changes need to be made today. And with the Voice faction, we're not helping the People's Servants to correct their mistakes, and we're helping Ukrainians to simplify their electoral procedures. And that's the first and most important thing I want to say to you. The other one. What happened on the committee today is one of the steps of state betrayal, the Kremlin's multi-courses, which in some way wants to decide and implement, not the Kremlin's Special Branch, but the President's Office. Today, more precisely, at night came the commission for our committee to conduct public opinion polls – when? On election day. On election day, essentially to hold a referendum. Why? To manipulate the thinking of the electorate? Why? To perhaps ask about the election in Donbas, about the special status of the Donetsk and Lugansk regions? Explain to me. Unfortunately, today the "ministers of the people" wanted to support this rule on the committee. And the big victory is that opposition factions, including the Voice faction, didn't let them do it today. And I want to tell all of the Ukrainians that one of these steps happened today, and we didn't let them do it. There won't be any tests, Donbas's handouts yet. But I want to tell everyone that we're not going to let that happen, and we're not going to let that go on, and we're not going to let that change into the Electoral Code. We can't put that in other laws. You won't betray Donbas, you won't betray Crimea by calling it peace. Never today and never for the future. And we will stand together with all the opposition factions. And the Voice faction won't let it do that. And today, let people finally figure out how the choices are going to go. Change these rules, give them a chance to simplify, and move on.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-03-m0.u21	The word is given to National Deputy Gerasim Arthur Volodymyrovich, faction of the political party "European Solidarity". Ruslan Petrovich Knazević, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-03-m0.u22	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. Dear colleagues, well, many have forgotten, but in fact we adopted fundamental changes to the Electoral Code a month ago. And now again we heroically accept the changes to the Electoral Code, which are essential. But let us be honest with ourselves. All the necessary changes that really needed to be adopted and that had a real impact on the electoral process, we've already adopted. And for that, we have to thank both the committee and the authors who made those changes and the session hall that supported them. These changes, which are caused, are also true, are caused by the fact that, unfortunately, when some amendments were taken into account and they were taken into account in the hall, they are not reflected in the text of the bill. It's about a bunch of our colleagues. And the committee of good will of the authors was just trying to fix these things first, bring them into line with the changes that had already been adopted. Unfortunately, this does not solve all the issues that were then caused by the problems that I am talking about. Because, for example, those amendments to the Criminal Code are my amendments to the Criminal Procedural Code, they can't be reflected in this bill because we've decided that changes to the Criminal and Criminal Trial Code should be made by separate laws. And I would very much ask the initiators and the committee with us to support these changes. Because if we don't fix them now, we're going to have some serious election problems. When we have to apply a variety of practices, since in different parts of one article there are different approaches to solving a problem that is abnormal and gives rise to legal uncertainty. I look forward to your support. The other thing that was proposed in this bill from the very beginning was to clean up the Transitional Positions that were predicted in those cities where over 2 million voters were elected, a separate order for the formation of constituencies. Friends, let's be honest and honest. Personally, a whole bunch of our colleagues put these things on the stand. And you've confirmed several times, counted these things. It's been literally two days, and you've come to your senses, and you said, you know, we were wrong, we need to change them now. I'm glad you came. It's a good thing you introduced such a bill. But regardless of who initiates these things, sometimes we need to listen to the session hall because there are reasonable rational suggestions. With regard to the suggestions made by colleagues. Mr. Chairman, Mr. Head, let's stop the practice when the bill is being passed, we see it, and then five minutes before the session starts, when the bill is being considered, the committee actually complements this bill with new rules, and sometimes even with legislative acts that are not even provided for in this bill. These are unacceptable things that are expressly forbidden by the Rules. And I know, Mr. Head, that you are very strict about these things so that neither voice nor last-minute changes can be made. Because I don't quite understand why we should vote. I understand that the committee has accepted something. I realize that it took him a long time to have these changes at least in the session room, but they're not even given out how we can vote and support. So our faction can't vote for this bill until it sees them.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-03-m0.u23	Ruslan Petrovich, thank you for asking. But as for the Rules. The committee held meetings today — no questions asked. But the amendments to this bill have not been adopted, I understand, on the committee?
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-03-m0.u24	[[Unheard]]
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-03-m0.u25	No, it's not today, it was done a few days ago, if I'm not mistaken, 4 or 5.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-03-m0.u26	This was done yesterday.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-03-m0.u27	No, it's not. No, there was a closed standard yesterday that was controversial. Do I get it right? The committee will confirm. Ruslan Petrovich, that's right.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-03-m0.u28	[[Unheard]]
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-03-m0.u29	The completed document may be. We're doing this.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-03-m0.u30	[[Unheard]]
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-03-m0.u31	Thank you. Nestor Ivanovich Šufrich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-03-m0.u32	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. Dear colleagues, our faction was prepared to support this bill, but we will not vote for it unless we vote in favour of any bill that concerns elections. I want to remind you that it was our voices that enabled us to adopt the Electoral Codex. We always support initiatives that help our country. But the cynicism that has now been addressed to local elections regarding the right to choose local authorities in Donbassa, frankly, other than revenge, so you know, other than the "straus' position" of cowards, I have no other perception of it. Yeah, you lost both the presidential and parliamentary elections there, so you have to get revenge on the Ukrainians for not voting for you? And here they tried to teach me -- did you vote Donbassa or not? First you and your leader get rid of each other, then your head's gone, and the tails are here. The tail should follow the head. My head's gone, if you're boys, my father's gone. Follow him. And don't teach us to live here. Mrs. Alina, with all due respect, you just said from the rostrum that instead of criticizing, we were supposed to submit a bill on the election in Donbassa. Project 4,016 applications. Yesterday you looked at it on the committee and didn't put it in the agenda. There's a bill registered, it's written down, but it's not in the hall today, and we could solve that today. Please tell me I don't understand the logic. Parliamentary elections -- people voted, presidential elections -- people voted, why can't they choose local councils? Because there's a conflict with civilian military administrations. Because they don't want to share power, they want money, they don't want it, they don't want to share it with the people. They all want to eat themselves. So today our position is firm and decisive: until the constitutional rights of our citizens are guaranteed on Donbas, we will not vote. And those who have made a criminal decision to deprive our citizens of the constitutional right to choose power in accordance with the principle of the people of government that you have promised people. Where's the people? That's when it's over, and you'll be done soon! Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-03-m0.u33	Anna Constantine's speedboat. Goose Igor Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-03-m0.u34	Igor Gus, MP for the Future. Dear friends, I would like the Ukrainians who are now watching to know what the question is. It's very simple. In fact, there were many inaccuracies when preparing the new Electoral Codex. And our professional committee, where I'm a deputy, has done everything possible to correct these inaccuracies. And they really need to be corrected. But for a few days we have anecdotic situations, people need to know. Normally, people should know that the Central Election Commission has never conducted any sociological surveys in 30 years. And the "minister of the people" has now proposed: and let's let's be able to do the socializing of the CLTC. For what purpose, for what purpose, is unclear. But an anecdote is different. This standard was first proposed. They came here yesterday, especially Mr. Kornienko here, and they say let's cancel this rule. Okay. Our committee canceled that rule yesterday. But already at 10:30 a.m., a text message at the chat room: we need to get together early in the morning and get this rule back. First, these decisions are taken, unfortunately, not in this room, but in the Office of the President of Ukraine. And I'm very sorry that the Office of the President of Ukraine wants to run committees, the Supreme Council of Ukraine and so on. You can't do that. It doesn't work. And one more thing. This morning there was a discussion of the matter. I thank the principled deputies, especially the Servants of the People, who did not vote in favour of this decision. Those who feel that there is no need for a CLTC to conduct a survey should not be manipulated in public opinion, they did not vote, they did not have one vote. And what you think is that the committee's leadership wanted to break through the knee the MP Corps and the committee. And it's only because of our colleagues, because they took out each other's cards, that we didn't let them do it. I want to warn the people's servants. You guys don't go there if you try to break through your knee, you end up like Yanukovich. We decent people in this room from different factions can't give you that. Thank you. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-03-m0.u35	Heroic glory! Mount Alina Leonidivna is from the place, from the "Serve of the People". And then we go to the vote, right? Yeah. Invite the national deputies to the hall. Three minutes and a vote. It's hot.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-03-m0.u36	Thank you. Dear Mr. Head, I still want to take advantage of the right of reply, Nestor Ivanovich mentioned my name. So, yes, indeed, yesterday's decision was the authorship of the OPCW registered in the Council. But, colleagues, I remind you that there is a Supreme Council regulation. There was no subcommittee on this issue, no decision, and there was no committee decision. That's the first one. The other one. I remind you of the provisions of the Constitution and the Electoral Code, which require the election to be decided 90 days before the election date. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-03-m0.u37	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please prepare for the vote, take your seats. First question. See, the committee has also proposed as a whole. I mean, no discussion? So we're laying the groundwork, if there's support, in general. Is there no objection? None. Ready to vote? I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislative acts to clarify individual electoral procedures (registration number 3971). Ready to vote? Please vote. [[10:50:44]] For the 180. The decision is not taken. I'm voting for a motion to refer to the committee for re-reading. Please vote. [[10:51:11]] For 204 The decision is not taken. I am voting on the proposal to return the subject to the right of legislative initiative for further processing. Please vote. [[10:51:39]] For 203 The decision is not taken. The law is rejected. The next issue of agenda is the draft Order repealing the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of 25 August 2020 on the adoption of the Ukrainian Act. draft Ukrainian Law on Ratification of the Memorandum of Understanding between Ukraine as Borrower and the European Union as Creditor and Credit Agreement between Ukraine as Borrower and National Bank of Ukraine as Agent of the Borrower and the European Union as Creditor (to receive Ukraine's macro-financial assistance to the European Union of up to EUR 1 billion 200 million)" (Registration No. 0063-P). It is suggested that this issue be considered in a simplified manner. Please support and vote. [[10:52:54]] For 239. Decision taken. Dear colleagues, there was a request for a break with a replacement for the performance, I passed, I'll give you my word. Okay? They've come to the question. Yeah, after, okay? I'm sorry. The National Deputy of Ukraine, Anna Konstantinovna, is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-03-m0.u38	Dear colleagues, after ratifying this memorandum, you have agreed to remove restrictions and return to officials and supervisory boards of cloudy wages, on the contrary, you have promised to reduce or cancel them altogether. You grant foreigners the right to appoint judges in Ukrainian courts and exercise control over them by agreeing to create a Higher Qualification Commission for Judges and an Ethics Commission for Foreigners. I want to remind you that under the Constitution, judges are independent and the judiciary is separate and independent from other branches of government. You cancel Naftogazu's obligation to supply Ukrainian gas to the population and adjust the price to it. This has led to an increase in the price of gas, and it's going to continue to increase all housing services. Think back to your pre-election promises, you promised otherwise. You give full control over state strategic enterprises to foreigners through supervisory boards of their number. You provide complete control over the customs and tax systems of Ukraine. Dear colleagues, you are expanding the use of cashiers again. That's how you destroy small businesses in general. Dear colleagues, Ukraine's independence cannot cost 1.2 billion euros. And what moral right do we have to sell our children's future? It's not that hard to sell independence. Independence — not wearing embroidery, independence — is not a repetition of the slogan "Glory to Ukraine". Independence is not just nice stadiums and nice roads. Dear colleagues, these are your actions here and now. If you want to go to Europe.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-03-m0.u39	The word is given to the Head of the Committee on Rules, Deputy Ethics and Organization of Work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Sergio Vitaliyovich Calchenka. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-03-m0.u40	Honorable Presidium, distinguished national MPs! At its meeting, the Regulatory Committee reviewed the draft Ordinance (registration 0063-P) on the annulment of the Supreme Council decision on the adoption of the Act (registration 0063). The draft decision proposes that this decision be repealed by the Supreme Council, and, as indicated in the explanatory note to the draft decision, a number of requirements of the Constitution, the Rules on the Procedure for the Adoption of Laws by Three Readings were violated when Parliament approved the decision. At the same time, the Regulatory Committee noted that the consideration of the issue of granting the Supreme Council of Ukraine consent to the obligation of international treaties, including the ratification of international treaties, is being carried out under the special procedure provided for in Chapter 32 of the Rules: these are articles from 192 to 201. That is, taking into account the characteristics that are defined in this chapter. In addition, the committee noted that the Krakhod National MP did not address the chairman of the plenary with an application for violation of the procedure established by Parliament’s Rules of Procedure and for consideration and vote did not make an appropriate application to the Supreme Council Head, as provided for in article 48, part three, fifth, of the Rules, but introduced a draft decision repealing the decision of the Supreme Council to the Supreme Council for consideration by the Supreme Council. So in summary, the regulatory committee adopted the conclusion of the draft Decree (registration 0063-P) and decided to propose to the Supreme Council of Ukraine by voting on the adoption or rejection of this draft decision. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-03-m0.u41	Thank you. Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss? Please sign up: two in, two in. The word is given to national deputy Ivanni Orestes Klimpush-Cincadze, faction of the political party "European Solidarity".
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-03-m0.u42	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, by ratifying this memorandum, we have given at least a prima facie opportunity for the country to finally return to the reform order of the day, and we have made it a prima facie opportunity to gain independence in the judiciary or to regain its independence, and we have given a primal opportunity once again to obtain independent anti-corruption and law enforcement agencies. And these "colomayan defolte proponents" today want to destroy this opportunity. Yeah, it's a loan, but it's a loan that our economy can't survive without, it's a loan under the best and easiest conditions. Regrettably, Ukraine today’s administration of the underprivileged governments of Greene cannot pass these tests economically without borrowing from the outside, and these are the best conditions for borrowing. Therefore, I ask you not to support the draft Ordinance repealing the ratification of this memorandum. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-03-m0.u43	The word is given to the National MP, Speedhod Annie Constantineni, the MP's Party for the Future.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-03-m0.u44	Dear colleagues, I ask you very much to introduce me to Mr. Colomoyski, because all the time we hear that we're working for him, at least one needs to see him. Secondly, if you think it's a transfer of power to a foreign country, it's not. The path to Europe begins with itself. Don’t make an offshore profit, don’t cut off the forest, don’t take bribes, work for Ukraine, respect each other, and abide by the laws you have enacted! Dear colleagues, Europe is the attitude towards life, it is the attitude towards one another and the attitude towards Ukraine. "They don't let slaves into paradise" -- remember those words by Oman Sirk and think what you're doing.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-03-m0.u45	The word is given to the national deputy Coltunovich Alexander Sergiyovich, faction of the political party "The Opposition Platform for Life".
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-03-m0.u46	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. Coltunovich, "The Opposition Platform for Life." Our faction will support this draft ruling by Krakhod and that's why. We are opposed to the external administration that started in Ukraine in 2005 and has intensified since 2014. What is this partnership from the European Union that requires us to take down a moratorium on the export of roundwood that compels us to do this before, which now imposes on us supervisory councils and requirements on them, which tells us what tariff energy policy to carry out in the gas field? I am deeply convinced that the Ukrainian Cabinet, which works in the national economic interest, and likewise the National Bank of Ukraine, should undertake to raise air quality, drinking water, and food to European standards. That would be national interests. And even better, those who promised a salary of a thousand euros in the 14th year finally made it to the end of at least this retirement, as well as the pension, actually. So we're going to insist that we need to take this draft decision and break these cable conditions that we have. The question is not about borrowing at all, but about the actual external administration. Another important point, we're being loaned 1.2 billion euros. But let them help exports better, abolish the discriminatory and asymmetrical conditions of the free trade zone with the European Union. But let us look at and cancel the standards that make it impossible for our producers to expand to the European consumer market. That's when we're going to have jobs, wages and real support for Ukraine, not a 1.2 billion-euro gift to trade in our sovereignty. Please support this draft decree as one that is in line with national economic interests. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-03-m0.u47	National MP Jaroslav Jurchisin, faction of the Voice Party. With a motive, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-03-m0.u48	We have a group of people in the Supreme Council who really want to take Russian money because it's supposed to be easier because it doesn't need to reform judicial reform, which is the judicial system, because it doesn't really need to increase energy independence. They just took it and gave it to the land. And that's why this meaningless decision is now being made to actually push Ukraine into the cabal in the interests of the Colombians and the Russians. Let's not let this fool get away with it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-03-m0.u49	Honorary colleagues, I am voting on the draft Decision repealing the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of 25 August 2020 on the adoption of the Ukrainian Law on the ratification of the Memorandum of Understanding between Ukraine as a Borrower and the European Union as a Creditor and a Credit Agreement between Ukraine as a Borrower and the National Bank of Ukraine as an Agent of the Borrower and the European Union as a Creditor (for receiving Ukraine's macro-financial assistance to the European Union amounting to EUR 1 billion 200 million), the number of this regulation 0063-P. Ready to vote? Please identify and vote. [[11:03:55]] For-48 The decision is not taken.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-03-m0.u50	Dear colleagues, a statement has been made from two MP factions about a break with a replacement for the performance. Rudik Kira Alexandrovna is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-03-m0.u51	Dear colleagues, today the Belarusians demand justice from their country, and they are supported by the entire civilized world. The Ukrainians, our fellow citizens with you, are going out on the street, passing on support to the Belarusians. Because it is only natural for us to fight for our freedom. Because we live in a country where freedom is not an empty sound. Because it's obvious to us that dictatorship is not a place in a civilized world, that human rights are the highest value, and that thousands of people in a neighbouring state are suffering every day just so that one particular person can remain in power. But how do we react as a country? Why not hear Ukraine’s position on this matter? Unfortunately, the president said nothing. But you and I are the Supreme Council. We were chosen as free people in a free country. They gave us a voice so that we could speak for them. So why do we keep our mouths shut? I'd like to address the members of the "Serve of the People" faction. Yes, the President did not express a clear position on the issue of Belarus. But you represent in Parliament not the President, you represent in Parliament the Ukrainians. Ask them what you represent. Are they in support of terror, in support of tyrants or freedom? In particular, I turn to the Ukrainians who have chosen a dominant party. Did you expect such silence from them when choosing new forces? When did the People's Servant come to ask for justice, but also the Voice? Why, when asked for justice, do we now see silence? The position of the Voice party is clear: the elections in Belarus did not take place. And we, as the Supreme Council, have to make this clear in order to support the Belarusians. And in order to remind each other of who, why, and to defend the values of those who chose us here, in order to support freedom, not tyranny. Long live Belarus! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-03-m0.u52	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we're moving on to the next question.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-03-m0.u53	Dear colleagues, you are invited to consider the Bill of Amendments to the calendar plan for the fourth session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the ninth call. I remind you that we all agreed that the calendar of our work in connection with the local elections would change, so that each national deputy could work both in his own district and join the electoral process. Is it necessary to discuss whether we can vote? Let's do it or not, fellows. Vote. I am betting on the vote on the proposal for the adoption of a draft decree amending the calendar plan for the fourth session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the ninth call (registration number 4026). Ready to vote? Please prepare for the vote. You can't, please, it's over there. You're not speaking, are you? Thank you, David Georgiyovich. Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[11:08:45]] For 256 Decision taken. Thank you. Dear colleagues, you have been invited to consider the draft Ordinance on the Liberation of a Member of the Court of Auditors (Registration No. 3814). It is suggested that this issue be considered in a simplified manner. Please support and vote. [[11:09:16]] For 219 Decision taken. National deputy Bunin Sergey Valeriyovich is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-03-m0.u54	Your Honor presiding, distinguished national MPs! On July 8, 20th, I submitted a draft decree by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the dismissal of a member of the Chamber of Auditors, Yaremenka Alexandre Stepanović. The Court of Auditors is an independent national college body, which, on behalf of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, controls the flow of funds to and use of the state budget of Ukraine. According to information posted on the official website of the Court of Auditors, I learned that Yaremenka, a member of the Court of Auditors, was 65 years old on October 31st 19th. In accordance with article 20, paragraph 3.1, of the seventh part, of Ukraine, on the Court of Auditors of the Head and other members of the Court of Auditors before the end of their term of office are released from office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine if they reach 65 years of age. That's why I, as a national deputy, put forward a draft decree on the liberation of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Yaremenka Alexandre Stepanović. In the 20th year, there was a meeting of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the budget at which I considered the draft regulation. On the basis of the Committee's consideration of the matter, the Committee adopted a decision: recommending a draft decision to the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the outcome of the review to be adopted as a whole. Please support and vote on this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-03-m0.u55	Thank you. The vice president of the Committee on Budget Affairs, Truhin Alexander Mikolayovich, is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-03-m0.u56	Honourable Dmitre Alexandrovich, distinguished national deputies, the Committee on Budget Affairs has considered the draft Decree 3814 on the release of the member of the Chamber of Auditors, Jaremenko Alexandre Stepanović. Corresponding to the new paragraph 3 prime. 1 part of the seventh article of the Act on the Court of Auditors, which took effect at the end of last year, members of the Court of Auditors shall be released from office until the end of the term of office of the Supreme Council if they reach the age of 65. The Court of Auditors confirmed that on October 31, 2019, the member of the Court of Auditors, Yaremenko, Alexander Stepanovich, had reached that age. The detailed information on this question is given in the Committee's list of issues. On the basis of the review, the Committee on Budgetary Questions recommends to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, taking into account the relevant provisions of article 85 of the Constitution and article 20 of the Act on the Court of Auditors and article 208 of the Rules of Procedure of the Supreme Council, the draft Decree 3814 was adopted as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-03-m0.u57	Thank you. Please sign up: two in, two in, and two in, against, from the MP factions and groups. Needed to Be Discussed? Can we vote? Okay. I'm betting on a motion for adoption in the entire draft Decision on the release of the member of the Court of Auditors, Yaremenka Alexandre Stepanović. Please prepare for the vote. Invite the national deputies to the hall. Ready to vote? Everyone's back in their seats? Please support and vote. [[11:13:42]] For 283 Decision taken. Thank you. It's been decided. Let's see the factions. The next question of the agenda is. Danilo Aleksandrovitch, the bill on Beb. This is a draft of the Economic Security Bureau Act (registration numbers 3087, 3087-1, 3087-d). It is suggested that we consider it. Oh, complete procedure, more than a hundred articles, complete procedure. The National Deputy of Ukraine is invited to attend. Danilo Alexandrovich, are you? I thought maybe the author would report first. National Deputy of Ukraine Jaroslav Ivanovich Železniak
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-03-m0.u58	Good afternoon, dear fellows! As you can see, what cooperation on our committee is there, because we can replace each other. I want to say very briefly, literally in one sentence, what this bill is about. This bill is about taking all the muscle, all the law enforcement officers out of the business. Take down the National Police, clean up the B.S.A., the Tax Police, the D.B.I., the D.A.'s office from the pressure on the business. Instead, let's make one analytic body, one of these white cells, that will continue to speak the language of numbers, not the language of machine guns, so that business will adhere to Ukrainian legislation. I'm going to give you a very simple fact why the law enforcement system can't affect business right now. In 2019 a thousand 300 cases were set up for entrepreneurs only under the article Tax evasion. Only 10 were sentenced. Everything else is proof that the pressure on business is being exerted and will continue. I want to give you an example. This is already known, unfortunately, as the child - feeding manufacturer of Econia, to which the National Police and the Public Prosecutor's Office came, and literally with hammers, kwalda was knocked out, computers were taken away, documents removed. There's a lot of my colleagues sitting here who were at the TSC meeting when we asked the law enforcement officers, "Friends, couldn't you have done it civilized?".. And there's no answer to the question of why the law enforcement officers behaved like that in terms of normal business, to a normal investor, we didn't hear. There's also a lot of examples when IT companies are small with offices in a few people, they're getting into a B.S.U., they're running criminal cases, they're removing computers, and they're just closing business and they're going to another country. And the last example I'd like to focus on is my personal story. I recently spoke to one of Ukraine's security officers, fighting officers who are now working to protect our citizens and are in the hot spots of this country. And he begged me to get the economy out of the office, because the Ukrainian Security Service and a lot of people who have respect there should be protecting our citizens, not, sorry, by "breaking" the exports of nuts. Dear colleagues, we can and will be adopting a lot of laws in this room to improve business, to reduce taxes, to raise real wages, to create jobs, but that doesn't mean anything if we don't take away the impact of law enforcement on business. It doesn't mean anything if in business-association surveys their attitude towards our Ukrainian law enforcement system is defined as repressive. So I ask you to support this decision today, to vote in favour of one of the proposed bills. We'll work on it. We will see that this assignment is real, transparent, honest, and effective. But the only way to protect the Ukrainian business right now is to get the active law enforcement officers out of pressure on it, and that's what I'm asking you to do. So please support my bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-03-m0.u59	Thank you. Jaroslav Ivanovich, please remain in the rostrum. It's a complete procedure, stay in the rostrum, there must be questions for you. Dear colleagues, since this is a complete procedure, please sign up for a question to the rapporteur, within 3 minutes, one minute for a question, if anyone wants to. Please, National Deputy Nina Petrovna Yuzanin, faction of the political party "European Solidarity".
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-03-m0.u60	I wanted to contact the author. Do you realize that prejudice against economic crime is not just prejudice in the area of customs and taxation? Have you analyzed the state of affairs in the country today? And please tell me, not the political answer, but the professional answer, which article is the most currently being investigated in Ukraine? In this regard, will the system that you have proposed be able to continue the investigations that are already under way and to complete them, and will it continue to be conducted in this article? Please tell me.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-03-m0.u61	Thank you, Nina Petrovna, for your question. I understand very well that economic crimes are not just tax and customs, although let's face it, we have a lot of questions on this block. Maybe because we're from this committee, and maybe because we're constantly hearing from different media outlets and unfortunately from business, how many abuses are being committed, for example, by the Ukrainian Security Service, which somehow shared some of the directions and customs and taxes on itself. As for your question on the article, I think you, I don't know, I think you're hinting at 212 right now, but it doesn't really matter right now. We have to remove any interference on large cases from any law enforcement officer, regardless of the tax police, or it'll be the Security Service, or it'll be the police. We can't keep leaving the force at the analytics center, it's going to be a change of language, not a change of meaning. So I'm asking you to join the second reading, and I'm sure we'll find compromises there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-03-m0.u62	Thank you. The word is given to the national deputy Coltunovich Alexander Sergiyovich, the faction of "The Opposition Platform for Life".
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-03-m0.u63	Please give the floor to the People's Deputy, Burmich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-03-m0.u64	Please, National Deputy Burmich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-03-m0.u65	Anatoly Burmich, "The Opposition Platform for Life." I'm not going to talk about the whole law, the brief question. You're very good at telling me that this bill is very much there. The bill on the bureau is independent, as you can see. From what -- I have a question for you -- who is it independent of? From the State of Ukraine? In your bill, you propose financing, foreign funding, the appointment of the director of this office, and his deputies to those foreigners who provide technical or financial assistance in the work of this office. So what's the independence here? This is independence from Ukraine, and it is dependence on those who destroy our law enforcement agencies. Tell me, what is this independence?
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-03-m0.u66	Thank you for asking. I mean, you didn't look very well at the text of the bill, but I'm still going to let myself explain. It's about funding. It clearly states that this is going to be government funding. I think the answer to that question is very clear. Could additional funds be involved to train fellow workers? Yes, they can. And that's normal, and it exists in normal countries. As for independence, yes, there is actually a transparent procedure of independence that international experts are involved in. Just as we did in an anti-corruption court, as we did in other law enforcement agencies. I didn't think of anything new. Nina Petrovna! Nina Petrovna, I didn't get the chance to answer your last question. Article 191. I think you hinted at it by using your position of service. But I'm afraid I can't give you statistics exactly in the last year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-03-m0.u67	Thank you. Please, Jaroslav Ivanovich, you can take your place. I invite you to the floor of the co-author of the alternative bill, the national deputy of Ukraine, Ustenka Alexi Olegovich. Alexy Olegovich is in the hall? Alexia Olegovich is gone, and he has saved us a lot of time. I invite the co-author of another alternative bill, which goes as a deputy, is the head of the Gethmans Committee, Danilo Alexandrovich. Please. No, not from the committee, but as the author of the bill of this MP. Oh, you're like a co-author and a committee. Please, let's start as a co-author, because the questions will come to you, and then the committee's report. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-03-m0.u68	Dear colleagues, what is the Bureau of Economic Security? The Bureau of Economic Security is a requirement of business that is tired of the pressure of the tax police, the Ministry of Internal Affairs, the Ukrainian Security Service, which is done to our business, the Ukrainian business, or the order of business, or at the same time. But the Bureau of Economic Security is also the President's promise, which was in his electoral program. It's a promise and a whole "Serial of the People" faction that was on the program. This is the promise of other political parties that promised to create an independent and only body to investigate public finances crimes. This is the body that will replace the tax police that we plan to eliminate by the end of the year. This is the body that will replace the Department of Economic Crime Investigation and the same department of the tax police. And we're going to stop the vacchanal with you, we're going to stop the "breeding" of different government agencies at the expense of business, and we're going to make this body really independent, and we're going to make this body really one of those tasks that suits our society. Pursuant to Bill 3087-D. This is an elaborate bill that we have drafted on the committee on the basis of the basic and alternative bills that we have just discussed. Directors, substitutes and employees of the Economic Security Bureau are accepted exclusively on a competitive basis. Director of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. This is, very important to understand, an analytic organ. It's very important that we understand that this is an organ that shouldn't "shock" the business through checks and "mask-show." It's a body that's supposed to show crime through tax analysis, through the analysis of the movement of funds in accounts, by analyzing what information it has in the amount it needs, in the state now at its disposal, in the registers, in other databases. The law directly records the workforce’s marginal number of workers — 4,000. So for today, I want to remind you, the number of employees of the tax police is 4,000 600 people. So we're not planning any significant burden on the state budget, although I'm sure, and you'll agree with me that this body, the employees of this body, should be materially provided. And this rule is also in our bill. He gave us a very difficult time. You know that a similar body called the Bureau of Financial Investigation has already passed through the Supreme Council Hall has been rejected by the Supreme Council. We've been looking at him for a long time on the committee. And early this week, on Tuesday at the committee meeting, they returned to the consideration of the bill. And when we went back to the draft bill, we considered the decision of the Constitutional Court, which he passed last Friday, regarding the President's decree on the appointment of the chairman of the NABU, and we made a draft decision, which we propose to support today's Hall, a position that we should reorder the Economic Security Bureau from the President to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on the committee. I would also like to point out that the bill proposed to you proposes to amend the Criminal Code of Ukraine and the Criminal Procedure Code of Ukraine. But we have passed a law with you, according to which amendments to these codes are made only by laws amending these codes. In view of this, we have registered with colleagues bill 3959, according to which part of the bill on the Bureau of Economic Security, which amends the Criminal Code and the Criminal Procedure Code, separates itself into a separate project. And this is a project in the Committee on Law Enforcement that we're going to be looking at separately from the basic bill, but we wanted them to go in parallel. Therefore, taking into account the above, the Committee on Finance, Tax and Customs Policy has decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine that it be accepted on the basis and that it be delegated to the Committee of the Supreme Council on Finance, Tax and Customs Policy to finalize the prescribed bill in accordance with part one of article 116 of the Ukrainian Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for amending the text of the draft (registration No. 3087-d) on the consolidation of Ukraine's Cabinet of Ministers with regard to the creation and subordination of Ukraine's economic security. Today we support this bill in the first reading. Colleagues, please, we can make those wishes, those adjustments that you will consider necessary to the second reading. But this is a very big deal that we should do with you for our business and for our country. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-03-m0.u69	Thank you. Dear colleagues, there is a request to enroll as coauthor of the alternative law. Please. Please, Koltunovich Alexander Sergiyyovich, faction "The Opposition Platform for Life".
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-03-m0.u70	I'd like to give the floor to Mamma's national deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-03-m0.u71	Please, Gregory Mama.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-03-m0.u72	Respectable national MPs and a distinguished report indeed need to accept such creations, not what they accept, but to create new bodies on which to form, in fact, a state policy on: (a) detection, on documenting crimes in the economic sphere. I want to point out that for the time being in Ukraine there are so many government bodies that are doing essentially reprisals, not analytically, that business is already "screaming" from not the number of mask-shows, but from the number of tests that are currently going on, and then, with conclusions, we don't know what to do. I'm still paying attention to yours, and I'd like to see, for example, that the funding, the audit service -- all of these organs, they're closely related to the types of documentation, the fixation of these relationships in the economic sphere. But it's a good grade.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-03-m0.u73	Thank you for your wishes. I think that if we work together, we can do this together. But I would like to draw your attention along with you, for your support, including the adoption of a bill under which, the anti-Kovidian law, business is not currently being checked on almost all aspects of its activities, except excise and VAT reimbursement. So now we're talking about the fact that he's suffering from tests, and it's probably not worth it. But again, there is a problem. And we solve the problem by creating an analytical body itself. Because this organ is analytical, and in the bill we have foreseen the right positions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-03-m0.u74	Thank you. The word is given to the national MP, Polakov Anton Eduardoovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-03-m0.u75	Please give Anton a word.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-03-m0.u76	Please, Anton Yatzenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-03-m0.u77	Reporter, I have a question. Such an organ must be created so that there are no others who terrorize business. That is, businessmen need to understand that only one body can check them and do criminal cases, investigate them, and so forth. I have a question. Give me a clear answer. Under the Code of Criminal Procedure, do you think the SBA and the Ministry of Economic Crimes, such as 191 articles, 209, and others, are they staying or are you cleaning up and transferring everything to one organ? Because if we just have one more organ that's going to be parasitic in business and instead of a tax police, it's going to be called a financial office, that's why a pop of harmony is said to be. So give a clear answer, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-03-m0.u78	Thank you. In fact, if you open a bill, you'll see the changes that are consistent with the Criminal Procedural Code, in Transitional Positions, you'll see our proposals for the distribution of substantiations between different organs. You and I understand that the issue of the 191st article is such a deep problem, because you and I understand that there are petty crimes that can be committed and should be investigated by the National Police on the ground, there are crimes that occur in a particularly large amount. So that's the question, I think we're going to agree on a second reading, but today there are 90 percent of the crimes of understanding that they're going to be being followed by the Bureau of Economic Security. In particular, these are tax crimes, crimes in the field of public finances, and so forth.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-03-m0.u79	Thank you. Danilo Alexandrovich, thank you. Take your place. Dear colleagues, we're moving on to factions. Please register, within 3 minutes of each faction and group. Please, from the faction of the political party "The Opposition Platform for Life" Alexander Sergiyovich Koltunović Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-03-m0.u80	Please give the floor to the People's Deputy, Burmich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-03-m0.u81	Please, National Deputy Burmich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-03-m0.u82	Dear colleagues, we are now considering a number of laws that refer to the subject of law enforcement reform. All these three bills, they're from that ruler that we're already seeing in law enforcement reform. The trend is simple: the destruction of the sovereign Ukrainian law enforcement agencies and the construction of a ruler who is half-directed from the outside by the name that these are essentially independent law enforcement bodies financed from abroad, to which the state is not affected today. We see this in the case of the Attorney General's Office, very revealing. The general doesn't work, the SAP doesn't work, and more than that, there are thoughts today that we can restore the mandate and make one of the Attorney General's offices. There is a decision of the Constitutional Court concerning the NAB. It is unknown whether it will or not, and in what degree and who will direct and appoint it. We also know very well about reaching the NAB. So far, no leader has been assigned to the D.B.I. Today, laws have been launched to reform the Security Service and others. For only six years, the Ministry of Internal Affairs had barely begun to work. Thank God, we hope that they will respond in a timely manner to those wrongdoings both on the street and wherever they occur in our society. And in this chaos, and in this mess, we continue to reform, the so-called reform, the law enforcement agencies. It's not reforming, it's destroying what's still breathing, it's working somehow. Instead of asking the Attorney-General to appoint experts in law enforcement, it doesn't work. We're doing reforms, we're doing something we don't even know, it's an analytic or special, or a law enforcement agency, but we're predicting that we're going to take away the functions of the BSI, we're going to work in parallel with the NABU and all that. It's not reform, it's destruction. I urge you not to support any of these bills until we get some sort of order out and see that it somehow works what it is. And then we'll be reforming and adding that it doesn't work. In the chaos of reform, it's not possible to do it -- it's the destruction of sovereignty. I urge you not to vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-03-m0.u83	The word is given to National Deputy Kožemyakina Andrija Anatoliyovich, a faction of the political party of the All-Ukrainian Union of Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-03-m0.u84	Good afternoon, dear fellows! Andrew Kozemyakin, faction of the Fatherland. I had just received an address from Anatoly Burmich, an experienced general of the Ukrainian Security Service, with whom we had served together for many years, led the troops in our time. I think what he said would match what I say. First, this Parliament remembers, and I personally, when I led the Committee on Law Enforcement and was the author of the law, including the DBR. We managed to work it out and, let's say, send it on a long trip to the committee. There were so many other law enforcement structures that were created. But somehow they got into, for example, the Justice Committee, the Economics and Finance Committee there, transport and everything. So this was done in order for the principle of the position of those who have experience and operational capacity to evaluate this bill to be deprived of the ability to do so. Now in this faction, our Fatherland sees that the same situation is happening with the adoption of this bill on the so-called State Bureau, the Economic Bureau. So this is the creation of a state law enforcement agency. It's written in plain text, black and white, in all of them. But somehow he's being considered by a committee led by Mr. Getmantsev. So they're probably more experts in criminal matters, criminal trial, criminal punishment. But it's not an analytical organ that's being created. An analytical body or unit, it's going to be in this body, anywhere in the world, in all the security services and law enforcement agencies, it's a state law enforcement agency. Unfortunately, however, we have not yet healed the wounds from the creation of the State Bureau of Investigation, to which I also had a direct bearing. And these wounds are worrying us today, because there is no way that we can determine why we then have the opportunity, just as in this bill today, to violate the Constitution, and all rights are given to re-appointed, release, control the President of Ukraine. This faction considers it unacceptable. So sometimes, according to the words "dream" or "weary business from law enforcement," there's probably false information behind those words. Why? Mr. Gethmans, I'll tell you that if there is. The purity of any law enforcement authority depends on the health of its commander or leader. If he's not sick with corruption, greed, betrayal and all, trust me, the virus, this germ that he can give to his subjects, it will never spread, and they won't walk and "dream."
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-03-m0.u85	The word is given to the National Deputy Pavelska Rostislav Mikolaiovich, the faction of the political party "European Solidarity". Nina Petrovn Jujanin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-03-m0.u86	Respectful colleagues, respectable business subjects, seem to be engaged in government construction. I agree, let's do this. But we need to take into account the experience of other countries, the experience of our country, the challenges facing the country and the state of crime in the economic and financial sphere today, as well as the experience we have accumulated on this issue in previous years. There are many institutional integration options, but our task is to adapt the successful experience of other countries to Ukrainian realities, to the requirements of the country's legal system itself. Today you have been presented with a draft amended and recommended by a committee to adopt a bill as a basis. Another incompetence product, an over-preservation of old inefficient methods of organizing law enforcement, lack of structural change, increased pressure on business, and increased pressure on business. These facts are the reason why the 1208-2 project on the Bureau of Financial Investigation was rejected on January 17. Has something changed at the moment? Partly and only to the worse side. I'm calling it what. The project has become more framework, concepts and functions more blurred, preserving existing anti-systemic criminal practices in the economy. Once again, the concept is a traditional model for the organization of the law enforcement activity of a reactive and incident style, by which law enforcement is more likely to respond to crimes that have already been committed. Today's rejected and implemented in most EU countries and in the world of ILP models. This is a law - enforcement organization led by analysis that has resulted in the complete exclusion of prevention priorities in the work of the new body. A risk-oriented approach to the new law enforcement authority has not been established in order to balance the procedural decisions regarding the initiation or closure of criminal conduct. A completely unsettled analytical component of BEB's work due to the lack of analytical status. You're talking about a department, and it's supposed to be analysts with an analytical product that has to have status. Implementation of a special procedure for reporting criminal offences to the GDR provided for in articles 212 and 212 p.m. 1. Subjects of entrepreneurship Acts continue to be the basis for criminal registration. Surrender, please, you're being tricked another time! Nothing will change with regard to pressure on business. I think this bill has one.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-03-m0.u87	The word is given to National Deputy Bondar Viktor Vasilovich, MP Party for the Future.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-03-m0.u88	Dear colleagues! I want to point out that this is an extremely important bill. A year ago, the President of Ukraine and the Parliament promised that when you all went, especially "The Servant of the People," to the elections, that you would lower the pressure on business, and that there would be an end to the adoption of the law enforcement authorities to carry out all these searches and so on, after the economic so-called crimes. We've got a bunch of economic crime bodies today -- both the B.S.A. and the M.E.S., and the N.A.U.U., and the Attorney General's Office, and whoever you want doesn't seem to have a nightmare about this business and this business in Ukraine. It would seem a good goal is to make the only body responsible for investigating economic crimes. What do we see when we read this bill? It's going to be another organ, just an extra one that's going to do business, economics and economic crime checks. You do not strip off any of the other law enforcement agencies under these articles of the Criminal Code on Economic Crimes and Economics. You're essentially leaving it to them. What's more, you don't clean up in those organs, and there's no Transitional Regulations when these other law enforcement agencies are shutting down their units to fight economic crimes. It's not in the bill. Third. Look, you're making the bill unconstitutional in advance. THERE is already a decision by the Constitutional Court that does not have the right of the President to appoint the heads of the law enforcement agencies that are not prescribed in his Constitution as his personal authority. Once again, this bill is passed that the President single-handedly appoints the head of this State Bureau of Economic Security. Well, so you're putting this bill back on the ground that it will be repealed and recognized by the Constitutional Court as unconstitutional. So why are we doing this? We have to prove, at last, the whole logistics of this bill and throw out what you promised people, not create an additional body that will go forward, in order to rediscover, as the people say, the nightmare of that poor business, the entrepreneurs, the industrialists who are still trying to work in this country and make money. Come on, think about it. Let's get this bill to work out, and honestly do what we promised business, do what we promised the people of Ukraine. Don't vote this bill just stupid if you can just say it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-03-m0.u89	Dear colleagues, we have two more factions from the factions. After that, three more minutes will be from the committee's closing word, and then we'll go to the vote. I'll have the National Deputies pull up to the hall. The word is given to national deputy Jurčin Jaroslav Romanović, faction of the political party "Golos".
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-03-m0.u90	Dear colleagues! It's extremely important, in fact, to carry out a systematic task of changing law enforcement. And the formation, in fact, of the Bureau of Financial Investigation, then the Bureau of Economic Security was one of those software things that we promised the society we promised our community. My colleagues, Galina Vasilchenko, Natala Pipa, in their districts are forced to constantly come to the courts and defend the interests of business. Why? Because law enforcement actually does not perform its functions as a law enforcement system, but they push for a small and medium-sized business. So the initiative is important, right. The fact that the President's non-constitutional powers have been removed, thanks to the committee. Well done! At the same time, we fully understand that without the full reform of the law enforcement agencies, unfortunately, the Ukrainian Security Service, for example, remains an anti-corruption expertise that will actually make the pressure on business so permanent, yes, because of sufficient discretionary powers. In this case, it's clear that there's a systemic law that there's a lot of nuances to look for, but it's definitely not necessary, just as colleagues have just spoken, to find what's not there. He has already been brought before the committee in accordance with the Constitution. It is indeed necessary. There's a huge problem in another. The problem is in the frame. What most people now actually offer us every time is people who are unable to perform their duties or who are pulling out all kinds of Fokins, Russians and so on, people who have worked under very different conditions in a corrupt system, it shows what kind of good draft we don't write, there's actually a risk of very negative execution. To conclude, I want to say that on the first reading, we will support this bill, given that much of the mistakes have already been corrected. But it is very important not to forget the reform of the Ukrainian Security Service that my colleague Roman Kostenko is doing, it is very important in fact to give serious reconciliation of powers between the new bureau and the law enforcement agencies so that there is no duplication of powers, and we will see how they will be fought for. And most importantly, it's very important to fill it with human potential. Thank you. On the first reading, we're going to vote yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-03-m0.u91	The word is given to the National Deputy Olga Mikhailovna Vasilevsky-Smagluk, "Slut of the People". Dear colleagues, after that, we have three more minutes -- a speech from the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-03-m0.u92	And then we go to the vote. Please invite the national deputies to the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-03-m0.u93	Dear colleagues, to say that we were approaching this day as we could is not to say anything. All these 29 years before our business, our entrepreneurs went in the same order (esbeachers, tax collectors, taxpayers, police officers, prosecutors, and everyone else) followed the same pattern, and by the same criminal conduct, they were taxed. Society announced a request to create a business-friendly body 29 years ago. Since 2016, the tax police have been in a suspended state – without pay, without status, and without room. It's the officers of the tax police who call me every week and ask that we, the legislators, make a definition for them to be determined that "creature cannot be eliminated" is not good for anyone. Even in such a suspended state, the tax police are able to collect tens of times more money into the state budget than all law enforcement and anticorruption agencies combined. Imagine the potential of a newly created body. We have lost years, and we urge everyone to show political and intellectual will and to give business systemicity and determination. The United States of America, Italy, Holland, France all work for a similar model that we can create in Ukraine if we show political will. So let's figure this out. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-03-m0.u94	The Getmans Danilo Aleksandrovich is from the committee's closing statement. Let's go to the vote. One minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-03-m0.u95	Respectful colleagues may have heard my report unheeded. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that we are commissioning a draft committee order to transfer the Bureau of Economic Security from the mandate of the President to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. We're removing this contradiction of the Constitution, we've admitted it -- we're removing this mistake. This body is prescribed in the law by an analyst, other authority, more faithful, not authority, and the order of action must be determined at the level of legal acts. But I'm sure you and I can settle these questions for second reading, all the issues are controversial. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-03-m0.u96	Thank you. Please prepare for the vote. Ready to vote? I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of a proposal by the Committee to take into account the proposed clarifications when preparing for second reading in accordance with article 116 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, draft Law on the Bureau of Economic Security (registration No. 3087-d). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[11:56:30.]] For 245 Decision taken. Thank you. Let's see the factions. The next issue of the agenda is the draft Act amending the Criminal Procedural Code for the Protection of the Rights and Interests of the Child if its parents are detained or detained (registration number 3603). It is suggested that this issue be considered in a simplified manner. Please support and vote. [[11:57:11]] For 231 Decision taken. The word is given to the head of the committee’s committee of law enforcement work, Yacik Yulia Grigorovni.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-03-m0.u97	Thank you. Good afternoon, dear fellows! Before presenting this bill, I would like to ask you a rhetorical question. Say, do you feel justified in depriving your child of parental care, the right to a safe life, to development, to prosperity and security if his parents are drawn to criminal responsibility? Probably not. Today, the 866 Cabinet of Ministers has established a mechanism and order for the care and care of a child who is deprived of parental care. To date, however, no criminal procedural legislation has determined who should inform such a body of care and care. Who should such a child remain with if his parents are not even accused but are suspected of committing a criminal offence? In accordance with article 52 of the Constitution, the obligation to ensure the rights of a child deprived of parental care rests with the State. Therefore, in the bill we propose that we assign a duty to the pretrial investigation body, to the investigator, to inform such a body of care and care that the suspect, who is being taken into custody as a precautionary measure, or to the detained person, has young children. Profile committees and GNEU gave a positive conclusion to the bill and recommended it for adoption in the first reading. That is why I look forward to supporting the House of the Bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-03-m0.u98	Thank you. Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss this issue? Should We Vote for Break? Vote. I am voting on the proposal to adopt a draft Act amending the Criminal Procedural Code for the Protection of the Rights and Interests of the Child if its parents are detained or detained (Registration No. 3603). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. Based on the base. [[11:59:53]] For 307 Decision taken. 12:00, break to 12:30.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-03-m0.u99	Please invite the people's deputies into the hall. Dear colleagues, please take your seats and prepare for work. Faction leaders, please invite the national deputies to the session room. Look, not all the colleagues are here. Then they'll be insulted that we started without them. You know, it's always like this. Yes, it is. We'll be waiting for everyone. Everybody ready to work? All right. Dear colleagues, you have been invited to consider the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the State Budget for Ukraine 2020 (for the road to general use and rehabilitation of emergency bridge buildings). We need to make a decision to put the matter in order of the day. I remind you that this requires 226 votes from the Ukrainian national deputies. Ready to vote? Is everyone ready to vote? I'll bet you a vote. Please support and vote. [[12:44:59]] For 234 Decision taken. It is suggested that the ad hoc procedure be followed for consideration and decision-making at this plenary session. Please support and vote. [[12:45:24]] For 237 Decision taken. It is suggested that this issue be considered in a simplified manner. Please support and vote. [[12:45:44]] For 234 Decision taken. The vice president of the Committee on Budget Affairs, Truhin Alexander Mikolayovich, is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-03-m0.u100	Dear Dmitri Alexanderovich! Dear National Deputies! Your opinion is proposed by a large comprehensive bill on changes to the State Budget. In general, the bill proposes to standardise the financial security of a number of important ministries, the direction of our country's development: to provide the necessary fund for the payment of work to the authorities, which is very important; to channel its share to compensate workers for the reduction in the labour force's marginality; to pay for the provision of money to military personnel, the State Border Service; to avoid deficits in food for those convicted in prison; and to implement a system for auto-fixing road safety violations. Some of the money is also allocated to critical infrastructure. The Budget Committee, with the participation of the Ministry of Finance and the Court of Auditors, is working on a bill that takes into account the findings of the Chief Scientific and Expert Office and the Minfin and the proposals made. As a result, it is proposed to clarify some of the provisions of the bill, such as the balancing of the budgetary indicators envisaged by individual expenditure and the introduction of the necessary technical and legal clarifications to reconcile legal norms. The Committee on Budget Affairs concluded that it had decided to recommend to the Supreme Council Bill 3991 to include in the agenda of the day session and the results of the first reading to be adopted on the basis and as a law in general, taking into account the Committee's proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-03-m0.u101	Thank you. Please sign up: two in, two in, two in. Clemensa Julia Leonidivna.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-03-m0.u102	Dear colleagues, in connection with the Prime Minister's recent statements, with the large budget deficit and many other problems that have accumulated with the state budget, this issue needs to be addressed in a comprehensive manner. We see that the second wave or the first wave of the coronavirus, the coronary pandemic, and we need money, because the Ministry and the Cabinet of Ministers have actually dropped all the funds, and there's no funds. So let's look at the changes to the budget in a comprehensive way, not in a separate way, out of context, projects and programs. So this time, we're going to hold on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-03-m0.u103	Vitatrovich Volodymyr Mihajlovich. Hončarenko Alexyyyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-03-m0.u104	Alexei Hotcharenko, European Solidarity, Clothing. I welcome everyone, and the era of poverty has finally ended, and the promise made by Zelensky has finally been fulfilled. And to celebrate this, we're being asked by the people's servants to take money out of subsidies. Take the money out of the grant, again. Dear citizens of Ukraine, right now the Supreme Council will be voting on how to take money out of subsidies, social protection of citizens and pay back. Give it to who? I'm reading to you, dear friends: the government -- one, the Ministry of Justice -- two, the Ministry of Justice -- three, the State Bureau of Investigation, friends, the D.B.I., they're all ours, the poor, the State Bureau of Repression -- four, and so on. Taking the money out of subsidies, when the price of gas rises, it is already 45 percent higher by September, and the next increase will be. But we don't have to help people. We're taking the money. A complete disaster in the treasury account, there is virtually zero, after payment of the final payment on Ukraine’s international obligations, there is zero. Today, the Treasury does not pay the bills that go in there, but we are offered to give the money again. Who? To the Silovics, who will continue to drive away the opposition that comes out, say something, say something on the canals, and in general prevent our wonderful President Zelenski from living in his state residence, riding on a state cruiser, flying state planes. We are the only ones who interfere with his wonderful life. That's what people's servants do! But whose servants are they?Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-03-m0.u105	Slavic Antonina Kerimovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-03-m0.u106	I'll give you my word.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-03-m0.u107	Sifric Nestor Ivanovich, turn on the microphone, please. From the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-03-m0.u108	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-03-m0.u109	Excuse me, Nestor Ivanovich. Then we go to the vote. Are there no more speakers? Invite the national deputies to the hall. Get Nestor Ivanovich on time first.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-03-m0.u110	Thank you for your validity. Dear colleagues, I don't understand, we have a monofraction, which is at the same time a monolithous one, and a power called "ministers of the people." Where is the money for the people? So, as we looked at, there are no doctors, there are no teachers, there are no gymnasiums, and there are no roads. Well, tell me, you didn't learn to steal, did you? However, it is logical that money should be given to the forces so that those who steal on the roads do not catch it. Ah, you still want to build bridges, don't you? I'm surprised, to be honest. I wonder how irresponsible you can be to your own people who have supported you so much a year ago. You know, disappointment is terrible, and you and your cynicism show even more people that you have long forgotten who you are serving. You serve exclusively to the authorities and to yourself because such changes to the budget are insolence, disrespect, cynicism, especially when people are suffering, limited in their ability to gain income. If you've found the extra money to redistribute it, then perhaps it's worth giving it to stabilize and raise the level of retirement, to help people who can't make utility payments. And finally, remember that you serve people, and so far, you make people serve you. Shame!
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-03-m0.u111	Prepare for the vote, please take your seats. Dear colleagues, while the national MPs are being gathered, please tell the committee on the ground and, in general, no objection? There's no objection. Who's against it? If you don't mind, you can raise your hand. I can see that. Who else? A potter's van? I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the State Budget for Ukraine 2020 (for road traffic for general use and rehabilitation of emergency bridge buildings) (registration No. 3991). Ready to vote? Ready to vote, I ask? Please support and vote. [[12:54:44]] For 240 Decision taken. In accordance with part two of article 116 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules, I am voting on the proposal to cut back on half of the sentences and allowances and prepare for the second reading of the bill (registration number 3991). Please support and vote. [[12:55:20]] For 237 Decision taken. Thank you. The next issue of the agenda is the draft Law 3491, the Ukrainian Act on Amendments to the National Service Act on the Candidate Reserve, with proposals by the President of Ukraine since 24.07.2020. The following minutes are proposed: a report by the President's representative, within 5 minutes, answers to questions from MPs and groups, up to 15 minutes, a report by the committee head, up to 5 minutes. Then we go to the vote. There are five suggestions from the President. Each of the proposals shall be voted on separately. The request is not to depart so that we do not wait for the vote. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Ruslan Alexiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-03-m0.u112	Dear Head, dear colleagues! Ukraine's Supreme Council passed the Act on Amendments to Ukraine's State Service Act on the Candidate Reserve was not signed by the President of Ukraine on such grounds. First. The law that has been signed provides for a change in the substantive terms of the contracts of persons who have been assigned to vacant public service posts for a period of quarantine, namely, a reduction in the duration of such contracts from the quarantine period and two months after it has been abolished to two months from the date of entry into force of the specified law. The proposals of the President of Ukraine emphasize that this is not in line with part one of article 8 of the Ukrainian Constitution. Thus, article 8 of the Constitution stipulates that the rule of law is recognized and enforced in Ukraine. At the same time, the Constitutional Court has repeatedly stressed that the principle of the rule of law includes legal certainty and legal predictability. That is why the President of Ukraine proposes to reinstate the deadlines for contracts of persons appointed to public service posts for quarantine. To grant persons assigned to public service posts for a quarantine period the right to be appointed or reassigned to equivalent or lower vacant positions in these authorities without having to conduct a competition. The other one. The Head of State, together with the need to ensure that the Government restores public service contracts, considers it appropriate to increase the composition of the High Service Commission in a comprehensive manner. And the third. In addition, with a view to upholding one of the principles of the State Service, as defined by the Ukrainian State Service Act, the principle of stability in the work of State officials in category "A" and ensuring that they are guaranteed by law independent of changes in the political leadership of the State and State authorities, the President of Ukraine proposes to deprive the subject of additional grounds for the termination of the public service on his own initiative in connection with the appointment of the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Minister or the Head of the Central Executive Authority. At the same time, preserve the rights of "A" civil servants who have already been released for the stated reasons. Please support the proposals made by the President of Ukraine to the Ukrainian Act on Amendments to the National Service Act on the Candidate Reserve. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-03-m0.u113	Ruslan Alexiyovich, questions. Rule number one: a minute -- a question, two minutes -- an answer. From the MP factions and groups, please sign up for the questions. Coltunovich Alexander Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-03-m0.u114	Thank you. Dear Ruslana Alexiyovich, we have just voted before this bill on amending the budget, and there have been such shameful phenomena that they don't even think about. I keep my mouth shut for 150 million at the stadium or tens of millions at cultural buildings. How can your bill make it impossible in the future for such personnel policies and people in power to deal with such schematics? They set you up, your honest name, the President, and the whole idea of new faces. You know what I'm talking about? And even so, experts, reformers and many other things -- they have discredited such bright ideas, and now we have this negative result. How do we get through this in the future and so that more of these schematic laws are still energetic in this room so that we don't ever have them in the session room again? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-03-m0.u115	Thank you. This is why there is an institution of the President of Ukraine in order to allow the President of Ukraine to veto the decisions that are being made here if there is a flaw in the walls of this important single legislative body. And this is exactly the example when the President of Ukraine outlined his position, referring to the Constitution of Ukraine, to world practice, to the European practice of forming a public service, and asking the Supreme Council of Ukraine to make such inconsequential mistakes as had been adopted in the previous law. And I sincerely hope that the Supreme Council Hall will support the President's proposals and correct those mistakes, and the President will then be pleased to be able to continue to sign the fine laws that are certainly adopted in the walls of this Parliament. Thank you, Alexander Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-03-m0.u116	Fedina Sofia Romanovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-03-m0.u117	Please pass the word to Rostislav Pavlovka.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-03-m0.u118	Pauline, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-03-m0.u119	Dear Ruslan Alexiyovich, please tell us how it relates to the "social elevators", "renovation of power", "honest elections", for example, the fourth observation by the President of Ukraine that all those who have been elected to positions can actually be appointed without a competition and beyond? So all the things that we see in the media, all the things that we see from places that are, in a mild sense, questionable assignments, will now simply be legalized and translated into a permanent basis. And how does this relate to ideological thesis? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-03-m0.u120	Thank you for asking. You may have heard my report carefully about the fact that, just when we are talking about the principle of the assignment of public service, we must proceed from the fundamental principles provided for in article 8 of the Constitution of Ukraine, the main ones of which are legal predictability and legal expectation. And that's why there was an option, and it doesn't go down to just one parameter that they said, but there's the possibility of leaving, releasing or transferring to a lower paid position. So this could already be the competence of the superior authority. And once again, this is the President's proposal, and the Hall can consider it and make its decision. But once again, I urge that this is the approach that the President believes he fully understands the situation of article 8 of the Ukrainian Constitution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-03-m0.u121	Lozinski Roman Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-03-m0.u122	Please tell Ironman Jaroslav Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-03-m0.u123	Ironman Jaroslav.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-03-m0.u124	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to highlight two points in this law: the second and fourth, especially the fourth. What is he talking about? During quarantine, the Ministry of Finance specifically extended the rule that they could no longer appoint people. Thus, this fourth paragraph, if he, God forbid, is voted, these men who were appointed in the day, remember how we, for example, had our head of taxation, from which we now hear about the corruption scandals, appointed in a day. That's the point they want to leave these people behind for good. So I'm asking you very much, in order to maintain a normal public service, paragraph four needs to be broken down. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-03-m0.u125	Thank you. I don't understand the question, but I appreciate your position. As a national MP, you have the right to vote or to vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-03-m0.u126	Polakov Anton Eduardoovich. Eutusek Sergey Mikolaiovich. Alona Ivanovna's starch.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-03-m0.u127	Alona's splinter, Fatherland faction. I have questions on two proposals from Mr. President, who I believe do not fit the Rules and common sense. It's a friend's offer and a fourth offer. You see what the problem is, these proposals, the President promises what is not in the primary law. The president is making proposals and vetoing standards that we haven't changed in our primary law. It's an expansion of the composition of a senior civil service commission by two people close to the President's Administration, and it's an attempt to preserve in the positions of those people who have been assigned without a quarantine as if for a period of quarantine, now save forever. GNEU considers this a violation of the Rules. I consider this a violation of the Rules. And please stop this violation from voting second and fourth sentences. And since we have exactly zero words and zero letters on the President's proposal in the prime law, I have a question for you, Ruslan Alexiyovich. So what is it going to be if any number is divided by zero?
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-03-m0.u128	Dear Alona Ivanovna, I am very good at math because I graduated from math school. But I think your question, it hardly has anything to do with this law. If you want, we can continue the discussion with you on the characteristics of mathematical approaches in the formation of the state's legal policy. It's not a problem. And as for your observation, I would just like to point out that, unfortunately, the Supreme Council of Ukraine regulations clearly do not provide for both the possibility and the inability to veto those provisions that were included in the bill. Again, this is a mistake in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And I think just considering the possibility of the people's deputies who are here and having the right to legislative initiative, we can fix it. And for the moment, I don't see any violations of the Rules in this position. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-03-m0.u129	Buzansky Maksim Arkadyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-03-m0.u130	Dear Ruslan Alexiyovich, do I rightly understand you're suggesting that we, Parliament, take political responsibility for continuing our work without the competitions of all the civil servants that Kabmin has granted for the quarantine period? So there will be no contest, and their work will continue because of our support for this law, so will we be responsible for what they are? Am I right?
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-03-m0.u131	Dear Maxime Arkadyovich, I'll report back to you in the position of President of Ukraine, which goes back to the next. In this approach, the Office of the President and the President of Ukraine defined a violation of article 8 of the Ukrainian Constitution, to which he pointed, and referred the bill back to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Next, once again, everyone has the right to determine whether or not to vote, but this is the position of the President of Ukraine, and he sees this violation of the provisions relating to the rule of law, which are enshrined in article 8 of the Constitution of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-03-m0.u132	Thank you, Ruslan Alexiyovich. The chairman of the Committee on Public Authority, Local Self - Government, Regional Development, and the construction of Kornienko Alexander Sergiyovich is invited to attend. And invite the national deputies to the hall. Then we go to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-03-m0.u133	Honorary colleagues, the Committee on Government, Local Self-Government, Regional Development and Urbanization discussed at its meeting on September 2 of the President's proposal to the Supreme Council of Ukraine on July 3rd of the Act on Amendments to the Law on State Service on the Candidate Reserve. Supporting the need to bring in accordance with article 8 of the Constitution of Ukraine and the provisions of the law of competent reinforcement of the composition of the commission on matters of the higher body of the public service, as well as the independence of the public officials of category "A" from the changes in the political leadership of the State, the committee approved the recommendation to the Supreme Council of Ukraine in accordance with part four, fifth, of article 135 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Rules of Procedure to adopt all the proposals of the President of Ukraine to the Act on Amendments to the Law on the State Service on the Candidate Reserve and to adopt the law as a whole. Should all proposals by the President of Ukraine and the law as a whole be adopted, propose to the Supreme Council of Ukraine to entrust the committee in preparing the text of the law for signature by the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to undertake its technical and legal work in conjunction with the Chief Legal Authority of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-03-m0.u134	Dear colleagues, take your seats, prepare for the vote, please. Five proposals by the President of Ukraine are now being put to the vote, each individually. Alexander Sergiyovich, I think you two should speak in. No, you don't? Does everyone have charts?
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-03-m0.u135	They're on their hands.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-03-m0.u136	They all have tables. Okay. Then I put my offer in order of order: first, second, third, fourth, fifth. Then we vote in favour of the law as a whole. Ready to vote? I'm betting on a vote of number one for the President of Ukraine. Please. Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[13:09:56]] For 211 The decision is not taken. Proposal number two of the President of Ukraine. I'll put her to the vote. Please support and vote. [[13:10:20]] For 178. The decision is not taken. Proposal No. 3 of the President of Ukraine. Please support and vote. [[1:10:42]] For 260 Decision taken. Proposal number four of the President of Ukraine. I'll put her to the vote. Please support and vote. [[13:11:05]] For-162 The decision is not taken. Proposal No. 5 of the President of Ukraine I'll put her to the vote. Please support and vote. [[13:11:27]] For 221 The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, I am now voting on the proposal for partial consideration of proposals. Not at all, Sergey Volodymyrovich, it's very good to hear you. I am voting on the proposal for partial consideration of the President of Ukraine's proposals and acceptance as a whole, which requires 300 votes, the Ukrainian Act on Amendments to the National Service Act on the Candidate Reserve, with proposals by the President of Ukraine dated 24.07.2020 (Registration No. 3491). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[13:12:40]] For 255 The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, there is a proposal to send this bill to the committee for further elaboration. This is the Rules, Sergey Volodymyrovich, let's not get involved. I would like to vote on the proposal to refer the Ukrainian Law on Amendments to the National Service Act on the Candidate Reserve with proposals by the President of Ukraine dated 24.07.2020 (registration number 3491). Ready to vote? [[B in m in s a l in]] This is 135 articles, if you don't remember, I remind you of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules. Please support and vote. [[13:13:47]] For 229 Decision taken. Thank you. Next question. [[B in m in s a l in]] Show the factions, please. The next issue of the agenda is the draft Act amending the Law on Scientific and Scientific and Technological Activities of Ukraine to clarify certain provisions (registration number 0898). A request not to part. Is anyone going to insist on editing? No, it's not. I'll bet you a vote. Please take your seats. Ready to vote? I am voting on the proposal to adopt a second reading and, in general, with the necessary technical and legal regulations, the draft Law amending the Ukrainian Law on Scientific and Technological Activities to clarify certain provisions (registration No. 0898). Ready to vote? Please identify yourself and vote. [[13:15:04]] For 323 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Thank you. Alexander Sergiyovich Korniyenko is from the procedure. You were talking to me.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-03-m0.u137	There is a request for a higher order of the day.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-03-m0.u138	No, I don't. Put it in the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-03-m0.u139	There's a request for a 3,898 to move above the clock so that we can make it today.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-03-m0.u140	Is that what the SAP regulation means?
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-03-m0.u141	Yes, the Order on the appointment of representatives of the Supreme Council of Ukraine as part of the commission to hold an administrative competition in the Specialised Anti-Corruption Prosecutor's Office.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-03-m0.u142	I'll put this motion to the vote, the room will be determined. It's 3898, right? 3898 – SAP. I am voting on the proposal to change the order of the debate at this plenary session, namely, to move now to the issue of registration number 3898, this is the draft Order appointing the representatives of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to participate in a competition for administrative positions in the Specialised Anti-Corruption Prosecutor's Office. Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[13:16:52]] For 244 Decision taken. Let's see the factions. So let's get to the point. Don't scream, please. Let's move on to the question. You are invited to consider the draft Ordinance on the Designation of Representatives of the Supreme Council of Ukraine as part of a competition for administrative positions in the Specialised Anti-Corruption Prosecutor’s Office (registration number 3898). It is suggested that this issue be considered in a simplified manner. Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[13:17:59]] For 249 Decision taken. The chairman of the Committee on the Law Protection of the Monastery, Denis Anatoliyovich, is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-03-m0.u143	Good afternoon, dear fellows! Your opinion is suggested to consider a draft Supreme Council Regulation on the appointment of representatives of the Supreme Council of Ukraine as part of a competition for administrative positions in the Specialised Anti-Corruption Prosecutor’s Office (registration number 3898). At its meeting on July 17, this year, the committee, by way of a rating vote, appointed representatives to be presented for approval by the Supreme Council today. Let me remind you, this is 7 of the 11 members of this committee. The draft decree is given to you. It's just a name. Vlasova Hanna Petrovna, Gudjal Andry Andriyovich, Drozd Alexei Yuriovich, Kutz Vitaly Mikolaiovich, Nauroticska Viácheslav Aleksandrovitch, Romanuk Bogdan Vasilovich, Sobol Eugene Yuriovich. They are appropriately supported by representatives of the "Serving of the People" faction, the "Opposition Platform for Life" faction and the "Trust" group. I would like to point out that tomorrow, if we don't appoint seven representatives from 11 to this commission today, the commission will be in charge of four persons appointed by the Board of Prosecutors. They are representatives of international organizations, and it is up to them to announce the competition and conduct it in the time and stage defined by the commission. Therefore, the Supreme Council needs to determine today whether it supports the proposed list of candidates. If not, then tomorrow will be a completely different composition of the commission without representatives of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Therefore, I would like to ask for the support of certain candidates and to vote accordingly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-03-m0.u144	Please sign up: two for, two for, and two against the MP factions and groups. Venislavski Fedir Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-03-m0.u145	Honorable Presidium, Honorable People’s Deputies, and Fellow Workers! We have dealt with the question of delegation to a competitive commission from the selection of candidates for administrative positions in the Specialised Anti-Corruption Prosecutor's Office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on a number of occasions, and we have failed and failed. I think the idea of fighting corruption in Ukraine is one of the most important things in today's phase with you. Our work with you in the Supreme Council. Leaving a competition commission without the Supreme Council representatives will mean that the Supreme Council has removed this important task. As far as the candidates are concerned, they're part of this competitive committee. I want to say that the vast majority of them are known professionals in the criminal process of combating corruption offences, well-known representatives of higher education institutions, scientists who are professionally involved in combating this negative phenomenon, corruption. What does it mean to have experience in the fight against corruption? This means that those who are involved in scientific research into the causes of corruption understand the ways of overcoming this phenomenon are, of course, those people who fully meet the qualifications of those who make up for it. to the candidates for the post of members of the Competition Commission. That is why I call on all Ukrainian national deputies not to get away from this important problem, to cast their votes and to delegate to a competition committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. They're worthy people. And I call for their support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-03-m0.u146	Klimpush-Cincadze Ivanna Orestovna. Hončarenko Alexyyyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-03-m0.u147	Alexei Hotcharenko, European Solidarity. Dear friends, what we are now being offered is really about what the Servants of the People have already captured, all of which are, branches of power in our country, on every branch they're already sitting on, they want to take over, and the SAP is the Specialised Anti-Corruption Prosecutor's Office. To that end, the composition of the commission is completely changed, which has to identify the new SAP manager after they finally got rid of the past. And these people don't, unfortunately, have the anti-corruption experience, which is clearly prescribed in the law. Moreover, today the Ambassador of the European Union in Ukraine and other representatives of our international partners have issued his statement saying that the fight against corruption is the basis for Ukraine's cooperation with the EU, starting with visalessness and completing financial assistance. Do we need financial help? Well, maybe it's not necessary if Zelensky can already print you money. What do we need? Well, in principle, Zelensky has turned the car into a failure, and now he's a failure. So maybe he doesn't need it either. But, excuse me, what are you doing? You're fully trying to take everything that's in this country under you to use these tools, the anti-opposition force, in order to cover up your own corruption. What are not the cases involving Jermak and his brother? Why aren't people's deputies being investigated by the People's Servant? And now, along with Venedict's pocket money, they still want to make their SAP prosecutor's pocket money, and they've already decided which of the people's "ministers" are going to be dragged there. You can't let that happen. It's just a red button.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-03-m0.u148	Wasilenko Lesia. Juršin Jaroslav Ivanovich. Romanovich, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-03-m0.u149	Dear colleagues! First. I'm going to simplify a few manipulations. You shouldn't read Portnova. If we don't stop today this composition of a commission that doesn't actually have anti-corruption experience and is totally dependent on the President's Office, in principle we'll have more time to appoint a normal commission. To the President's office. Guys, we won't let you steal. You can't assign a person per cent to the SAP position for two reasons. First. This is direct access to the case of the National Anti-Corruption Bureau, and the corresponding merger of the Privat case, the Onechenka case, and so on. You can't let that happen. The other one. Today it's been talked about, it could start a visa-free regime review procedure, which is what they said today. I'm talking to all the majors: how do you explain when, after today's state vote, you're going to lose a car? It's not about money, it's about rights. And the third. I want to think negative about Geo Leros. Emphasis, negative. Why? Because his case will also be dealt with by the dependent SAP leader. All his manipulations, I emphasize, manipulations, will consider this new structure. Guys, let's pick the right, normal ones that fit the law. And we won't let them steal.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-03-m0.u150	Geo Bagravitch Leros. The replica.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-03-m0.u151	Dear national deputies, so you can understand the absurdity of this situation. The secretary of the President of Ukraine, Mr. Jermak, put his pokemons there in order to select a member of the "Slut of the People" faction of Kostin there to the SAP. You can't let that happen, because it's going to be a conflict of interest. Do not vote for this shameful decree! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-03-m0.u152	Vlasenko Sergei Volodymyrovich. Please don't mention anyone. Okay?
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-03-m0.u153	Thank you, Your Honor, Mr. Dmitry Alexanderovich Razumkov. Actually, colleagues, we're really looking at this the third time, and every time we're pushed by people who don't meet the requirements of the law. The law speaks of two criteria. The first is a high reputation.), and the second is the experience of fighting corruption. Well, let's say, with all due respect to respectable candidates, one of the candidates is the founder of Lex Medical's legal company. And, with all due respect, it's the first time I've heard that name, and this person is definitely not with a reputation and certainly not with a high one. The second person proposed is the former prosecutor until November 19th, who is today a lawyer and a partner of the U.S. Attorney's Association. It's nothing, colleagues, it's nothing. The SAP commission should be made up of people to whom there is confidence. That's why the law clearly wrote: "Reputation should be in the legal environment." Unfortunately, for the third time, we are being driven into a situation where the proposed people do not meet these criteria. Last time we were offered candidates by two political forces, although it is actually possible to offer candidates from all political powers. Today we are offered candidates from three political powers. I have a rhetorical question: whether it's an image of a future coalition or not, gentlemen of honor, when they support each other and vote together, and only by the voices of additional factions, not monotonousness, are supported by one or the other decisions. So I urge you not to support this decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-03-m0.u154	Thank you. It's mom's motive. Any other motives? Bacon. Who else? The "minister of the people" was speaking. Then we go to the vote. Invite the national deputies to the hall. Mother Grigory Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-03-m0.u155	Dear National Deputies, in fact, the commission, if they say who is not an expert, is a representative of the Supreme Council, I want to ask everyone a question. At present, four members of the commission from international partners are and exist on the committee. Call me the famous names of the anti-corruption fighters who are already on the committee. Quiet. None. Unknown? Unknown. It's about the staff. For the creation of the commission itself. I want to pay attention to another law enforcement agency, the State Bureau of Investigation. We've played with the boards. We've played with the layoffs at the level of the law. You're on. What do we have? The commission was created, but eight months later, as the director of the DBR. I have a request to support the commission, to run it into a job that will clearly and openly select the leader of the Specialized Anti-Corruption Unit.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-03-m0.u156	Bacunec Pavel Andryovich. Batenko. Oh, Bondar. Okay. Bacon.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-03-m0.u157	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs! The idea of fighting corruption is one of the main ideas in our entire country and hopefully in this room. And today we just have to support the representatives of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to form this competitive commission that will elect people to serve in the Specialised Anti-Corruption Prosecutor's Office. Most of these people are worthy. They are candidates for legal science. They're law professionals. There are even representatives of the Ukrainian Catholic University. And we realize that no matter what they are worthy of, everyone will not like them. And no matter what their high credits are in the field of justice, they won't fit everyone. So today in the hall, I call upon all of us to support our representatives from the Supreme Council of Ukraine to this competitive commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-03-m0.u158	Bondar Victor Vasilovich. Then we vote. Invite all the national deputies to the hall. Turn on the Bondar microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-03-m0.u159	Honourable Dmitre Alexanderovich, distinguished colleagues, is certainly an extremely important commission to create and to have representatives from the Supreme Council in order to be able to professionally form the Specialised Anti-Corruption Prosecutor's Office. But of course, there should be equality represented on this committee so that all factions can present their candidates and see how a democratically open set of people and the approval of people in the Specialised Anti-Corruption Prosecutor's Office is actually going on. We've seen that now, essentially, you know, the majority are squeezing through their candidates' hall just because there's no time to discuss this issue anymore. If not voted on, tomorrow the entire commission will remain in the hands of four members, and essentially under foreign influence, and foreigners will once again form another government body for us. That's why we have to vote. But that's not how it's done, it's supposed to be a representative of every faction, group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-03-m0.u160	Thank you. Ready to vote? Invite the national deputies to the hall, take your seats. I'll bet you a vote. Dear colleagues, please take your seats to find out who's out there. I'm voting on the proposal for the adoption of the project as a whole, the draft Ordinance on the Designation of Representatives of the Supreme Council of Ukraine as part of a commission to hold an administrative competition in the Specialised Anti-Corruption Prosecutor's Office. Ready to vote? Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[13:34:46]] For 221 The decision is not taken. The next question of the agenda – by factions, show that changes are made to section XX of the Tax Code of Ukraine on the characteristics of taxation of heavy investment investment entities (registrations 3761, 3761-1). It is suggested that this issue be considered in a simplified manner. Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[13:35:44]] For 228 Decision taken. The Deputy Chief of the Office of the President of Ukraine, Julius Igorov, is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-03-m0.u161	Good afternoon, Mr. Head! Good day, national MPs! To your attention, Bill 3761 is proposed to amend chapter XX of the Transitional Positions Tax Code on the characteristics of taxation of operators that implement investment projects with significant investments. The bill is related to Bill 3760, which was adopted by the Supreme Council in its first reading, which aims to provide tools and incentives to involve primarily domestic and foreign investors who will implement projects in Ukraine with high value added, with the creation of new jobs. This bill provides for the possibility for such investors to receive part of the tax benefits, from the point of view of the income tax benefit, the value added tax on imports into Ukraine of new equipment. I would also like to point out that the experience of our neighbouring countries and, above all, the countries of Eastern Europe and of the European Union as a whole, demonstrates that these countries are providing unprecedented support to those projects that create new jobs. In fact, by supporting this bill in partnership with Bill 3760, we will create tools to support the creation of new jobs in Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-03-m0.u162	Thank you. The National Deputy of Ukraine, Royal Natalia Yuriovna, is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-03-m0.u163	Dear fellows, the honourable ones are present! It is a good thing that our country has at least begun to speak out about investment. Maybe a little bit more time will pass and they'll start talking about creating jobs, that we need to support our industry today, entrepreneurs, which may be enough to put experiments on the country and on people. I want to give you a few digits. According to the Host, capital investments in Ukraine's economy in the first quarter of 2020 fell by 35 percent, in industry by 36 percent, in agriculture by 44 percent, in transport by 58 percent. Fellows, do you realize that the economy in the country is now in collapse? Do you realize that today's payroll debt in our country has broken the record? That's 3 billion 400 million dollars we have today in debt for salary in the country that you have a crazy budget gap created by the Kodova Fund, unfortunately, it wasn't meant to protect people and protect the medics, but it was aimed at robbing Ukraine and completely harassing the economy today. Therefore, "The Opposition Platform for Life" proposed an alternative bill, whose primary purpose is to combine the social and economic components. Because today, more than ever, we need to invest in Ukraine, but we need an internal investor to work. And today, more than ever, we need to create a level playing field for our Ukrainian business, as for the Ukrainian industry, as for Ukrainian entrepreneurs, for our national producers, today they need to be given the maximum support and attention from the state, and today they need to be protected first. Please support our alternative bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-03-m0.u164	The chairman of the Committee on Finance, Tax, and Customs Policy of the Gethmans Danilo Aleksandrovich is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-03-m0.u165	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, economists have an indicator like the gross stockpiling of capital. Today in Ukraine, this ratio of investment to GDP is between 15 and 18 percent. By comparison, in China, 40 percent. So we need 25 to 30 percent of our economy to grow properly, that's about 44 billion dollars of domestic and external investment. The laws that we're looking at today are aimed at involving these investments both from the inside of the country and from the outside. Outside of that 44 billion, we need 10 billion, at least. We've discussed the bills on the committee. The drafts were supported by a committee supported by a committee for adoption as a basis in the hall, but taking into account the committee’s proposals. As a result of the discussion, the Committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council to include in the agenda of the day and to adopt a bill on the basis of the determination of a specific entity to which the value added tax exemption would apply, to clarify the issue of transfer pricing in an editorial way, and to clarify the conditions for granting relief from tax on the income of enterprises in part of the investment objects. We are convinced that, given these improvements, these bills in a package with a basic bill will guarantee investment in our country, job creation and economic development. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-03-m0.u166	Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss this issue? Please sign up: two in, two in. I invite you to the words of National Deputy Sobolev Sergio Vladislavovich, faction of the political party "The All-Ukrainian Union of the Fatherland".
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-03-m0.u167	Dear colleagues, we're very pleased that the President's Office has finally begun to read a new course called Fatherland. Directly quote the bill, which was introduced from the new course of Fatherland, from the alternative investment activity bill, which I had the privilege of representing from this rostrum, it's a pleasure. At least some clever ideas are finally coming to this room. But, as always, a spoon appears in a barrel of honey. And why does this happen? A great bill, we only require a first-reading vote, we're going to make a whole series of rights, but somehow it has imported things that are incompatible with the support of investment activities. Therefore, the following aspects of this bill are very fundamental to us. Undoubtedly, there should be tax support, and we are grateful that these standards are taken into account. Undoubtedly, there should be support here for the compensation of those investment flows that are made not only by foreign investors but also by Ukrainian investors. There is no doubt that we will uphold the norm that applies to the order of investment and the State's support for these investments. We do not understand a whole series of illogical things that have to do with the terminology, for it will continue to create a corrupt component, and so we will require a second reading. In general, the Fatherland faction will support this bill, because this is the consistent support of our key issues with which Presidential candidate Timoshenko and our faction went to the presidential and parliamentary elections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-03-m0.u168	The word is given to the national deputy of Gončarenko Alexiyyovich, the faction of the political party "European Solidarity". Eugene Nina Petrovna, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-03-m0.u169	Dear colleagues, we should probably start by not seeing a basic draft law prepared for second reading at all. We never knew who would be the ones who could invest more than 30 million euros in the project. We never understood what the criteria for these subjects would still be, and whether, above all, the government authorities are ready for the total control of the benefits to be paid. These are long-term projects. Please understand: From the import of equipment to the construction of the project, there will be a large deadline for production. And at all these stages, the state has to track and control those investments from the state that will be made on a certain scale. I don't see anything good here in these proposed changes, because obviously these projects aren't going to go into any region, they're going to be projects exclusively in Kiev. What about the investors we have in the regions? Please tell me, can an investor in Ukraine create 150 new jobs each year? Can you rely on the list of areas you intend to support? Is there such a thing in the legislation that the list of branches is simply referred to as words? And who defined those areas is completely incomprehensible. I don't think this room should be looking at this bill before we adopt a major project, so that we can understand that eventually the government won't hide, that it doesn't give any words to the President's Office about support, but calculated what it might be worth for the Ukrainian State budget and whether it's worth supporting exclusively investors with 30 million investments -- maybe 1 million euros. And then we're going to run for it.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-03-m0.u170	The word is given to national deputy Yatzenk Anton Volodymyrovich, the MP's Party for the Future.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-03-m0.u171	Dear colleagues, I don't understand certain things in the bill. Why 30 million, or why not 20 or 50 or 5 or 3? I mean, it feels like we have, you know, a movie called "Gentlemen of Good Luck": Samarkand is warm, Mom lives there. And someone specifically describes these standards. This is the first time. Secondly, we understand that any benefits are also taxes on which pensions are spent, wages for other things that are essential today, and roads and hospitals and so on and so on and so on and so forth. In addition, having seen, in principle, this work of the committee of profile, I have great doubt that it would not be, you know, a large casino here again, another that is already pushing the committee of profile, or a lottery of some kind, for example, buys assets for 30 million and will not pay taxes. So I don't think this law should be adopted right now, but we need to develop a normal investment strategy that's focused primarily on industrial development, agrarian production and so on, rather than pushing for some commercial interest under the sign that it's a big investment promotion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-03-m0.u172	Thank you. The word is given to National Deputy Nestor Ivanovich Šufrich, faction "The Opposition Platform for Life".
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-03-m0.u173	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. You know, I've calculated that for the money that's been spent on road construction, you could already build the Lviv-Kiev European quality autobane this year, the new Odessa-Kiev route, the Dnipropetrovsk-Kiev, Kharkiv-Kyiv, Sumi-Kyiv, and the Lviv-Odessa route. So I want to look at the report of Ukraine this year, which was about $5 billion. About that much is being buried in the land of the people's money, just the people you called "ministers." It's about investment. We'll support an alternative bill, we've submitted it as an opposition. Our position is clear and clear and clear, and it's clear: well, what kind of asshole is going to invest money when there's a war in the country?
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-03-m0.u174	Nestor Ivanovich, please let's still be Ukrainian. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-03-m0.u175	I thought you had a different reaction, and I'm moving on to Ukrainian. So today, when we have our opposition, thank God, today is the 40th day that no one has died. That's positive, but no investor is going to come to a country where people are being killed, where there is no stability, and there is no such horde in power. No investor would risk his own private money but would hope to steal government funds. And you find a lot of investors like that. Sadly, however, they have managed to steal only from the road. And people will remember you this winter, believe me. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-03-m0.u176	The word is given to Železniak Jaroslav Ivanovich, a faction of "The Voice", for reasons.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-03-m0.u177	Dear colleagues, this bill will certainly not revolutionize our business climate and will probably not bring in billions of investments, as we would like. This requires long work, including cleaning up law enforcement, including improving tax legislation, and changing the judicial system, which is one of the major problems for investment. But if we promise to create jobs, if we promise to raise wages, if we promise normal conditions to compete, when our country can compete with at least Eastern European countries, we have to accept these changes. I have a lot of observations, like many colleagues on the committee, to this law, and I have a lot of suggestions. But this is exactly the step forward that we have to take before the first reading. And I'm sure that our committee is professionally, like all the other bills, and this one is going to work out for the second reading. So we're going to vote in favour of creating jobs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-03-m0.u178	Dear colleagues, are there still willing to speak? Shall we go to the vote?
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-03-m0.u179	Yeah, let's get to the vote then. Please invite the national deputies to the hall. Ladies and gentlemen, please invite the national deputies to the hall. Ready to vote? I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Law amending Chapter XX "Transitional positions" of the Tax Code of Ukraine on the characteristics of taxation of operators implementing investment projects with significant investments (Registration No. 3761). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[13:54:15]] For 273 Decision taken. The next bill amending Chapter XXI of the Customs Code of Ukraine (Registration No. 3762). It is suggested that this issue be considered in a simplified manner. Please support and vote. [[13:55.]] For 227 Decision taken. The Deputy Chief of the Office of President Kovalov, Julius Igorov, is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-03-m0.u180	Dear Head, honourable national deputies, you are invited to consider the third of the bill package to encourage investment, namely the amendment to the 21st section of the Final and Transitional Provisions of the Ukrainian Customs Code, which is to be made within five years of the implementation of an investment project with significant investment aid from duty-free imports of equipment to be used by such investors to implement such a project. This bill has also been considered on the committee, and we are very grateful to the committee that unanimously supported the adoption of this bill, and we will work together with all members of the committee and the National Deputies to also clearly identify for the second reading the list of equipment that will be subject to this exclusion and relief. I am very grateful to the people's deputies for their support of the previous bill. And in fact, the support of this bill in the first reading will allow us to move as quickly as possible not only from legislative work but also from work to implement these projects and create new jobs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-03-m0.u181	The Deputy Head of the Committee on Finance, Tax and Customs Policy, Mr. Kovalczuk Alexander Volodymyrovich, is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-03-m0.u182	Good afternoon! Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues, you know, I have listened carefully to my colleagues' presentation of the previous bill, which has been destroying the institutions of trust, trust in power and trust in the judiciary, trust in the law enforcement agencies, which are the basis for investing in our country to do so. And the main thing is that right now they're talking about that investment and investment, our authorities are doing nothing, which is not true, even though it's because we're considering these two important bills today. Now essentially. The Committee on Finance, Tax and Customs Policy at its meeting of September 1, 2020, reviewed the draft Ukrainian Law amending Chapter XXI of the Customs Code of Ukraine (Registration No. 3762), submitted by the President of Ukraine. After drafting the bill, members of the profile committee supported the direction of the bill, but at the same time they made a number of comments and suggestions. In particular, with regard to the need to list in the new subparagraph 15, paragraph 4, of Section XXI of the Customs Code of Ukraine the list of codes and goods according to the UKTZED to which the draft law on exemption from taxation may be distributed. Also, the lack of information in the explanatory note on the impact of the bill on the budget indicators, the lack of appropriate economic calculations, the supply of sources of additional budget revenues may cause imbalances. It should be noted that the requirements laid down in paragraphs 3 and 4 of paragraph 15 of the bill, which are set out in paragraphs 2 and 3, of the sub-paragraph, should be noted. in paragraph 74 of Bill No. 3761 on changes in the characteristics of subject taxation and so on. And there's also a number of comments that have been made by the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration. Taking into account what has been said, the committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft Law on Change.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-03-m0.u183	Thank you. Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss? Please sign up: two for, two for, please. Please, Vladimir Igorovich Ariev, faction of the political party "European Solidarity".
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-03-m0.u184	Please pass the word to Nina Petrovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-03-m0.u185	Nina Petrovn Jujanin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-03-m0.u186	Dear colleagues, I still want you to listen. We now look like the state can afford certain benefits to certain categories of taxpayers. The benefits are large - scale, without any control. In the pre-election campaign, both your President and many leaders who claimed to be president talked about the introduction, the introduction of a tax on capital in Ukraine. You see, we had a few drafts yesterday on the exemption from income tax. Today, we are looking at a wide range of tax exemptions for 15 years. We know that 2 billion dollars is not taxed at this time, during the reporting period. It is time for everyone to introduce and encourage each entity to invest in the entrepreneurial activities of the business tax exemption, in the acquisition of basic funds, in the creation of jobs. You're deceiving yourself when you say that these laws ensure the creation of jobs. You see, all the regions now say that you are the criteria that are set out in the main Law 3760, do not match the vision of the regions, the decentralization. What is the view of those who make local budgets and spend them on people? Clearly, these laws are written for those who already have a purpose, that is, those who have already run to certain offices to have such a right, and they will be proud of it. If they find one or two people willing to make money, that's all. I call for a total result for all subjects of entrepreneurial activity, let's go back right now. President's office, you've been actively advertised.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-03-m0.u187	The word is given to the National Deputy Nikolainek Andrija Ivanovich, a faction of the political party of the All-Ukrainian "Fatherland" union.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-03-m0.u188	Nikolainka, the Motherland faction. We'll support the bill, as we did the previous one. Indeed, it would be desirable for the standards of application to be for smaller investment projects and for the codes to be correctly written. I hope that between the first and the second readings we can fix that. It's a good thing that the representatives of our profile committee admitted that we wanted to accept it so much faster, that we did make technical mistakes. But it's important to understand that without investment incentives, without stimulating job creation, there's nothing going to be. We see that there is no trust in the judicial system, we see that there is no trust in the law enforcement system, at least let's create what we can do here in the hall, it's investment, tax and customs benefits to at least compete with our immediate neighbors. We can't afford direct subsidies as not a very rich country, but we can definitely allow and stimulate business, buy new equipment, create new jobs, especially in important areas for the country, in the areas of manufacturing, where we will create added value in Ukraine. I'm very glad that sometimes not under the flag of the opposition forces or at least the consolidated, or even under the flag of the President, there are smart initiatives. So we're going to support and suggest that we work together on the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-03-m0.u189	The word is given to the People's Deputy of Polack Anton Eduardoovich, the MP's Party for the Future.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-03-m0.u190	Anton Polyakov, Montenegro, parliamentary group of political Party for the Future. Dear colleagues, we've been told a lot about investments here. The Prime Minister who went on his own in a strange direction, but there are no investors, and someone, let's say, the head of one of the factions that went to Davos and said that we would just have a sea of investment. Where are the investments, by the way? Have you ever talked to real investors about what they need? They don't need your benefits, they're willing to pay all the taxes because that's how they work in their countries. They need us to have a legal state, so we have a court working for us to have law enforcement agencies that are independent. Independent of interference. Which we don't have. So we don't have the same investment. What do you take? You've been given the opportunity to have someone in charge, come back, benefits that don't have our entrepreneurs who for years, decades, create jobs, invest their money. What do you allow them to do now? By 2035, taxes are taxed on imported goods imported into Ukraine’s customs territory. [[do not hear]] the customs mode of import of equipment, equipment imported by the investor. So everything that's going to be imported by these incomprehensible companies, everything absolutely -- cars, some goods -- they're not going to be taxed. You're robbing our country. That's because we're not good enough both at the customs office and at the tax office. You don't really understand what you're doing right now. You're destroying the Ukrainian business. Started with the FOPs, ended up big. And now you're allowing all foreigners to enter our territory. For this.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-03-m0.u191	The word is given to the People's Deputy, Šufrich Nestor Ivanovich, faction "The Opposition Platform for Life".
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-03-m0.u192	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. Dear colleagues, of course, stimulating is a good thing when it is at the expense of something to stimulate. When we have a hole in the hole in the budget, when we can no longer pay wages to the energy industry, to the miners, we're still passing laws that will reduce the revenue of the state budget, and there's no prospect of an increase. I'm looking again at the increase in the budget of Ukraine. I'm just trying to make sure the roads are good. But to increase the budget of Ukraine almost three times, without seeing an increase in the revenue of the state budget, is irresponsible. With this money, we could fully restore the health - care system to 2013 levels. Now it's being funded by medicine twice as much as it was before the famous events of the 14th year. People today pay for their health. In fact, they're closing that hole that was created by the state. And this is the so-called medical reform that is now unfolding and intensifying. Today we have to do everything we can to support and stimulate a domestic producer. What are we doing? By such laws, we stimulate actual imports and underestimate national currency. So my firm position and the position of our political power that we have to stimulate our own manufacturer, not push imports. And such a bill is irresponsible, anti-national, and it cannot be adopted today. First, make peace in countries, stabilize the situation, and then dissipate money. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-03-m0.u193	The word is given to Bakuña Paul Andriyovich, a group called "Trust". Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-03-m0.u194	Dear Lord Chairman! Dear National Deputies! Paul Bakunec, Lvivščina, MP group "Trust". Clearly, foreign investment is the best engine and engine for developing the economy in Ukraine. And in fact, this bill, like the previous bill, is not a package, it is systematically linked to this 3760 bill on State support for investment in Ukraine. It is by this bill that we propose to amend the Customs Code of Ukraine and to exempt taxation when the investor imports equipment into the customs territory of Ukraine. Well, given that the bill and its implementation will definitely stimulate the involvement of investments in Ukraine's economy, the trust MP group will vote in favour in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-03-m0.u195	Clemensa Julia Leonidivna. Then we go to the vote. Please invite the national deputies to the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-03-m0.u196	Dear colleagues, I am so impressed by the monotonous separation of personality. Two months ago, everyone here was screaming for a localization and for an internal investor. Today we are opening customs territory and gateways for Ukraine, for equipment and goods without limitation, without a list of goods and without anything. That is, not enough of what we're losing to the state budget, we're still running everything that can only be launched in Ukraine. So I want to tell you that's not how it's done. There is only one economic state investment policy, one cannot support local producers with one hand and another to launch import products and equipment. So, colleagues, identify yourself, and we will offer a specific list of equipment that our manufacturers need in order to become competitive in the global and international markets. And that's the only way we're ready to support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-03-m0.u197	Thank you. Please prepare for the vote. Ready to vote? I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Act amending Chapter XXI of the Customs Code of Ukraine (Registration No. 3762). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[14:11:39]] For 262 Decision taken, thank you. Jacenko Anton Volodymyrovich. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-03-m0.u198	Mr. Speaker, the request to put the question to a vote and bring the Law 3659-d closer together is a change on the State Budget regarding the mortgage, and we all as majority officials are getting a lot of housing references and we can't answer anything to our voters. So it's an important law, we've cut the deadlines even, but the request now that we look at it, there's a second reading already. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-03-m0.u199	Dear colleagues, there's an offer to move on to the 3659-d bill now. Is there no objection? Who's got it? Alexander Rafkatovich, do you have it? Put it to a vote? We can. I am voting on the proposal to change the order of today's session, namely, to consider a bill (registration number 3659-d) to amend the Ukrainian National Budget for 2020 on the provision of State guarantees on portfolio basis and the implementation of financial credit mechanisms for Ukrainian citizens' housing. Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[14:13:28]] For 268. Decision taken. First question, correct, Puziczuk. Are you insisting? Please turn on the Puzichuku microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-03-m0.u200	Andrew Puziyczuk, Fatherland faction, Zitomirščina. Colleagues, we support the development of mortgage lending programs, housing, but that's not what this bill is about. That's what Fatherland is definitely up against, that's the sixth attempt to run under different numbers, under different laws, state guarantees. That's what's being eliminated from future income. What are the conditions? Ununderstanding conditions. Who will issue loans under State guarantees that will never return, which will be paid to Ukrainian taxpayers? Our faction makes a strong statement, and I urge my amendment to rule out portfolio guarantees. Thank you. Please support my amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-03-m0.u201	Do you insist on voting? I'm betting on the vote number one of the Puzichuk People's Deputies. She's been rejected by the committee. Please identify and vote. And to the rostrum, I invite the people's deputy Trukin from the committee. [[14:15:14]] For-72
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-03-m0.u202	The decision is not taken. The next amendment is Amendment 3. National MP Puziyczuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-03-m0.u203	Andrew Puziyczuk, Fatherland faction, Zitomirščina. Fellows, you have rejected the bill five times, and nothing has changed except the norm, the name, and the number. I'm asking you to reject him this time. It's a bill that definitely doesn't contribute to economic development, it's a withdrawal from the government budget. There's nothing in this bill where they think about people. It's not for doctors or doctors, so it's going to go instead of channelling targeted funds and providing people with the opportunity to develop the economy, it's going to be giving out the money, it's going to be re-establishing the "people's servants" scheme. I'll insist on my amendment. And please support her. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-03-m0.u204	Thank you. Dear colleagues, there is an amendment to the vote number 3 of the Puzijczuk People's Deputy. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[14:16:44]] For-55
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-03-m0.u205	The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. Dear colleagues, please invite the national deputies to the hall because there are three adjustments left. Number four, Frolov. Don't insist. The 5th revision of Puziyczuk and the 8th of Puziyczuk, after which we vote. 5 revisions, Puzichuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-03-m0.u206	Andrew Puziyczuk, "The Fatherland" faction. Colleagues, look, this amendment, it's very important, so it's a situation where the actions of Minfin would conflict with the State Budget Act. And that's definitely not an economic development. Please support my adjustments. Let's think about the development of the country today. The economy is falling, GDP is falling, unemployment is rising. You're instead of creating real job creation mechanisms, identifying yourself with those sectors that are going to be locomotives, you're re-creating. Explain to me, to the audience, what has changed? Why did you decide to support the bill that you rejected five times today? I insist on my amendment. And our faction is firmly opposed to the fact that taxpayers' money is being paid in mysterious ways to whom.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-03-m0.u207	Do you insist on voting? I'm betting on the 5th vote. Please identify and vote. It's rejected by the committee. [[14:18:33]] For-49 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. And extreme readjustment, number eight, and also the Puzichuk People's Deputy. And then we vote for the law as a whole. Invite the national deputies to the hall. 8 edits, Puziyczuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-03-m0.u208	Andrew Puziyczuk, Fatherland faction, Zitomirščina. My colleagues, listen very carefully. This amendment applies to the provision of housing for Ukrainian citizens. I propose double the cost to actually create an active mechanism. Explain to the electorate, explain to the citizens and the TV set why you do not support the offer of housing? That's a positive norm. Why are you rejecting my amendment? I insist on the amendment, please support it. I don't vote for this bill at all. The "Fatherland" faction is strongly opposed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-03-m0.u209	Let's put it to a vote. Please invite the national deputies to the hall. Draft Law. I'll bet you a vote. And one more question: Are we all ready to vote? Are you insisting on the 8th? Okay. Then I put to the vote 8 of Puziyczuk's turn. Please identify and vote. [[14:20:21]] For-75 The decision is not taken. I am voting on the proposal to adopt a second reading and, in general, with the necessary technical and legal regulations, the draft Law amending the Ukrainian Law on the State Budget for Ukraine for 2020 on the provision of State guarantees on the portfolio basis and the introduction of financial and credit mechanisms for providing Ukrainian citizens with housing (registration number 3659-d). Ready to vote? Everybody ready? No, we're not calling it a break. Everybody ready? Please support and vote. [[14:21:29]] For 268. Decision taken. The law is passed in general. The next issue of the agenda is the draft Law amending the Code of Bankruptcy Procedures (for debt relief measures in the wholesale electricity market) (registration No. 2390). It's a second reading. Is anyone going to insist on the readouts? Oh, here's all the adjustments. I'll bet you a vote. Please, Dmitri Andryovich. Just a minute. Please prepare for the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-03-m0.u210	Thank you, Your Honor, Dmitri Alexanderovich. Colleagues, next question. We only have two amendments to this bill, they were both included. But both were aimed at obtaining some of the bill's rules at the same time as the Ukrainian Law on Measures to Resolve Debt, which was created in the Wholesale Power Market. But this law has already taken effect on July 16th of this year. So according to these two revisions, they're out of date. So this is what's proposed. The first is that the proposals should be put to the confirmation and the appropriate vote to reject them as those who have lost their relevance, but the second is that the draft law of Ukraine should be adopted in the second reading and in general as a law with technical legal proceedings. I'll do it then.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-03-m0.u211	Dmitry Andriyovich, what do we do for confirmation?
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-03-m0.u212	1st and 2nd.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-03-m0.u213	I'm betting on vote number one for confirmation, it was counted by the committee, but now it's out of date. So please identify and vote. [[14:23:24]] For-13. The decision is not taken. Edit rejected. Amendment number 2 is a similar situation. I'll bet you a vote. Please identify and vote. [[14:23:45]] For-9 The decision is not taken. I'm betting on voting the law as a whole. Please prepare for the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-03-m0.u214	With technical law.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-03-m0.u215	I am voting on the proposal to adopt, in the second reading and in general with the necessary technical and legal regulations, the draft Law amending the Ukrainian Code of Bankruptcy Procedures (for measures aimed at repaying the debt generated in the wholesale electricity market) (registration No. 2390). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[14:24:28]] For 223 The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, I am voting on the proposal to return to the committee for further work, with a second reading of the draft Law amending the Ukrainian Code of Bankruptcy Procedures (for measures aimed at repaying the debt generated in the wholesale electricity market) 2390. Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[14:25:16]] For 245 Decision taken. Thank you. The next issue of the agenda is the draft Act amending the Criminal and Criminal Procedural Codes of Ukraine to improve legislation in the field of resistance to illegal possession of means of transport (registration number 3301). It's a second reading. Bakumov Aleksandar Sergiyovich is invited to the rostrum. Is anyone insisting on the papers? Cymbaluk? Then we'll go straight. - No, no, no. No, no, no, How many rights do you have? Two minutes and we don't vote for it, do we? 2 minutes Michael Mikhailovich Zimbaluku. Please turn on the microphone. And after that, can we vote?
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-03-m0.u216	Mikhailo Cimbaluk, Fatherland. Dear reporter, honourable colleagues, when society asks law enforcement, why so low the rate of disclosure of property crimes, in particular illegal acquisitions of means of transport, they say, "there is not enough legislative basis." This bill was just called upon to give law enforcement a tool. A tool to prevent, prevent, actively document, and a third to investigate, apprehend suspects, and direct criminal conduct to the courts. And the judicial authorities work effectively to ensure that the suspects are given real measures of punishment. My actions involved improving this law to a second reading. Unfortunately, not all of them were counted by the committee, so I have to focus on some. When we refer to article 289 of Part Two, we believe that it could be considered a qualifying circumstance for committing a crime by a group of individuals without prior conspiracy. Because it is this very thing that is very difficult to prove by law enforcement authorities. When we talk about article 290, the drafters allowed one wrong thing for me: When a good - conscienceed owner of automobile transport, in which the number of body or engine aggregates is broken, it is possible to bring criminal responsibility. As far as I'm concerned, that's the right thing to do. It's the law, actually.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-03-m0.u217	Thank you. Thank you. More colleagues are coming up, asking for a walk through the corners. Dirdin, Stefanchuk. Is anyone else going to insist on what they're doing? No, it's not. Dirdin, 26th, 31st. And vote? We can and we can just put it to a vote. We just put it to a vote without a speech? Amendment number 26. She was rejected by the committee. The author insists on taking her into account. I'm betting on the vote number 26, National Deputy Dirdin. Please identify and vote. And please invite the national deputies to the hall. [[14:29:11]] For-48 The decision is not taken. Amendment No. 31 of the National MP, Dirdin Maksim Evgenovich. The committee is not supported either. Please identify and vote. [[14:29:33]] For-49 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. Amendment No. 6 of the Stefanchuk People's Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-03-m0.u218	Thank you. I have a request from a high-level reporter to explain the position of the committee, because the project proposes to change the criminal character of article 289 of the Ukrainian Criminal Code and the task of major material damage to the commission of a crime on a large scale. And that means that the acquisition of a car worth 100 untaxed minimum citizens' income, and in 2020 it's 105,000 dollars, and the project proposes to recognize it as a characterizing crime. Under such circumstances, almost every crime of this kind will be described as being committed under burdensome circumstances. Is that your goal? And depending on that, I'm going to think about whether or not I'm going to put it to a vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-03-m0.u219	Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-03-m0.u220	Thank you, Your Honor, Ruslan Alexiovich. In fact, we set almost that goal because, unfortunately, we put a very good mark on large-scale action and it's in numbers just to avoid this disgraceful phenomenon, the amount of crime that we have when we have cars stolen, in fact, they come back, they don't do, or we don't have the consequence of the task of doing the damage. So we can't appreciate the damage, and the person who committed the crime, as a result, by returning the car, is not responsible, or is qualified as part of the first article 289. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-03-m0.u221	Thank you. The author does not insist on voting. Dear colleagues, let's move on to voting for the law as a whole. I am voting on the proposal to adopt, in the second reading and in general with the necessary technical and legal regulations, the draft Law amending the Criminal and Criminal Procedure Codes of Ukraine to improve legislation in the field of resistance to illegal possession of means of transport (registration No. 3301). Is everyone ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[14:32:11]] For 309 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. The next issue of the agenda is the draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine (registration of the non-payment crisis in the electricity market and certification of the transmission system operator) (registration number 3364 and three alternatives). It is suggested that this issue be considered in a simplified manner. Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[14:32:53]] For 232 Decision taken. The chairman of the Energy and Housing Committee, Herus Andriy Mihajlovich, is invited to attend. Both from the authors and from the committee right away. Please give me four minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-03-m0.u222	Good afternoon, presiding officer, distinguished national deputies! As the author of Bills 3364 and 3364-1, I report that I am withdrawing Bill 3364 because the committee supported Bill 3364-1. So Bill 3364-1 is designed for the purpose of certification of the power transmission system operator Ukrennergo for the ISO separation model and overcoming the non-payment crisis in the electricity market. The ISO model foresees that the transmission system operator is using property that ensures the integrity of Ukraine's combined energy system and the dispatcher's operating technology management, the highway and interstate electricity networks on the right to economic knowledge. This property remains the property of the State. The draft law introduces amendments and additions to the Ukrainian Power Market Act, which define the characteristics of the separation and independence of the transmission system operator under the ISO separation model, the duties of the controller and the owner of the transmission system in the person of the State according to the ISO separation model; the Ukrainian Master Code, which provides that the objects of state ownership used in the implementation of the transmission of electricity activity are secured by the right of ownership of the relevant operator on the basis of the decision of the control and contract entity. In addition, it is proposed to supplement the Power Market Act, according to which, in order to overcome the non-payment crisis in the electricity market temporarily during the quarantine period, the costs available as of 1 April 2020 by the operator of the transmission system from the distribution of inter-State cross-sectional capacity can also be used to repay the debt before the guaranteed buyer for the services provided to ensure an increase in electricity generation from alternative sources. But the appropriate standard has already been voted in the bill on the so-called "green" tariff. That's why we're going to exclude this between the first and the second readings because it's already in another bill, and in this case it's just duplicating. Following a review of the bill on June 4, 2020, the committee decided to recommend it to the Supreme Council of Ukraine as a basis. Please support the committee's decision and adopt Bill 3364-1 on the first reading as a basis. And I also propose that if Bill 3364-1 is adopted, the deadline for making proposals for second reading be reduced by half. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-03-m0.u223	The word is given to the national deputy, Efimov Viktorovich, to present an alternative bill, please. He takes them off, doesn't he? The word is given to National Deputy Kamelchuk Yuri Alexanderovich for the submission of an alternative bill. Yuri Alexanderovich, do you not want to present your bill? Are you filming your alternative? Well, that makes sense. Dear colleagues, I understand we're only dealing with Bill 3364-1. Is there a need to discuss this project? Is there a need to discuss? Yes. Please sign up: two in, two in. The word is given to the national deputy Klimpush-Cinzadze Ivani Orestovni, the faction of the political party "European Solidarity".
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-03-m0.u224	Please pass the word to Michael Bondar.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-03-m0.u225	Mikhailo Bondar, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-03-m0.u226	Good afternoon! Bondar Mikhailo, European Solidarity. Just one thing is that the four laws, alternative and fundamental, show that ambiguously different political forces deal with the issue. So "European Solidarity" has decided to stick to a positive decision on these bills, and we'll see what decision the majority will make. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-03-m0.u227	Thank you. The word is given to the National Deputy of Germany, Vasil Ivanovich, the faction of the political party "The Opposition Platform for Life".
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-03-m0.u228	Germano Vasil Ivanovich, faction of the political party "The Opposition Platform for Life". First of all, I would like to say that this bill will not be supported by our faction. Based on the fact that this is the next stage after the energy market has been created, after the monopoly on energy is taken over by two entities, we see that we are in a country with tariffs, we see that it is created in us with the supply of individuals and legal persons, coming out of the value of energy. And that's why we're starting to think that if we've done this before, more than five years ago, about the energy supply of Europe and its participation in this co-workers, we have to go to the market at the same level as everyone else. Tell me, please tell me, for today, in our gas market, you know, the lowest cost of gas on the hood in Europe, why did we raise the cost by 45 percent? Based on what we see in front of the budgeting channels, we use it on people's money. This is the problem in our government's strategy, and this is the problem in the strategy of our economic bloc in general. And that's why we're not going to support this bill. These are all the challenges that are proposed, and they're all about getting once more profits, which is why ordinary citizens' pockets are pocketed.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-03-m0.u229	The word is given to National Deputy Ivchenk Vadim Evgenovich, faction of the political party "The Fatherland". Puppy Alexi, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-03-m0.u230	Alexy Kucherenko, faction of Fatherland. Dear Ukrainians, dear colleagues, before adopting such tectonic post-proposal bills, let's look at what's actually going on at the so-called energy plant that's been introduced by really previous governments and previous MPs. Until you and I have decided to pay off the debts of the previous market in 30 billion dollars, we have a new 20 billion dollars. What are we going to do with them? You're proposing to carry out an entourage called this is a repetition of history with a GTS operator in relation to an energy system operator of Ukrenergo. And I ask myself, what has Ukrenergo done in the last five years with technical conditions to join a much larger green energy at a power that you and I can either use through the budget, or through consumers, we're going to have to pay now? Who investigated it, who responded from the previous governments, by Ukrennergo’s leadership, for bringing us all into trouble? The second question. Dear friends, what's this independent supervisory board, which in recent years, sorry, "breaks" this state company, I emphasize, and which one also covers all of these equipment? How much longer are we going to put up with this collective irresponsibility? Question three. I have a question for the Minister of Finance. In general, what are you doing to bring the state energy company into line, which is somehow, strangely, subordinated to the Ministry of Finance today? That's why we recognize and record systemic failures in the energy sector and in the state energy management system, and we will not support this bill until all the key issues are resolved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-03-m0.u231	Thank you. Please, with a motive, Andrew Joupanin, "Serve of the People." Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-03-m0.u232	Dear colleagues, I must point out as one of the authors of this bill that the criticism at his address has nothing to do with the provisions of the bill itself. Explain why. Maybe you'll recall that last November we presented a bill and we passed a bill on the NAFTOGAZU, when we released a gas transport system from the Naftogazu Authority into a separate independent company. And everyone remembers the consequences, which are fortunately good and positive and are reflected in the new gas transport contract. The situation is similar to that of Ukrenergo (this is an operator of the electricity transmission system) and according to the Third Energy Package it must be independent of its activities, so the bill is intended to be accompanied. We received confirmation from the Energy Community Secretariat of this bill, which is a very positive signal. Therefore, the request is great for you to support and vote. We will work on the second reading, and we will soon lead to the second reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-03-m0.u233	Dear colleagues, we are going to vote in favour of a bill (registration number 3364-1) amending some of the laws of Ukraine (registration of the non-payment crisis in the electricity market and certification of the transmission system operator). The question is for adoption on the basis of 3364-1. Ready to vote?
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-03-m0.u234	We have to support it, yes. Thank you. Victoria Alexandrovna, thank you. Please take your seats. Ladies and gentlemen, please invite the national deputies to the hall. Ready? Please support and vote. [[14:45:55]] For 217 The decision is not taken. I would like to vote on the motion to refer to the committee for the re-reading of draft Law registration number 3364-1. Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[14:46:29]] For 242 Decision taken. No, first the one proposed by the committee for all the lists that are. If he doesn't pick up, let's move on to the next one. You have been invited to consider the draft Law amending the Code of Administrative Offences concerning the Responsibility for Violations of the Provision of Health Information for Blood Donation and (or) its Components (Registration No. 3649). Needed Discussion? It's necessary. It is suggested that this issue be considered in a simplified manner. Please support and vote. [[14:47:29]] For 230 Decision taken. The National Deputy of Ukraine, Stefanishin Olga Anatoliyevna, is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-03-m0.u235	Dear colleagues, I think many of you know the state of the blood work in Ukraine today. Inadequate blood, lack of it, or deficits -- all of which we encounter very often. On July 16, we supported Bill 3648, which will completely change this situation. The 3649 bill, which is now in the agenda, is a logical extension. It refers specifically to the safety and quality of donor blood. We have a big problem with the fact that donor blood is infected, it's transfusions from people with diseases, and it's infecting other people. When a donor comes to the donor’s point, he should report his health. This bill suggests that we introduce administrative responsibility, just a fine for giving knowingly false information about the state of our health. So if you have HIV infection or hepatitis, this person has to say it. This information will thus be included in blood transfusions and will not be infected. We believe that such a standard is vital today to ensure that donor blood is quality, effective, and safe. This standard has been developed with experts from the European Union and, I repeat, is part of a large comprehensive bill that was already recommended by the National Health Committee yesterday before the vote. The bill was also supported by a profile committee. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-03-m0.u236	The word is given to the head of the committee’s subcommittee on law - enforcement matters, Viacheslav Anatoliovich Medici. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-03-m0.u237	The honourable chairman, honourable colleagues, of the Committee on Law Enforcement at its meeting, reviewed the draft Ukrainian Law on Amendments to the Code of Administrative Offences on Responsibility for Violations of the Provision of Health Information for Blood Donation and (or) its Components. The purpose of the bill is to introduce administrative responsibility for deliberately providing or distorting information to donors about their health in part that affects the quality and safety of the blood generated and its components. The bill is systematically related to the Ukrainian Safety and Quality Bill, which aims at comprehensive regulation of the blood system in Ukraine and the introduction of a regulatory field in this area in accordance with European legislation. The Committee recommends that the Supreme Council of Ukraine be accepted as a basis in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-03-m0.u238	Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss this bill? I can't see my hands. I see, yes. Then please sign up: two in, two in, two in. Please, National Deputy Eugene Nina Petrovna, faction of the political party "European Solidarity".
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-03-m0.u239	Please pass the word to Jani Zinkevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-03-m0.u240	Please, Jan Zinkevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-03-m0.u241	Thank you. First of all, I would like to thank Mrs. Olga Stefanishini and the entire team that worked on this bill, it is really very important. Yesterday, we supported the bill on the health committee’s profile, and we will support it here with our faction. What I'd like to point out. I think a lot of people know about the problems and risks of infection of various infectious diseases as a result of blood transfusions. Consider even the situation in one area where about 20 children with oncology were infected with hepatitis as a result of blood transfusions. It is now extremely important to adopt this bill. It's fully supported so that, first of all, we can develop donorism in our country. And secondly, to secure all the citizens who are both bleeding and getting it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-03-m0.u242	The word is given to national deputy Jurčin Jaroslav Romanović, faction of the political party "Golos".
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-03-m0.u243	Colleagues, an extremely important bill. You may have heard recently in the Winnitsk region, in other areas there have been cases where even children have been infected with hepatitis C transfusions. That's unacceptable. The bill is not a dragon. He sets out responsibility for deliberately concealing information that does not allow him to be a donor. So in this case, of course, we'll support it in the first reading. We need to guarantee safety as legislators for people who need blood transfusions. So we urge everyone to support and work on the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-03-m0.u244	The word is given to the People's Deputy, Šufrich Nestor Ivanovich, faction "The Opposition Platform for Life".
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-03-m0.u245	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. Dear colleagues, to be honest, I don't see the logic of this law. A person is willing to give blood to help another. And she may not know that she is sick. I'm absolutely convinced that this is the position of our political power "The Opposition Platform for Life" that the quality of donor blood should be tested by specialists before we can ensure the use of this donor blood. That is, we cannot now translate responsibility into someone who is willing to provide help into those who have it. of those who need to check the safety and quality of donor blood. That's absurd. Absolutely absurd. People will just be afraid to give blood, and then there's a situation that we're going to have to import it, buy it from abroad. So the responsibility, not even responsibility, is the professional work of our respected medical professionals to test the quality of donor blood before using it. And demanding the responsibility of donors is not human, irresponsible or stately. I call for this law to be rejected. If there is a question of further testing of blood quality, it can be done in a different way than translating responsibility into people who are willing to help. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-03-m0.u246	Thank you. Dear colleagues, if there are no more willing speakers, is there anyone else who would like to speak on the grounds of the vote? None. Then I ask you to take your seats and prepare for the vote. Dear colleagues, ready to vote? I am voting on the draft Law amending the Code of Administrative Offences on Responsibility for Violations of the Order of Health Information for Blood Donation and (or) its Components (Law No. 3649). The committee's offering to take it as a basis. Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[14:56:24]] For 244
ParlaMint-UA_2020-09-03-m0.u247	Decision taken. Thank you, Your Honor. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed.
