ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-02-m0.u1	Good morning, dear fellows! Good morning, media officials! We're starting our work. Please take your seats, prepare for the vote. Hopefully, everyone has already been able to get to their jobs, and today we can effectively, quickly deal with the issues that we have planned for ourselves. I remind you, Sergey Volodymyrovich Vlasenko, I remind you that registration takes place by pressing the green button, the first button on the left, as always. Nothing has changed in the last three weeks either. Are you ready to register? Please register. [[10:20:31]] There are 259 Ukrainian national deputies registered in the hall. The plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear colleagues, we have three nouns today. This is Igor Petrovich Kisilov, Alexei Alexanderovich Kuznietsov and Suto Cholojevich Mamanyan. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] [[Applause]] Hello! I want health, I want success, I want new achievements. Once again with the holiday. Dear colleagues, according to article 25 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Regulations, we have 30 minutes on Wednesday for the presentation of the authorized representatives of the MPs and the national deputies of Ukraine. Please sign up for the performance. Kunayev Artem Yuriovich. Gunboat Arseniy Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-02-m0.u2	Good afternoon, fellow countrymen, Mr. Head, dear Ukrainians! You know, we've had terrible statistics in the last month, not only with the coronavirus, but also with recorded traffic accidents at Ukrainian public transport stations. On November 6, in Kharkiv, five people were injured. On November 10, Kropivnicki - the route hit the stop. November 11, Odessa — four people were injured, two children. On November 12, a woman died. On November 13, Kiev, on the Ring driver, drove into the station, two people died, and two were injured. I can count and count, but in the last month we've only had more than ten traffic accidents at public transport stops. People get hurt, they stay with disabilities, people die -- and that's what happens at the stops. At a time when we have a war, at a time when we have a coronavirus, we have basically at public transportation stops, and we citizens are afraid to stand because at any point we can die at a stop in public transport, waiting for transportation, going to work, going to the hospital, going to the market for food. Therefore, the situation needs to be rectified. We've had more than 3,000 people killed in traffic accidents since the beginning of the year. And what is happening today on Ukraine’s roads is, of course, sad statistics. The fact that roads are getting better is that we now have rapid control and everything else. But what I would like to do today is focus on the road-transport adventures that take place at public transport stops. So I, as Ukrainian National Deputy, Honorary Colleagues, take the initiative to refer to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and ask each of you to support the Ministry of Infrastructure in bringing this document (Hallusev Building Standards of Ukraine) to the mandatory finding of columns of protection at every stop. Yes, there are today examples in Ukraine where separate stops, but these are isolated examples, where columns of protection appear, and if there is a stopover, they take a hit and, at the very least, reduce the consequences for our citizens who are at the stop. But we need these columns to be at every stop, because they will protect each of us, each of us, our citizens at the stops. Because, according to the last month, more than ten road accidents at public transport stations are terrible statistics. So I'm going to the Kabmin and I'm asking each of you to support my appeal to make changes to the building standards in Galuze, and the mini infrastructure has confirmed them, and all of Ukraine's stops were necessarily with defensive columns, not, as is the case today, selectively. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-02-m0.u3	My love, Dmitri Valeriyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-02-m0.u4	Please pass the word to Katchuri Alexander.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-02-m0.u5	Katchura Alexander Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-02-m0.u6	Alexander Kachura, "Serial of the People" faction. What, colleagues, now I see that no one is listening, they're all doing their jobs. But at the same time, I'd like to tell you what happened yesterday. The entrepreneurs gathered under the walls of the Supreme Council, tens of thousands of entrepreneurs. And over the last months, they've been up against the government, they've been creating jobs, they're creating jobs, they're not asking for anything in the state, they're feeding their families, they're not counting on medical care. But yesterday, we gave them this kind of tax -- the expiration date, the deferral of total fiscalization, cashback and everything. It doesn't suit them. Do you understand what's going on? During the Coronavirus pandemic, during the global economic crisis, we as representatives of the people of Ukraine do our best to make it easier for entrepreneurs to work hard so that they, barely surviving, have to hire accountants now, they have to buy cash machines, buy smartphones, add-ons to jump, pay for it all, and they could just spend it on their families. What's this all about? I'm sure entrepreneurs won't back down. And yesterday's vote that seems like a lot of people's deputies in the faction think that's where the tax haven stopped. No, it's just starting. I'm sure we've only made entrepreneurs even more angry because they didn't go out for fiscalization, they went out as opposed to fiscalization. Because they feel injustice. The question isn't even in the fiscal apparatus, we started doing small things from the start, we have to do big business that doesn't pay taxes that put money into offshore. A very simple example. The company Tedis Ukraine, which has lost the court of the Ukrainian State and has already paid 3 billion 400 million dollars, officially states that we will not pay. So I'm asking the law enforcement agencies, the executive service, the Antimonopoly Committee, look here, look at this oligarhat, look at big businesses, let them pay taxes, not the little business that we want so much on our throats to pull the snot out of them last. So I ask you to make a wise decision. I ask that we adopt those laws that will restore justice in Ukraine, and justice is when for everyone is equal to the rules of the game. In the meantime, we have rules for big and small. For the great, the law is special and for the small, the fiscal pressure and the pressure of the state. So let's maybe change our position.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-02-m0.u7	Batenko Taras Ivanovich. Anton Eduardoovich Polakov.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-02-m0.u8	Anton Polakov, MP for the Future. Dear colleagues, who are the FOPs? These are the people who created jobs for themselves that did not leave our country. These are the people who helped the most with our military volunteers when the war began in the east. These are the people who created their own jobs. These are the people who are helping our medics right now, and they're not going anywhere and they're working in their places. And these statements by the disgraceful heads of the social committee yesterday about finding me a FOP that pays 8,000 dollars a year. I can tell you, Madam Head of the Social Committee, find me the FOP that transfers its funds to the offshore. There is no such FOP. Or find me the FOP that earned on the OGC pyramid, like our President, millions and forgot to declare them. There's no such thing. Or the statements of our head of the finncomite, which insults 2 million entrepreneurs, call it smugglers and shadows. You call me FOP, which really works in the shadows. Find it. They're spending all their money where? In their cities, in their villages, in the areas where they really work, where they create jobs. They can’t even go bankrupt like large businesses because they are fully in line with their property, the property of their family. Therefore, little entrepreneurs need not be offended. I am very grateful to all the entrepreneurs who went to Kiev yesterday to defend the rights of small businesses. Taking this opportunity, I want to go to the Kabmin and the dominant faction about the introduction of the so-called "intellectual lokdown." Lockdown needs to be introduced, but it's local, in areas where there's a critical situation with the Coronavirus pandemic. To study the situation, and on the basis of these findings, we will be able to make some sort of logbook throughout the country. But right now, not thinking about coffee and thinking about when to introduce it, and thus leading thousands of Ukrainians to die by the new year. Thank you to all the entrepreneurs who came to Kiev yesterday again. Fight, as Taras Shevchenko says: "Fight, fight. God Helps You! For you, it's true, it's glory for you. And the will is holy!".. Glory to Ukraine! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-02-m0.u9	Geo Bagravitch Leros.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-02-m0.u10	Please give me your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-02-m0.u11	Pippa Natalia Romanovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-02-m0.u12	Good afternoon! Natalia Pippa, 115th District, Lviv, Voice faction. Dear Ukrainians, honourable deputies! In this room, I want to raise an important topic -- language protection, so that we can make it a point once and for all as a state. As you know, more than four months ago in our glorious Constitutional Court, there is a hearing of the disgraceful submission of 50 deputies, and we know very well which faction. These are the deputies who have been trying for years to harm Ukraine, Ukrainian statehood, and sovereignty. Now they're trying to prove that language law violates the rights of national minorities and violates the charter of regional languages or minority languages. But there is no such charter. It was translated in 2013 at Yanukovich. The translation is wrong because it was translated from Russian, not from the original language — English or French. And this is not the first time that this paper becomes the subject of language speculation. But few know that paper should actually be a charter of regional and minority languages and protect languages that disappear. There are no minority languages in Ukraine -- languages that disappear. These are the languages that are at risk of extinction, and that is how it works in European countries. Because of the wrong translation, we have this problem, and this charter became a weapon in the hands of the servants of the Kremlin. For years they have used a mistake in translation and claim that the paper protects Russian language and the Russian - speaking population. Just remember, this is why Putin has been protecting the Russian - speaking population in eastern Ukraine for three years. Colleagues, a small error in one document by the hands of skilled manipulators, can become fatal to Ukrainian language and statehood. That's not the way it's supposed to be. I went to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs about the correct translation. You know, it's been there for a long time, but Mincult doesn't bring it up for government consideration. Me and the Voice faction will do everything we can to get the government to approve this translation, and it's still being transferred to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I'm sure my colleagues will find that there are 226 deputies in this room who understand that at the 29th year of freedom of discussion on a language issue, we have to stop, put a dot, because there is a lot of work in this country besides language. I believe that we, as a state, are able to end all discussions and speculation about the language issue and continue to work constructively. Thank you, colleagues. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-02-m0.u13	Shahov Sergei Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-02-m0.u14	Sergey Shahov, Luhanščina, Deputy Group "Trust". Dear colleagues, today I turn to you from every miner, every family that is starving. In that call from this rostrum all the time, every single one of my performances was about miners, and I'm asked, "Sergia, you're not heard." But drop by drop, though, I'm sure people are sitting in this room, not animals who also want to live, who also see how our people live. And I'm turning to Volina, to Kirovgrad, to Lugansk, to Donetsk, to every human being, and it's not just miners -- there are whole areas under this branch. The shahtar branch is the filling of the Ukrainian budget, it's the engine of our nation's economy. And I'll say I'm the son of a coal miner. On this stand stands the son of a miner who saw my father (Kingdom of Heaven!) Worked in the mine, came home, two feet tall, and roared, like a bear, from pain, from silicone, from the pain of joints, and licked a thousand feet into the ground to give us this light, refrigerators, so that you might have food. And now there's nothing to feed your family. Why do private mines today get coal miners who work there, wages, and our government mines don't get paid? Why do billions of dollars go to reconstruction of mines today, but the reconstruction does not happen? Why are criminal conduct constantly aroused and logical? Why is it that no one today is punished for not paying wages under article 175 of the Criminal Code? Who in our nation will answer? I am addressing the President of Ukraine. Notice, and if the question of the Minister of Energy is not resolved in Kabmin, if the whole of Kabmin is not paying attention to Parliament today, let the President look this way. Yesterday the FOPs came and passed a law like brake for a year today. I say, the miners will come, and this chandelier, when it falls down here, will be a folk illustration eventually. Sailors today are apolitical people who want to feed their children so that children can go to kindergartens, and they're dressed in school, and they're warm in their apartments. And today, we're looking at what Kabin is thinking about today, how to raise the tariffs on electricity, on gas, on gas transit, how to cut three skins and not answer for the taxes that ordinary people pay. And that's interest on the army. And people are asking.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-02-m0.u15	Murmich Anatoly Petrovich. Suffritch Nestor Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-02-m0.u16	Thank you. Dear Chairman! Dear colleagues! Of course, the indignation of the people we witnessed yesterday is absolutely legal, there are reasons, and people are right. First, give people an alternative to income, and then demand excessive control over their costs. For the pit they find today, you still want them to pay something back. But you have to thank them and the wage earners for holding on to them today, both our bracelets and our basic national incomes. In fact, they today hold back the authority that calls themselves their servants. When did this happen? When we actually lost as a state, the authorities lost control of COVID. Ukraine's national deputies today receive the results of tests at state hospitals on the fifth to sixth day. I can only imagine what citizens are doing, who are also going to state hospitals. Seven or ten days are waiting for the test results on the coronavirus. Today, I myself have seen an example when Thursday evening in Kiev was impossible to find a place in a hospital to provide oxygen to the patient. They found a private concentrator and actually set up a room at home. I think that this preparation to protect our citizens against the consequences of COVID is idle, and people have criminal responsibility. The main ambulance Lazko, which I repeat, six months ago we gave 2.3 billion dollars -- 67 billion dollars -- and the people who shut down on the hard deck gave actually eight months to prepare the government for the fall -- nothing was done, it is said, at the expense of the people today: saving the drowning hands of the drowning people themselves. That's what the authorities are doing right now. And the cynicism of power is that the money we have allocated is literally rolled into the asphalt, and the budget next year for the construction of roads is more expensive than for the entire health system. So I have a question: what's more important to you is the ravings, the corruption that you can't fight, and you're blocking in the Supreme Council the adoption of relevant laws, or the health of people. Ladies and gentlemen, gentlemen, think of people and their health! Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-02-m0.u17	Stephanie Olga Anatolyevna. Bobrovska Solomija Anatoliyevna
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-02-m0.u18	Dear colleagues, good afternoon! You know, we don't have a pause and it doesn't stand, especially in the east and especially in the context of the hybrid Russian war. And you know, I'm really sorry when I literally got an answer from Mineconomy yesterday to my question, and what the hell is the Russian Academy of Sciences doing in our East Bahmut on Artemsol? And you know what they still have, the Nuclear Research Institute has a permit to develop and use the "Artemsols" in the city of Bahmut? You know, I'm impressed. Because the answer that I got from Mineconomy, which takes into account all of the possible citations of legislation, where some strange story is written from a position, why they continue this license, even though the institution of our geology definitely opposes and by cancelling the license, is written that you know, we don't see this as a threat to Ukraine's national security. Moreover, they give me an answer from the Ukrainian Security Service. You know, I, with all the respect and the desire to admire the Security Service, obviously can't say anything, except that it or the MPs have to do the job of the Security Service and really take the reform of the BSS as quickly as possible to dissolve all those who are actually working against the State, not on its behalf. So they said, except that there's no threat to national security, they don't plan on canceling that license for the Russian Academy of Sciences Nuclear Research Institute. You know, honourable colleagues, when we talk about sanctions policy, it has to be consistent, of course, balanced. But I have a question: what we've been doing for the last two years in this Parliament and, in principle, seven years with war when we're unable and unable to work in our country is an adequate, systematic fundamental sanctioning policy. One story when we speak to the world with a request to support sanctions policy in relation to the aggressor of the Russian Federation. But I have a question for all of us: and what, then we are not worthy of these mandates, nor are we working for the benefit of Ukraine, when we have just before us the right to write off, the government -- and with all due respect, I understand that for the first time people have entered the public service -- the freedom that they write in their answers. What's more, I'm going to do my best with the Voice faction so that this license can be revoked and no nuclear research institute has anything to do with any of Ukraine's state efforts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-02-m0.u19	Rudik Kira Aleksandrovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-02-m0.u20	I give the word to Rahmanin.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-02-m0.u21	Arjev Vladimir Igorovich Rachmanin or who? Rachmanin? Rachmanin Sergey Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-02-m0.u22	Honorable colleagues are known to take nine months for a child to be born, but politics is a complex matter, and it turns out that nine months is not enough for a minister to be born with a person in that position. The day after tomorrow is nine months old, when Mr. Andrew Taran is headed by the Ministry of Defence of Ukraine. When visiting a committee, a professional committee, a committee on national security, defence and intelligence, he asked him to give him time to properly submerge into difficult problems and to make the necessary decisions. Nine months later, we have to say that we can endure a bad minister, we can rejoice in what is good. The Ministry of Defense doesn't have a minister, and the country that is at war in the seventh year of war can't afford the luxury of keeping a man who is not a minister, who is unknown what he is doing in a position that is very important to the state. I appreciate Mr. Taran very much for his philosophical exercises, for his deep reflection on the life and future of this army, this country, but it's too much of a luxury, I'll repeat, to keep at the expense of a man who's ruined everything that could fall into an important position. There is no legislative activity, there is no cooperation with Parliament, there is no reform. We have units that still do not have a permanent location; they live between trenches and tents in the congregations. We still have huge problems with fuel-oil materials, with the pleasure of things, with food. We don't understand what the Ministry of Defense is going to buy and what army is going to do, so if we can't afford a normal minister of defense, why would we need the Ministry of Defense anyway? I will remind you that according to the Constitution, the Supreme Council appoints and releases ministers. Although with regard to the Minister of Defense, she does so on behalf of the President. Let's gather our thoughts and invite the President to find another worthy candidate, because this minister was never born. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-02-m0.u23	Thank you. Coltunovich Alexander, please. Coltunovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-02-m0.u24	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to report to you today on the specific parameters of economic development, or, more precisely, the fall of Ukraine and the determination of priorities for state economic policy for the medium and short term. First. We already have data in the 10 months of 2020 and we have data at a 6.8 percent drop in industry, including a 20.4 percent drop in machine building, an agro-industry and agriculture, 14 percent drop in circulation, 15.9, more than 50 percent. Why do I bring these numbers? In order to ensure that those sectors of the economy that show the greatest decline are further supported by individual sectors of the national economy. Another very important moment. We already have 10 months this year minus 112 billion dollars of budget deficit. Similarly, the pension fund has a deficit of 17.9 billion dollars from a single social contribution. This is because the budget for the deficit is essentially the pension fund, and this year it will be under-achieved by the EU. As for the other moments. We're talking to you about strategic things, and if you remember that in the 18th year, my colleagues and I were talking about preserving the volume of gas transit. Why did we talk about this? Because today, because of a certain gas contract, we have a 45 percent drop in transit volumes. A 45 percent reduction in transit is evidenced by the fact that we do not get about $1.5 billion or 42 billion in the income part of the budget this year and in the coming years compared to, for example, the base year. So when we talk about gas transit and a lot of other things, we call attention to the fact that it's filling the income part of the budget, it's paying off social standards, and so on. And I can't help but notice that we had a real increase in the electricity tariff yesterday. It's in the lockdown condition, in the condition of limited quarantine stuff and so on. We cannot raise or have economic mechanisms to raise electricity tariffs and gas prices. The average gas price per country exceeds 9,000,700 dollars, and it has to be at a maximum of 4, at least 2,500. So these economically based figures are going to go into the next state energy policy strategy. Well, that's the end of it. Klaus Schwab, Christine Lagarde, many other economists say that structural economic reforms are needed to determine the future and to be part of the future of their country. I urge you to move away from these very priorities and to form this kind of economic policy. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-02-m0.u25	Stepan of Cuba, European Solidarity. You don't?
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-02-m0.u26	I ask you to give Sofia the floor to Fedina. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-02-m0.u27	Fedina, please. Sofia Fedina, European Solidarity, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-02-m0.u28	When the highest head of state allows himself to openly mock the Dignity and Courser Revolution, lamenting the Berkuts with the Ebonite sticks to beat off the fielders by extracting electricity, unfortunately, this determines how the state will develop. In these days, we honor the seventh anniversary of the full - scale beginning of the Dignity Revolution. But we're also seeing total "leaf" discredit, which is aimed at disrespecting each stage of the Dignity Revolution and every expression of the struggle for democracy, for freedom and, ultimately, for the right to life. Remember, if you put all the facts together, last year's anniversary of the Maydan shooting was obscured by theatres around the New Sanjars. This year, the beginning of the Dignity Revolution was marked by searches at the Maidan Museum. Even though we all know that it was the one hundred percent of Greensky's Attorney General's Office that blocked the construction of the Maidan Museum, it was by announcing the criminal case of the coup d'état of total anti-government forces, which unfortunately are present and now here in the Supreme Council. On November 30th, the seventh anniversary of the beating of the students in Midan, we have been marked by the search decisions for the Direct, or not the only channel that spoke directly about the situation in Maidan and how it is being despised today. But I must also point out that I will once again remind you of the return of the anti-Madanians to power under the roof of President Zelenski. And this is about the former deputy head of the D.B.I. and the deputy head of the President's Office, who is now holding onto his chair despite criminal cases against him. But I would also like to mention why this is being done. It's not because Majdan brought some kind of power change. We went to Midan not for authority, not for politicians, not for specific systems of power. We have come to Midan to protect our dignity, freedom, the right to life, above all, and to protect our human rights as basic. And today, in an effort to disrespect Midan, the authorities are not telling us what and how we are going to change, or who we are going to change, or what politicians are bad or not, the authorities today are trying to take away from us, free people, that by our honor, dignity, justice and the protection of the law, we can change the state and we can build a better future for our state. So all the playgrounds, the real rangers, I urge you to remember your dignity, because no one will take it until we give it up!
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-02-m0.u29	Dear colleagues, back to our work. I've got it. I remember seeing a statement with a replacement for the performance, a break with a replacement for the performance. I am now addressing the leaders of the MP factions and groups. Please meet me in my office at 12:00 while there's a break for the negotiations, as we move on with the questions of e-declaration and return responsibility. For 30 minutes, let's hold a meeting to understand all the positions in this process. David Georgiyovich Arahami must also ensure the participation of other participants in the process. David Georgievich Arahami, you are ensuring the 12th participation of all other participants in this process. Thank you. Three minutes is a break with a replacement for the performance. Here comes Shahov Sergey Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-02-m0.u30	Sergey Shahov, Luhanščina, Deputy Group "Trust". Dear colleagues, if we think the elections are over, they are still going on. I didn't want to take the dirt out of the house, that's what my parents taught me, but today the political power of "Our Land" has turned to all international human protection organizations. Once again, when we're not heard in Parliament, when we're not heard by all the A-class politicians, from this rostrum, I said that in the Lugansk, Donetsk regions, almost a million votes have been stolen before the local elections, and in addition to the displaced people, there are voices that also live in those areas. The constitutional rights of every human being have been violated. Few people rob money without allowing them to express their position and vote for those they do not want. Because perhaps our team from Our Land, Sergey the Great, Alexander Sukhov, Boris Pridjenko, Anton Kisse, Sergey Shahov, won the parliamentary elections. But what I'm saying is, in 2015, we won and took third place in the country -- 4.5 thousand deputies and over 100 heads. We were persecuted, persecuted by our families, but we are moving forward. And today in the Kyiv region, 10,000 ballots of "Our Land" were disputed. I'm asking the head of the Kyiv organization of Our Land, the jury of Anatoly Josephovich, to be heard today, that they will leave us people and not launch our deputies today from our political power into deception. Also in Odessa, I was in court when the judge laughed in the face and said you were right, but the President's Office gave the team. I'm going back to the President of Ukraine to figure this out. There was also 5.35 percent, there's 4.98 percent left, we don't go to Parliament like that. We will judge and come to a logical conclusion. We'll be in all kinds of trouble, as it is today throughout the country. And no one's gonna make us stop today. That's why I'm addressing each and every one of you. Surprisingly, do not play politics, as Churchill said, do business, do business in the country, set up order, build, feed people, give people jobs, and also let people express their constitutional rights and vote for those they want to see on the books and on local councils. Thank you. Sergey Shahov, trust MP.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-02-m0.u31	Thank you. Dear colleagues, back to our work. We move on to the issue of the agenda, this is the draft Act amending some of Ukraine’s legislative acts to increase liability for the sale of electronic cigarettes and fluids to children (registration number 3628). The head of the Committee on Finance, Tax and Customs Policy, Danilo Alexandrovich, is invited to attend. Who will insist on their work? Can we vote? No one will insist on anything? Cymbaluk, will you insist on the lines? One right? What's that? No, dear colleagues, I ask the same question ten times, who will insist, you sit talking. Keep talking then. One Tsymbaluk then acts under this law. What's the deal, Mikhailovich?
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-02-m0.u32	It's number 33.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-02-m0.u33	Ten? What's the deal, Mikhailovich?
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-02-m0.u34	It's number 33.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-02-m0.u35	Czymbaluk Mikhailovich, yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-02-m0.u36	Your Honor, Mr. Head, Your Honor, the National Deputies! In fact, Bill 3628 is extremely relevant. And his main task is to establish responsibility for selling electronic cigarettes and fluids to children. The drafters clearly believe that there are calculations that the adoption of this bill will save the lives of millions of Ukrainians, especially children. The "Fatherland" faction on the first reading supported this bill. And thank you to the committee for supporting one of the three rights. I would like to conclude by saying that we will vote in the second reading and I do not insist on my right hand. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-02-m0.u37	Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-02-m0.u38	Thus, the author does not insist on correction. I want to say from the committee that, in fact, 53 proposals have been made to this bill, we are grateful to everyone who has made these proposals. Of these, only 16 were counted in full or in part 37 and only 16 were rejected. We've worked very hard on this bill, and I hope that all the halls today will support these normal, civilized standards of trade and use of tobacco products, smoking fluids, and other similar products, including electronic cigarettes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-02-m0.u39	I'll bet you vote number 33. Don't insist. Shall we go to the vote? Please take your seats, prepare for the vote. Ready to vote? I am voting on the proposal to adopt a second reading and, in general, with the necessary technical and legal regulations, the draft Law amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine to increase the liability for the sale of electronic cigarettes and liquids to children used in electronic cigarettes (registration number 3628). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[11:02:59]] For 309 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. The next issue of the agenda is the draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on the protection of the rights of orphans, children deprived of parental care who are disabled (registration number 3594). Will someone insist on their work? They won't. We can vote. Eutushka? One right? One right, Eutusek. Just give me the number, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-02-m0.u40	22 revisions, Mr. Head. I'd like to ask the committee, because in this direction, it's about people from the number of orphans and children deprived of parental care who have disabilities who can live and be raised in a family-type children's home until they reach their 23-year-old age and study in different institutions: vocational education, education, higher education. But the committee didn't take this right into account, but it did say that people who are orphans and children who are deprived of parental care, who are deprived of their disability, can choose to continue living and raising in children's homes, to study in educational institutions. What's the difference, I'd like to ask the committee head? Let him provide a simple explanation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-02-m0.u41	This right suggests giving parents the right to determine whether persons from orphans and children deprived of parental care who are disabled will live with them for up to 20 years. Why is such an amendment not supported? Because it is the children who have the right to choose to live in the family after 23 years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-02-m0.u42	Do you insist on voting? Don't insist. We can go to the vote for the law, right? I am voting on the proposal to adopt a second reading and, in general, with the necessary technical and legal regulations, the draft Law amending certain Ukrainian legislation on the protection of the rights of orphans, children deprived of parental care who are disabled (registration number 3594). Please prepare for the vote. Ready to vote? 3594. Please support and vote. [[11:06:08]] For 317 Decision taken. The law was passed in general. Thank you. The next issue of the agenda is the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Public Procurement Act on the purchase of natural gas (registration number 3176). Are you ready to vote now or are you going to insist on the drafts? Alexy Yuriovich, one read? Please turn on Kucherenko's microphone. What's the readout? Name the number immediately, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-02-m0.u43	Thank you. 24th. Alexy Kucherenko, faction of Fatherland. Ladies and gentlemen of the Ukrainians, I will use this moment to explain the essence of this regulation. I realize it's not going to go through the hall, but as far as I'm concerned, it also shows the complete mess that's being created today in the state power management system. I suggested that I be able to determine that the body responsible for the operation of the gas transport system and the operator of the gas transport system is the Ministry of Energy, and that no supervisory board is independent, which, to date, distorts the management system in the energy sector in general, starting with NAC Naftogaz. And the whole mess (sorry of the expression) that's being created today in the oil and gas pipeline system, it's about these oversight boards and the loss of government administration, and the state control of this segment. I don't insist on this and I realize that the external impact today is very great on the Council, but I would like to draw attention to that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-02-m0.u44	Twenty-four axles. Do you insist on voting? Don't insist. Can I put the bill to the vote? Thank you. Dear colleagues, please prepare for the vote. I am voting on the proposal to adopt a second reading and, in general, with the necessary technical and legal regulations, the draft Law amending the Ukrainian Law on Public Procurement on the Purchase of Natural Gas (Registration No. 3176). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[11:08:39]] For-300 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-02-m0.u45	The next issue of our agenda is the draft Act amending the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine concerning the publication of decisions of the Supreme Council of Ukraine (Registration No. 4334). The rapporteur on this issue is the head of the Committee on Rules, MPs and the organizational work of the Supreme Council, Mr. Kalchenko Sergey Vitaliyovich. But first, we have to vote, because this is the first reading, for the shortened procedure. I would like to vote on this bill by a reduced procedure, please vote. [[11:09:28]] For 243 Decision taken. Reporter, head of the committee, Sergey Vitaliovich Calchenka, to the floor.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-02-m0.u46	Madam Chairman, honourable national deputies, the regulatory committee at its meeting decided to submit to Parliament a draft law (registration 4334) amending the Ukrainian Supreme Council Rules on the publication of decisions by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. In particular, it is suggested that, as of January 1, 2021, the publicity of the Supreme Council meetings and the publication of laws, regulations, other acts of Parliament will be published only in the newspaper Voice of Ukraine, excluding "The News of the Supreme Council of Ukraine". In order to implement these changes in practice, the project proposes to amend part five of article 3, part one, second and third of article 139 of the Supreme Council Rules. According to the members of the Regulatory Committee, these changes will allow to optimize the costs of the Supreme Council's powers of publication of laws, regulations, other acts of Parliament, which in turn will reduce the costs of the Supreme Council's publication under the budgetary programme "The Legislative Activities of the Supreme Council of Ukraine". And taking into account what has been said, in his decision, the regulatory committee made a number of recommendations to the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Bill 4334, including making recommendations on the outcome of its consideration of the bill in the first reading to accept it as a basis and as a whole. Thank you. And I'm asking you to back me up.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-02-m0.u47	Thank you. Is there a need to discuss this bill? There's a need. Please sign up: two in, two in. Please, Krulko Ivan, the "Fatherland" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-02-m0.u48	Please give the floor to my colleague Michael Zimbaluku.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-02-m0.u49	Mikhailo Tsimbaluk, "The Fatherland" faction. Please, Mr. Mikhailo.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-02-m0.u50	Mikhailo Cimbaluk, Fatherland. First of all, I would like to express my gratitude to John Krulk, a colleague of the faction, for his word. In fact, it's a bill. Dear colleagues, we certainly respect the views of our European colleagues who are helping us to reform Parliament, but, as for me, the committee and committee members who are the authors of this bill have not been very good at preparing it. I'll try to explain. There's no argument as to the amount of money saved as a result of the failure to release the Supreme Council News. Why is this publication important? Who in his life had the opportunity to engage in science, scientific activity, knew that all the acts adopted by the Supreme Council were being studied, in the News, which is the official publication of the highest legislative body of the state. When we close this issue and the official decisions of the Supreme Council are not published there, then those who want to investigate the legislation have only one option: to go to the archives, and the archive will answer within ten days, and that's all. Dear colleagues, that's not the way, that's not the way to reform, and that's not where you need to save. Let's send this bill for re-reading as one that doesn't fit the realities of today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-02-m0.u51	Thank you, Mr. Michael. Alexander Alexiychuk, "Serial of the People" faction, please. Is Alexander Alexiyczuk here?
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-02-m0.u52	Please pass the word to Sergio Calchenk.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-02-m0.u53	Please give me your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-02-m0.u54	First of all, when the members of the Regulatory Committee discussed this issue at their meeting and decided to make this project, we came out of several positions. First of all, we considered that this would in no way affect the implementation of constitutional provisions on the need to publish decisions of parliament, laws, regulations and other acts, as official publications remain in the newspaper Voice of Ukraine. In this way, constitutional guarantees will be provided that, first of all, the responsibilities should be brought to all citizens, to the general population. This will in no way affect the question of becoming effective, but this will, in the opinion of the Regulatory Committee, nevertheless, in today's difficult economic conditions allow for the saving of certain costs, the optimizing of Parliament's powers related to the publication of all acts of the Supreme Council and the corresponding reduction of publishing costs, the Parliamentary publication, under the legislative activity budget programme. Therefore, the members of the regulatory committee were ahead of the need to ensure the constitutional rights of all citizens to know their rights, the obligations through official publication, and, on the other hand, to optimize the costs of the Supreme Council, especially in today’s difficult economic conditions. So please support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-02-m0.u55	Thank you. Maxim Savrasov. Arthur Gerasimov. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-02-m0.u56	Dear Madam Chairman, dear colleagues! What is this law about? It's unforgivable. This is about publishing legal acts, and this procedure is not very technical. It's far from technical. Because this is one of the necessary conditions for legal regulation, that is to say, bringing the will of the State to the knowledge of everyone it applies. And I would like to remind you that, according to the Ukrainian Constitution, unaccounted for in the order established by law, legal acts are invalid. That is why so much attention is given. And now look what they want to do: they want to destroy one of the standards of publishing and bringing information to Ukrainian citizens. Because if you go to any professional lawyer, any professional legal team, they're going to tell you right away that standard number one for them is just "The News of the Supreme Council of Ukraine." Because it's the first source from where they get information. Not a website of the Supreme Council, which is auxiliary, not a Voice of Ukraine, where any printer can make a mistake and then search. This is the document that the Supreme Council verifies dozens of times and is the responsibility of the Supreme Council itself. Now, notice, the key word here is "first source." Why is the first source being destroyed? Let me explain. You may have forgotten a little bit about the falsification of the tax committee's law when we were adopted one tex and everyone saw one text and another was published. This story is not over. As far as I know, she's being handled by law enforcement. But I urge you not to support this bill because it's not about money. Here a limited number of copies are printed and it's not a question of expense. It's a matter of destroying the originals. And today I've been talking to lawyers and our team, and lawyers from other teams: you can't do that. Therefore, "European solidarity will not support this bill and calls on you not to support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-02-m0.u57	Thank you. Would you please tell the honourable colleagues, everyone, have spoken out of this question? Please. He still wants out of the group. For reasons, please, Nestor Schufrich. And we still have a trust group there.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-02-m0.u58	Thank you, Your Honor. The right question is being discussed. But you know, I'm just in this room doing hospital care. I ask you to take seriously the real threat that our citizens face today. What do you suggest as an alternative? The intellectual lockdown! People good, I have such a feeling that we've had a long-standing intellectual lokdown if he's ever been there. Because we saw it on the stage -- it was interesting. But real life is not a scene, it's not a spectacle, it's the safety and health of our citizens, it's their life! So today we demand that we treat people with responsibility, tell them the truth, heal them, rescue them, and what awaits them. People have the right to know the truth about themselves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-02-m0.u59	Thank you. Polakov, please, is also a group of Trusts. Please give me your word. You'll be out of town? Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-02-m0.u60	Dear colleagues, there is a fine saying: You do not cut off the pen. What is a website? It's an image cloud from which data can be edited or something removed, and then no one can prove anything. And to those who want to save money, I propose a change of spending on the President's Office, who spent a billion last year and wants to spend almost a billion four hundred by 140 people in the state. For example, the Montenegrin State Administration spends 220 million people on 600 people. Here's your money. This publication should not be destroyed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-02-m0.u61	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we can go to the vote. Please take all your seats. Are you ready to vote, Your Honor?
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-02-m0.u62	Please invite the people's deputies to the hall. Dear colleagues, I'll ask you a question. This bill is proposed by the committee on both the basis and in general. With technical law. Let's put it on the ground as a whole? [[B in m in s a l in]] What factions are taking place against the whole? "European Solidarity." Well, then it will be. "The Voice"? Two factions against. All right. Ready to vote? I am voting on the proposal to adopt a bill on the basis of the draft Act amending the Regulations of the Supreme Council of Ukraine concerning the publication of decisions of the Supreme Council of Ukraine (Registration No. 4334). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[11:22:35]] For 246 Decision taken. Let's see the factions. I am voting on the proposal under part two of article 116 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules on the reduction of the half-life of the submission of rights and proposals and the preparation for the second reading of the bill (registration No. 4334). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[11:23:11]] For 228 Decision taken. Thank you, Your Honor. The next issue of the agenda is the draft Law amending the Land Code and other legislative acts on improving the management and deregulation of land relations (this second reading) (draft registration number 2194). Dear colleagues, we have many rights, there is an offer: Those who insist will take the floor. So let's do that, and we'll get through it, and we'll vote faster. Please tell me, who's going to insist on this? Shufrich, Coltunovich, Yvchenko, Cimbaluk. Sobolev or Yvchenko? And the Princess. Five people, right? 5 minutes – Coltunovich, Schufrich – 5 minutes, Ivchenko – 5 minutes. [[B in m in s a l in]] Six minutes. It's a deal. Mikhailovich, how many minutes? Three minutes. And Princess Nikola Leonidovich, don't you see how many minutes? Three minutes. All right, we got a deal. Let's go. Coltunovich Alexander Sergiyovich. Please turn on the microphone for five minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-02-m0.u63	Thank you. Dear Dmitry Aleksandrovich, distinguished national MPs, I would like to listen to you very carefully. I'm going to give you some very important arguments about why this bill doesn't need to be supported, and why, in principle, we were against, if you remember, the adoption of bill 2178-10 on the circulation of agricultural land. First. At the same time, we talked about that the land of government and municipal ownership of agriculture could not be passed on and sold. One second. We talked about the fact that foreigners cannot acquire agricultural land. And the third moment is very important. So then we've reduced the concentration of land if we take by percent the largest, from 200,000 actually to 100 hectares. That's why I'm bringing this story. Because we're in this bill and in further regulations, we're in violation of the rules that both the President and others and our fellow national MPs insisted on. Well, look, for example, I'll give you some positions. The bill provides for the possibility of foreign legal persons owning land, a part of an agricultural assignment. This time. A new document is being submitted by a foreign legal entity to a land claim, two, state, municipal property. It's the third important moment. The owner of the land of the state or municipal form of property will be able to change any purpose of the land without agreement with the authorized executive authority. And that's a questionable argument, I understand who's drowning for him, they say. Another very important moment. Allowing first-line users to purchase land for agricultural purposes This is also a questionable moment. Another important moment. The introduction of land leases, not by the owner of the land, but by the actual user. And there's more. It is suggested that the requirements for the targeted use of agricultural land, including the prohibition of the transfer of such land to foreigners, be abolished. And it's also meant to rule out the notion of "particularly valuable land." In my opinion, it's actually a criminal thing and a criminal norm, it's going to have to be either on confirmation or just on re-second reading just to rule it out. The rule of depriving local public administrations of powers to exercise State control over the use and protection of land also, on the one hand, shows the transfer and delegation of authority to local governments, on the one hand, and on the other, that the land of state and municipal property may actually be out of control. These are some of the most violent norms that are in this draft law, which, in our view, are talking about that it doesn't need to be supported. Another very important moment. In our time, from the experience of the 2178-10 Bill on the Circumvention of Agricultural Lands, we did some calculations. And at that time, our colleagues made a very important argument about the light right of a citizen to buy and sell land. Yeah, well, I did your math, and now you're even gonna laugh. We have citizens of Ukraine far from the richest people, especially in rural areas, in income differentiation. So we did the calculations: the people who received the minimum wage for January, in order to buy 100 hectares of land per 1,000 hectare, that's $100,000 or about 2.7 to 2.8 million dollars per month, have 48 years to pay their entire salary, not pay taxes and congregations to buy those 100 hectares of land that you put into the changes in the Earth Code. This is what cynicism is about in such a poor country to distribute land to the right and to the left. This time. One second. We still have an important category of 11.3 or 11.2 million pensioners. In general, up to 88 percent of the citizens there, more specifically pensioners, receive less income. More specifically, pensions, less than 5,000 dollars. They will be 139 years old, a pensioner in a rural area who will retire to own 100 acres [100 ha] of land separately. Of course, not every pensioner buys land. But let's face it, the laws on the sale and circulation of agricultural land are aimed exclusively at supporting agroholdings and people who gain profits in Ukraine. This is the first moment. And who's doubtful, remember, we voted here in the first reading, not us, but you, the bill on reducing VAT from 20 percent to 14 percent again to those agroholdings that are not exactly the interests of Ukrainian citizens. It is therefore inappropriate to vote in favour of such a bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-02-m0.u64	No, I don't think so. Thank you for your constructive approach. Nestor Ivanovich Šufrich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-02-m0.u65	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. Dear colleagues, I recall our five - month opposition to the Law on the Circumstances of Land. And we were all promised to vote because we needed to. And whoever demanded did not explain it because the people of Ukraine were against it. But they promised a referendum. A referendum that should identify many aspects of this issue. We don't have a referendum, we don't have a referendum law, we don't have a law. That's what you promised. Where is your people? Where is the government of those whom you seem to serve? You've secured people, people have become your forts, they're already serving and serving you, and you're still robbing and robbing them. How many people can be bullied? And this law is a powerful demonstration of disrespect for people's understanding of how to treat the earth. What are you offering them? Now, after adoption, don't give God this law, people at the local council level will be able to change the assignment of land themselves. This can actually lead to a sharp reduction in the size of the land of agriculture, which is already a matter of national security. Today, we have an acute issue of reforestation. Six million acres [6 million ha] of forests have been lost in 30 years. Yes, not all of them have been cut off at your place, but you are even more busy than you were in the last 30 years. And now we're actually going to lose control, including in this direction. The purpose of the land was that real mechanism to control the use of the land that the central authorities had. In fact, by enacting this law, this function is devoid of it. We are for local councils to manage land resources, but not uncontrollable. Because, unfortunately, there are different examples, different cases. Now we're looking for where are the five million hectares of land that were distributed, including, let's say, the crucifixion of local councils. So if we're saying that we're fighting for a unitary state, that we want to resist the actual federalization (that is, you want to resist because our principles are different, we trust the regions), what do you do? In fact, you put the questions of the earth into the minds of people who can influence and embezzle our land resources. So, what kind of authority are you really in? For strong central government with strong incomes, or are you actually giving local princes the opportunity to manage our citizens' main acquisitions of land resources? So based on your initiative, taking into account what actually opens the door for the possibility of selling land to foreigners. In what way? First, the land will be transferred to agriculture for use for other purposes, the land farm will be reduced, and then the land will be transferred back after the sale to foreigners. This is just one possible example of abuse and speculation. And then our courts will say it's all right. And when we are called to account for the seemingly illegal possession of the earth, our righteous judgment will legitimize everything. And we know that. So today, I think it is unacceptable to adopt this law -- a law that will have devastating consequences that will actually destroy the ability to control the state, as a state, as a land resource, and, above all, the land resources of agrarian destination. Today our faction "The Opposition Platform for Life" requires these issues to be referred to a referendum and only then to continue with legislative initiatives that today are criminally irresponsible and not State-owned. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-02-m0.u66	Thank you. Dear colleagues, Ivchenko next Vadim Evgenovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-02-m0.u67	Vadim Ivchenko, Fatherland. Fellows, you know, I think a few of you have read 899 pages of this land money. There are benefits. Plus the ones the Fatherland was fighting for in the 15th year. This is the transfer of land to the territorial communities. We fought both physically and legally for the land to be transferred to the local communities. So here, colleagues, that's when we had to hand over the land, because now it's a fiction. I especially looked at some communities where I even live, and I saw that there were contracts there for all state lands by 2064, by 2057, by 2054, and so on. All of these lands will actually be provided by the ancestors who will remain in these territories. That's why I call it fiction. On the other hand, it's taxes, the rent will go directly to the territorial communities, and that's what we have to do. Colleagues, control functions are transferred directly from land use to local councils, which is also a plus. Colleagues, plus the fact that we've been fighting a dirtbag. You and I were robbed on the ground, five million acres [5 million ha] of land because of the schemes for the release of land to the one-manage farming of the Jacobs (in paws), and they were far from them. 5 million hectares are about 11,000 hectares per area. Robbed country. And plus that law is that two thirds of the council, two thirds of the village council, are now going to decide whether to put this land under OSG, or directly auction. One more plus and one last, unfortunately. That's plus auctions, and auctions are going to be cut down by 20 acres. This will enable small and medium-sized farmers to participate directly in these auctions. Because it's hard for small and medium-sized farmers to share more than 100 to 200 hectares of land there. Now, colleagues, minuses. Changing the target assignment by the owner's initiative. Colleagues, we're completely nullifying Article 23 of the Earth Code, we're talking about the priority of using the land, but we're totally destroying it. Taking into account the adoption of Law 2280, this means that the owner’s village council will decide for itself whether it will be a land of land or whether it will be another land of non-agriculture. And here's the thing, colleagues, here's what's going on is that the land of non-agricultural assignment is easier under this law to give to foreigners and non-citizens. I'll tell you who knows how land forms. They can be formed by lotteries of 200 hectares, and 300 acres [300 ha] of toilets, forming one land as a non-agricultural assignment, is easier to pass on to foreigners or noncitizens. And clearly there is a violation of the Constitution of Ukraine, I'm telling you now. Next, colleagues, individuals. Natural persons who can make changes to the LLC. Yes, these are certified people who will be involved in technical documentation. But ask the Ministry of Justice, colleagues, how many complaints they are considering, and how many percent have been violated directly by utility registerers. It's not government, it's municipal. And here's the physical person. I think it's a mistake. Error. Next up, colleagues. We're nullifying the exact limits that you colleagues have accepted in 10,000 hectares. There is a novelty in this law: we pass on to the use of land to ease, including foreign companies and foreign legal persons. It's easy to pass. What about the limits that we promised you in 10,000 hectares? There's absolutely no limit on the transfer to use. Next thing you know, colleagues, it's a rule of law. The dominant right is fiction because there is no predominant right for a farmer, for an OTG, or for a neighbor who wants to buy a pie. There's a majority right here, an exclusive money. So this is fiction. Fiction entirely for the farmer. And believe me, when farmers lose acres of land in their use and turn to you, you'll see that there's no predominant law. Next up, colleagues. Easier, I've already said, the easier purchase of land by foreigners, 82 articles of the Ukrainian Earth Code, we completely destroy it, we destroy it, where we had clear criteria. And valuable land. Colleagues, valuable land. Yes, you canceled the first reading of the issue of valuable lands. Yeah, they're partially back. But in part, and this is not enough in this law to protect directly valuable lands, which, at the initiative of the owner, can then be easier to change their destination and pass on to foreigners. I, colleagues, urge you to think. Think about it before we press the button, because we need a car that's going to drive, drive from the agricultural point of view, drive from the farmer's point of view, so that they have opportunities and have a perspective in this context when they're doing business in the agricultural sector. I see there's a lot of work to be done here. I've only told you the little thing in these 899 pages. Thank you, colleagues, for listening.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-02-m0.u68	Thank you. Sergei Vladislavovich, you didn't insist on the performance. What, two minutes? Please, Sobolev, two minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-02-m0.u69	Sobolje, Fatherland. Dear colleagues, this law, which has been carefully read, is a classic scheme when a spoon of honey is added to the mat. What is a honey bed in this law? It is the so - called promise to pass the land on to local communities. And now, actually, the tarp. This law does not allow a mere change of purpose; it allows this to be done in a single order without State control. What now protects the protective areas of the Blacklands from desecration? What now, if you want to change your target, is done by two sides: the central government and the local council that agrees. What does this law propose? Actually, that's a level. The law has not yet been passed, but I have been given unique facts. The three Carpathian captives, the Jaremcan United Community, the old councils are gone, and the new council is not yet formed. Quickly, the Djgeokadastre of the Ivano-Frankiv region made a decision: the captivity of 25 hectares, 17 hectares and 76 hectares to detail hundreds of areas and without the consent of old councils that are no longer available, and the new council, which is not yet available, to pass on to the new so-called owners. The lands that have been used for thousands of years by owners who have been handed over from inheritance to inheritance, which have become common lands, will now be divided and handed over to hundreds of owners. We can't let that happen. My suggestion is to repeat the second reading, discard all the articles of the change of purpose, and leave.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-02-m0.u70	Thank you, Sergey Vladislavovich. Tsymbaluk, three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-02-m0.u71	Mikhailo Cimbaluk, Fatherland. Dear colleagues, I'd like to be able to see the eyes of the reporter, the honourable colleagues. Thank you. Mikhailo Cimbaluk, Fatherland. When we prepared the revisions for the second reading, my team and I prepared more than 30 and 32 revisions, to be exact. One of them is counted. Thank you for that. We were hoping, I have great respect for Mikola Tarasovich Solski, and we were hoping that he would really be the chairman of the committee to examine them carefully, study them, and accept the state's position. But that was not what was supposed to happen. And I can answer today why. Because there's a group of authors, they're members of the committee, because I'm sure if that was Mikli Tarasovich's opinion, my rights would be counted, at least half. Now essentially. Indeed, it was still necessary to transfer the right to rule the lands of the local communities, but for the sake of justice, there is a partially rational grain in this bill, as said by the deputy head of the faction Sergio Sobolev. What Is Dangerous? The danger is that there is no more transmission and that new powers of the State Department have emerged before the second reading. There is now this state structure headed by one armpit, so he tells us that everything has been stolen from him, but in fact by transferring state land to united territorial communities is the desire to share responsibility for those lands that are not actually owned by communities anymore, and translate that future generations remain only with foreign lands. The next thing I know, the danger is that, according to this bill, energy systems can be deployed without agreement with landowners. Another thing, as far as I'm concerned, is a dangerous thing that could happen when it comes to the acquisition of land by foreign citizens. It is very important for the state, on the one hand, to have control over the conservation of state-owned and reserve-owned lands, which are still extremely valuable and useful. In this case, the law would be balanced.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-02-m0.u72	Thank you, Mikhailovich. Dear colleagues, it's final. I see, I remember, Mikola Leonidovich, the final speech on this bill. 3 Minutes to Princely, 2. We're going to have the Princess for three minutes, and then we're going to vote for the law as a whole. Two confirmation checks. By Account or by Confirmation? That's what I'm talking about. And then we go to the vote. Please invite the people's deputies to the hall. In fact, we'll be voting there in three or four minutes. Princess Mikola Leonidovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-02-m0.u73	Thank you. This is, of course, such a strange discussion, because important amendments would have to be voted on, said the previous speakers. I just want to say that the rule of law provides for the possibility of the Supreme Council's approval of issues related to the change in the target assignment of particularly valuable lands. The bill proposes to delete this rule, and the amendment suggests leaving a valid law, which is my amendment that I'm asking for. Particularly valuable lands, because of their unique status, should have a special legal status as agronomic and ecologically valuable soils. The removal of this rule from the code opens the way to opportunities as a result of manipulations, the capture of lands of natural order, other conservation purposes and lands of historical and cultural significance. In fact, this law paves the way for the privatization of the land of conservation and the land of historical and cultural significance. So I demanded that this amendment be voted on. In addition, it has already been said that the appropriate law that I propose to delete provides that the size of the land that is leased to a citizen for gardening cannot exceed 0.6 hectares. Why is it possible for a city to have no more than 60 hundred or a garden? The amendment proposes to delete this rule as well. Because if a person can process more, the law should stimulate him, not restrict him. With the opportunity to privatize the land in huge quantities. The law provides for the removal from the code of rules that specify what land areas of a non-agriculture assignment may be owned by foreigners. That's what they talked about. This is once again an opportunity for foreigners to privatize the land. And one of my last 1058 rights. The bill proposes that an article on particularly valuable land be deleted from the Earth Code -- what I said earlier when this rule was excluded from the Supreme Council's authority. Particularly valuable lands, because of their unique status, should have special legal status as agronomically and ecologically valuable soils. And the delimitation of this standard, once again, opens up the possibility of privatizing the natural, natural conservation value of land, the land of historical and cultural destination, the land of research fields of scientific research institutions, peatlands, a wide range of particularly valuable soils, which are listed by order of the State Commission. Such an article should remain in the codex. And I insist that my amendment leave it. Otherwise, we cannot vote in favour of this bill in any way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-02-m0.u74	Thank you. You're not going to insist, are you, on the vote? No, it's not. We can move on. Now it's Francis, 844 and 2205. I suggest: for one and a half minutes you both speak, and then the position of the committee, and we vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-02-m0.u75	Thank you, sir. Amendment 844. It provides for mandatory notarial certification of consent to the exercise of the dominant right to purchase. Without discussing the question that in this bill the overwhelming right of purchase can generally be passed on, that is, in principle, a violation of my belief, of the general position of the Civil Code, because it is personal and cannot be passed on to another person, that is first. But in any case, in order to avoid any sort of raid or other procedure that is not related to the exercise of a dominant right, there is a proposal for a notary certificate of that declaration on such a document. That's the first line. And the second one is purely technical. The bill misapplys to a certificate and a certificate. That is, an appropriate statement regarding the division of land cannot be certified, for the law prohibits the signature of persons on documents that contain the form of a contract. These documents exclusively carry out a person’s signature certificate. For the purpose of settling this conflict, this amendment is sent to the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-02-m0.u76	The position of the committee on these two rights.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-02-m0.u77	I don't mind. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-02-m0.u78	Again.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-02-m0.u79	I don't mind. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-02-m0.u80	I mean, I understand correctly that 844 and 2205 you think could be supported? They were not counted by the committee before that. Right?
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-02-m0.u81	That's right.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-02-m0.u82	Ladies and gentlemen, I'm going to put two bills on the table and then we're going to vote. Ready? 844 revisions. It wasn't counted by the committee, but now we're hearing a position that the committee doesn't object if the hall is identified and can support this amendment. I'm betting on the vote 844. Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[11:53:16]] For 259. Decision taken. Edit included. Amendment 2205. Ready to vote? Please support and vote. It's a matter of taking into account. Please support and vote. [[11:53:40]] For 268. Decision taken. Edit included. Let's go to the vote for the law. I am voting on the proposal to adopt a second reading and, in general, with the necessary technical and legal regulations, the draft Law amending the Ukraine Code of Land and other legislative acts to improve the management and deregulation system in the field of land relations (registration No. 2194). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[11:54:25]] For 201 The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, I am voting on the proposal to refer to the Committee for a second reading of the draft Law amending the Ukrainian Code of Land and other legislative acts on improving the management and deregulation system in the field of land relations (Registration No. 2194). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. Another reading. [[11:55:09]] For 260 Decision taken. Thank you. Let's see the factions. The next issue of the agenda is the draft Act amending section XI, paragraph 1, of the Act on Concession (registration number 3961). Would you please tell me who's going to insist on editing? No, it's not. Let's go to the vote. Ready to vote? I am voting on the proposal to adopt the second reading and, in general, with the necessary technical and legal regulations, the draft Act amending section XI, paragraph 1, of the Act on Concession (registration No. 3961). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[11:56:14]] For 280 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. The next issue of the agenda is the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Local Self-Government in Ukraine to ensure that State guarantees of local self-government are respected and that its economic foundations are protected (registration No. 3118). No one's going to insist on the papers? Shall we go to the vote? I am voting on the proposal to adopt a second reading and, in general, with the necessary technical and legal regulations, the draft Law amending the Ukrainian Law on Local Self-Government in Ukraine to ensure that the State guarantees of local self-government are respected and that its economic foundations are protected (registration 3118). Please support and vote. [[11:57:12]] For 305 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Let's see the factions. The next issue of the agenda is the draft Act amending article 3 of the Law on Public Procurement on the effective implementation of State policy in the field of physical culture and sports (registration No. 3075). No one insists on editing? I am voting on the proposal to adopt a second reading and, in general, with the necessary technical and legal regulations, the draft Law amending article 3 of the Law on Public Procurement on the Effective Implementation of State Policy in the Field of Physical Culture and Sports (registration No. 3075). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[11:58:10]] For 291 Decision taken. The next issue of the agenda is the draft Act amending the Criminal Code of Ukraine to ensure the enforcement of the Constitutional Court’s ruling on the indictment of the court’s decision to extend the term of detention (registration No. 2315). Is there anyone here who's gonna insist on editing? Can we vote? I am voting on the proposal to adopt a second reading and, in general, with the necessary technical and legal remedies, the draft Act amending the Criminal Procedure Code of Ukraine to ensure the enforcement of the decision of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine with regard to the prosecution of the court for the extension of the period of detention (registration No. 2315). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[11:59:15]] For 318 Decision taken. Show me the factions, please. "Serve of the People" – 214, "The Opposition Platform for Life" – 20, "European Solidarity" – 22, "The Fatherland" – 11, "For the Future" – 13, "The Voice" – 16, "The Trust" – 11, "the Non-Factional" – 11. 12:00. There's a break until 12:30. I would like to remind you of the factions, please meet for a meeting.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-02-m0.u83	Dear colleagues, please invite the national deputies to the hall. We're continuing our work. Dear colleagues, according to article 60, prime. I report to the Supreme Council regulations on the creation of the Ninth Interfractional Union of Human Rights and the Health of the Nation in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Bulah Lada Valentinovna was elected head of this association. Congratulations! Lady Valentine's Day, can I see you for a moment while the national MPs are on their way? Lady Valentina, can I see you for a moment? Thank you. Dear colleagues, let's get back to work. Please invite the national MPs. You are invited to consider a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Supreme Council Rules, the Ukrainian People's Deputy Status Act, the Ukrainian Act on Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the grounds for the absence of Ukrainian national deputies at plenary meetings of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and the meetings of the Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I take it no one's going to insist on the papers? [[B in m in s a l in]] But there is no Knyazevitch. [[B in m in s a l in]] No, it's not. I understand. No, it's just the right-wing authors. Dear colleagues, you know the Rules very well. Unfortunately, there is one author, Ruslan Petrovich. We wish him health and return to work as soon as possible. But no. Ready to vote? Invite people's deputies. Take your seats, get ready to vote. Ready to vote? I would like to vote on the proposal to adopt a second reading and, in general, with the necessary technical and legal regulations, a bill amending the Ukrainian Supreme Council Rules, the Ukrainian Law on the Status of the People's Deputy of Ukraine, the Ukrainian Law on Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the grounds for the absence of Ukrainian national deputies at plenary meetings of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and at meetings of the Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine (Registration No. 3642). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[12:44:29]] For 248 The decision is adopted, the law is passed in general. Let's see the factions. Dear colleagues, the next question is the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the Protection of the Rights and Freedoms of Citizens and the legal regime in the temporarily occupied territory of Ukraine to determine the territorial jurisdiction of the courts of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea and the City of Sevastopol to the courts and the criminal offences committed in the temporarily occupied territories (registration No. 0941). Reports a member of the Committee on Human Rights, Depopulation and Reintegration of Temporaryly Inoccupied Territories in Donetsk, Lugansk and the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, Sevastopol, National Minorities and International Relations of Gorbenko Ruslan Aleksandrovich. Turn on the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-02-m0.u84	Honorable National MPs.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-02-m0.u85	Wait. Would you please tell me who's going to insist on editing? No, it's not. Can we vote? Okay. Thank you, you've had a good performance. What does it mean to report in all directions? Dear colleagues, I am voting on the proposal to adopt a second reading and, in general, with the necessary technical and legal remedies, the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the Protection of the Rights and Freedoms of Citizens and the Legal Regime in the Interimly Occupied Territory of Ukraine to determine the territorial jurisdiction of the courts of the Autonomous Republic of Crime and the City of Sevastopol to the courts and the criminal offences committed in the temporarily occupied territory (registration No. 0941). Please support and vote. [[12:46:42]] For 275 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Thank you all again. The next issue is the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation on social protection during the quarantine period related to the prevention and spread of coronary disease (COVID-19) (registration number 3486). The chairman of the Committee on Social Policy and Veterans’ Rights, Trelyakov Galina Mikolayevna, is invited to the rostrum. Is it necessary? We can vote. Thank you, Galina Mikolayevna, for the report. Let's go to the vote. I am voting on the proposal to adopt a second reading and, in general, with the necessary technical and legal regulations, the draft Law amending certain Ukrainian legislation on social protection during the quarantine period related to the prevention and spread of coronary disease (COVID-19) (registration number 3486). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[12:47:52]] For 287 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Let's move on to the next question of order of the day. This is a draft of the Virtual Assets Act (registration number 3637). It is suggested that this issue be considered in a simplified manner. Please support and vote. [[12:48:23]] For 229 Decision taken. The National Deputy of Ukraine, Zmerenecki Aleksy Sergiyyovich, is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-02-m0.u86	Good day, dear colleagues, a venerable Presidium! I am glad that this time has finally come when we in Parliament are considering such an innovative issue. Probably one of the few in the world, because today only a few countries that can be counted on one hand have legislation that regulates relationships in the field of virtual assets. Experts are now assessing the volume of transactions in Ukraine with virtual assets of about $150-200 million per day, and the capitalization of virtual assets in Ukraine is over $2 billion. But unfortunately, all this time, the whole field is completely in the shade. Businesses in this area cannot register, cannot defend their rights in court, cannot contract. The startups created in Ukraine begin to flee from Ukraine or simply register their companies in foreign jurisdictions. You can't pay taxes, foreign companies can't come to Ukraine and work with banks, with any other institutions, and also work in the shadows, or just don't come to Ukraine. It's the first draft of a law for all parliamentary cadences that fits into virtual assets in a comprehensive way, not treating them exclusively as crypto-activators or cryptologists and things like that that they've tried to do in the past chambers of parliament. The bill is fundamental; it defines all basic concepts related to virtual assets: a list of virtual asset service providers, all definitions and definitions. The bill also complements the previously adopted bill on the prevention of the laundering of dirty funds, which implements the FATF standard in the Ukrainian legislation to prevent the laundering of dirty funds. These standards are not working at the moment because there is no basic law, and Ukraine is risking getting on the list of "cheese" countries and accordingly having some problems with financial relations. Suggested in the first reading to be accepted. For the second reading, if there are any comments or suggestions, we will all take into account. I would like to point out that no central authority has spoken at the committee discussion.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-02-m0.u87	Thank you. The vice-chairman of the Digital Transformation Committee, Montenegro Volodymyrovich, is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-02-m0.u88	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues! In fact, the virtual asset market has developed in Ukraine in recent years, and hundreds of thousands of Ukrainians have been using virtual assets in their daily lives. And we can't really delay it. Unfortunately, they are now working outside the legal field. That's why this bill is now being proposed for adoption in order to create this legal field, so that the owners actually pay taxes, the owners of these virtual assets, so that we can meet the requirements of the FATF, as the bill's author has already said. It's the first reading. Of course, there will be further discussion of this bill before the second reading, we are waiting for your suggestions. But now the subcommittee and the committee are asking to support this bill and vote on it in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-02-m0.u89	Thank you. Please sign up: two in, two in, two in factions. Shinkarenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-02-m0.u90	Out of the way. Good afternoon! Good afternoon, dear fellows! This is extremely relevant today because Ukraine and the Ukrainians are the world’s first places in the world to turn cryptoactives around the world. This bill will introduce the country into the legal field. And I'm convinced that this will bring about an enormous increase in our economy if, as a result of the adoption of this law and then additional legislation, we are able, first of all, to receive additional revenue from the budget through the legalization of crypto-actives and electronic assets. We will be able to help resolve all the issues that arise in the users of these assets in case there are claims to the authorities of the SSS or others as a result of the misuse of someone's assets. So far, it's in an incomprehensible field. So we can't protect the money of investors who invest huge amounts in this industry. And we also know that Ukrainian IT companies are developing a huge number of projects related to this. In summary, I want to say that this will give Ukraine huge growth for the economy and give green light for investments in Ukraine in this direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-02-m0.u91	Majjkovich Mikola Romanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-02-m0.u92	Ariev.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-02-m0.u93	Arjev Vladimir Igorovich
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-02-m0.u94	When this bill was read by some investment experts, they grabbed their heads. Because everything that's being prepared is prepared very quickly, without particularly taking into account the things that can prevent money laundering, without taking into account the full and comprehensive protection of investors, without taking into account the serious control of issuers. So you create this kind of black hole if you adopt a bill like that. Dear colleagues, I can assure you that once this bill is passed, there will be much bigger problems in the countries than there are now. And the International Monetary Fund after the adoption of this bill is not what it will not give, but it also requires quick repayment of all debts. Believe me, the point of this document is so much that the second reading just doesn't make sense. I suggest: let's not take any chances or play Ukraine, let's not create opportunities for black financial holes, including fraud, which remain in this valid edit, which will be very difficult to fix. And we're going to send this bill back to read again, and we're going to bring together investment banking professionals, those who understand what virtual assets are, and we're going to prepare a serious bill, and we're going to bring things here that can then have a significant impact not only on Ukraine's image, but on its financial state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-02-m0.u95	Anna Constantine's speedboat.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-02-m0.u96	Dear colleagues, we absolutely support the legalization of virtual assets. But this law makes even more coalitions in the right, because no one will clearly determine what virtual assets are under this bill. And the definition that's in this bill, it's going to swell up so much, it's going to be able to shove anything in there, and we can get even more and more into the shadows. Moreover, there is no clear solution as to how the owners of these virtual assets will identify. You're saying we're going to collect taxes and finally make some investments. But how will you even identify these owners? How are you going to collect taxes? It's not settled in the law. In addition, read the GNEU’s conclusions. It clearly states that the position of the project does not conform to the constitutional principle of the rule of law in part of the rule of law’s compliance with the principle of legal certainty. But let's work on the bill and send it back to the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-02-m0.u97	Thank you. Shufrich Nestor Ivanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-02-m0.u98	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Dear colleagues! You know, I'm a little used to working on the Supreme Council of Ukraine, and it's a habit that we get the decision of the Chief Legal Authority, the Scientific and Experimental Authority. Good people, this law requires more psychological expertise. Please tell me, are you all right in real life? That's how you got into virtual life. The Ilons of Masks are here. People good, what are you doing? I'm not talking about the impact on GDP anymore, the normal things that we should be discussing today -- zero, nothing. You deal with the real situation today in the country, with the real sick. The fact that Britain is starting to provide services to people in Pfizera next week is a real action. Germany in January or in the last week of December is a real action. Hungary's Sputnik V from Russia is a real action. You feed people first, then you feed them with virtual things here, try to push them. I understand there's nothing wrong with the smartphone in our country's leadership. And I have the impression that you're not an intellectual locodown, you're cooking, but you're getting an intellectual locodown, even in your virtual world. I beg you again, let's go. Return to the situation we're in right now. Do not hide yourself or drag some virtual peace into Ukraine. Today, you need to understand the responsibility of people in the real world today, and immediately, by protecting their lives, by protecting the health of the Ukrainian people. Think about people, not virtuality. You're fine in your smartphone, and everything is very bad in your life, it's complicated and it's dangerous. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-02-m0.u99	Thank you. Sobolev is a minute of motive. Chess is a minute of motivation. Then we go to the vote. Please invite the people's deputies to the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-02-m0.u100	Colleagues, the situation is very dangerous. If we pass this law, I guarantee that Ukraine is subject to special FATF monitoring. Consider how another emission center can be transferred from Nazbank to Minfina, who is interested in the show, because he needs to cover the funding gap. Secondly, did you at least read that this bill gives rise to the jurisdiction of Ukraine? You want Ukraine to become a launderable pit, where all the dirty money will be washed away? Show me the definition of virtual assets. Where is the Bitcoin determined? Isn't Bitcoin a virtual asset? This law cannot be passed, I think we need an expert on the anti-corruption committee. It's not like that, it's not just like that, it's not like that.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-02-m0.u101	Shahov Sergei Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-02-m0.u102	Respectful colleagues are certainly in need of innovation in our country. Tell me, when we get back to those assets that were robbed back in the '90s, not virtual, but real? The enterprises, the Lissode, which was completely destroyed, and the recycling of the land didn't even happen, today the dirt is pouring into the Severerodonetsk. The Mechglass, which was completely destroyed, the RTI factory, which was exported, where at least 20,000 people worked, is now out of work. The Star factory, which today is privately owned by the Defense Prome, where explosives are produced today. When will these enterprises be audited and returned to reality today, and all these enterprises have been audited, and when will they punish those bastards who destroyed the economic locomotive of our country right in Donbas? Today, we demand an immediate audit of all the businesses that have been destroyed and are now standing with mercury, where our children are running, even in the Kyiv region.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-02-m0.u103	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-02-m0.u104	Dear colleagues, please prepare for the vote, take your seats. Ready to vote? Invite the national deputies to the hall. Ready to vote? Dear colleagues, please prepare for the vote. I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Virtual Assets Act (registration number 3637). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[13:04:27]] For 230 Decision taken. Thank you. The next issue of the agenda is the draft Act amending article 4 of the Ukrainian Act (please do not shout) "Pesticides and agrochemicals" about the import of pesticides into Ukrainian customs territory. What's with the factions? Let's see the factions. 2289. Let's go. [[B in m in s a l in]] I've already asked you a question, next thing you know. Ivan Ivanovich, after that, I'll give it out of the procedure. It is suggested that this issue be considered in a simplified manner. Please support and vote. [[13:05:24]] For 224 Decision taken. The National Deputy of Ukraine, Kucher Mikola Ivanovich, is invited to attend. Is there a Mikola Ivanovich?
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-02-m0.u105	Dear colleagues, Reverend Dmitri Alexanderovich! The main objective of the 2289 bill is to unlock the import of samples of innovative plant protection products for scientific research and state trials for agricultural use, as well as the use of pesticide residues, jadechemistia, which have expired, the issue of the possibility of use, storage and trade. The problem under this bill arose back in December 2015 when the so-called deregulation bill amended the Pesticides and Agrochemicals Act on the impossibility of testing pesticides in Ukraine without their prior registration in the producer country. By the way, this rule does not work in any country in the EU or in the United States. And secondly, it contradicts common sense and is incredibly lobbyistic. I don’t remember a law that was as lobbyist as the law when it changed pesticides and agrochemicals. For example, today, many of the drugs that manufacturers -- Switzerland, Germany -- do not produce, they don't register because they don't sow sunflowers, and they produce sunflowers, there are no herbicides, there are no diseases that are used. So the limitations, we are now limited to experience, to the world's plant protection development, and this leads to the purchase of extremely old drugs in Ukraine. Experts estimate that the loss of crops due to undernutrition is estimated at about 3 billion annually. So there's a lot of talk around the bill today, but I think it's going to reduce the environmental pressure pretty much, and we're going to bring in about three, four kilograms, and we're not going to import 20 grams. That's why I'm calling on all of you today to support the bill and vote in favour of Bill 2289. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-02-m0.u106	Thank you. Solski Mikola Tarasovic, head of the Agrarian and Land Policy Committee, is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-02-m0.u107	Dear colleagues, honourable chairman, I propose to you the draft Act amending article 4 of the Ukrainian Law on Pesticides and Agrochemicals. The purpose of the bill is to improve the individual provisions of the law. The bill is primarily called upon to remove the situation that has arisen in the law of relatively recent times, which does not exist in the EU or the United States or in other developed countries. Accordingly, the bill is anticorruption in nature. [[do not hear]] Some of the standards mentioned earlier by Mikola Ivanovich. I stress that the adoption of this bill is supported by the Ministry of Economics, the European Business Association, the American Chamber of Commerce, the German-Ukrainian Chamber of Commerce and Commerce, the All-Ukrainian Agrarian Forum, the All-Ukrainian Agrarian Council, the Agricultural Union, the All-Ukrainian Association of Rural, Rural Councils, the Agrarian Confederation, the Agricultural Business Club, the Federation of Ukraine, the Ukrainian Agrarian Protection Control. The Ministry of Ecology has also reached agreement on this bill, Mr. Minister, taking into account some changes in your voting on the draft law on second reading. This is the exclusion of advertising for two years of pesticide residues and the acquisition period since 2021. In addition, there is a positive vote from the Euro-Integration Committee, which will be taken into account. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-02-m0.u108	Please write down: two for, two for, two for, factions for, factions for, from factions and groups.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-02-m0.u109	Please, Labazuk, the "For the Future" faction. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-02-m0.u110	Dear colleagues, you and I have to work in this session room to help business, to develop industry, to produce, and in no way to interfere. And today the bill that we are considering with you right now is called upon to support the sector that is already the engine of our economy. In fact, I find it difficult to believe that a plant protection product cannot be imported into Ukraine for research -- those that have already been tested, registered and successfully worked in other countries. But it should be borne in mind that Ukraine has its climate characteristics, its soil characteristics, and the corresponding means of protecting plants that work successfully in other countries are not the fact that they will work for us. So today we are creating an opportunity to import plant protection products into Ukraine -- pesticides that can be tested in our conditions and used successfully, which will, in turn, increase the income of farmers and, accordingly, pay more to the budget, produce more products. That's why the Future Group will support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-02-m0.u111	Thank you. Galina Vasilchenko, the Voice faction, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-02-m0.u112	Please pass on the word to Cabal Volodymyr.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-02-m0.u113	Please give me your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-02-m0.u114	Dear colleagues, if you will, this law on three things. First. This law is positive for our Ukrainian agrarians, who will be able to buy more cheap fertilizers, because the range of fertilizers they can buy is going to expand considerably. The other one. This law is beneficial to the consumer, because the cost of the product they buy will be significantly reduced. And the third. This law, really, as it was said, and this is fundamental, it corrects those lobbying standards that were adopted by specific manufacturers four years ago and accordingly returns the market for agrochemicals to normal market conditions. Please support this bill. Thank you, colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-02-m0.u115	Thank you. Suffritch Nestor Ivanovich. Murmich Anatoly Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-02-m0.u116	I pass, please pass the word to Burmitch.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-02-m0.u117	I see. I've already passed it, yes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-02-m0.u118	Dear colleagues, we have heard much about Ukraine as a testing range. Not only were we talking about biological laboratories that don't know what they're producing, the coronavirus or what's in our territory, but nobody gave us an answer. Even the ambassador of Canada, and he couldn't stand it, woke up some patriotic traits and said that Ukraine was a polygon. This law is from this opera, from the same cut. Who said they were pesticides? Maybe it's not pesticides. Could it be fertilizer? Or drugs, or any other substance? This chemical is nowhere to be registered, dear friends, anywhere. She's moving in here to understand what this is all about. Why are we giving our land, our resources, our ecology to test something? Let them test themselves, register, and then bring us back to us as it is today, and test whether it fits the land of Ukraine or not. That's the first one. I think pesticides can take everything, even drugs, say it's a pesticide, sorry, it's not registered, and so forth. It's all about possibilities. The other one. The law allows for the sale of pesticides that have been registered for more than two years. Use it for yourself, it's chemistry, you don't know what it's become. I think it's also a danger to ecology. I thought to myself, why is he doing all this? And then I think someone must have a conscience, and when they actually sold the land, they want to poison it, like, "so don't get anywhere." You can't turn your own land into a test site. We'll be against it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-02-m0.u119	Thank you. Zinkevich Jan Vadimovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-02-m0.u120	Please pass the word to Ivanci Klimpush-Cincadze.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-02-m0.u121	I'm sorry, I can't hear you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-02-m0.u122	Klimpush-Cincadze.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-02-m0.u123	Klimpush-Cincadze Ivanna Orestovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-02-m0.u124	Thank you. Dear colleagues, indeed, this bill is very necessary for agrarians. We understand how important it is to encourage them to have an additional opportunity to avoid damage, to have additional investment attractiveness, and all of this is certainly important to our nation in general. And despite all the positive things that our colleagues have heard, this bill actually contains, unfortunately, a standard that allows pesticides and agrochemicals to be used once their registration is complete. And we very much hope that this rule will be adapted to the second reading, as both the authors have said, and the representative of the committee, and unfortunately, this bill contains standards that are directly in conflict with the law of the European Union, the Association Agreement and our obligations within the framework of the World Trade Organization. And I thank the head of the committee for saying under the transcript that the committee is ready to take into account the comments made by the Committee on Integration of Ukraine into the European Union. If this is done, it is really this bill that will be fully supported by us and in the second reading. Today, we are ready to give this loan of trust and support as the European Solidarity Bill in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-02-m0.u125	Quiet, please. Dear colleagues, please, have all those who wish to speak? Invite the national deputies to the hall. Let's go to the vote for the law. I have one question: the committee proposes to adopt this law as a basis and as a whole. Oh, no? How do you say no if it says "in general"? That's why I'm asking. No questions asked. You took the committee's decision. Mikola Tarasovich, it's bad if you don't know your decisions. Even the committee no longer offers as a whole. So let's go to the vote, please. Ready to vote? I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Act amending article 4 of the Law on Pesticides and Agrochemicals on the import of pesticides into customs territory of Ukraine (registration No. 2289). Please prepare to vote again. Ready? Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[13:17:59]] For 239. Decision taken. Thank you. Krulko Ivan Ivanovich is from the procedure. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-02-m0.u126	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear Dmitry Alexanderovich, distinguished colleagues, is a proposal to consider now the preliminary report of the Interim Investigation Commission on the investigation of media-published facts of possible corruption by officials of the public authorities, which has led to significant losses in the revenue part of the State budget. In summary, it is suggested that this issue be considered and asked to be considered now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-02-m0.u127	Ivan Ivanovich, if I'm not mistaken, we agreed as follows that two minutes is the reporter's speech, after which we vote. Is there no objection? Let's go? Please. No discussion. No discussion. Okay. It's a deal.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-02-m0.u128	The Honourable Head of the Supreme Council, distinguished national deputies, respected Ukrainians, your attention is drawn to the previous report of the interim commission of inquiry of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, which was created in this Chamber to investigate possible corruption in matters relating to the activities of the State Tax Service and the State Customs Service. I would like to point out that the previous report, registered as the draft decision of the Supreme Council, was supported and signed by representatives of all the MPs who are part of the interim commission of inquiry. It is important to note that the temporary commission of inquiry during the period of work is established that the most common scheme of VAT evasion is the formation of a fictitious tax credit that has been called a "crush". The amount of VAT is about 2.5 billion dollars a month. Together, in January 2019 - March 2020, DFS and the State Tax Service formed and used fictitious VAT for at least 28.5 billion dollars. Furthermore, buyers of a product with a fictitious VAT, and this should be noted, could sometimes not know about its fictitious nature. I want to point out right now that we're not talking about the fact that these actions are already a crime, because only law enforcement agencies and the courts can do that. As long as there is no court decision, there is a presumption of innocence. At the same time, however, we can note that the established territorial authorities of the State Tax Service, which account for the largest number of such payers: Lvivska, Kyivska, Donetska, Zaporizka, Kirovogradska, Kharkivsk Region, and the city of Kyiv. Thanks to the work of the TSC, the State Tax Service, along with the Security Service and the Ministry of Digital Transformation, there have been detected and eliminated cases of malfunctioning SMCD algorithms, resulting in the government budget not reaching an additional 32 billion dollars. It is important to note that the interim commission of inquiry should continue its work for the next six months in view of the large number of tasks assigned to it. And I'd like that.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-02-m0.u129	No, we don't. We don't add extra time, Ivan Ivanovich, you know. Thank you. Dear colleagues, I bet. Dear colleagues! Dear colleagues, this is about continuing the work of the TSC. That is why I am voting on the proposal for adoption of the entire draft Decree (Registration No. 4263) on the report of the Interim Investigative Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the investigation of media-published facts of possible corruption by officials of the state authorities, which resulted in significant losses in the income part of the State budget of Ukraine. Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[13:22:49]] For 306 Decision taken. Thank you, Your Honor. The next issue of the agenda is the draft Act amending the final provisions of the Ukrainian Food Safety and Hygiene Act with the aim of stabilizing the market (registration number 3672). It is suggested that this issue be considered in a simplified manner. Please support and vote. [[13:23:24]] For 235 Thank you. Decision taken. Let's move on to the question. The chairman of the Agrarian and Land Policy Committee, Solski Mikola Tarasovich, is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-02-m0.u130	Dear Dmitre Alexanderovich, the distinguished national deputies of Ukraine! Your opinion is on a bill to amend the Ukrainian Food Safety and Hygiene Act with a view to stabilizing the feed market. Until recently, according to the Veterinary Medicine Act in Ukraine, there was a system for the registration of ready-made feeds. But this approach was not in line with EU legislation. However, the Ukrainian Food Safety and Hygiene Act became effective in January 20th, and the registration of prepared feeds was cancelled. Instead, the law introduces the registration of feed additives that comply with European legislation. In accordance with the requirements of article 17 of the Act, the production and circulation of feed produced with the use of feed additives and the circulation of the additives themselves are permitted only under the conditions of registration of such feed additives. The prescribed law provided for a transitional period of two years. And it was also necessary to approve 19 legal acts. Today, only a fraction is accepted. The absence of regulations does not permit the registration of any feed additive. And since this year, we've been blocked from shipping all food supplements to Ukraine -- these are preservatives, vitamins and everything. So for the time being, the procedure for registration of feed additives has not yet worked. Such a situation has already led to a reduction in market offers. The decision will allow the market for ready feed to be unlocked, the introduction of an entirely new system for registration of additives in accordance with the European model, the completion of the Ukrainian Register of Feed Additives, and the provision of time for the adoption of the necessary additional regulations. The act of law in the project has been terminated since the 24th year. It's a temporary mode. From this point forward, only the supplements registered in Ukraine will be allowed. The committee requests that the bill be supported on the basis and as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-02-m0.u131	Thank you, Mikola Tarasovich. Please write down: two for, two for the factions for the performances. Lucnyak Mikola Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-02-m0.u132	Please pass it on to Pussy Claus.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-02-m0.u133	Kucher Mikola Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-02-m0.u134	My fellow Members, I call on everyone to support Bill 3672 because the bill deals with all the issues, everything about the import into Ukraine of those drugs that are made from combustibles. If we don't, Kabin will be solving this issue for at least a few years, because it's 2,000 appointments. That's why I support and want this bill to be supported, which solves our issue, is about bringing in supplements. It will allow our importers to import vans and register ready combos. Such an approach would be in line with European legislation. So I urge everyone to support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-02-m0.u135	Vitatrovich Volodymyr Mihajlovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-02-m0.u136	Please hand over Arthur Gerasimov.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-02-m0.u137	Gerasimov Arthur Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-02-m0.u138	Mr. Chairman, distinguished colleagues, respected Ukrainians! You know, in addition to the crisis in the economy, in addition to the crisis against the coronavirus epidemic, in addition to the crisis in the international sphere caused by Green Power, they still want to create a real crisis in the animal industry, so that we have almost all of us who are involved in the animal industry as a waste, and all of the products are made. If you don't accept this bill and make it law, that's what's gonna happen. So "European Solidarity," as always, goes into business, meets our agrarians and will vote in favour of this bill, and asks everyone in the hall to support it. But this bill is not perfect because it does not solve the problem; it only delays its decision. That is why we ask today to vote for the adoption of this bill in the first reading and for the second to correct all the gaps in this bill in order not to be a key one, I call your attention to this discrimination against a domestic producer. Because we can talk a lot about some industries, but the key in every bill, when we accept it, is to make benefits for one industry or industry, or our agriculture, not to make cuts for the other. That's why we're going to support it in the first reading to all the halls, to the second, we're correcting all the gaps, the key one, that there was no discrimination against the national manufacturer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-02-m0.u139	Thank you. Polakov Anton Eduardoovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-02-m0.u140	Please give me the word of Labazuku Sergei. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-02-m0.u141	Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-02-m0.u142	Labazuk Sergei, Hmelnickin, 188 district. Dear colleagues, it's very good that we're trying to bring Ukrainian legislation to European legislation. But we often do so because in our own time, when we passed a bill on food safety and hygiene, we made a commitment, along with the bill, to adopt 19 more bills. And the situation for today is only 16 considered and accepted, 3 not yet considered. We automatically blocked the possibility of importing vitamins, food supplements. I want to remind you that for three years now, the bed in Ukraine has been produced by ADH, a plague that has again caused huge losses to animal producers. And today we've actually monopolized these activities of importing feed additives into Ukraine, and individual companies, monopolizing, are raising the price of feed in Ukraine, which in turn will actually lead to the final product, such as meat, milk, and health. This bill proposes to unlock the registration procedure and allow us to import feed additives into Ukraine so that we can get them at market price with appropriate quality, because a large number of feed additives are produced in other countries, and we need them very much today. Yes, of course, this bill, as just stated by colleagues, needs further work. But to that end, you and I on the committee are able to work on it and accept it in a short time. Therefore, the Group "For the Future" supports this bill, please support.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-02-m0.u143	Sergey Vladislavovich was involved.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-02-m0.u144	Please give it to Ichchenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-02-m0.u145	Yvchenko? Ivchenko Vadim Evgenovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-02-m0.u146	Yvchenko, Fatherland. Colleagues, this law is needed, this law is needed primarily because the government has not been able to register food supplements for the last two transitional years. 11 million domestic animals, 6 billion in total turnover in this sector, 260 million. We need to adopt this law on a basis today, we need to work it out clearly. And I want to say, lastly, that this is not just a food supplement register, it's a question of our competitiveness, it's a matter of survival actually through vitamins, it's the supply of these feed additives to our animals, including our pets. And, colleagues, here's the question of responsibility, the responsibility of those people who, two years after the adoption of the Food Hygiene Act, "On Food Safety and Hygiene," failed to register. We vote "yes" and we work it out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-02-m0.u147	All those who wish to speak? Chess is a minute from motive, and then we go to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-02-m0.u148	Sergey Shahov, trust MP. Dear colleagues, surely our group will support this bill. But I would like to point out, at one time in my childhood, that I remember a time when bird factories, farms, animals, birds, rabbits, and so on were built, and food was produced in our country. Today, we have to buy not only animal feed but today, for people, we have to carry potatoes or flakes from Israel, carry meat from Brazil, and so forth. We have to deal with this issue today and entrust the Ministry of Agriculture with the fullest possible involvement in this process and make a fundamental change in our state. This is our economy. If Ukraine is said to be an agrarian state today, let's show that we are working in an agrarian state and we are showing Ukrainian standards worldwide, as in Europe. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-02-m0.u149	Katchura Alexander Anatoliyovich. Didn't anyone from Voice say? Then there's the Cabal, a minute of motive. Then we vote. Please turn on Alexandra Anatoliovich’s microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-02-m0.u150	Alexander Kachura, "Serial of the People" faction. Dear colleagues, first of all, there are a lot of questions before this bill, and I think they should work on it before the second reading. Secondly, I'd like to go to all the faction leaders. Please tell me, during the coronavirus pandemic, when we have 100 percent of the city's workload in some regions, I like animals, but this is the most important question that Parliament should consider, is going to a plenary meeting right now, animal feed? Are you laughing or something about the Ukrainian people? Let's now look at the issues related to the coronavirus pandemic, the support of entrepreneurship, social security. This is what Parliament is working for. And the question of feeding, I think we can postpone until the epidemiological situation is rectified. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-02-m0.u151	Cabal Volodymyr Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-02-m0.u152	Commenting on the previous speech, this law actually supports entrepreneurship. The Voice faction supports this law. This law is needed by both agrarians and consumers. But I want to talk about something else. Why do we even consider this law? Because the government has not been implementing the laws that we have adopted in the past two years. And I have a question. And when we finally adopt the relevant laws on parliamentary control, as far as I know, there are already registered laws that will allow us to do this control so that in the future we do not vote on all laws and continue to act. So I urge my colleague very much, let's think more in this Parliament not only about the adoption of laws, but about how we control the government and other authorities that have to implement those laws. And this is the law I'm asking you to uphold. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-02-m0.u153	All those who wish to speak? Let's move on to the vote. No, "The Servant of the People" was speaking. Please prepare for the vote. Ready? Ready to vote? I'll bet you a vote. Dear colleagues, I have a question of 3672, and the committee is offering a basis for it as a whole. Is there no objection? We can vote. I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Act amending the Final Regulations of the Ukrainian Food Safety and Hygiene Act with the aim of stabilizing the market (registration number 3672). Ready? Please support and vote. [[13:36:39]] For 290 Decision taken. I am voting on the proposal for adoption in general with the necessary technical and legal regulations, the draft Act amending the Final Provisions of the Ukrainian Food Safety and Hygiene Act with the aim of stabilizing the market (registration number 3672). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[13:37:13]] For 268. The decision is adopted, the law is passed in general. Thank you, Your Honor. Dear colleagues, we had several committee heads and parallel representatives of various MP factions and groups, we had a large number of Supreme Council decisions on young scientists and so on. Should we vote them out? And so are ratifications. Without discussion, no one will insist, shall we? Okay. Then I quickly want us to just vote on these issues. Please don't break up. I am voting on the proposal for adoption, in general with the necessary technical and legal regulations, the draft Decision on the award of the annual Supreme Council Award to teachers of general education, vocational technical, pre-school and extra-school educational institutions (registration No. 4359). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[13:38:25]] For 304 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, next question. This is a draft regulation amending the Supreme Council of Ukraine Ordinance on the establishment of the annual Supreme Council Prize for Educators of Public Education, Vocational Technical, Preschool and Non-School Education Institutions (registration No. 4379). Ready to vote? I'm betting on this proposal for adoption as a whole with the necessary technical and legal rights. Ready? Please support and vote. [[13:39:17]] For 310 Decision taken. Thank you. Next question of the agenda. I am voting on the proposal for adoption, in general with the necessary technical and legal regulations, of a draft regulation amending some of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's regulations on the recognition of young scientists (registration number 4424). Please support and vote. [[13:39:53]] For 310 Decision taken. Orders adopted in general. I am voting on the proposal for adoption, in general with the necessary technical and legal rights, of a draft Decision on the award of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to young scientists for 2019 (registration number 4425). Please support and vote. [[13:40:23]] For 309 Decision taken. Orders adopted in general. Next question of the agenda. I am voting on the proposal for adoption, in general with the necessary technical and legal regulations, the draft Decision on the award in 2020 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Award for the contribution of young people to the development of parliamentaryism, local self-government (registration No. 4138). Please support and vote. [[13:41:01]] For 312 Decision taken. Next question. I am voting on the proposal for adoption in general with the necessary technical and legal regulations, the draft Decision on the award in 2020 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Award for the contribution of young people to the development of parliamentaryism, local self-government. I'm sorry, we just voted, I'm sorry. I am voting on the proposal for adoption in general, with the necessary technical and legal regulations, a draft regulation amending the Supreme Council of Ukraine Decision on the Supreme Council of Ukraine Award for the contribution of young people to the development of parliamentaryism, local self-government (registration No. 4159). Other names are similar, but different. [[13:41:56]] For 312 Decision taken. Next question of the agenda. I'm betting on a motion for adoption in the whole of the draft Order to refer to the Office of the Ministers of Ukraine for the settlement of the railway connection. These are from other decrees, respected colleagues. Can we vote? Establishing a railway connection between the northern districts of the Lugansk region and the common network of Ukrainian railways (registration number 4145). Did everyone hear that? Ready to vote? I'm betting on this proposal for acceptance as a whole (registration number 4145). Please support and vote. [[13:42:54]] For 302 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, in parallel with colleagues, there is still a decree to create a temporary investigator. I think after the ratification, we'll go after it in a reduced procedure. Do I get it right? Ratifications are now, and after that, it's a decision. The bill is proposed to you for consideration, the draft Law on the Ratification of the Guarantee Agreement between Ukraine and the European Investment Bank. I am betting on the vote on the proposal for adoption as a whole of the above draft Law (Registration No. 0051). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[13:43:55]] For 303 Decision taken. I am betting on the vote on the proposal for the adoption of the whole draft Act on the Accession to the Agreement on the Development of Multimodal Transports of TRASEKA (Registration No. 0052). Please support and vote. [[13:44:27]] For 305 Decision taken. I am voting on the proposal for the adoption of a draft Law on the Ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Federal Republic of Germany on financial cooperation (registration No. 0070). Please support and vote. [[13:44:55]] For 311 Decision taken. I would like to vote on the proposal to adopt the whole draft Act on the accession to the Protocol on the Permanent Development of Agriculture and Rural Areas to the Framework Convention on Protection and Permanent Development of Carpathian (Registration No. 0071). Please support and vote. [[13:45:26]] For 312 Decision taken. I am voting on the proposal to adopt the whole draft Law on Ratification of the Amendment to the Rome Convention on Protection and the Permanent Development of Carpathians for the new article 12bis. Sorry, the Framework Convention on Protection and Permanent Development of the Carpathians on the new article 12bis Climate Change (registration No. 0072). Please support and vote. [[13:46:05]] For 313 Decision taken. Gerasims are procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-02-m0.u154	Mr. Chairman, my dear colleagues, I appeal first to the greatness and profile committee on international issues. There are a lot of ratifications that relate to the employment of our diplomats' families, and as you can see, they're almost out of order today. So I have a big request, and I know that many of them are ready to vote in the room or are ready to be considered in the committee, so let's give the next plenary week right up to the anniversary of our diplomatic service, and we'll accept these ratifications in this session room. This is very important. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-02-m0.u155	Look, this isn't on the Conciliation Council. Dear colleagues, this is not a procedure. Next time I'll have to turn off the microphone. Arthur Volodymyrovich, please. This isn't about today's agenda, is it? Honorary colleagues, the draft Decision establishing the Temporary Investigations Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to investigate the causes of the outbreak of large-scale fires in the Luhansk region in 2020 and the actions/inaction of the Lugansk District Administration of DDSN and Luhansk District Administration, the Luhansk Regional Military and Civil Administration, on the timely response to the emergence and non-admissibility of extraordinary events (registration No. 4262). Dear colleagues, there is an offer: Gorbenko's speech as the author, the position of the committee, and no further discussion. Discussing? Then it is suggested that we consider the matter in a simplified manner. Please support and vote. Only the "ES" will insist on discussing it? Voice. [[13:48:00]] For 275 Decision taken. Thank you. Dear colleagues, Gorbenko Ruslan Alexandrovich is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-02-m0.u156	Dear national MPs, everyone knows the trouble Lugansk has experienced this year. Three times by fire, fire not only destroyed vast areas of forests, houses, and other property of citizens, but also resulted in human casualties. The fire in July 2020 burned 5,000 acres [5,000 ha] of forest, injured 71 people, killed about 10 people, and burned 125 homes. During the time of the fire, the absence of fire extinguishers, poor technology, lack of coordination, and maps of local waters were discovered. This event was followed by a call from citizens, public organizations, which noted that the cause of these consequences was the inefficiency of administrative decisions and the organization of the process of localization and fire control by officials of the General Directorate of DSS in the Luhansk region. There have been inquiries, open criminal cases, but no violations have been found. On September 30, there were repeated forest fires. 17 fires destroyed 20,000 acres [20,000 ha] of forest, over thousands of buildings destroyed, 11 killed, and 169 injured. It's like World War II after the bombing. At the meeting with the victims, people were shouting, complaining that after the fires in the summer no action had been taken to avoid repeated large - scale forest fires. Fire trucks did not arrive at the right time or came without water, evacuations were not carried out, people were running at night without documents, money, and personal belongings. The placement of the victims was organized in inhumane conditions. The new authorities, the prosecutor’s office, and the D.B.I. have already revealed the facts of the decommissioning of diesel in the areas of the Luhansk region. Forest deforestation is being investigated, which could have been the main cause of arson and fire. But the authorities of Luhansk and the DSS are sabotaging the investigation because of it.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-02-m0.u157	No, there's no more time. Should the committee be heard? I think we're moving. Let's do the factions. The committee's decision is given to everyone. Right? Please write down who wants to speak, just so that we have one more question to consider today: two in, two in, and two in, against. Sergey Vitaliovich, won't you insist? Thank you. Thank you very much. Bobrovska Solomija Anatoliyevna Dear colleagues, I'm continuing the session for 15 minutes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-02-m0.u158	Dear colleagues, you know, I'd like to see all my colleagues in Luhansk when this trouble happened, and on the night that it was set on fire, more than a hundred with copies of the populace. Unfortunately, even though you are an MP and many of you have not been to the east until the moment of an organized exit to the east, few have. And I'm very sorry that, at the moment of such a tragedy, the President went at all to the Plains to take under his personal control the cleaning of the lake to a few people, other than the equations, to the whole of Ukraine, even though Luhanshina remained unsupervised. Moreover, only the third day came and the Prime Minister, and only then did a great deal of communication begin. Although I thank the head of the Luhansk VCA for actually fast and operational work. But I have a lot of questions left for the Security Service, until counterintelligence: how many measures have been taken, done in the last year or six years to counter a diversion of this kind? Because the people of Lugansk do not remember in the last 70 years, or even more, fires of this magnitude. What's more, I'm going to point out that these fires were actually caused by the entire line of separation and captured all the areas that are related to the front line. Accordingly, this is not simply a climate threat that arose, and it was a provoked work. So, unfortunately, and we didn't get an answer from the Security Service that was done, why was there no preventive action, and why was Lugansk actually, Severodonetsky could have been in the air on the first night that even the Ukrainian media didn't respond to the mass fires in Lugansk? So the Voice faction will support the creation of the TSC and will monitor the investigation and the Security Service's response. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-02-m0.u159	Polack Vladislav. Shahov Sergei Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-02-m0.u160	Sergey Shahov, Luhanščina, Deputy Group "Trust". Today, it is not just the land where I was born but each one of us. Seven years of war, seven years of people are under fire. Children on the front are hiding from an explosion of a ball on their birthday under a table. I thank my colleagues today, Ruslan Gorbenko, Maxim Tkachenka, for having prepared a draft ruling for the Interim Investigation Commission on furious fires in the Luhansk region. On June 6, I spoke from this rostrum and said that if we didn't intervene in the situation, it would be even worse now. Crazy deforestation, smuggling, looting of Luhansk. I've already talked about voice theft, budget theft, resource export today, diggers, diggers. And this goes on in the Luhansk region, behind which the Governor of Hydayi is behind the crimes that he needs. It has long been necessary to remove and investigate all his crimes. Why are tests today three times more expensive and not in hospitals today? Why is the state budget being stolen today and no one paying attention? Today I am addressing you, colleagues, every faction, to support this determination and to investigate closely all the crimes committed by this villain who is now the ninth in the Luhansk region, the ninth in the list of heads of the military and civilian administration. The long - suffering Luhansk region should know that it is still being cared for and watched by our national deputies. Thank you. Sergey Shahov, Luhanščina, Deputy Group "Trust".
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-02-m0.u161	Thank you. Mikhailo Tsimbaluk, "The Fatherland" faction. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-02-m0.u162	Mikhailo Cimbaluk, Fatherland. Please report to a colleague of the Etushka faction, a representative of the Plainland.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-02-m0.u163	To the representative of the Plainland, Mr. Sergio Evtushka. Please, Mr. Sergei.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-02-m0.u164	Thank you, Mrs. Olena. Thank you, Mikhail Mikhailovich, for such a good performance. Sergey Eutuszek, Equinox, Fatherland. I fully support, like the whole "Fatherland" faction, the draft of this decision, which will obviously be given the opportunity to the authors and participants of this TSK to promote and find the culprits, and to answer who is to blame for the fires in the Luhansk region first. I also want to address the authors and, in principle, the honourable colleagues, all the national MPs who clearly understand that we can't create one or the other TSCs by one technological catastrophe. So I propose to unite in this TSC, and this is a suggestion to the authors: to make further changes to this decision and also to investigate the causes of the Chernobyl fire, which also the Ukrainians do not know why the Chernobyl forests are on fire? And in what way did our rescue workers eliminate these technological effects? And I also want to remember Carpathian, this is submerged. So you and I, by creating all kinds of technological catastrophes or natural, fires and various submersibles, we can come to the point where we can't create another TSC, because every Ukrainian national MP has to be on the same committee under the Rules. I propose to unite and fire in the Luhansk region, and I will fire Chernobyl into one of the TSCs, a lifetime incident (now I thank Mikhail Cimbaluk, who also tells me now that we had problems there) and a scratch, a sinking. And to answer the Ukrainians why these fires arose. When it comes to submerging, how, and how quickly, did the authorities work in places?
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-02-m0.u165	Thank you. Irina Heratschenko, European Solidarity, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-02-m0.u166	Dear colleagues, please give us a chance to talk to the Hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-02-m0.u167	Please be careful! Please take your seats, be kind.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-02-m0.u168	We can do without the intellectual elbowdown here. Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, among the reasons that led to the anomalous fires in Lugansk, were called both diversions and tracers, which could simply diverters then destroy Lugansk. And it's actually very strange that in the government reports or even in the authorities' statements, this version didn't sound like this. Instead, the winning links to the purchase of new fire trucks sounded. And now everyone's forgotten about it. And we'd like to hear from Mr. Schmigal within an hour of questioning, so where are the additional fire trucks in Lugansk? I also want to inform you that European Solidarity has carried out a great campaign to restore the forests of Luhansk. Our Lviv colleagues handed over more than 10,000 seedlings and landed them. Similarly, the Ternopil region, the Odessa region, was planted by planters in Luhansk. And we're publicly declaring a helmet like this again, an intellectual helmet. Let's help the forests of Lugansk with all the factions, parties and plant as many planters as possible instead of those that were simply destroyed during these anomalous fires. We'd like to hear from our Ukrainian Security Service whether we were among the causes of a diversion from the illegal military formations of the Russian Federation. As far as TSC is concerned, we support it. But once again, we publicly request Mr. Razumkov to take the same action after several months of the TSC on "vagants", betraying in the highest offices of the country, which you, Mr. Razumkov, block and do not put into the order of the day session. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-02-m0.u169	Thank you. Nestor Sufrich, please, "The Opposition Platform for Life." In a minute, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-02-m0.u170	Thank you. The right question is why there were large - scale forest fires in Luhansk. But I do have a request, so let's not assign the defendants without initiating an investigation. I have some experience, and can I tell you why Moscow's hand is here? And in Zitomirsk, when several villages were burned and Chernobyl were unable to contain the fire during the month? And then it turns out that something was so hot that the fire was on illegal logging grounds. So let's work it out, we have to do it, and the forest fires in Ukraine in general should be investigated by us. I mean, not the MNF and not the State Department for Emergency Situations is responsible for the elimination of forest fires, but the State Committee for Forestry. That is, those who cut out, those who control it, burn or not burn. So let's take a look at the real reasons, not the guilty ones. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-02-m0.u171	Thank you. Katchura Alexander Anatoliyovich. Then we go to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-02-m0.u172	Alexander Kachura, "Serial of the People" faction. Indeed, there was a disaster in Luhansk, and this is a disaster, a human disaster, 600 burned - down housing units, that is billions of losses for the state. And what you can't measure with any money is human life, 11 Ukrainian citizens dead. So I'm sure we need to figure this out, to exercise parliamentary control. And there's different positions. The truth is, I hope all parliamentary factions will be able to establish on the basis of a temporary commission of inquiry. So let's vote. Let's figure out what happened and give an answer to our Ukrainian citizens and voters. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-12-02-m0.u173	Dear colleagues, let's go to the vote. Ready to vote? Dear colleagues, the committee invited the Supreme Council to decide on the draft ruling by voting. I'm going to take it as usual, first take it as a whole, and then we'll look at the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I am voting on the proposal for adoption in the whole of the draft Decree establishing the Interim Investigation Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to investigate the causes of the outbreak in 2020 of large-scale fires in the Luhansk region and the actions/inactions of the Luhansk District Administration of the DNS and the Lugansk District Administration, the Military and Civil Administration, on the timely response to the emergence and non-admissibility of extraordinary events. Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[14:03:04]] For 258. Decision taken. Thank you, Your Honor. Dear colleagues, we've been out of bounds for three minutes, the time has been extended, but further, I think there's no point in considering drafts so as not to fail them. Thank you all for your work. I declare the plenary session of the Supreme Council closed.
