ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-15-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national MPs! Good morning, media officials! Please prepare to register, take your seats. Dear colleagues, are you ready to register? Ready. Are you sure you're ready? As always, reminds me, doesn't it? The registration takes place by clicking on the green button, the first button on the left. [[B in m in s a l in]] No, it's friendly advice. Please register. [[10:09:19]] There are 241 Ukrainian national deputies registered in the hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear colleagues, today. Dear colleagues, please be quiet for a minute. Today, Ukraine celebrates the Day of the Ukrainian Peacekeeper. I think we should thank all those who have helped to bring order and peace to many hot spots in our world. Unfortunately, today we also have such a hot spot -- it's a war in the east of our state. And I hope that by all means we will be able to achieve peace, to achieve victory and to ensure that Ukraine is once again the only one, the unbreakable and no one has set foot on our borders. Thank you. [[Applause]] Dear colleagues, let's get to work. In accordance with article 25 of the Rules, on Wednesday we have 30 minutes to present proposals, statements, and messages to the people’s deputies. Please sign up for the speeches by the Ukrainian National Deputies. Juršin Jaroslav Romanović. Samantha Anatolyevna?
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-15-m0.u2	Please tell Bobrovsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-15-m0.u3	Bobrovska Solomija Anatoliyevna No masks again.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-15-m0.u4	Good morning, dear colleagues. You know, I don't know about you, but I recommend you watch what happens today in Belarus yesterday. And after all the mass, sporadic protests that take turns, which are such early springs and early springs in their right to go out and talk, to have their right to vote. If you've seen, yesterday, about 240 people were detained and placed in the compound. People, girls, boys, journalists have been detained. Billy, like he beat us, especially in 2013. And I really wanted both the Ukrainian Parliament and the Ukrainian State in their political system to support all those who didn't fear and express their word of disagreement and protest about what was going on in Belarus yesterday. You remember very soon, August 9, there will be presidential elections in Belarus. And you know, there's probably nothing wrong with the fact that there's been so much time, and that's 26 years, and maybe there's 31, and the president's in office. We see a positive example in Germany. But there is one difference between these two countries. The elections in Germany take place democratically, transparently, clearly, with the right of people to peaceful protest, to the right to be elected and to be elected. But this is certainly not about our neighbors. I would very much like to support all those who came out yesterday and to say that the Ukrainians remember how many years you took our side, as you drove to Kiev in 2013 to Midan, as you supported us as you drove all the way through the fierce opposition of your system. We understand and know, and we see how the state progresses, Belarus progresses with regard to the state of Ukraine, and this is in fact a failure to maintain any position on international sites. And we're very sorry that this communication is rather strange and incomprehensible, and there's no support from the Belarusian state side. But despite all that, I would like the civil society of Belarus, which is emerging, which wasn't afraid to go out on the street yesterday, to know that the Ukrainian state is on their side, and most importantly, Belarus lives!
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-15-m0.u5	Please, Timoshenko Julia Volodymyrna, the "Fatherland" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-15-m0.u6	Julia Timoshenko, "The Fatherland" faction. Now I want to talk to all the people who are watching and hearing the glades channel. Yesterday the Supreme Council passed a new law, which is clearly directed against the Ukrainian nation, the Act on the Playing Business. In doing so, he was voted by the "Serial of the People" faction, voted in a virtually non-ordered regime, by order of pressure, at the direction of the President of Ukraine. I can say exactly that this Act on the Playing Business was conducted under the pressure of the internal and external criminal mafia who saw that they could from the Ukrainians "screw the last skin" and take the last copies out of the pockets of all types of population, Ukrainian families. And you know what he gets to the heart? At a time when our heroes are now dying on the front: three are dead, seven are wounded -- when there's a war going on, there's an insolent sink in this room, a dumpster of everything left in Ukraine. At first during the coronavirus night, the land was decomposed, and they were all alone in it, representing the majority in this room, and now they have reached the pockets of Ukrainian citizens directly. Immorality, impudence, lobbyism, corruption is a sign of today's power. And all of this is unfortunately happening on the eve of the 30th anniversary of the Declaration of State Sovereignty. And now, today, there's going to be a new epepoch in this room: they want to destroy 490 districts in Ukraine today by anti-constitutional decree of the Supreme Council and replace 133. Do you realize that this is chaos and disorder of the highest level? It's essentially a collapse of the settlement network in Ukraine, it's a real denial of people's right to live. This is what's dictated from the outside, what's violating Ukraine's sovereignty, and what's essentially leading Ukraine to chaos and elimination. So now I want to make it clear that our team will not allow this chaos that you want to impose on the country. And so if an anti-constitutional decision is voted on to eliminate the areas of 490 in the country, we will go to the Constitutional Court and get a decision. We will not let you destroy Ukraine, temporary, completely free of MPs led by your free president.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-15-m0.u7	Please, Constanceevich Irina Miroslavovna, MP's Party for the Future.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-15-m0.u8	Dear Mr. Head, honourable members of the people, I would like to state the position of the MP's Party for the Future on what is now an alarming and dangerous trend in the review of educational legislation. I would like to remind those MPs who were first in the Ukrainian Parliament that the Education Act was passed in 2017, which was born in very difficult conditions, but for a long time, the most important basic positions that enabled the implementation of national education legislation and education with European education have been marked. And the main principles that were laid down in the Education Act were that Ukrainian education should be recognized in the world, that it should meet the very modern demands of science and education, and that it would be an education that is Ukrainian-centric. I would like to remind young deputies that the basics for creating a new Ukrainian environment are the notion of Ukrainian as a national language. And I'm reminding you of another important thesis that will help me further develop why Ukrainian language as a language of public education should be the only one. President Zelensky, when he was running for presidents, stressed that we needed to sew up a country, we were shown "green Ukraine," and we were shown that there would be no factors that would separate our society. But what we're seeing right now is that going back to the review, to the revisions of education legislation, is trying to separate what already exists, what has already been recognized. So I'm calling on the Group for the Future to stop any attempt to speculate on education legislation, on what has already been determined that Ukrainian language should be in Ukrainian schools, that it's the only language of public education. And I remind you, language and education are two main areas for shaping our state identity, these are two key areas for our national security and sovereignty, this is an intellectual portrait of the state, the people and the nation. Dear Society, if we are in charge of the future, we are in favor of Ukrainian as a language of education. And I remind you that, as the hero once said, the "Mina Mazailo" plays about one terrible thing, about what if. "better to be raped than to be Ukrainianized." That's why, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-15-m0.u9	Thank you. Please, National Deputy Zinkevich Jan Vadimovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-15-m0.u10	Please pass the word to Mr. Synyth.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-15-m0.u11	Please, the People's Deputy of Sinyutka.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-15-m0.u12	Dear Mr. Head, the distinguished national deputies of Ukraine, the distinguished Ukrainian people! Without the national status of Ukrainian, there is no Ukrainian state and there is no future Ukrainian nation. Why, then, do we again raise the issue of Ukrainian? Because Russia and its fifth political column in Ukraine are trying to bring us back to the time of the Wallowian Circular and the Emicial Order, when the empire made it clear that there was no Ukrainian language, there was no and there could not be. But the Ukrainian language has passed for a millennium, and it has been resuscitated when, during the work of the fifth president of Ukraine, Peter Prashenko, she has conquered new spheres of life, she has been strengthened among the Ukrainians, and our language will live. To all the enemies of the Ukrainian language, I want to say, not you, but the Ukrainian people have made their choice. And from Lvvov, who has always been and remains a fortress from the Russians, there's an increase on both sides of Dnipra. In Odessa last year, 83 percent of parents placed their children in the first class in a school with Ukrainian language. In Kharkiv, more than 70 percent learn Ukrainian. This once again shows that there are no problems between Lviv and Donbas in people using Ukrainian. Similarly, the introduction of additional quotas was not a problem — support for the Ukrainian bookkeeping and support for the Ukrainian cinematographer. But these decisions are supported by most citizens today, and this is evident from all socializations. But why, then, is the struggle for Ukrainian again? Because Russia continues its colonial offensive. Those who once destroyed Vasil Stus, those who wanted to forget the roost of Vladimir Sosira, again want to throw us into opposition, again want to split before the local elections. And I'd like to address today especially the Servants of the People, those who have already made their position clear in terms of the Ukrainian language, and those who today doubt: don't be afraid, take sides with the Ukrainian language, take sides with the Ukrainian people. Because the green color that mixes with red becomes brown, and this brown plague is going to capture our brains. Take sides with the Ukrainian language, and together we will defeat the Mancurts and the Yanks, and together we will win the Ukrainian statehood and the Ukrainian language. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-15-m0.u13	Please, National Deputy Rudik Sergey Jaroslavovich, MP's Party for the Future. Dear colleagues, please clear the way so that those who come to the rostrum can freely reach it.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-15-m0.u14	Dear colleagues, you are few in the room, but, I know, you will be many when we get to the subject: circuitry. In addition to considering this issue, you will not find a huge number of cities that, by all laws of logic, would be the centers of new, newly created areas. There will be no cities that have a thousand-year history that, by all the signs and methods that the MINREGION has proposed, should be such district centers, there are no cities that have been decentralized among the first. But it turns out that for today's authorities that's not an argument. There will be plenty of other reasons why they should be there, but they are not there. Today, at 10 a.m. in the city of Smylee, one of the highways of national importance is covered. I realize that this is unlikely to change the minds of the majority about the existence or non-existence of the Smilian region. But it is the cry of the souls of people who believe that Smilah could and should be the center of the Smilian region. There won't be any Vasilkova on this list. There will not be a suitable Basilk district. There will be no High Town district. There will be no Brovarsky district. There won't be a Hotina. A city with a thousand-year history, think about it! - which for 200 years was the center of the industry of all Bukovina and Bessarabia, has no right to be the center of the district. This is the only example where the people of the 14 days stood were covering the state-of-the-state route that leads to Chernivka, where people showed an incredible civil position. And they're right, because other than the methodology. And that's definitely a plus. In addition to the fact that they were the first in the Chernobyl area to create three OTGs when the neighbouring area, which will now be recognized by the center under the "ministers of the people," did not create any. This is the area that shows by all means that people have a civil position, but you will not see it on this list. I was told that they might take the matter down because there might be no votes. I would very much like to see no votes for this vote today, although I am convinced that there are people who will be in favour, because someone's interests have been taken into account, because someone's proposals, some partial feudals, princes, whatever you want to call them, have been taken into account. And their method is to use a light bulb, unfortunately.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-15-m0.u15	Please, National Deputy Bondar Mikhailo Leontijovich, faction of the political party "European Solidarity". Klimpush-Cincadze Ivanna Orestovna, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-15-m0.u16	Please give me Ivanni Klimpush-Cincadze.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-15-m0.u17	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished colleagues, respected Ukrainians! Yesterday, I was absolutely shocked to hear that the State Border Service of Ukraine was deterring further involvement in the European Union's project to strengthen integrated border management in Ukraine. The question is not only that it is 55 million euros of direct non-refundable assistance to Ukraine; it is not only that it is possible to get the necessary equipment for our borders, but that the Ukrainian budget does not provide the funds. Not only is it an opportunity to set up quality border crossing procedures that are compatible with the countries of the European Union. And the problem is, despite all the declarations and declarations, it's a continuation of the trend of deviation from real European integration. Our government has spent a real titanic effort to reconcile this strategy of integrated border management within the country in order to reach agreement with the European Union in order to obtain the EU's commitment to finance this programme. And today we see that the DSS is holding back from participating in the strategy. And this strategy is actually the introduction of real European standards for integrated border management. This strategy is the security and comfort of crossing the border with every Ukrainian citizen, it is the security and comfort of every Ukrainian enterprise that works with the countries of the European Union. The implementation of this strategy is a step towards getting us closer to the standards that work in the Schengen area. This strategy provides for the optimization of border control procedures; the ability to respond quickly to and warn hybrid threats; the inclusion of better practices for the protection of maritime borders, rescue operations, the revitalization of interaction with Interpol, Europol, Euroyust and other international law enforcement structures. The implementation of this strategy is critical in terms of war with the Russian Federation. And when we developed it, when we approved it, it was the State Border Service of Ukraine that was the engine that promoted the adoption and implementation of this strategy. What's going on now? They're holding back. Why? Perhaps because the current management of the DSS does not want open, transparent EU procedures from the set of technical staff to manage the project and this is how it tries to blackmail the EU? Are there integration plans with other borders, such as the Russian Federation? I'm asking you to consider this a question to the Minister of the Interior, to be a professional deputy prime minister. And I'd like you to take a look at the damage you're doing.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-15-m0.u18	Please, People's Deputy Skorik. Mikola Skorik, faction of "The Opposition Platform for Life."
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-15-m0.u19	Honorable Presidium, distinguished colleagues, respected citizens of Ukraine! The last week of the current session ends, you can summarize the briefs of this session, and in general, I think it's this cadence. It's very symbolic that this is the day before the 30th anniversary of the adoption of the Declaration of State Sovereignty of our State, which we will celebrate tomorrow. It was a time that remembered those times, the high expectations that Ukraine was, at the time, the largest in Ukraine, one of the largest per capita, was in the ten largest, strongest economies in Europe. Unfortunately, in these times we have lost entire sectors of our economy, such as airplane building, missile building, shipbuilding, and automobile building. We've lost the world's largest shipping company, Black Sea Sailing, and we've lost a lot of things. In the last six years, we have lost the latest achievements, but the most important is peace in our country, and that is the territorial integrity of our state. In 2019, when the current power came to power, it promised both east and west of our nation's unification, it promised peace, it promised to revitalize and raise our economy, it promised to bring about a system of health reform, it promised to bring about a system of education reform and many other issues. For today, what can be said about this session? That, despite serious opposition, first of all our faction, "The Opposition Platform for Life," it was able to pass a completely disgraceful Law on Circumstances of Agricultural Land, actually stealing it from the people of Ukraine outside the referendum, beyond the eyes of the people of Ukraine. The government has done nothing to reverse the shameful medical reform called Suprun’s medical reform. And when the President says that he will be suspended when the Minister of Health says that he will be suspended, instead, the Prime Minister openly states that we will continue this reform. What is going to happen today in this room with regard to administrative and territorial reform highlights once and for all how the authorities treat their citizens. Instead, in order to make a normal constitutional reform to get the Constitutional Commission to work, in order to make a normal administrative and territorial reform, the authorities are actually blackmailing. Because this week is the last week when local elections can be announced, and in fact, the authorities are trying to make a huge administrative-territorial reform that Ukraine is not ready for. Local elections are coming, or they will take place.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-15-m0.u20	Please, People's Deputies of Polackov Anton Eduardoovich, MP's Party for the Future. Taras Ivanovich Batenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-15-m0.u21	Good afternoon, fellow countrymen, distinguished Ukrainian Parliament, respected citizens! You know, on Monday and Tuesday, we saw how many drafts we were looking at in the context of extra-plenary sessions. We were particularly impressed by the fact that on Monday, at the President's request, we had gathered together and half the bills that we were considering were failed by the President's Office. They're not at all. Some were placed in the agenda in general, not put to the vote. And among those bills that weren't voted on, I want to remind you of this bill, 3708. Why am I reminding you of him, my friends? Because, especially in the last days of our work, we should keep in mind that our laws should work for people. People need to feel that they have in their pockets, that they have protection, that they have social protection, that they have well-being. And they don't feel it right now. Although we have announced from these rostrums that the poverty era will be over. Thus, 3708, who were to remove restrictions on salaries for judges, deputies, prosecutors, members of the Supreme Court, members of the Constitutional Court, officials, members of the Supervisory Boards, and so on. And the committee, I recall, suggested that the salary restrictions be lifted from August 31, 2020. So we want to remind you of these dragon wages that are incompatible and allogeneic with the wages that are on average in Ukraine today, which do not match the growth potential of today's industrial state, today's state of protection of the population. And I think people should know about that. First of all, I want to talk about the members of the Supervisory Board. Think about it, my friends, that foreigners on the boards of oversight -- my colleague Victor Bondar from this rostrum -- today they're getting: at the Crucifixion of the month -- 4,000 dollars; the Borispil Airport of the month -- 5,000 dollars, a member of the Board of Supervisors, a foreigner; the Ukrgazbank of the month -- 7,000 dollars; the Savings Board of Supervisors -- 10,000 dollars, a member of the Board of Supervisors; the Ukreximbank -- 11,000 dollars; the Ukreszaliznica -- 20,000 dollars a month, the Privatbank -- 20,000 a month, a member of the Supervisory Board; and Naftogaz -- 20,000 dollars a month. This is the fiche with which the majority, without order with the salaries of the members of the board of supervisors, should go to the electorate today and persuade them to give their votes for you. Because foreigners in the supervisory boards are a disgrace to Ukraine. Because there are no Ukrainians on the boards of foreign companies abroad: France, Germany, airports, oil and gas companies. So let us, friends, keep in line and let us not be ashamed today before the world’s societies. And one more question: let's not delay, let's finish the question of the Electoral Code, which we're waiting for in the morning, the second reading. We've reached a compromise with Dmitr Alexanderovich Razumkov, the heads of factions and MPs, and let's be honest with people that we want to open electoral lists, not close them even more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-15-m0.u22	Please, National Deputy Black Dmitry Sergiyovich, faction of the political party "Slut of the People."
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-15-m0.u23	Please pass the word to Alexander Kachuri. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-15-m0.u24	Please, Alexander Kachura. And your next performance, I guess I'm giving it to you all the time, right? Please add 6 minutes. Then we move on to the order of the day, dear colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-15-m0.u25	Alexander Kachura, "Serial of the People" faction. Dear Ukrainians, dear colleagues! As a national deputy and head of the interfractional MPs' association, the Anthirider Coalition was approached by the people who invested in the "Ministersky" housing complex. This is House No. 4 on Condratuk Street,1, located in the Obolon district of Kiev. They ask us, as national deputies and law enforcement agencies, to protect them from the former director of Seed Aunt Victoria, former deputy director of the legal affairs of Stepan's Denis Petrovic and the minority, the owner of this company, Shimanski Dariush. In fact, since 2018 a project for the construction of this residential complex has been launched, but for almost five years now, investors have not been able to get their own apartments — about 200 families that have invested in the construction of a housing complex of 250 million dollars. What's the problem? The head of this company, who was illegally appointed as a minority shareholder, took power in this company, I'm talking about Semenkov Tetjana, for all these years, deliberately disbursed the company's assets, prevented the general contractor from doing the work, and this is a limited liability company, Bud Axes, for the last two years, regardless of the court's decisions. In particular, mention should be made of the decision of the Shevchenkov District Court that prohibited the alienation of any property in the interests of third parties. What's going on now? We managed to convince the Ukrainian shareholder, because we always have foreign investors we protect. But in this case, a foreign investor turned out to be an ordinary fraud who did everything he could to get the company to go bankrupt, so that the owners of the apartments that had invested the last money, and that, once again, 200 families didn't get their own housing, his goal was to put the money out on foreign accounts and cheat the authorities and Ukrainian citizens who invested money in building their own housing. We were able to convince the Ukrainian investor, who is ready for his own money, about 120 million dollars, to build the facility and give the keys to those long - awaited apartments to the people this year. They are now, by the way, under the walls of Parliament, requiring us to draw our attention to this issue. But Semenkov's CEO is blocking the process now. They're arresting, initiating criminal prosecutions for the new management of the enterprise, not allowing the construction to be completed. They want to re-rid the company in order to bankrupt it and take all the money abroad. We can't let that happen. I now address the Minister of Internal Affairs of Arsen Avakov, the Attorney General of Irina Venedict, to the head of the Security Service of Ukraine, Ivan Bakanov, requiring that this matter be taken under personal control. We shouldn't repeat the stories that we already had with Arkady with Ukrabud and Elita Center. There's an investor who's willing to build this living complex for his money, but they won't let him. I don't want to think that the National Police are under any influence. That's why I'm asking the head of the Ministry of Internal Affairs, the National Police, to deal with this issue. I'm also calling on the Head of the National Police's Probational Committee to explain on what basis a good-for-good investor is currently doing on the basis of what is actually going on with the raiders who want to take power back into the enterprise and not allow these apartments to be added to Ukrainian citizens. Therefore, I ask that this statement be regarded as a parliamentary appeal. We certainly will not let the national MPs, our interfractional MPs, the raiders take over the business. The apartments will be built up and distributed to their investors. We must stand for the protection of Ukrainian citizens, so we went to Parliament. And I urge every national MP to pay attention to this problem. The Bezpraedel in Ukraine already has to end with a bunch of investors, and that's why we chose here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-15-m0.u26	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I will ask the faction leaders to invite the national deputies to the hall. We're starting a day-to-day discussion. Ladies and gentlemen, please take your seats. We're moving on to the day-to-day issues. Dear colleagues, are you ready to move on to the agenda? A list of questions is given to you. So let's move on to the first question -- this is the draft Decree on the appointment of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to a commission to conduct a competition for the appointment of the Director of the State Bureau of Investigation. Dear colleagues, we now have to vote in favour of a simplified procedure. Dear colleagues, I am voting on the summary procedure of the draft Decree No. 3768. Ready to vote? Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[10:46:19]] For 205 Decision taken. I invite the head of the Committee on the Protection of the Law of Denis Anatolyovich Monastirski. Please, Denise Anatolyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-15-m0.u27	Good afternoon, Your Honor, this is the third time you and I are returning to the question of the appointment of members of the Supreme Council for the election of the Director of the DBR. Guys, we have the last chance to actually take out three Supreme Council representatives today. On two previous occasions, the committee suggested that the committee should also be composed of national deputies. My position, including the position of the Supreme Council Hall, was clear that the representatives of the commission, as well as the commission of the Specialised Anti-Corruption Prosecutor's Office, which we will consider next, should not be a deputy, that is, people who really have time and inspiration to elect this highest-ranking leader at the State Bureau of Investigation. After serious debates, the committee identified three representatives, which I now call them. So this is Andrew Georgiyyovich Kozlov, former member of the Higher Qualifications Commission of Judges. This is Moscow’s Lidija Mikolayevna, who is currently the head of the department of the Sudo system and the procurator’s activities of the National Law University of Yaroslava Mudrogo. And this is Knorr Vasil Timofiyovich, head of the Department of Criminal Procedure and Criminality of the Faculty of Law of the Lviv National University of Frank. All three persons are really well-known authority people who really have great authority, and time, and the ability to choose the Director of the DBR. Why is this important? Because, in fact, temporarily fulfilling duties during this time, it is clearly excessive. And we have to put a dot here, and it has to be legitimate.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-15-m0.u28	Thank you, Dennis Anatolyovich. Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss this issue? Yes. Then please sign in, two in, two in. Participant Jurczin Jaroslav Romanovich, faction of the political party "Golos".
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-15-m0.u29	Regrettably, the period of duty has been immeasurably prolonged. We were supposed to have a full director, or director, the Bureau of Investigation six months ago. The competition was scheduled to take place on January 26. This would help to avoid a situation where the State Bureau of Investigation has actually turned into a "government bureau of Russia" that pursues volunteers, or a "State Bureau of Repression" that pursues political opponents. This has to be done. Why couldn't we have done this before? Because it was not easy to push people into this commission who could be politically dependent. A report from the European Union monitoring mission last week on Ukraine’s application of the visa-free conditions, where it was written in white that the European Union was cautious about trying to politicize the appointment of law enforcement officials. Now we have a situation where at last there are no directly politically involved members on the committee. We are proud of the fact that Mr. Kozlov, who has proved himself to be a quality, or not the only, member of the High Qualifying Commission of Judges, has been expelled from this commission, delegated by us. Let's finish with the State Bureau of Repression, let's do an open competition. That's why this committee is going to be voted by the Voice, and for commissions where they're trying to push addicts, either from Habakkuk or from other political figures, they're not. We're voting for the D.B.I.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-15-m0.u30	Please, National Deputy Bondar Mikhailo Leontijovich, faction of European Solidarity. Gerasimov Arthur Volodymyrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-15-m0.u31	Dear colleagues, dear Ukrainians! You know, the whole country, and the whole world already sees the D.B.I. falsifying cases against the leaders of the opposition. And for the sake of political repression, they do it, we understand it. But you know, not just. For let's think about it, and who would benefit from violating the case against the fifth President, Peter Dustenk, concerning counterattack orders, the case of the passage of Ukrainian ships through the Ukrainian Kerchen Strait, the Tomos case. And one thing, of course, is for the aggressor country. And please tell who would be more comfortable with the military technology of our air defences, to whom it would be advantageous to have secret data opened. The aggressor country, too. And you know, I'd like to say that I was personally present at all the court hearings, I personally saw the Special Branch of the D.B.I. cynically storming the National Museum of the Potter, we all heard the "trumpets of the Trumpet," but at the top of that explanation, why is this happening, became the "watergate" of Mr. Kortsky's name when, you can imagine, the head of a group of investigators came out to the whole country, and all over the world said what pressure was exerted on him regarding the continuation and falsification of these ridiculous, absurd cases against the leaders of the opposition. But why did this happen? We all remember the first pseudocontest that enabled Januković’s lawyer, Mr. Babikov, to take office. And now we can see that, unfortunately, the second pseudocompetition is being prepared. And you know, the most eloquently exposed to risk is what's going on, the authoritative international publications. They said about this and other situations: Ukraine’s reforms have died, and Zelensky’s word means nothing. And then when he talks about the independence of the law enforcement agencies, and when he says that the government will give it to the children, that's where he moves in with comfort. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-15-m0.u32	Please, Ivchenko Vadim Evgenovich. Sergey Vladislavovich, Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-15-m0.u33	Unhappily, dear friends are nothing more permanent than temporary. I want to remind you how in this room, in several votes, a change was made to the D.B.I. Act. And then there was a rule that could hold the head of the D.B.I. for two months. And for the first month, for the second month, for the third month, for the fourth month, for the fifth month, for the six months, we still have our responsibilities. I think there's a reason. Regrettably, the replacement of professionalism with politics. Even in this committee, there are no warnings about professionalism. Me and my faction colleagues, and many people in the session hall know these experts very well. But let's see what skeletons are hidden. There is a person who, in his own time, worked at the WCC, during the selection of judges to the Supreme Court, changed the terms of the competition. And she voted in the UKC, being a top-ranking professional, under such conditions, which led to the fact that the best candidates who were supposed to go to the Supreme Court didn't come because the terms of the competition were filed. And this happened right at the time of the competition. These would be the conditions for the next election of the State Bureau of Investigation? Now everything's in the D.B.I. on the middle chain. And it all depends on the professionalism and orderliness of the middle - class workers. Our faction, because this is the Voice vote, the Servant of the People, we will not support this, because we think it should be equal representation of everyone, but the professional principle must be respected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-15-m0.u34	Thank you. Please give the floor to the People's Deputy of Polakov Anton Eduardoovich, the MP's Party for the Future.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-15-m0.u35	Please give the word to Batenku Taras Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-15-m0.u36	Taras Ivanovich Batenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-15-m0.u37	Dear colleagues, dear friends, we have the question that in today's order of work and today's issue of human resources, we are once again on the same rakes that we have been on, as the chairman of the committee said, for the third time. So you want to be the third time on the same rake. Because you don't take into account the position of all the MPs, everyone, I stress, the MP factions and the parliamentary groups. In our Parliament, we have a series of "contractuals" on personnel issues. When there's not enough votes, they're talking about them from one or two factions or MPs. And the same situation today is about the draft Order on the appointment of the Supreme Council representatives to a commission to hold a competition for the position of Director of the State Bureau of Investigation, the independent body of the State Bureau of Investigation. That's why we're against politicization and partisanism. We believe that not only professionalism but also the non-involvement of these candidates will be taken into account. We have no particular contradictions with individual personnel. My personal respect goes to Nora Vasil Timothyovich, head of the pulpit, and I personally know him as a high professional. But in fact, we don't share involvement in the interests of individual MP factions and groups. So our MP faction, the MP's Party for the Future group, will hold on to this issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-15-m0.u38	Dear colleagues, please. Now. Now. I will give both the Opposition Platform for Life and the People's Servant Party. I'll ask the leaders of the political factions to secure the deputies in the hall. And we're going to go to the vote after two more of these speeches. I'd like to ask National Deputy Bakumov Alexander Sergiyyovich of the People's Servant Party. And after that, Papiev Mikailo Mikolaiovich of "The Opposition Platform for Life." And let's go to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-15-m0.u39	A respected chairman, respected colleagues, a weighty decision. The Supreme Council of Ukraine has twice been unable to select appropriate representatives from the Supreme Council. The law enforcement committee held a competition for the third time and identified the best and most independent composition to determine the management of the State Bureau of Investigation. I don't share the opinion of some factions when they focus on specific names. The committee based its nominations on the principle of independence, objectivity, and expertise. And we took the best. I ask Parliament to open the way for the formation of an independent judicial investigation body that will ensure justice in our country. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-15-m0.u40	Papiev Mikhailo Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-15-m0.u41	Thank you. You know, you're surprised by the position of several factions, especially the European Solidarity and the Voice, which tell us what a breach of legislation has been done, and why it's been done so long, and why it's not being replaced by a person to be appointed, not a duty. Ladies and gentlemen, where were you when your Suprun served for three years 7 Where were you? Now you've become so law-abiding! And one more thing. I'm looking at this warehouse -- it's politically engaged. Here's what I read: Kozlov Andry Georgievicz. I take open sources, and it says here that Human Rights Commissioner Ludmila Denisov, who was the representative of the People's Front, released Andrija Kozlov in 2019. And you know why? Because he didn't have a lawyer's license, so she was.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-15-m0.u42	Aresonkov Vladimir Yuriovich. After that, we vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-15-m0.u43	Dear colleagues, I address everyone now before the vote. You know, logic has to be everything. When colleagues come forward and say that we know very well, and they list the names of extremely respectable, authoritative lawyers, experts in their field, but they say: "We respect them, but we won't vote because they're not ours." So the board doesn't have ours, yours, now they've taken away highly professional professionals, experts. So let's, with respect for each other, ensure today's transparent mechanism for selecting the Director of the Bureau of State Investigation, and finally meet the requirements that the Supreme Council faces. Thank you. The "Trust" MP will vote in favour of the candidates.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-15-m0.u44	Dear colleagues, please prepare for the vote. If you could make it a little quieter in the hall, because it feels like we're already in the D.B.I. Ready to vote? I am voting on the proposal for adoption of the entire draft Decree on the appointment of representatives of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to a commission to hold a competition for the appointment of the Director of the State Bureau of Investigation (Registration No. 3768). Ready to vote? Ready? Please support and vote. [[11:02:44]] For 239. Decision taken. It's been decided. Let's see the factions. The next issue of the agenda is the draft Decree on the appointment of representatives of the Supreme Council of Ukraine as part of a commission to hold an administrative competition in the Specialised Anti-Corruption Prosecutor's Office (registration number 3769). It is suggested that this issue be considered in a simplified manner. Please support and vote. [[11:03:23]] For 229 Decision taken. The report is given to Michael Galini Olegni, deputy head of the Committee on Law Enforcement. Give me four minutes, it's from the authors and it's from the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-15-m0.u45	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues! Your attention is drawn to the question of the appointment of representatives of the Supreme Council of Ukraine as part of a competition for administrative positions in the Specialised Anti-Corruption Prosecutor's Office, which the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine approved at its meeting on July 1. Ladies and gentlemen, let me remind you that the Prosecutor's Office Act provides for a competitive order for the appointment of administrative posts in the Specialised Anti-Corruption Prosecutor's Office. The organization and the holding of a competition for administrative positions is conducted by a competitive commission consisting of four persons elected by the Ukrainian Prosecutors’ Council and seven persons appointed by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The members of the competition commission should be persons who have an irreprehensible business reputation, high professional and moral qualities, social authority, and the experience of anticorruption activities. They cannot be part of a competitive commission of Ukrainian national deputies and local councils, government officials and persons who hold political positions, law enforcement officials and representatives of political parties. The MPs and groups were invited to join a competition commission that met all the general requirements for members of the competition commission. The Committee of the Supreme Council on Law Protection by Open Rating Voting identified the recommendations for the candidates represented and approved the decision to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine that a competition commission be established for the appointment of administrative posts in the Specialised Anti-Corruption Prosecutor's Office for the submission of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the law enforcement of such persons: Ph.D. Dmitry Vladimirovich, First Deputy Professor of the Institute of Law and Postgraduate Education of the Ministry of Justice of Ukraine, Doctor of Legal Sciences, Professor; Kutz Vitaly Mikolaiovich, Member of the All-Ukrainian Criminal Association and the All-Ukrainian Association of Criminal Law, Candidate of Legal Sciences, Professor; Meleshevich Andrija Anatoliovich, Professor of Law and Human Rights of the Faculty of Law of the National University of Kyivo-Magilian Academy; Faculty of Criminal Law and Criminal Sciences of the Libyan State University of Internal Affairs, Professor of the Faculty of Law and Human Rights of the University of Ukraine; Professor of the Faculty of Criminal Law, the Faculty of Criminal Law of the Russian Federation; and the University of State of Internal Affairs, post-Coorspondating professor of Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Republic of the Republic of the Russian Federation; All the candidates supported by the committee are worthy and have practical and academic experience in these areas. As far as I am concerned, they will do their job with dignity. Please note that this is a unique opportunity for the Supreme Council of Ukraine to be involved in the internal change in the prosecutor's system by appointment to the Specialised Anti-Corruption Prosecutor's Office. Please support the relevant draft decision. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-15-m0.u46	Thank you. Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss? Then please sign up: two in, two in, two in. Please, Denis Anatoliyovich, Monastery faction of the political party "Serve of the People."
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-15-m0.u47	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to point out that in the structure that was proposed and adopted by law, seven persons from the Supreme Council are not deputies, but representatives from the scientific community. So if we come back with you again, we have a big threat that since September, as defined by the law, the commission will be working with four representatives without the Supreme Council. If we share this position with you, please, then we will continue to take scientists from one college, from another university, to say which university is good, which is bad, and so on. Or make a decision. Because last time the D.B.I. was the only comment: there should be no MPs. In this case, the decision is made. And I think it has a support room, colleagues, because in this case we've worked out, and delegated, I'll remind you, from several factions and groups, that kind of decision. The next time that position is reviewed, it will be simple. Thank you. And please support our decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-15-m0.u48	Thank you. Please Bobrovska Solomija Anatolyevna.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-15-m0.u49	I'd like to give it to Ustiny Alexander.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-15-m0.u50	Ustenova Alexandra, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-15-m0.u51	Dear colleagues, we are told here today that this is a unique opportunity to create a competition commission that will elect a specialized anti-corruption prosecutor. I want to tell you that this is a unique opportunity for the Supreme Council, if you press the green buttons today, you as MPs break the law. Because the law clearly states that candidates who will be elected by a competition commission of a specialized anticorruption prosecutor should have an irreprehensible business reputation and experience in anticorruption. Six of the seven people who are now offering you a vote do not meet these criteria. Half of them have no experience in anticorruption. I asked Mr. Zhuravlov, who your colleague was talking about today, what his experience in anti-corruption work was today. You know what he told me? "I went to the public council to the NABU." Yes, now those who have traveled in the national parliament may have experience in the work of a national deputy if they believe his logic. The other one. If we're talking about an impeccable business reputation, a person who's worked his entire life as a speaker and declared a huge house in Vasilkov, four apartments, two Mercedes and a million cash, please tell me, could such a person honestly earn that money working his entire life in education? I don't think so. So when we now vote for a person who will elect an anti-corruption prosecutor, we all have to understand that this is a person who will be directly responsible for all the opposition to corruption in Ukraine. I ask you not to vote for this composition of the commission, not to break the law, because there are questionable people who have no experience in fighting corruption. Today, the European Union has made it clear that if you vote for it, it puts the car in question. Please do not assume this responsibility. Even European partners say that this committee cannot be voted on. So I ask everyone to push the red buttons. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-15-m0.u52	Ion's Maria Mikolayevna, faction of the European Solidarity political party. Hončarenko Alexyyyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-15-m0.u53	Please pass the word to Alexia Potter.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-15-m0.u54	Alexei Hotcharenko, European Solidarity. Dear friends, you all know that this historic achievement, which was a few years ago, is now becoming a failure. The weak quarantine, the inadequacy of the government that this Supreme Council has assigned and this monopoly has led Ukraine today, unlike Europe, to have a very high level of disease and the borders of the European Union for Ukrainian citizens are closed. But they want to move on: they want to close the borders at all and destroy the visa-free regime that was achieved by the enormous efforts of Ukrainian society, the Ukrainian people. Why do I say that? The point is, a week ago, another Eurocommission report came out on Ukraine's visa-free regime, and there is a requirement for Ukraine to provide a transparent, unpoliticized selection to the Specialised Anti-Corruption Prosecutor's Office. That's what you're paying attention to. [[Expression in Foreign Language]] So this is a direct reference in the report of the European Commission. What, then, does the majority do to us? It offers us the following members to choose a new SAP leadership: the Specialised Anti-Corruption Prosecutor's Office: 4 from the Servants of the People, 2 from the Trust, 1 from the Voice. It's called not politicized? It's 6 and 7 again. It's an active power that wants to control everything. We know that we have the Attorney General of Venedict, not to mention that, as the goddess of Femida, she has a blindfold, has a party called "Serves of the People" in her pocket. That's how you want the same people in the Specialised Anti-Corruption Procurator's Office to keep the opponents going, and the Ukrainians will lose their car. Surrender!
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-15-m0.u55	Thank you. Please, National Deputy Kirilenko Ivan Grigorovich, faction of the political party of the All-Ukrainian Union of Fatherland. Vlasenko Sergey Volodymyrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-15-m0.u56	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. You know, it's kind of like "made up on three" again. Sometimes when it comes to the politically uninvolved selection of a specialized anti-corruption prosecutor, representatives of a group that is constantly voting with the "ministers of the people" and a faction that is largely voting with the "ministers of the people". And in fact, the representatives of the real opposition political forces that were offered to this commission, especially the faction of the Fatherland, have somehow failed. Instead, the candidates were made up of people who did not really meet the criteria provided for by law. The committee therefore read the law’s requirements by running, but the law’s requirement is very simple: it is not just an experience but a considerable experience of prevention in the field of corruption. With all due respect to the candidate, would you please tell the associate professor of transport law and logistics what side he's referring to in the fight against corruption? Please tell me, the first deputy director of the institute, what side does he take to fight corruption? If he doesn't take bribes himself, that's very good, but it's not a fight against corruption within the meaning of the Procurator's Act and the criteria that have to be put forward to the candidates. And then the candidates listed, first from the point of view of the objects, are politically involved; and secondly, they do not meet the frontal requirements of the law. Therefore, honourable colleagues, to vote for this composition of the commission is to break the law. So I'd like everyone to vote with a red button. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-15-m0.u57	Thank you. All those who wish to speak? One, two. Aresonkov, I see. I see. Anton Eduardoovich, I see you all the time. You're suing me. More papiev? Three minutes is motive. And let's go to the vote. Please invite the national deputies to the hall. Aresonkov Vladimir Yuriovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-15-m0.u58	Dear colleagues, once again, I respectfully refer to all the colleagues who have spoken. I take those comments to some extent and, let's say, the warnings that colleagues make about procedural points about the requirements for candidates, their professional, their work experience, let's say, work in the field of anti-corruption. That's understandable. But at the same time, what I'm saying is, maybe we should invite colleagues of our foreign counterparts from other countries, if Ukrainian experts raise such doubts? It seems to me that the committee was very critical and professional in taking everyone and looking at every candidate, and the committee's decision was just like that. So we now recommend that we accept this decision and this composition, and that we be able to take the lead.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-15-m0.u59	Polakov Anton Eduardoovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-15-m0.u60	Dear colleagues, why do some things stop, some things open illegally? Why is it that someone is being persecuted and someone is not being touched? On all these issues, the majority and the president always say, "We have nothing to do with it." But all the appointments or no appointments, but the preservation of all the leaders of the Ukrainian law enforcement agencies, in one way or another, take place with the submission of the President’s Office and the monotonousness. What, though, is monogamy? This is the "Jeremack's Tiles" that he put in Geo Leros, this is the "Circumstances" that I put out, this is Zelensky's telephone law, this is all the managers who are assigned without an audience, without an activity program, without analysis, without anything else, for which the majority and the President are responsible. We cannot be held responsible for this, so we do not support this decision. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-15-m0.u61	A replica of what? Remember? Who? Leros Georiy Bagratovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-15-m0.u62	Dear faction colleagues, it's not a decision, it's bullshit. And this shit can't be eaten. So I urge you not to vote in favour of this decree. These people, who are in this resolve, most of them have no experience in anticorruption. Do not vote in favour of this decree. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-15-m0.u63	Papiev Mikhailo Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-15-m0.u64	Honorable Ukrainian National Deputies, respected Ukrainian citizens who watch us on TV and listen on the radio! You know, the second decision that fills the quota of the Supreme Council of Ukraine regarding the competition commission, I have nothing against these people. Maybe they're all decent, highly educated people. But for me, equality of citizens and equality of representation, including territories, is very important to me. And here I see the well-known institute of the Ministry of Justice. How can this person be independent? Next. Semi-political organizations like the Kyiv-Mogilian Academy, like the Catholic University. So let's go from the Orthodox Academy we'll also be delegating. Lviv University of Internal Affairs. Dear, well, this isn't a commission representing some one, even a respectable, West Ukraine territory, it's all the Ukrainian Commission. Why there's no Hark's representation here.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-15-m0.u65	Galina Olegovna Mikhayluk with a motive. And let's go to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-15-m0.u66	Dear colleagues, allow me to draw your attention to the fact that under the Ukrainian Pro Prosecutor's Office Act, if, within 3 months of the date of appointment, a committee of representatives of the Ukrainian Prosecutors' Council, which took place on June 1, the Supreme Council of Ukraine, if it does not appoint any person, the commission shall be considered competent and shall commence its activities on September 1. So the Supreme Council can use its only chance to delegate representatives to the commission, and we need to vote and support the draft Order no later than July 17th. Please take this one chance for the Supreme Council to exercise parliamentary control. Thank you very much. Support, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-15-m0.u67	All those who wish to speak? Please be prepared. You've already spoken. All those who want and those who have the right, right? Please prepare for the vote. Ready to vote? I am voting on the proposal for adoption of the entire draft Decision on the appointment of representatives of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to a commission to hold an administrative competition in the Specialised Anti-Corruption Prosecutor's Office (registration number 3769). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[11:23:24]] For 193 The decision is not taken. Thank you. Let's see the factions. The next issue of the agenda is the draft Act amending the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the Ukrainian Law on the Status of Ukrainian People's Deputies, the Ukrainian Law (honorable colleagues, please!) "About the Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine" on the grounds for the absence of national deputies at plenary meetings of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and the meetings of the Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine (Registration No. 3642). It is suggested that this issue be considered in a simplified manner. Please support and vote. [[11:24:26]] For 232 Please tell me you need to talk. I have to, okay. The chairman of the Committee on Rules, MPs and the organization of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Kalchenko Sergey Vitaliyovich, is invited to attend. Four minutes from the authors and the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-15-m0.u68	The honourable Presidium, the honourable national MPs, the purpose of adopting this bill, which is proposed to you for consideration, is to clarify the important reasons for the absence of a national MP in the plenary session of Parliament, as well as the committee that it is part of. And in order to achieve this goal, changes are proposed to part three of article 26 of the Rules, to part five of article 33 of the Law on the Status of the People’s Deputy and Part Two of article 47 of the Committee Law. In fact, the need for such changes was due to an analysis in the regulatory committee of the application of the provisions and articles 33 of the Law on Status, article 26 of the Rules, and repeated references to both the Supreme Council’s apparatus and the regulatory committee on the absence from the plenary meetings of the Supreme Council of Deputies due to the need to carry out the orders of the Supreme Council of the Supreme Council, the decisions of the committees comprising the national deputies. Unlike a valid editorial, part of the third article 26, which does not contain valid reasons for the absence of a national MP at a plenary meeting and a committee meeting, is suggested, inter alia, that this list be supplemented by such reasons. The execution of the mandate of the Head of the Supreme Council to the National Deputies, in accordance with article 88 of the Constitution and article 78 of the Rules of Procedure of the Supreme Council, organizes the work of the Supreme Council and coordinates the activities of its organs, and the designated list of powers of the Head of the Supreme Council is not exhaustive. The Head of the Supreme Council is appointed to be the head of the Committee for the Admission of Citizens, as provided for in article 34 of the Committee Law. The second reason is to carry out the commission of the committee by the National Deputy in accordance with the decision of the committee to which it is composed, since, in accordance with article 39 of the Committee Act, one of the responsibilities of a committee member is to carry out the tasks provided for in the Committee's decisions and recommendations. Other important reasons related to the implementation of the National Deputy of Rights and Duties, as defined in the Civil Procedure Code, the Code of Administrative Violations, the Code of Administrative Justice, the Criminal Procedure Code and the Law on the Constitutional Court. This bill was drafted and introduced, and it was supported by all without exception by the members of the regulatory committee, and introduced. And following the introduction, the committee considered it at its meeting. The Committee endorsed the conclusion, and the Committee believes that the proposals for amendments to the Rules, the Laws on the Status of the People's Deputy, the Committees on the Extension of the Important Reasons for the absence of a MP in the plenary session of Parliament and the Committee are appropriate and well-founded. Ladies and gentlemen, I personally want to express my expectations, my expectation that this is a question that will unite the hall, unlike the previous issue of the day’s order, rather than disunite it. In summary, the Committee decided to recommend to Parliament the result of the first reading of the bill as a basis and as a whole. That is why I very much ask the room to support this bill twice: both on the basis and in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-15-m0.u69	Thank you. Sign up for factions: two for, two for, please. Anna Constantine's speedboat.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-15-m0.u70	Batenko Taras Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-15-m0.u71	Batenko Taras Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-15-m0.u72	Dear colleagues, as a whole, the correct changes to the Rules, by which we clarify the important reasons for the absence of a national MP at the plenary meeting of the Supreme Council. But we still think that within our own turbulence, which we've been going through for a year, there are other reasons that we have to add to our second reading. And in the first reading, our parliamentary group "For the Future" will support these changes that are being written today. Thus, these changes do not provide for the deployment of national deputies in the permanent delegations of the Supreme Council of Ukraine under the authority of the head of Parliament and the committee. We don't exactly see the list of treatment issues, the vacations, they don't count. It is also appropriate to raise the question that a major reason for the absence of a national MP is to participate in the work of temporary special and investigative commissions of the Supreme Council, various working groups. Well, another question is the Conciliation Council meeting, because they've been in a number of cases, colleagues, when the Conciliation Boards were meeting with the committees that we're participating in. We're going to support pros in the first reading with the second reading of these proposals that I've heard. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-15-m0.u73	Arjev Vladimir Igorovich
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-15-m0.u74	Oleg to the Synth, I give you my word.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-15-m0.u75	Dear Mr. Head, honourable national MPs, if this Parliament ever enters the history of Ukrainian Parliamentarianism, it will certainly enter a constant attempt to rape the Rules. These attempts, they are diverse, but they usually apply to one another, is to deprive a national MP of the ability to defend the interests of his electorate. And the highlight of these attempts, of course, was the proposal of a majority to deprive national MPs of the right to legislative initiative. Thank God, both in court and in most parliament, the mind is sufficient not to make or vote on this law in its final form. This project that we're looking at today, it's actually, if you look at it surfacely, it's certainly good because it's increasing the number of clear possibilities for the absence of people's deputies at meetings. But, dear fellows, I think it's time to go back to this completely mindless decision that forces all the national MPs to constantly push the thoughtless buttons just to get the proper salary and be present at the meetings. What's more, I think here, in this bill, we have to make a standard that would provide a basis for the absence of MEPs from European Solidarity, the absence of parliamentary meetings, the constant calls to the State Bureau of Investigation, the prosecutor's office of various levels, to the courts. Because it seems that today most MEPs of European Solidarity, instead of doing the legislative work, are forced to walk and write explanations for the complaints, for the political calculations that lead to them being drafted by a majority. So I am convinced that this legal thrashing will, of course, be voted on. But will this really be a step in raising the role of the Rules? Not exactly.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-15-m0.u76	Please, National Deputy Zimbaluk Mikhailovich, faction of the political party of the All-Ukrainian Union of Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-15-m0.u77	Mikhailo Cimbaluk, Fatherland. Please give the word to your colleague after the faction of Evtushka Sergei. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-15-m0.u78	Sergey Eutuszek, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-15-m0.u79	Honorable Presidium, Your Honorable Fellows, Honorable Ukrainians! In fact, it must be admitted that discipline in today’s calling for order is better than we have seen in past callings. And that's true. And today, when we're looking at this bill, which allows us to expand the grounds not to think of a national MP as a wanderer, it's perfectly normal. However, I would immediately like to address the authors and the head of the Committee on Rules, MP ethics. I believe that there are, among all the reasons, reasons that the apiorians cannot be, which the MP does not consider to be a defector. For example: The Basic Law of Ukraine – The Constitution of Ukraine states that the Supreme Council of Ukraine alone, its plenary sessions may be the basis for approval. The Basic Law of Ukraine also states that committees are created for convenience only for additional work. And when we see in a list of the reasons why, by commission or by any other commission, we can be like that, national MPs who are not considered to be walkers, we think that's absolutely wrong and wrong. For example, I can give you an example from the Fatherland faction, when our representative Sergei Vlasenko was in the Constitutional Court, he was a representative of the trial, he was also listed as a defector. So these are the reasons that give us the right and the opportunity to expand this list and not to think of it as a walker, as well as a colleague. So the "Fatherland" faction insists that the bill is not approved as a whole, but only on a basis, and then you and I will be able to apply it and make it normal, one that meets all moral standards. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-15-m0.u80	Please, National Deputy Železniak Jaroslav Ivanovich, faction of the political party "Golos".
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-15-m0.u81	Comrades, good afternoon! I'm going to be very brief, because I would like us to vote on more positive changes for people today. As for the Rules, first of all, let's be honest and respect the institution in which we work. We still have a lot to learn from compliance with the Rules, but in this Parliament, one of the positive things that is is that we started working on it, and I hope that we will continue to do so. And the reason for compliance with the Rules is that after the presentation, several factions realized that this bill would not be adopted as a whole, and that was a good thing. Because we join our colleagues, and we also have a lot of comments on this bill and a lot of suggestions. And I hope that after that, if a positive decision is made on it, we will make these remarks to the committee of profile, and they will normally be adopted on a regulatory basis to improve this bill. That's why we support the bill's opinion, and we support its essence. Of course, let's make our own proposals from the Voice faction. I hope that the second reading will be corrected by all the mistakes that were unfortunately made in that mode called "turbing," when many colleagues voted in September without reading. I hope there's no such mistake this time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-15-m0.u82	Everybody's ready. Areshonkov? Aresonkov Vladimir Yuriovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-15-m0.u83	Dear colleagues, the Trust MP Group welcomes the positive steps taken by the Committee on the Rules of Procedure to improve our core document, which defines the rules of our lives and activities, including deputies. But I would like to remind you that there are currently working groups working on drafting the opposition bill, which will identify issues related to the parliamentary coalition. And I thank the group leaders today, the leaders of the Supreme Council, we need to speed up the work on the preparation and adoption of these important bills. With regard to today’s changes to the Rules, they are certainly important because they determine the reasons why a national MP should exercise his authority and at the same time not be subject to, say, financial constraints and so forth. So the trust MP group will support the changes.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-15-m0.u84	Thank you. Shall we go to the vote? Dear colleagues, first of all, the committee's proposal is based. On the basis and in general. Based on what? Dear colleagues, we don't vote until autumn. Then just so no one comes and asks about not being here, and doesn't talk to me like that. Okay. Well, just so we all agree that no one would come, they didn't say, "I'm sorry, I'm late," or something else, "I wasn't there for any reason." Yeah? Okay. I would like to vote on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Supreme Council Rules, the Ukrainian Law on the Status of the People's Deputies of Ukraine, the Ukrainian Act on Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the grounds for the absence of Ukrainian national deputies at plenary meetings of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and the meetings of the Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine (Registrational No. 3642). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[11:39:25]] For 321 Decision taken. Thank you. Dear colleagues, the next issue of the agenda is the draft Act amending article 34 of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of Ukrainian People's Deputies. Can we do without discussion, yes, both on the basis and in general? I'm betting on the vote for acceptance. Taras Ivanovich, come on. Okay. Thank you. I'm betting on a motion for adoption on the basis of the draft Amendment Act. [[B in m in s a l in]] No, or with discussion as foretold. No questions! Then it is suggested that we consider the matter in a simplified manner. Please support and vote. [[11:40:26]] For 270. Decision taken. The chairman of the Committee on Rules, MPs and the organization of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Kalchenko Sergey Vitaliyovich, is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-15-m0.u85	Your Honorable Presidium, honourable national deputies, is now proposing a bill aimed at, let's say, improving the status of assistants to the National Deputies. Its purpose is, these changes, to improve the order of use of the general fund, which is set up to pay for the work of assistant consultants. In particular, amendments are proposed to article 34 of the Law on the Status of People's Deputies, which violates the requirements for the education of a national deputy, to part three of article 34 concerning the addition of assistant consultants as personnel and financial support only to the Supreme Council's Apparatus. Part four on the distribution of national deputies from the general fund set up for the year in question for the purpose of paying work for defined purposes: salary payments, material assistance to address socio-occupational issues, pay for vacations, material assistance for recovery during annual basic leave, financial compensation for all not used by the assistant consultant on the day of annual leave. Since the project proposes to establish additional payments within the framework of the general fund to the assistants, two types of material assistance, each of which will correspond to the average monthly salary of the corresponding assistant, at the same time, the draft decision, which will be considered further in the daily order (registration 3645), proposes an increase in the rate at which the general monthly fund for the remuneration of assistant consultants of the national deputies will be determined from 25 to 29.2 subsistence minimums of citizens established for working persons. Ladies and gentlemen, this project has also been introduced by members of the regulatory committee. The Regulatory Committee confirmed the conclusion.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-15-m0.u86	Add two more minutes, because both from the committee and from the authors. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-15-m0.u87	This bill was introduced by members of the regulatory committee. The committee itself at its meeting on July 1 reviewed it and endorsed the conclusion. And it recommends to Parliament that the results of the first reading be accepted as a basis and as a whole. In particular, I would like to stress once again that this bill, which goes into the context of the next issue of the agenda, is the draft Regulation 3645, which foresees an increase in the rate that determines the monthly fund to pay for the work of the people's deputies. Please also support this bill when voting on the basis and in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-15-m0.u88	Thank you. Please sign up from the MP factions and groups: two-for-two-again. Katchura Alexander Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-15-m0.u89	Alexander Kachura, "Serial of the People" faction. In fact, the issue of changes to the current legislation on helpers is necessary. But at the same time, what is proposed in this bill. First of all, it is proposed to exclude the requirements for the educational level of assistant consultants of the Ukrainian National Deputies. Because it's always been a prestigious place of work, people with higher education. And what do we propose? We propose, apart from the knowledge of Ukrainian, to exclude any additional qualifications for assistants in general. Are we going to be students? After 18 years, why don't you give us some help? Secondly, this project is designed to compensate for unused vacations only from the pay-for-work fund. So if, for example, the fund is fully laid down and someone is released or the call is closed, then no one will get compensation for the unused vacation. Thirdly, the remaining funds from the general fund set up for the corresponding year to pay for the work of assistant consultants can also be used to pay for defined contracts or contracts and services related to the conduct of parliamentary activities. So that doesn't mean that people's deputies get the money, but any contracts. And the last. This is indicated in the bill on financial and human resources provision by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. There is no such legal person. So to the maximum that we can now propose to the authors, to vote in the first reading, or I would suggest that I send him in at all for re-reading, for further processing, because it narrows down the rights of the assistants and destroys the authority of this post, because they were always scientists, lawyers, scientists as assistants to the national MPs, as they propose. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-15-m0.u90	Please, Deputy People's Party for the Future, Mr. Alexander Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-15-m0.u91	Please pass the word to Rudik Sergio.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-15-m0.u92	Please, Rudik Sergey Jaroslavovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-15-m0.u93	Dear colleagues, I rarely say these words from this rostrum, but now is the time. This is a very good and timely bill, and I'll explain why. If we don't accept it, soon the number of suicides in the Supreme Council can go bad. Yeah, I didn't say a word. There are a bunch of national MPs among us who, in a year of parliamentary activity, don't understand the essence of the bills that we're asked to consider, don't even have time to read them. They, you know, in each row, look at the neighbors who make the appearance that they work. In fact, they don't work for different reasons: someone just because there's no experience, someone just because there's no knowledge, and someone just killed it and makes it look like he's really smart. And imagine the situation, sitting there, this en-deputy deputy of the Supreme Council, and there's a girl who's 21 years of age who's graduated from the Kyiv Institute of International Relations, and behind all the ideas of this deputy about what she's supposed to be behind her intellectual potential, she's taking and in 30 seconds she's decomposing what he's been thinking about all week, and she can't figure anything out. You know, it's a shock, it can provoke suicide, because you'll understand how it happens. The girl here understands, and he doesn't understand. I insist, society, who doesn't understand who doesn't have a sense of humor. Of course, this cannot be accepted. Assistants without higher education are laws that will never be implemented, those are laws that will work against people, those are laws that will manipulate us all in order to achieve a goal by some narrow group of people. Under no circumstances will we vote for him in that way.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-15-m0.u94	Eutusek Sergey Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-15-m0.u95	Please pass the word to John Krulk.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-15-m0.u96	Krulko Ivanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-15-m0.u97	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear Ukrainians and distinguished colleagues, listen to what you are about to vote for. You're going to vote so that people's deputies can go to work without any education: no secondary education, no higher education, no education. I started my career as an assistant to national deputy Boris Tarasyuk, with a higher legal education. An assistant must be a qualified person who prepares bills for the MP who can work on legislative initiatives and can help the MP. But considering how they are now recruiting MPs without education, let us let the assistants be with education! What are you doing? How can we vote against the law so that the assistant national deputy does not have any education? To what do we compare this position? Are we comparing this position to a supporter of some kind? Let us not ruin the final service of the State and government. An assistant national deputy -- it was the seventh rank of the State Service, it was a person who could communicate with any head of state authorities, local government authorities, it was a representative of the People's Deputies in the region, in the area. I'm absolutely opposed to such legislative initiatives, I think they're harmful, and I think it's balancing and destroying government. And let's say that we leave in this room the crumbs of a Ukrainian state that will not be destroyed in this way. National MPs must have an education, and these must be the highly skilled people we choose through the contests that we ourselves conduct as an MP. This is how helpers are chosen, and this is what I want for all of you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-15-m0.u98	Please, Heratchenko Irina Volodymyrna, faction of the political party "European Solidarity".
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-15-m0.u99	Please give the word to Ruslan Knazevitch.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-15-m0.u100	Knyazevich Ruslan Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-15-m0.u101	Thank you, Irina Volodymyr. Dear colleagues, let us be objective: In fact, this bill is far deeper and broader than what has just been said. And here we also have to thank the regulatory committee as a whole for taking this initiative, and some of the atavis that we have left since the Soviet era are being removed from this law. Unfortunately, there are other atheisms in the Status Act that we should have cleaned up and maybe look at this bill in a complex way. We don't have majority deputies anymore who are attached to businesses in the districts where they're elected, they don't exist. And as for the qualifications requirements for helpers, friends, here we asked who we compare them to, we compare them to MPs. We have, in accordance with the Constitution and under Ukraine's international legal obligations, a national MP and his assistants should not have any qualifications. It's a norm in Europe and in the world, we just adapt these things. It's okay, guys, it's okay, it's okay. Here one of the representatives of the majority shouted that it was abnormal. Look who's sitting next to you, and you'll realize you've got two thirds of the people nowhere. It's a question of such a plan, of discussion. As to how to proceed. I think that the basis of this is to accept and adapt certain standards that are really controversial. The other thing is that it's once again disengagement from the context of solving certain problems. Our faction is definitely against that kind of exclamation. We're here to look at the Law on Status, the Committees Act, the Law on Rules, all the regulations that come out of these laws. If this requires the creation of a large, serious group, where all political factions will be included, and a large, complex law will be passed. Such laws give birth to what we have in the session room, and unfortunately, they are doomed to failure. Let's look a little bit wider, Mr. Head, and once and for all, let's put a dot, at least from that Soviet past that we're trying to forget only in words. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-15-m0.u102	Papiev Mikhailo Mikolaiovich. After that, we're going to vote. No, two, no "Trust" won't, the baboon stands. Dear colleagues, two speeches, and we move on to the vote. Papiev.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-15-m0.u103	Thank you. Thank you. I immediately listened to speeches by Ukrainian national deputies, John Ivanovich Krulk. And that's exactly the right thing to do. But, Mr. John Ivanovich, you see how the times have changed. At one time, there were qualifications for both ministers and national deputies. Now it turns out that we're stuck in a situation where the demands for an assistant national deputy of Ukraine are the most severe, even in terms of government members. You see, now they're ministers without higher education. MAUP graduates become prime ministers of Ukraine. So in fact, today's qualification requirements -- even work experience doesn't need to be a minister right now. Half the ministers receive the first entry in the employment book — the minister. I mean, Your Honor, let's still go to this question, considering that every situation is absurd, it has to be kept to the limit, we have to support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-15-m0.u104	Thank you. Dear colleagues. No, John Ivanovich, he certainly didn't hurt you. On the contrary, boastful. So 3 minutes, let's give it a second. Dear colleagues! [[B in m in s a l in]] No, there was no offense. No offense. Let him hurt you, and let's give him the word. Next time, Michael Mikolaiovich, if you mention someone, you have to say something so offensive. I will definitely give it the next time, Ivan Ivanovich. Let's go. No, John Ivanovich, he did not offend you. He mentioned other colleagues. That doesn't mean I'm going to let everyone speak. Let's go to the vote. But technology is good, yes. Ready to vote? Oh, my God, what a connection! On the basis and in general. I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Act amending article 34 of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of Ukrainian People's Deputies (Registration No. 3644). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[11:55:51]] For 224 The decision is not taken. I'm betting on a motion to refer the bill to the committee for the re-reading of the bill. I'm betting on the vote, now we're going to show the factions. 3644. Please support and vote. [[11:56:29]] For 280 Decision taken. According to the factions, the colleagues asked. "Serve of the People" – 225, "The Opposition Platform for Life" – 24, "European Solidarity" – 23, "The Fatherhood" – 0, "The Future Party" – 2, "The Voice" – 0, "The Trust" – 1, "the Non-Factional" – 5. Thank you. The next issue of agenda is the draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine amending the Regulations on Assistant Consultants of the People's Deputies of Ukraine and the Decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on financial security for the activities of the People's Deputies of Ukraine (Registration No. 3645). That's the question. Sergei Vitaliyovich, procedure, please. I'm out of procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-15-m0.u105	Honorable Presidium, honourable national deputies, since this draft decree was in fact to be considered and adopted in connection with this draft law, which the Supreme Council had failed in a successful manner and had not improved the status of its assistants, thus simply disappearing the need for consideration of this draft decree. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-15-m0.u106	Thank you. Dear colleagues, next. There's no objection, we're taking this issue out of order today, are we not? The next issue of the agenda is the draft Order on the calendar schedule for the next session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the ninth call (3798). Can we not discuss this? Discussing? No discussion. But the only request before. Several factions were called. Dear colleagues, please listen! Andrew Ivanovich, don't you need an election? Dear colleagues, this draft decree stipulates that the week leading up to October 26 is a plenary one. We can't change anything right now, these changes can only take place at the decision of the regulatory committee. However, since there have been a number of MP factions and groups, I appeal to the regulatory committee in September to review this decision and to change the order of our work so that this week may be part of the work in the regions. Is there no objection? Today, we vote on the decision that is. [[B in m in s a l in]] No, dear colleagues, we or no discussion, I can't give my word to anyone, not to give it to anyone. I am voting on the proposal for the adoption of the entire draft Decision on the calendar plan for the fourth session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the ninth call (registration number 3798). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[11:59:53]] For 350. Decision taken. Orders adopted in general. Dear colleagues, 12:00, there's a break until 12:30. Please don't be late.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-15-m0.u107	Well, if you insist. A statement came from two MPs about a break with a replacement for the performance. No, no. He proposes to continue the meetings of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for another three hours. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-15-m0.u108	Dear friends, the faction of "European Solidarity" urges you to show wisdom today. Today's vote is based on a ruling that we call the District Disposal Order. But it's not the District Disposal Order -- it's the Order on the Destruction of Local Self-Government, which was so actively implemented in Ukraine over the first five years after Maidan. We created strong, capable communities. We tried to give people the opportunity to control and control their lives. Let's be honest, in a system like this, the areas that we now have, in fact, may not be necessary, but they haven't been able to bring the reform to an end, and now they're destroying the reform. That is why both Peter Poroshenko and even Vladimir Groisman, who was then the Prime Minister and who promoted this, are firmly opposed to what is happening now. I understand that there is Central Ukraine, Zaporozhye, where large areas have become communities, and maybe they don't have to keep separate areas. But we are invited to vote for the areas without understanding their credentials. Look at the absurdity that's going on. The Lviv district of Lviv is established in Lviv, where the head of the administration will be the mayor. The highlands area, which was here yesterday, a small mountain area, are now going to have to travel more than 100 kilometers to the district center on the freeway. They won't bring people to the hospital. This complete administrative chaos that gives birth to this decree should not be allowed. Dear friends, let's continue to exercise effective self-government, complete strong communities. If there are areas in the Constitution, we cancel them or define prefects, and we don't hand over a bunch of functions that they want to pass on right now. But to move the areas away from the people and to take away the services. "European Solidarity" calls upon this entire hall not to allow this decision to be taken, or to withdraw it, or to join us in making sure that the people who were here yesterday from Carpathian, from Kiev, from Lviv, never suffer from pseudo-simulation of pseudo-pseudoreoform. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-15-m0.u109	Thank you. So let's get to the point. Another break with a replacement for the performance. Who will perform? Julia Volodymyrna? Timishenko Julia Volodymyrna.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-15-m0.u110	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say that today is not just going to be the vote on the 490 district liquidation order. In fact, this is an extraordinary event that clearly falls into the strategy of the general collapse of Ukraine. I can tell you that all this idiocy began six years ago when without the good of people, without agreeing with people, was violently chased into united territorial communities. And I can tell you that this was done in three stages. The first stage. Almost violently pushed into OTG. Then how about budgeting. And in the third stage, this budget began to be taken. And in the center of the community, there was still funding, and the whole periphery, small villages, far away, they were run out of field and obstetric points, no schools, no clubs, no budget, nothing. And tell me, will people live there for a long time? This would mean that small villages would essentially disappear, and largeholders of agricultural land would come to their place instead of farmers, and farm land without Ukrainians, and harvest without Ukrainians, and profit from this crop would be obtained without Ukrainians. And we're going to get a reduction in Ukraine, a reduction in the settlement network. The second stage of this crime is now under way, that is, this President continues the glorious case of the previous one. But now they've gone harder: they want to clear 490 areas where there are district administrations with all the services, where there are district hospitals, where there are schools again, where there are district savings, district courts where there are district social services and so on. And all of this will be multiplied by zero to keep people going out of the countryside, out of small towns, and liberate the earth. For whom? I want to tell you that there is no doubt about what is going on in the elimination of the Ukrainian nation. And if you don't intellectually realize it, in this country, the authorities will essentially be acting on a foreign, external scenario, and people will be hostage to the stupidity and non-intellectuality of the rulers of the state. And that's why we're demanding that we take this bill off the table today, not just because it's anti-constitutional, but because it's directed against the existence of Ukraine. To end this terror and to start living and working for Ukraine, not to order outside our country to be eliminated. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-15-m0.u111	Let's move on to daytime issues, get back to being faithful. Dear colleagues, you have been invited to consider the draft Law amending the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine concerning the schedule of plenary meetings (registration number 3608). It is suggested that this issue be considered in a simplified manner. Please prepare for the vote. Will this bill need to be discussed? Ready to vote? I'm voting on the bill's motion to review the registration number 3608. Please support and vote. [[12:38:19]] For 202 Decision taken. The head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Rules, Deputy Ethics and Organization of Work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Pavlov Valeriyovich, is invited to attend. Give me four minutes, from the authors and from the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-15-m0.u112	Good afternoon, dear colleagues. This is a bill amending the Supreme Council Rules on the schedule of plenary meetings and the work of the Supreme Council. This bill was introduced and signed by all the leaders of all the MP factions and groups of this Parliament. It is suggested that Tuesday, Wednesday, and Thursday of the plenary week be held from 10:00 to 3:00 p.m., on Friday it is scheduled to work from 10:00 to 4:00 p.m., with a break from 12:00 to 12:30. Monday and the time after the plenary sessions are concluded, people's deputies will be assigned to work on their own, and committees, commissions and factions will be held if necessary. At the same time, the decision to continue the plenary session after 3 p.m. and on Friday after 4 p.m., more than 15 minutes may be made only until the break between 12:00 and 12:30. The plenary Friday does not change the meeting from 10:00 to 11:00 "hours of questions to the government" and the break from 12:00 to 12:30, at the same time until 2 p.m. it is planned to be used for billing work, and from 14:00 to 16:00 it is planned to postpone requests, decisions on support, requests, and discussions on various issues. In general, the adoption of this bill will contribute to the rational use of working time in plenary weeks, particularly the total working time in plenary mode will be increased from 18 hours to 19 hours per week. In fact, after we returned to work on the calendar plan, we had been working on this schedule for five weeks, which means we cancelled the evening session, and in fact we cancelled two parliamentary breaks, while all Ukrainians were working on one break. I'm asking you to support this bill because it will really help optimize our work, and the deputies on Tuesday, Wednesday and Thursday will be able to walk, participate in their committees and be able to visit other committees, because now a deputy on Wednesday can either support his legislative initiative on another committee or visit his committee. And I want to say from the committee. The Rules Committee at its meeting on 1 July reviewed the bill and recommended that the Supreme Council accept it as a basis and as a whole. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-15-m0.u113	Thank you. Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss? Then I'd like you to sign up for factions: two for, two for, two for. Please, Zinkevich Jan Vadimovna, faction of the political party "European Solidarity".
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-15-m0.u114	Please pass the word to Mr. Knazevitch.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-15-m0.u115	Prince Ruslan Petrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-15-m0.u116	Thank you so much for saying that. I remember this initiative proposed by the Head of the Supreme Council. And he suggested it, taking into account the practice that we had during the plenary work during quarantine, accordingly. I'll remind you how we work now: we work properly on Tuesdays and Thursdays to 15 hours without interruptions, no evening meetings, and on Wednesdays we usually work until 14 hours, because we have 15 hours of committee work, and on many committees there are still subcommittees that work exactly this hour to the committees. And that's right, and that's what the Committee Act requires. On Friday we work up to 13 hours, after which we read the questions correctly, and there is still half an hour left for the talk. Instead, we've been offered a completely different edition, where only with respect to agreements -- saved deals on Tuesdays and Thursdays up to 15 hours, on Wednesdays instead of 14ths, 15ths are added, and actually the work of the subcommittees and committee meetings is impossible. On Friday, we have work to do until 4:00 p.m. And, guys, let's frankly stick to logic somehow. We'll only support it if we determine that we have to have one break, which is what we've said so much about. If factions receive the same right as they have so far had the right to make appropriate statements and breaks at each plenary session. And since the plenary session is now going to be one, let's give this right to a break, and after the break, it's going to be fair and fair. At least that's what our faction was talking about on that conciliatory council where this idea was discussed. Therefore, we are opposed to this being accepted in general today. We're going to make corrections and we're going to insist that they be accepted, because they're perfectly logical and they're in line with what we're reaching. If we reach them, let us do it, not mislead our colleagues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-15-m0.u117	Thank you, Ruslan Petrovich. Please, Bondar Victor Vasilovich, MP's Party for the Future.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-15-m0.u118	Please pass the word to Batenka. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-15-m0.u119	Batenko Taras Ivanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-15-m0.u120	Dear colleagues, the "For the Future Party" MP thinks that this bill -- the amendments to the Rules -- is a positive one, this is another step towards getting rid of the rudimentary past when in the Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic it took two hours for the Supreme Council of Ukraine to rest during an active vote. After our active vote, we too will have to vote. Many also need rest, but it is obvious that we need time. rational use of time. We realize that it's time for drafting drafts, their analysis, their study, that we get a timely agenda. This is the time when we get a table for the second reading on time, and we have the opportunity to analyze what adjustments are counted and which are not counted. That's why we support these changes as a whole, but at the same time, we have a warning about the law's standard, which gives a warning in part of the permit for unlimited inclusion in the agenda of the daily plenary session of any bill without prior inclusion in the agenda of the day. So we think that the absolute majority of the people's deputies in this situation will not be informed of the content and substance of these bills. Our parliamentary group will support the changes to the Rules in this part, the first reading on the basis. But only on the basis of a second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-15-m0.u121	Thank you. Please, Sobolev Sergey Vladislavovich, faction of the political party of the All-Ukrainian Union of Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-15-m0.u122	Please pass the word to Krulk.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-15-m0.u123	Krulko Ivanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-15-m0.u124	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. The bill that we are currently considering aims to optimize the work of the Supreme Council. And we, as the "Paternity" faction, believe that this bill can be adopted on the first reading as a basis. Of course, committee meetings are also held during the plenary week. National deputies present their bills not only on their committee but also on other committees, which are the main committee, and the national deputy is accordingly the subject of the legislative initiative. So, of course, cancelling the break from the second to the fourth hour, as foreseen in the bill, will allow more and more effective deputies to plan their work week. And it's really a Soviet rudimentary. It doesn't take people's deputies two hours to rest. A short break of 30 minutes and you can still work in normal mode. But at the same time, this bill will need to be finalized for the second reading. And we're talking about making it possible for the national MPs to work on the second reading. That is, we believe that Friday time for asking questions cannot be made at the expense of the “Victory. ” Because in the Various People's Deputies, they can announce their position, they can issue a parliamentary request from the rostrum, they can speak about the situation in the appropriate constituencies, they can draw the attention of law enforcement authorities or other state bodies to the situation on a case-by-case basis. That is, it is an important form of work when a national deputy can come out of the matter that concerns his electorate and is important to make it out of the Supreme Council’s rostrum. Therefore, we believe that the amendments to this bill to the second reading will have to be accepted. But in general, we support the optimization of the work of the Supreme Council, which is foreseen in this bill. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-15-m0.u125	Thank you. National Deputy Bakunets.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-15-m0.u126	Dear Lord Chairman, distinguished national MPs! Paul Bakunec, Lvivščina, MP group "Trust". The question of the working time of the National Deputies is the issue of the effective work of the Supreme Council. Of course, this bill will allow us to schedule committee meetings so that you and I can present our legislative initiatives on these committees that we are not part of. Because now it's possible to hold committees not only on Wednesdays, but every day, and that's important. It's also right to take the initiative to increase the total working time in the plenary week from 18 to 19 hours a week. Therefore, the "Trust" MP Group supports this bill on the basis and in general, provided that part of article 102 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is complied with. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-15-m0.u127	I see, Jaroslav Ivanovich. After it are willing to speak out of motives? None. Now, Ironman, after that, we vote. Please invite the national deputies to the hall and prepare for the vote. Jaroslav Ivanovich, the Voice faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-15-m0.u128	Dear colleagues, I am the co-author of this bill, and I find it very correct. In fact, it's probably one of the acquisitions of the regime that we've been working in since the Coronavirus was that we've finally come to change and make the schedule more intelligent for the work of the National Deputies, including the various committees. Of course, there are many suggestions for this bill on recess, on speeches, and I think we can work on this bill for a second reading. But in general, I think it's very logical for us to spend less time on breaks and spend more time looking at and discussing laws here. So our faction will support this bill as a basis, and hopefully we'll work on it by September and we'll accept it as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-15-m0.u129	Thank you. Let's go to the vote. Please take your seats, prepare for the vote. Invite the national deputies to the hall. Ready to vote? Dear colleagues, this bill is proposed for adoption as a whole. Is there no objection? [[B in m in s a l in]] Then we'll start the next session on a regular schedule. [[B in m in s a l in]] No, we're not going to carry it, dear colleagues, we're either doing it, or we can do it at all. Not ready for the whole thing? [[B in m in s a l in]] No, colleagues say no. They say no, no, there are no questions. I'm betting on a motion for adoption on the basis of a draft ruling. I'm sorry. I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Act amending the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the schedule of plenary meetings (Registration No. 3608). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[12:51:46]] For 324 Decision taken. Thank you, Your Honor. Dear colleagues! David Georgievich! You asked the procedure or the deputy minister, yes, about 3650? Cornea? They approached the procedure, who would speak? KORNIENKO Aleksandar Sergiyovich, of the procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-15-m0.u130	Yes, we have an offer today from the order of the day to take away 3650.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-15-m0.u131	Is there no objection? None. Thank you. The next issue of agenda is the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Budget Code to bring budget legislation into line with the completion of administrative and territorial reform. Wait! Wait, don't scream! Registration number 3614. Are we looking at him? Let's see. It is suggested that this issue be considered by a simplified procedure. Look, the authors insist. Wait! Stop! I can ask you a question about taking him out of the daytime, I can't bet. But it is. No, not at all. We either look at it or we don't. Colleagues insist on looking. It's the first reading. This is the first reading, dear colleagues. I understand we have all the laws, they create Ukrainian legislation. [[B in m in s a l in]] No, I walked in on him. Now we're shooting it. No, of course not. No, what do we vote on? No, it's not. Do you insist on taking him out of the daytime? [[B in m in s a l in]] No, wait, I'll put it in. It's going to be 226 -- we're going to shoot, we're not going to shoot 226 -- we're not going to shoot. Right? No, it's not. Dear colleagues, the agenda is, we're either on it or we're not going. Would you mind stepping up for the heads of the deputies' factions and groups for the rostrum for a moment, please? Ladies and gentlemen, please don't disperse. Two minutes, we'll take our positions. Let's get back to the subject. There's no one else to deny it. It is suggested that this bill be considered in a simplified manner. Please support and vote. [[12:56:33]] For 241 Decision taken. The report is given by Andrievich Zinovija Miroslavovich, a national deputy of Ukraine. Two minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-15-m0.u132	Congratulations, Mr. Head! Honorable colleagues, distinguished national MPs, respected Ukrainian people, and the important step toward decentralization is to adopt changes to the Ukrainian budget code. The new territorial and administrative system of basic and district levels requires appropriate changes in the legal principles of the Ukrainian budgetary system. The draft Law 3614 provides for the establishment of a suitable resource base for rural, rural, urban communities to exercise authority on a new territorial basis. With the adoption of Bill 3614, the unified territorial communities will become financially independent participants in the budgetary process. The current adoption of the bill is important in view of the need for the 2020 local elections to take place on a new territorial basis. And it is necessary to regulate legislation to establish a balanced approach to determining the composition of the revenues and expenditures of the local budgets, the budgets of the communities. Draft Law 3614 essentially provides for the introduction in Ukraine of an optimal model of fiscal decentralization, which certainly creates the right conditions for the sustainability of financing the Ukrainian budgetary system, economic growth of the community, financial management and consumption of social services, and for the improvement of the quality of such services. Therefore, in view of the importance of legislative regulation of the financial capacity of communities under the principles of decentralization and ensuring further strengthening of Ukraine's local self-government, please support 3614 in the first reading. In addition to delegated powers and obligations under existing legislation, the State is obliged to transfer financial resources to the local communities. So the more local self - rule is possible, the stronger our Ukraine is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-15-m0.u133	Please sign up for the performance. Kubbit Yuri Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-15-m0.u134	Thank you, Dmitri Alexanderovich. Dear colleagues, the Committee on Budget Affairs at its meeting on July 1st, considered Bill 3614, which, according to the authors' definition, aims to create a proper resource base for the exercise of authority of local self-government on a new territorial basis. However, Government Bills 3650 and 3651 on the new territorial division and organization of individual issues of the activities of the authorities in connection with the change in the area do not contain provisions on the delimitation of powers between executive authorities and local self - government, which are necessary for further changes in the distribution of income and expenditure between the respective budgets. However, after proposing a new list of incomes and expenditures for the separate budgets of the territorial communities of villages, villages, cities and district budgets, the bill did not provide detailed calculations of the changes in the financial capacity of all local budgets, taking into account the scope of expenditure and resources, the scope of the functions and responsibilities of local self-government and executive authorities, and in the context of the ability to create financial opportunities for the sustainable development of the respective areas. At the same time, it should be noted that the government, recognizing the first stage of decentralization and community creation as complete, has at a new stage undertaken to regulate the question of the delimitation of responsibilities between authorities of different levels. For the time being, MINREGION has published draft new laws on local self - government, on local government, and on the basis of changes to the Budget Code. The Chief Apparatus Scientific and Expert Office also believes that the relevant changes to the Budget Code should be of a complex nature that corresponds to the systematic vision of the administrative and territorial system, the proper performance of the functions of individual communities to ensure their inhabitants. As a result of the review, the committee adopted the following decision: recommending Bill 3614 to the Supreme Council on the basis of the first reading. I'd like your support, colleagues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-15-m0.u135	Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss this issue? Please sign up: two in, two in. Rachmanin Sergey Ivanovich, political party Voice.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-15-m0.u136	Please pass the word to Roman Lozinski.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-15-m0.u137	Roman Lozinski, faction of the political party Voice.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-15-m0.u138	Dear Ukrainians, right now, I know a lot of people from different parts of our country are watching this meeting, Ukraine from Carpathian to Kharkishte, from the south to the north, now looking very closely at the hands of the national MPs. Dear colleagues, today the Supreme Council wanted to continue the destruction of the communities, today the Supreme Council wanted to turn the communities under the districts, but this has not yet happened. Is it enough to make that decision now? No, it's not enough, it's a decision -- it's a change of budget authority, it's a change of resources to the area -- it's a year ago. But that's not enough. We were promised to cancel the district councils so that the communities could decide. They've been canceled? No, it's not. We were promised to cancel the district state administrations so that the President's Office wouldn't be able to stick its dirty hands in every community and decide where there would be a change. That's for people to decide. So it's absolutely right to support this bill. It was to be accepted not today, not in the last few days before summer vacations, it was to be adopted a year ago, and along with it was to go to the past and to the district councils, with which the district government administrations were to be destroyed. And the important thing is, listen to the people! You stopped this decision at our request. The highlands, Kiev, Vasilkov, Vyshrod, Irpin, Butch, Preyjaslav, Ternopolščina, Bogogyans and Kaluchs in Frankish -- hear these people, pick them up at one table, explain why you do what you do with them. And for this law, it had to be voted on a year ago.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-15-m0.u139	Thank you. National MP, Billozore Larissa Mikolayevna, MP's "Trust."
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-15-m0.u140	Dear fellows, my lord! Larissa Bilozer, Winnitzkin, Trust Group. Today's agenda was the correct logic for the placement of regulations: first 3650 is the new administration, then 3614, the one we are considering, which concerns the changes to the budget code right at the end of the administration, and then the 3809 decision on the local council's election. Sadly, this logic is flawed. We'll be looking at the districts again on the committee today. We'll look at it selectively: some areas we'll look at, others we won't. But in fact, this bill, it needs to be voted on. 3614 is about financial guarantees to local self-government, which creates an appropriate resource base for the exercise of authority of local self-government authorities on a new terrain that we have not voted on. The budgets of 1,470 communities under this law will move the bill into a direct inter-budget relationship with the budget. And among the major revenues will be the PDF, as in the unified local communities, 60 percent. Local taxes, congregations, excise taxes, transfers. No more rural, rural, urban budgets will depend on the areas and will not ask for money. It's a law about money to the community, it needs to be supported. But what I'm saying is that there's a lot of speculation around the new neighborhood. And the self-reliant, I want to emphasize, the mandate of the Paradise will be passed to the communities, and the resources will be transferred with them. So it's going to be chaos if we don't vote 3,650 -- the Order on the Elimination and Creation of New Areas. Still, I call for support in the complex.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-15-m0.u141	Thank you. Please, National Deputy Tchaikovsky, Party for the Future.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-15-m0.u142	Please pass the word to Batenku Taras.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-15-m0.u143	Taras Ivanovich Batenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-15-m0.u144	In fact, colleagues, we ended up between the hammer and the forklift, because we've removed the question of creating, entrenching new areas as an important stage of administrative and territorial reform in the country, and the next question we have to adopt a decree on the appointment of local elections in the 20th year, where, again, there is no election for district councils. I mean, for us, it's district. We've become hostages of the situation, although we all understand that the District Councils are now becoming an anachronistic budget, and that's exactly what we see in this bill 3614. Our parliamentary group "For the Future" saves and advocates that we should move forward, qualitatively forward, in part of the new stage of the country's administrative division. We should bear in mind that there should be quality and real decentralization at the level of local communities. We are advocating the transfer of real authority from the districts to the united local communities. The financial capacity of communities is above all, and the independence of local budgets. And that's why our parliamentary group will vote, and will support this bill 3614 in the first reading on the basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-15-m0.u145	Thank you, Taras Ivanovich. Please, National Deputy Savrasov Maksim Vitaliyovich, faction of the political party "European Solidarity".
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-15-m0.u146	Please give the word to Ruslan Knazevitch.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-15-m0.u147	Ruslan Petrovich Knazević, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-15-m0.u148	Thank you, Maxim Vitaliovich, for the word. Dear colleagues, I have absolute rain, we had a similar situation Monday, but it was something else. We had a situation where the President suggested that we consider a decree on the appointment of local elections, taking into account that a decree on a new administration had been passed before, which had not even been made for consideration in the session room. Then it ended with the President being hasty to withdraw the draft of the appropriate decision. It's the same now. My friends, once we had called off the draft terrustres order -- and now, the next step, we had to call off the bill. Here the correct representative of "Trust" said that there was absolute logic in first talking about material, so to speak, the right, and then financially providing it with resources. Moreover, such a situation may happen that until that decision is suspended and it is broken, it will always be a fear that this law will fall within the new areas. So that they don't use what they said, you know, we don't have money in old neighborhoods anymore, so let's start making new ones and finance new ones. No one would mind passing the money to the O.T.G. and the local budgets. We will have a decree, a more precise bill, to support in the first reading. But in the second reading, this law can only be considered if we are sure that we do not have the prospect of a negative decision on terror. If there is such a prospect, this law, on the contrary, as long as it legitimizes that determination. So I recommend that you accept it in the first reading and wait for the fate of that determination. Only after that can it be accepted peacefully in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-15-m0.u149	Thank you, Ruslan Petrovich. Please, Nestor Ivanovich Šufrić first. And then Eugene.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-15-m0.u150	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. The people's government -- that was President Zelensky's main promise during the electoral campaign. "Serves of the people," that's what you called yourself. Now, right before the Supreme Council of Ukraine, your masters came to the square. At least one of you went out to see them? You're out now? They've been calling you all day. What principle? What principle? That you want to reduce the number of hospitals today, the number of schools, and that's why you're pushing the whole of Ukraine and all the communities. Ask people if they need it, and then do your innovations in your pipeline. If you serve people, listen to the people, not the International Fund, and your external leaders. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-15-m0.u151	Vadim Evgenovich Ivchenko, Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-15-m0.u152	Vadim Yvchenko, "The Fatherland" faction. The Motherland has all come out to the people, and we're happy that we've filmed 3,650 of the new districts today. We support fiscal decentralization and the consolidation of our taxes directly in the villages and cities where our people live. But, colleagues, this law continues to be discussed. The discussion continues on how we distort the voluntary union of communities. This law continues to discuss how we will talk in Dniper, in Kharkiv, in Odessa, in Johno-Frankowsk, where district councils will be created. This law continues to discuss where the funds and subsidies will go, either directly in the OTG or through the districts and so forth. This law, colleagues, continues to discuss that the sub-regional level should not have the powers that you want to prescribe. Colleagues, we support all that has to do with local self - government. Don't mess up that administration and those areas.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-15-m0.u153	Thank you. Dear colleagues, have all those who wish to speak? Let's go to the vote. Please take your seats, prepare for the vote. Ready to vote? I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Budget Code to bring budget legislation into line with the completion of administrative and territorial reform (registration number 3614). We vote on the basis. Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[13:12:56]] For the 320. Decision taken. Thank you. Next question of the agenda. Let's see the factions. The next issue of agenda is the draft Order on Assignment of Local Elections in 2020 (October 25, 2020) (registration number 3809). It is suggested that this issue be considered in a simplified manner. Please support and vote. [[13:13:42]] For 257 Decision taken. The Deputy Head of the Committee on Public Authority, Local Self - Rule, Regional Development, and Zagreb’s Alina Leonidivna are invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-15-m0.u154	Thank you. Honorary Presidium, Honourable People's Deputies, Honorary Voters, Committee on the Organization of Government, Local Self-Government, Regional Development and Urbanization reviewed at its meeting on 9 and 14 July the draft Order on the Assignment of Local Elections in 2020 (Registration No. 3809), submitted by members of our committee. The project proposes the appointment of local councils and village, village, city heads to the next election on Sunday, October 25, 2020. In doing so, it is proposed not to appoint or hold the election of members of the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, local councils and village, village, city heads in the temporarily occupied areas of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, the city of Sevastopol in separate areas, cities, villages and villages of Donetsk and Lugansk regions, as well as the election of the deputies of the Donetsk and Lugansk District Councils, in view of the impossibility of ensuring the last representation of the common interests of the territorial communities, villages and villages, the cities of Donetsk and Lugansk. Following a comprehensive discussion, the committee agreed to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, in accordance with part three of article 138 of the Supreme Council’s Rules of Procedure, that the draft decree should be adopted as a whole, taking into account the following suggestions. In the preamble of the draft, decide to delete the word and the digit “paragraph 2”. Following the words of the Ukrainian Act on Amendments to Certain Ukrainian Laws on the Definition of Areas and Administrative Centres of Territorial Communities, add the words “articles 1-3 of the Ukrainian Law on Military and Civil Administrations”. Paragraph 1 of the draft decree reads as follows: "To appoint a new election of members of the local councils and village, village, city heads, except as defined in paragraphs 2 and 3 of this decision, on Sunday, October 25, 2020." In paragraph 2 of the draft decree, after the words "Sevastopol City," add the word "ta", the word "areas" to the word "areas." In paragraph 4 of the draft decision, the words "or for which it was decided that they could not be carried out" should be deleted. The words "individual law" are replaced by the words "individual laws." After the words “Sevastopol City”, add the words “after the full completion of disarmament, demilitarization and reintegration procedures in the respective territories in accordance with the standards of the United Nations and the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe”. To complete the draft decision with a new paragraph 5 and to present it as follows: "Jergo's local elections are not held in the event of the appointment of the first members of the local councils and village, village, city heads as of October 25, 2020." To that end, change the numbering of the draft decision. Paragraph 5 of the draft decree reads paragraph 6 and reads as follows: “The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine should be used within the limits of the authority to ensure the financing of the local elections on 25 October 2020 at the expense of the state budget of Ukraine. Together with the Central Electoral Commission, develop measures and recommendations to prevent the spread of acute respiratory disease COVID-19 caused by SARS-COV-2 during the local elections on 25 October 2020, taking into account the electoral procedures and requirements of the Electoral Code. Do the calculation and anticipate the cost of the provision of the measures referred to in sub-paragraph 2 of this paragraph." Paragraph 6 of the draft regulation reads paragraph 7 and reads as follows: “The Central Electoral Commission, in the order established by the law of Ukraine, shall take steps to provide financial and technical support for the preparation and conduct of the elections referred to in paragraph 1 of this regulation, at the expense of the State budget.” In case of acceptance.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-15-m0.u155	Thank you. Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss this determination? Please sign up: two in, two in. National MP Gerega Alexander Volodymyrovich, MP's Party for the Future.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-15-m0.u156	Please pass the word to Batenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-15-m0.u157	Please, Batenko Taras Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-15-m0.u158	Dear colleagues, dear friends! The MP's Party for the Future will definitely support the draft Order on the appointment of the local elections on October 25th. Let us focus on the fact that we have rightly understood the commentator that the local elections have a corresponding definition of the Constitution, including the municipal elections that we will be holding, the unified territorial communities, rural, village councils, and district councils. So we're generalizing this concept. This is the first position. We have heard clearly that these elections will not take place in temporarily occupied territories. And the last. We believe that there is no need for opposition or authority to fear elections — either out of turn or out of turn. We're all getting ready for them. But we must understand that we must not change the rules when we vote in favour of this order. Therefore, our appeal to Dmitri Alexandrovich Razumkov is that tomorrow we immediately consider the second reading of the amendments to the Electoral Code, which took into account all the key positions that were voted on by the profile committee and opened the lists for our voters rather than afraid of open lists. Because essentially right now we have a partially closed proportional electoral system. Poland has shown us how in pandemic conditions we can conduct honest, democratic, open elections when 70 percent of the population came and voted for the President of the country. Likewise, I think, and Ukrainian citizens will actively participate in unforgivable socio-economic conditions -- and support a new generation, a new political force that can show a new quality of politics, not an old quality that has shown bankruptcy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-15-m0.u159	Please, Zimbaluk Mikhailovich, faction of the political party of the All-Ukrainian Motherland Union. Sergey Vladislavovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-15-m0.u160	Dear colleagues, what we will now consider is an example of how we can quickly correct mistakes. Our "Fatherland" faction thinks that all factions, the profile committee and Parliament as a whole have done a unique job. We've corrected all the mistakes that have been made in the previous edition, and I think that this will now be supported by an absolute majority of this calling. I think it's finally opening the way to an honest, direct election. Those nuances that remain, I think tomorrow we will settle with the amendments to the Elections Act. The only question remains: What if a united community is a region? I think that this issue needs to be addressed by a profile committee, because it is absurd to choose a district council where the only united community is. We don't have to spend money on this, we have to make a separate decision. And we're proposing to a profile committee and we're all going to join the definition of this issue. The Fatherland faction will vote in favour of this draft decree, and we support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-15-m0.u161	Thank you. Please, National Deputy Papiev Mikailo Mikolaiovich, faction of the political party "The Opposition Platform for Life." Mikhailo Mikolaiovich Papiev. Royal Natalia Yuriovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-15-m0.u162	Dear colleagues, the honourable audience, "The Opposition Platform for Life" is taking a firm stand against this decision, and I want to explain to you why. In this decree, you prohibit people from having the right to choose their district councils, the people who live in war for the sixth year, the people who voted for the President for the Supreme Council, the people who are waiting for their election rights today to form district councils in Donetsk and Luhansk. What right do you deny these people to choose their counsel, to choose their authority to solve their local problems? I'm sorry, but the sixth year in these areas today is run by military and civilian administrations that single-handedly distribute the budget that solves all the problems in the areas today. On what grounds do we today deprive people of the right to form our district councils? Do you think Luganshina and Donetsk are not Ukraine? There we'll remind you, that's Ukraine. This will solve today's issue, if we give people the right to choose district councils, this will allow the council today to start a peace dialogue, a diplomatic dialogue. Unfortunately, today you do not make decisions about the Minsk Accords, you do not make decisions about the settlement and cessation of hostilities in the East, so today give the local district council the right to conduct a dialogue with a controlled and uncontrolled territory. Today, give the Ukrainian Parliament the right to decide on the implementation of the Minsk Treaties! Today, give people the right to return peace to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-15-m0.u163	Thank you. Please, Honcharenko Alexiyyovich, faction of the political party "European Solidarity".
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-15-m0.u164	Alexei Hotcharenko, European Solidarity. Dear friends, such a mess as the purpose of this decree, and in general, with what is now happening around the districts, around the administrative and territorial system, Ukraine has never seen our country. This isn't "Quartal-95" anymore. This is "Bardak-95." I don't know what else to call it! See, on Monday we were forced to vote on the decision to appoint local elections, without districts, without cities, without communities, forgot half the country. And we were asked to do this, Greeny himself wrote it down: let's do it in the next session. Thank God, we've all been able to stop this together. And now the rewritten decree really fits logic and can be voted on. But what did you do before that? What do you do with election funding? You took the money -- once, you took the money -- two, you returned the money -- once, you returned the money -- two. Stop it! What do you do with election rules? You still don't know what rules the country will choose. You wanted to make an election, you didn't know where, you didn't know how. We still don't know how they're supposed to happen, yet there's no answer. Right now, thanks to the pressure exerted by the opposition and thousands of people who went out on the street, you've withdrawn the district decree, but now, look, well, you can't build a country either, you're writing on your lap, under the door, how the country will choose its power. This has never been the case in the history of the State. This will be an example of how we can never do it. And that's the role of opposition, because it's because of the opposition that this decision is now really, it's like the determination of a country of forty million, not a study that makes people laugh and that makes itself laugh -- "bardak 95."
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-15-m0.u165	Please, Larissa Bilozer. Then there's the Lozinski of Voice and Kornienko, the Servant of the People. And let's go to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-15-m0.u166	Dear colleagues! Larissa Bilozer, trust MP. I think this is the most elaborate and thoughtful decision on the appointment of the local elections that our committee was working on yesterday, taking into account all the observations in order to ensure that the elections are held in accordance with the Constitution and that there is a legal basis for the first election of the communities to be appointed by the CWC. But I'd like to stop here and make up for what the elections are. To say that, indeed, the elections to the district councils in the Donetsk and Lugansk region are not scheduled because of the impossibility of the community representation, and much of which is occupied. We also clearly prescribe that Russia is an aggressor. It's very important. And we're talking about depopulation and reintegration. So it's only then that we can make elections when the territories are completely freed and cultural policies are brought to the surface. It is also very important that the CEC gives the commission to hold the first elections. That's why.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-15-m0.u167	Thank you. Please, Lozinski, Voice. National MP of Lozinski, please. Roman Lozinski, Voice.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-15-m0.u168	Roman Lozinski, the Voice faction. Dear colleagues, time is speeding up. For a month and a half, it took the authorities to hear the Voice and start saying Minsk isn't working. The moon needed to be understood that the German minister would not change anything in medicine, and he was called off. Now it took a day and a half to explain why this decision was unconstitutional and why it needed to be changed. Why did they want to break the election? But now, fortunately, they won't be ruined. The Voice faction and I have registered an alternative solution, and the key positions are taken into account. The committee worked constructively yesterday. These suggestions have been heard. These proposals have been taken into account. And what's important is that in the occupied areas of Donbas, the elections will only take place after reintegration. Not enough control over the border, not enough disarmament -- just the return of Ukraine to Donbas, then the election. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-15-m0.u169	Please, Alexander Sergiyovich Kornienko, "Serve of the People" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-15-m0.u170	Good afternoon, colleagues! What did we read in the Teleqram Canals? There will be no local elections, the Servant canceled them because they don't have a rating or anything. The local election will be 26. Ten. That's the first one. 25th. Excuse me. 25th! [[B in m in s a l in]] Local elections will be widespread throughout Ukraine. To district councils, to district councils, unfortunately, I say this, and to all the councils of the united territorial communities throughout Ukraine. There will be no local councils in Donetsk and Lugansk. We understand why. We can't figure out what the common interests are. Our committee has been working on this decision for a long time. Now you'll see, by the support of the House, that it's a compromise, correct, agreed upon by the Central Election Commission, and one that will ensure that there's a legitimate election. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-15-m0.u171	Thank you, Alexander Sergiyovich. Dear colleagues! Dear colleagues, there is an offer to take your seats and go to the polls. Dear colleagues, I am voting on the draft Order on the Assignment of Local Elections in 2020 (October 25, 2020) (project registration number 3809). In line with the Committee's conclusion, the proposal is to accept in general, taking into account the Committee's proposals and the necessary technical and legal remedies. It's a decree, it's not a bill, it's an honorary colleague. That is why I view it as it is required. So once again, I would like to stress that we should accept, as a whole, the proposals of the committee and the necessary technical and legal rights. Everybody ready? Please support and vote. [[13:31:34]] For 326 The decision is taken in general. Show the factions, please. Thank you. Let's go to the next bill. 3504, 3504-1 is a draft of the Mediation Act. There is a suggestion to consider this issue in a simplified way. Please support and vote. [[13:32:14]] For 249 Decision taken. I invite you to the floor of Deputy Justice Minister Alexander Anatolyovich Banchuk. Please, Alexander Anatolyevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-15-m0.u172	Good afternoon, honourable chairman, distinguished national MPs, you are presented with a government bill on mediation (registration number 3504). This bill was drafted by a working group of the Ministry of Justice, and this is actually the result of the work of the working group, which was made up of mediators. And this bill is foreshadowed. And this is a long-awaited project for mediators and a long-awaited project. And I hope that this is the convening of Parliament, that it will take this step -- and it will pass this law. Because it is very important for mediators, for the legal system, for the justice system, that conflicts not all go to court, but be decided by mediators. And that's why the bill provides for the resolution of the status of the mediator, the procedure for conducting the mediator, the settlement agreement and the mediation agreement, and the application of the requirements for mediators, it also sets out and implements the principles of mediation. We believe that the adoption of this bill will reduce the cost of budgeting for the administration of justice, to reduce the conflicts that people are facing in court. This will also allow Ukraine to increase its rating in the Doing Business, in the quality index criteria. So I would like to support and vote in the first and support the Government Bill 3504 on Mediation.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-15-m0.u173	Thank you, Alexander Anatolyovich. I invite you to the floor of Ukrainian National Deputy Andriyovich Kloczka as co-author of the alternative bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-15-m0.u174	Good afternoon, honourable chairman, distinguished national MPs! This bill is an alternative to the Ukrainian Mediation Act 3504, although a large part of its provisions are similar to that of the main project. The main differences between Bill 3504-1 and the main project are that it deals more fully with the issue of the right to mediate, the right to mediate, the right to mediate, the right to stop, and the right to mediate, and so on. The bill also foresees the implementation of Ukraine's existing legislation on alternative dispute resolution in accordance with European Union standards and implements the relevant European Parliament and Council Directive in Ukraine's national legislation, which will create the conditions for mediators to work in a single European legal space. In general, in order not to stop the adoption of the Mediation Act, the initiator of the bill has an understanding of the purpose of supporting the basic bill, but with the appropriate request and requirement to include in it, when preparing for the second reading, standards that are more detailed in the alternative bill. So I'm going to give a very brief summary of some important positions. For example, it is a rule that a person cannot be questioned as a witness in a criminal case, in the conduct in which he was involved as a mediator. The request is also made to supplement the text of the main bill with an article that deals with the question of mediation by an individual mediator, granting him the status of a self - employed person or the status of a business entity. The alternative law is more detailed on the question of the appropriateness of the mediator, so the request to support the bill is fundamental. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-15-m0.u175	Thank you, Andry Andryovich. I invite you to speak to the head of the Committee on Legal Policy, Andrija Evgenovich Kostin. Please, Andrew Evgenovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-15-m0.u176	Dear colleagues, ensuring access to justice should include access to both judicial means of settling disputes and non-judicial ones, including mediation. That is why the Justice Commission of the Council of Europe is giving extraordinary attention to the development of a mediation that can dismantle the judicial system. The introduction of the institution of mediation into the legal field will also correspond to the general position of Ukraine on the harmonization of national legislation with European Union legislation. Mediation is a type of negotiation that is structured and is taking place on a voluntary basis with the participation of a neutral and independent mediator. At the same time, the mediator does not make any decisions on the substance of the dispute; the parties themselves determine which option is acceptable to them. At present, there is a need to adopt a framework law that will help to raise public awareness of mediation, legalization of the profession of the mediator and the corresponding activity, and integrate mediation into procedural legislation. This framework is in line with the recommendations of leading international experts in the field of mediation who have studied the issue in Ukraine. The adoption of the Mediation Act will also have a positive impact on the investment image of Ukraine and allow the World Bank’s Doing Business rating. Efforts to adopt the Mediation Act have been under way since 2010, and for the time being, Ukraine is almost the last country in the post - Soviet space that has not yet had the Mediation Act. Thus, the Committee on Legal Policy decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft of the Law on Mediation (Registration No. 3504), submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, to be adopted in the first reading and on the basis of the second reading of comments and suggestions from the alternative bill on mediation (3504-1), and to apply 116 articles of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Please support this bill in the first reading and on the basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-15-m0.u177	Thank you, Andrey Evgenovich. Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss this bill? Yes. Please sign up: two in, two in, two in. Please, National Deputy Lucnyak Mikola Volodymyrovich, Deputy Group "Trust".
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-15-m0.u178	I'd like you to tell Mr. Magnificent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-15-m0.u179	Please, Reverend, "Trust."
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-15-m0.u180	Sergey the Great, Luganskina, the Trust Group. Colleagues, mediation issues as well as lobbyism, the Ukrainian Parliament has repeatedly considered. The first draft of the Mediation Act was introduced by the government in December 2019. A similar project was also voted in the first reading by members of the eighth vocation. Much of the amendments and proposals that were made in the eighth call by representatives of associations and mediators for second reading are included in the draft bills. And the basic bill, and the alternative bill, were developed to provide legal mechanisms for non-judicial dispute resolution through the so-called mediation procedure. The process of settling disputes before a court in practice has long existed, and that is why it is important to regulate the activities of mediators at the level of law. We just have to define ourselves conceptually, to work on the second reading of one of the two bills, and finally to ensure that mediators are working and that mediation can be carried out within the framework of the law. The "Trust" Group will support two bills and suggest that the second reading work on a single project, taking advantage of each of the documents registered today. Thank you for your attention. Trust Group, Luganskina.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-15-m0.u181	Thank you. People's MP, Princely Santa Claus. Excuse me, Ruslan Petrovich Knazević, faction of European Solidarity.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-15-m0.u182	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. Dear colleagues, the Law on Mediation, is a very long - suffering law. We are the fourth call of the Supreme Council, which is trying to adopt this law in the session hall. The entire history of this law began after a Directive of the European Union was issued in 2008, which provided for the necessity in the countries of the European Union and those who intend to associate and sign corresponding agreements accordingly, to be introduced by the Institute of Trial and Extrajudicial. Mediation, reconciliation of disputes in their countries. Since the 10th year, these two drafts have been drafted in a session hall and have not even reached the session hall, died at the committee level because the discussion was so lively and unsuspecting that it was not even possible to bring Parliament to the debate. In the past, we have gone much further. There were several alternative drafts, one of which was Alonsy Ivanovna Shkrum. I thank her very much as the author of a bill, which has been very much involved in bringing him into the calling of the past. Other colleagues introduced an alternative bill. We then adopted the bill as a basis. And in our Legal Policy Committee, for almost two years, there was a working group headed by a deputy of the eighth vocation of Igor Alekseyev, who also made a huge effort to get the bill to appear. We've actually done the most harmonized bill. But when there was a vote in the session room, there were literally few votes, and it was rejected. Discussable things about the one who was to teach the mediators, who was to teach the mediators, and so on. But there was an event last year — the signing of the Singapore Convention, where Ukraine joined and made international commitments to adopt this law. I hope we don't have to waste this time right now. And if we have any discussion, I think that in the committee we will definitely discuss and remove all of the things that make it impossible to accept, in order to show both European and world societies that Ukraine is a reliable partner, which not only assumes the corresponding obligations that are provided for by international legal instruments, but also does so.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-15-m0.u183	Thank you, Ruslan Petrovich. Please, People's Deputies of Polackov Anton Eduardoovich, MP's Party for the Future. Dmitry Dmitrovich's pet, yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-15-m0.u184	Honorable Presidium, distinguished national MPs, citizens of Ukraine! Well, given that about half the national MPs are listening to the speakers, half realizes that this is the Law on Media, not on Meditation, not on Media, but on Media. So for that half who doesn't understand, I'm just going to explain. This is the possibility of solving any dispute, administrative, even criminal, civil, in a non-judicial way. I think that every single one of you, just as many of you, citizens of Ukraine, have had to deal with what's going on. This is part of our lives. And we all clearly understand that, as the judicial system in our country works so far, unfortunately, in this way, it's a non-judicial solution to disputes, any time a person is brought up who is trusted by both sides of a dispute, a conflict, he can solve any issue. So, of course, the MP's Party for the Future will vote in favour of both bills. We support the development of both non-judicial debates and any development of our country's legal system. So we understand exactly what it takes, we're reading the conclusion of the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration. And we urge all the national MPs6 if you don't have time to read all the bills, please read at least the conclusions of the GNEU. You realize that these are important draft legislation on mediation in our country. Thank you. We vote yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-15-m0.u185	Thank you. Please, Kabachenko Vladimir Viktorovich, faction of the political party of the All-Ukrainian Union of Fatherland. Alona Igoryn's starch, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-15-m0.u186	Alona's splinter, Fatherland faction. Good afternoon, dear fellows! You know, there's enough sad statistics in Ukraine about what more citizens now believe in life on Mars than in fair courts. And it's clear that we need to change that statistics. Three years ago, I was standing on the same stand, and I had the privilege of reporting on the mediation bill, and then he was on full procedure. For a few hours we explained what mediation is, what it's different from meditation, why it might be useful for loading courts in Ukraine. It's actually very simple, colleagues. It's an out-of-court voluntary dispute resolution mechanism. It is now, but it is not regulated. It is our responsibility and our ability to best address it, to create requirements for mediators, to create opportunities for citizens to learn how to approach mediators, to create a register of mediators, to enable mediators to actually structure their activities more and to gain more confidence in this dispute resolution mechanism. Regrettably, because of political differences, in the last vocation, literally three votes were not enough for this bill to be adopted in a second reading. I'm sure in fact that we have to accept it in this call and we have enough votes. And I want to really thank all those mediators from different schools called sometimes, with different visions, from different areas and regions of Ukraine, who actually joined together to write the previous bill, from the previous summons, where I was the author, and this bill. I think that this bill should unite the hall and give us a chance to trust the courts more, give us the opportunity to dismantle the courts, not go to court on matters that we can refer to the arbitrator, the mediator. And I really want to use it there to thank all the mediators who have joined us, to thank all the colleagues who have joined us, to thank Mr. Knazevitch for his previous call on the committee head who has worked and conducted this bill with us. And I hope that he will unite the hall today. Colleagues, that's the right thing to do, and she's been waiting over 10 years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-15-m0.u187	Please, Nestor Ivanovich Schufrich. And then I'm going to invite Andrey Eugenovich Kostin, and we're going to vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-15-m0.u188	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. By the way, when we were considering the Election Order, we demanded that it be voted on as a basis. You pretended you couldn't hear. The opposition, if it's real, I don't believe in constructive opposition, opposition either it is or it isn't. If there is an opposition, it is ready to invite you, and I invite you to go talk to the people before the Supreme Council. It is not an ice cream to eat in front of them, but to hear that your masters — the people of Ukraine — are telling you that you are servants of them. When there is such an initiative that will have a positive effect on people’s activities and lives, we support it, in this is the principle of real opposition. What is wrong is not to be afraid to speak, but if there is a good initiative, support. We will uphold this law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-15-m0.u189	Please, now, Andrew Evgenovich Kostin. And then there's Makarov Oleg. And then we go to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-15-m0.u190	Dear colleagues, mediation is not just about dispersing the judicial system, it's about increasing people's responsibility for solving the problems they have. This is vital for people to understand that in their hands the best decision is made for them that is in their best interests and needs and that will not be made by anyone but them. Therefore, honourable colleagues, ask for the support of this bill. We're working on the second reading of the bill that comes from the national MPs. And I'm sure we'll finally adopt this bill in the fall. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-15-m0.u191	Makarov Oleg Anatoliyovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-15-m0.u192	Dear colleagues, this law is no longer what matures are -- it has been overlooked. Four of the MPs had listened to him, received him in the first reading, filed a bill -- they couldn't accept it. I want to say that the Committee on Legal Policy has also considered this bill twice, because the government that resigns together is taking and revoking bills that have already been considered by the committee. I think we should take it on the first reading. There's going to be a lot of rights, because even in the committee's decision, in the scientific and expert management's comments and in the expert environment's comments, we see a lot of issues that need to be worked out, including definitions, such as confidentiality issues, mediation training, the register of mediators, changes to procedural codes. But most of all, what I'm trying to say is, Andrew Evgenovich, I'm addressing you. I'm also talking to the chairman. Please, Ruslan Alexiyovich, please listen. It doesn't make sense now, it doesn't make sense to apply shorter lines to the feed. Please don't put it to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-15-m0.u193	Oleg Anatolyovich, once again, I can't help but ask if there's such an offer. You have the right not to vote for it. But I fully support your position that there is no rush here. It's extremely important, it's an extremely important piece of legislation, and we need to get a good, balanced approach to its structure. Because we are now actually implementing a model that will allow justice to be dismantled and empower Ukrainian citizens to make fair decisions about their disputes. I totally agree with you. But if that's the offer, I can't help it. And she doesn't have that offer, as the committee head tells me. Dear colleagues, are you ready? Mr. President, I would then like to vote on the draft Mediation Act (Law No. 3504), with a proposal to adopt it as a basis. Ready to vote? Ready? Please support and vote. [[13:52:22]] For 339 Decision taken. The law is adopted as a basis. Show by factions.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-15-m0.u194	Dear colleagues, we have eight minutes left. First of all, I'd like to ask the Committee on Rules and Ethics to consider one more question -- the commission will be addressed to you -- during today's committee meeting. Thank you. Dear colleagues, the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act "On Executive Conduct" to introduce the electronic form of the implementing document (registration No. 3707). Can we vote? Let's vote. On the basis and in general. I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act "On Enforcement" for the introduction of an electronic form of the implementing document (registration No. 3707). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[13:53:56]] For 339 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, next question. I'm sorry. I am voting on the proposal for adoption as a whole, taking into account the Committee's proposals and the necessary technical and legal regulations, the draft Law amending the Ukrainian Law on Enforcement on the implementation of the electronic form of the implementing document (registration No. 3707). Ready to vote? There's one line! There's one line, fellows! [[B in m in s a l in]] No, there's no voting procedure. Vote. Please support and vote. [[13:55:04]] For 321 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. It's procedure, not motive. Give me a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-15-m0.u195	Dear colleagues, I understand it's a technical law. But I'm drawing your attention to why the MP's Party for the Future was against accepting it as a foundation and as a whole. I read: the Committee's conclusion is missing, the conclusion of the NEU is missing. And you're putting this bill into the hall and putting it right on the vote as a basis and as a whole. If you don't read the bill, I call on you to at least read the conclusion of the GNEU. And when he's not even here, you're voting for it right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-15-m0.u196	From the Costine procedure? Kostin Andriy Evgenovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-15-m0.u197	Dear colleagues, there is the conclusion of the committee, and this conclusion takes into account the comments of the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration. And that's why we're adopting this law as an editorial committee that was unanimously supported at a committee meeting. That's why there's no betrayal here. We've made up our minds. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-07-15-m0.u198	Dear colleagues, we have three minutes left, and I don't think there's any point in going into another law. Right? I declare the morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine closed.
