ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-04-m0.u1	Good morning, dear fellows! Good morning, media officials! It's good to see you all. Please prepare for registration. For Sergei Volodymyrovich, I remind you that registration takes place by clicking on the green button, the first button on the left. Any man's finger is not prescribed here. Are you ready to register? Please register. [[10:12:18]] There are 227 Ukrainian national deputies registered in the hall. The plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear colleagues, it's our two colleagues' birthday today. This is Alexander Sergiyovich Koltunovich. Congratulations on your birthday again! [[Applause]] And Eugene Pavlovich Pivovarov. Happy birthday! [[Applause]] Best of all, success, everything, and health is the most important thing today. Dear colleagues, in accordance with the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, article 25, we have 30 minutes on Wednesday for speeches by national deputies, with proposals, statements and messages. Please sign up for the performance. Princess Mikola Leonidovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-04-m0.u2	Dear colleagues, yesterday the Constitutional Court, as we all read about it in the press, had to consider the Act on ensuring the functioning of the Ukrainian language as a national language. Sadly, this consideration did not take place. That is, it may have happened, but no decision has been made. It was as if I didn't feel sorry to talk about it, after a visit by a colleague of the Arahama and a fellow "ministers of the people" to the Head of the Constitutional Court, which they wrote on social media. Dear friends, this is unacceptable when politicians pressure other authorities. Yes, the Constitutional Court made a fatal, foolish, profound mistake by cancelling the e-declaration. And we will make it right. But it is no reason to press the court and enter into a tender to destroy Ukraine’s humanitarian policy, which began to be rebuilt after Maidan. Sadly, this is not the first such incident. Before this vote in the media, belonging to the current mayor of Lvov, Andrey Sadov, there was information that the court had allegedly annulled the Language Law, which was evidently a lie. Yesterday there was an investigation of journalists who claimed to be doing so, and film was presented from the administrative court, where the president’s chief of office, Andrew Bogdan, at the time, was pressured by other high - ranking officials to intervene in humanitarian policy. That's the way it was allowed to show the show "Switts" where the actor who made anti-Ukrainian statements and visited the occupied Crimea was filmed. That's how pressure was exerted so that no law could be enforced that churches that have centers in the occupying country would be called churches that have centers in the occupying country. This is how our entire pro-Ukrainian humanitarian policy is leveled. The faction of "European Solidarity" urges you all to stop. We're going to have a budget review. We did not put a penny in the archives to be created at the Institute of National Memory. We've cut our funding at the Maidan Museum. Friends, what country are we building now? Yes, we talk a lot about corruption that we have to overcome. But if we're building the Vologhensk or Kursk region here, and we think we can build it in a non-corruption, with the hands of most people, it's an illusion. Neither dictatorship nor the continuation of colonization in Ukraine will pass. "European solidarity" is a strong protest against interference by the judiciary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-04-m0.u3	Thank you. Please, the National MP of Sinyutka, the faction of European Solidarity.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-04-m0.u4	Dear colleagues of the Ukrainian National Deputies, yesterday Italy and I received an extremely positive message, an extremely positive news: our hero, a Ukrainian hero, a member of the Dignity Revolution, a fighter of the battalion's special assignment of the Culchik Vitaly Marks at large. Let us welcome him, welcome his family, friends, volunteers, volunteers, all those who fought and fought for the Ukrainian state today, for our freedom and independence. [[Applause]] And, dear friends, in the background of this news, of course, once again, I would like to turn to the Ukrainian Femida: the time to investigate the Sheremet case, the time to stop the political persecution of Sophia Fedina, Marousi Zviroby and all of these volunteers, volunteers who were armed to defend the Ukrainian state. Against the backdrop of this good news, I am convinced that the bad news lies in the heart of every Ukrainian man’s heart about the coronavirus. Yesterday, officials from this rostrum spoke of an alleged struggle against the coronavirus. And it's really a constant impression that power and people live in absolutely parallel realities because power doesn't either know or understand what's really going on. I'd like to address the authorities today. Ladies and gentlemen, today in Lviv, only 2,000, 200 doctors have moved and are suffering from the coronavirus of the 19,000 who have become ill all over Ukraine. Maybe it's time to put in a session room and vote on a bill to support doctors who have coronary disease? I'll tell you another scary figure in my essence. Of the 132 medical doctors who died from the Corona, only 14 in October received assistance from the state. Dear officials, it is time to stop and stop this violence, which is now going on over medicine. Because I think today the situation where the authorities don't realize that getting into a hospital, even with a positive PLR test, is impossible. Another thing I want to call on the parliamentarians. Yesterday, beneath the walls of the Supreme Council, there were representatives of the SaveFOP movement. I am convinced that today we will vote on a decision that will continue the moratorium until the end of 2021. But this is just the first step. I am convinced that we must accept the moratorium on checks.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-04-m0.u5	National MP Saucuk Oksana Vasilovna, non-factional, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-04-m0.u6	Oxana Savchuk, city of Ivano-Frankivsk, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. What I want to say today is what's bothering all the local self-government. On October 25, local elections took place, which clearly showed a trend toward the trust of those who had led the cities for the past five years. And only where the farmers were ineffective have they been replaced by new teams. But there will be a second round. After the second round and the completion of all procedures, local self - control is expected to face a number of major problems. Decentralisation not completed. So everything is now being done to ensure that decentralization is constricted. And I'm like a man-major in the city of Ivano-Frankivsk, and I understand perfectly the problems that are in all cities and that will arise in the newly created communities. That's what today, even with the adoption of the new State Budget, will do everything to make cities "stricken" so that they don't have financial capacity and can't develop. Today, cities such as Ivano-Frankivsk, Ternopil, Hmelnicki, the city heads Nadal, Marcinków, Symchisin received record numbers of support from all citizens -- more than 80 percent -- and won the first round, representing the Freedom Party. Other measures from different parties that say one, and the key thing, in unison, regardless of party membership, are that cities are not allowed to develop in the future. What does that mean? First of all, it's an attempt to take a look at the cost of development. Attempts to collect and reclassify the excise tax. This time. I'm asking you not to let this happen in the State Budget for the next year. The second is that we're discussing the question of taking the money and canceling the land fees on the Railroads. I think it's going to be a loss for local self-governance of over 5 billion dollars. Because local self-government shouldn't pay for the Crucifixion. The Crucifixion needs to solve its own problems, not at the expense of the community. The next thing is the changes proposed in the Tax Code. The parking system is being completely destroyed — that is, local communities will not receive parking costs. The real estate tax is being destroyed. And the key thing that the Supreme Council should allow: local self-government and local communities should be able to get municipal loans. These loans will enable them to develop. As of today, the lack of educational subsidies and health care in the full range of the community, instead of developing, has begun to overwhelm the wages that are the remittances of the state budget. So these are the key things.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-04-m0.u7	Please, National Deputy Lukashev Alexander Anatoliyevich, faction of the political party "The Opposition Platform for Life".
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-04-m0.u8	Good afternoon, dear Ukrainians. The tenth day after the election. We know how the elections in the United States ended, but we don't have any results. Where did these local elections begin? They started with the fact that the governors, the representatives of the "Sluga (non-Ukrainian) Party" in an unconstitutional, illegal way sent to the CBC the conclusions of the impossibility of holding elections in the 18 OTG Lugansk and Donetsk region. After that, without discretion in determining the safe status of the territories, the CEC found it impossible to hold an election. In such an illegal, unconstitutional way, half a million Ukrainian citizens of Donbas are deprived of constitutional right to choose and choose local authorities. What's done? A crime has been committed, and the relevant district courts in Kiev have obliged the Office of Henprocuror and the DBR to report to the Single Register of Judicial Investigations into the commission of a criminal offence, and a judicial investigation is ongoing. Why did both the President's Office and the "Slut (not the Ukrainian)" party do that? Because they were in advance convinced of the devastating catastrophe in these local elections. And they weren't wrong. They understood that they could not be openly and officially appointed by their candidates for the positions of heads of the OTG. And in the Luhansk region, we didn't see any pushers from the "Sluga (not the Ukrainian) people," although secretly, persistently, and usually dishonestly, they supported the self-reliants. How did this end? And it ended with a disaster: 6 percent of the support. And this, imagine, a year ago, President Zelensky got 93 percent -- today's 6. To many OTG, no MP has been elected from the "Serve (not the Ukrainian) people." What is the conclusion? And the conclusion is very vivid -- it's reincarnation from a dream, from the hope of the Ukrainians to a brand of disgrace. The disgrace of the political power that runs anti - Ukrainian politics and destroys Ukrainians. And this is such a loud verdict that is not subject to prosecution and review, it is final, like the decision of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine. I told you everything.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-04-m0.u9	Thank you. National Deputy Klimpush-Cincadze Ivanna Orestovna. Sophia Fedina.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-04-m0.u10	Sophia Romanovna Fedina.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-04-m0.u11	Dear Society, today I want to talk about the enormous cynicism of power, and in particular the struggle against the coronavirus and corruption in the face of the struggle against the coronavirus. Remember how beautifully they caught a lone swimmer in Dniper a few dozen policemen, fined people for walking alone in masks in the park. And then it was scary, and there was total betrayal and danger. Today we have over 8,000 999 cases per day. More than 400,000 Ukrainians have been sick or are still suffering from coronary disease. Seven and a half thousand dead from the Coronavirus. And it turns out that we're doing well because the money from the Coronary Fund is not spending at all on the fight against the Coronary. Part of the money is spent and rolled into the road. And I'm saying it's cynicism, especially when people's servants claim that the coronavirus fund was designed to build roads. As my mother says, "We'll all be taken to the cemetery by beautiful roads." Of course, roads need to be built, but in this, all the tragedy that they have to be built in this amount, and in part without tenders, without procedures, we can only have the whole population protested, when all hospitals are repaired and all are provided with oxygen, oxygen stations, HVRs, tests, both PLR and IFA, as well as drugs. Today, they're also taking money from oncological patients, pretending that we're not going to be able to do this program. So, when do you get sick of breathing, I'm sorry when you put money in the road?Oh, my God! So what do we do now when they're being expelled from hospitals to do the coronary wards, while the authorities have failed to provide systematic preparation so that hospitals can quickly open up their beds and provide patients with medicines and treatment? I have data that in my Lviv region alone, more than 400 million dollars have been removed from their own pockets for treatment because of the government's funds, they have absolutely nothing. It is not realistic to find antibiotics in Ukraine’s pharmacies today. And when I want to buy antibiotics in Lviv, they tell me that the closest antibiotics are in the Odessa region. And, yes, this is the failure of the Ministry of Health and the failure of the fight against the Greens and the power of "ministers of the people". But even more, you say there is no money. But let's talk about yesterday's bill where you took off offshore taxes -- and the state will not get more than 10 billion thanks to you and you yesterday's decisions. I'll say it's cynicism, and for this cynicism you'll be responsible not only for the law, but also for God.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-04-m0.u12	Chernev Yegor Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-04-m0.u13	Dear colleagues, as the head of the Free Markiv interfractional association, I would like to welcome once again all of us with the release of our hero, the National Guard Volunteer of Ukraine Vitali Markiv. [[Applause]] For more than three years, he was accused of being in Italian prison, and for all these years, he did not give up hope of justice. Because he knew that here, in Ukraine, dozens and hundreds of people were fighting for his deliverance. This is both the President of Ukraine and the government and the national MPs and representatives of the public, both in Ukraine and in Italy. We really don't throw our own away, unlike our enemy, for whom soldiers are purely gunned meat. We value every fighter, every person, every Ukrainian citizen, and that's what makes us different from them. Sadly, many of our fellow countrymen today remain unreleased. They are waiting for our help in the shades in Russia and in its occupied territories. And I want to assure them that no one will be forgotten, for everyone, we will fight as if it were our father, our son, or our brother. All I want to do is ask them not to lose hope, just as Vitaly Marks did. I believe that Vitaliy proved heroic on the front and did not break into an Italian prison after a terrible sentence of 24 years. He deserves a national reward, because Vitali is a visual example of what a real Ukrainian should be in the most difficult circumstances. So I'm going to address the President of Ukraine with a request to reward Vitaly Markov with the Order of Courage, and I expect you, colleagues, to support such an appeal. [[Applause]] I welcome us once again with you and Vitalia with such an important victory. Because not only did we restore justice and win the really information war in the Russian Federation on this issue, we also showed the whole world that Ukraine would fight for its sons in every corner of the planet to the end. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-04-m0.u14	Fedienko Alexander Pavlovich. You don't?
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-04-m0.u15	No, no, Samantha Bobrowski, please pass on the word.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-04-m0.u16	Have you moved to "Serve of the People"? Samantha Anatolyevna Bobrowska
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-04-m0.u17	Samantha Bobrowski, the Voice faction. I'd like to start my speech with a moment of silence. Today, the second anniversary of our colleague’s death is certain, for many, or for some part of this hall, of Catherine Gandzük’s friends. [[A Minute of Silence]] Thank you. The theme of my speech today is another front that's been our priority for the last six years. This is the front, which is in the east, and the fight against the aggressor is the Russian Federation. But as Secretary of the Foreign Policy Committee, I am very interested to learn from the Ukrainian delegation of the Tripartite Contact Group about the things that are happening in the Tripartite Contact Group that everyone is silent about. You know, you went to the media at the end of October with the so-called road map, not on the side of the Tripartite Contact Group, the documents that were handed over to the head of our delegation, Mr. Kravchuk, the so-called road map of the Minsk Accords. And, you know, very interesting things were described there, starting with the existence of a national police requirement, starting with separate taxes, repealing certain laws that can't be applied in certain areas of the Donetsk and Lugansk regions; a referendum that can or cannot be held, and so on and so forth. You know, the communicator of the new TCG convinced me that it was spam, just like some members of the Ukrainian delegation. However, Mr. Krawczuk noted that these documents were taken into account, and the results of our side would be worked out. And what's more, it's the Ukrainian side that has to hand over the Ukrainian road map of Ukraine's Minsk movement today. And I'm very surprised and sorry why Parliament is silent and why we still don't have formal and informal communications in two years that relate to the Minsk Tripartite Contact Group. And what's more, when you convince us that it's spam or it's things that won't be taken into account, I have a question then: is there any point in calling Mr. Krawczuk to report here at the rostrum, what's going on? Because I think it's principle here to remember that it's in Parliament that there's a key to road maps and the movement to Minsk. And the last thing I would like to point out is the need for Parliament to be included in informal negotiations. And the request to activate the platform so that we can also be aware of what's going on in Minsk today. The things that have happened with the merger of information about road maps from so-called republics are unacceptable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-04-m0.u18	Timishenko Julia Volodymyrna.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-04-m0.u19	Dear colleagues, I think that this colossal victory that Vitaliy Markov and Ukraine have won is significant, because no matter how long Ukraine has not fought for its right to live, for its right to have independence, sovereignty, for its right to have a strong place in the world, which would not be a difficult path and struggle, as if Ukraine had not fought on the frontlines, returning to its temporarily occupied territories, the experience of Vitaliy Markov tells us that victory in the long struggle will be. That's the main thing. And as hard as it looks today, Ukraine will still be a winner. But I don't want us to talk about this today, about Vitaly Markiv's victory. His deliverance is followed by specific people who fought for it every day. You know, I'm very often and our team, we're criticizing the Ministry of Internal Affairs, we're criticizing the minister, but today I'd like to make sure that from this rostrum there's a clear and daily release of Vitaly Markov, the Minister of Internal Affairs Arsen Avakov and our Ombudsman, Ludmila Denisov. And I'd like us to thank them for that. [[Applause]] I would also like to turn to you right now, in the face of the heroic actions of our unique military, who are defending Ukraine today, against the backdrop of their heroism today, corruption is flourishing in Ukraine. I want to ask, how much longer is that going to be? According to NAC Naftogazu, it is clear that 225 billion have been withdrawn from Ukraine, 75 billion have not received the budget. Now that I hear heroic reports about the fight against corruption, I want to ask you, where are the criminal cases? Where are the designated countries to blame? Where is Kobolev along with his brace and all those behind foreign oversight councils? Perhaps you would like to introduce others ’ heroes to the country? So in the face of the heroism of our military, I would now like to address the President to stop the spam on the fight against corruption and to start with real things, and to show that the country knows how to defend itself and on the internal front against the corruption that the new government is already demonstrating. And that's why it's the glory of Ukraine! And victory will be all over Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-04-m0.u20	Lopushana Andriy Jaroslavovich
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-04-m0.u21	May I have a word with the Pottery of Alexia?
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-04-m0.u22	Hončarenko Alexyyyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-04-m0.u23	Alexei Hotcharenko, European Solidarity. Guys, what's up with the election? Zelensky tells us by communicating with his faction on television screens that he is ready to dissolve this Supreme Council. I understand he's communicating with you, with the "People's Servants" faction, he's communicating on TV screens, and he can't see the other way to communicate with him. We see that Zelensky passed a law, an absurd, anti-constitutional law on the dissolution of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine, but something its monotony does not bring into the session hall. Yesterday's committee meeting, something they don't support the president's bill. Guys, what's going on? This is the final complete dismemberment of Zelensky's power. Where's that love? Why don't you go back to the Rabbit, drink the Naphtous, and it'll get better? But in fact, what's happening is you're destroying the state, you're ruining the state. When the Constitutional Court said "okay" to Greensky's questionable order to dissolve Parliament last time, everything was fine with him. And when the Constitutional Court makes a very bad decision to help corrupters, instead of allowing such a decision to work on Zelensky himself. Let's not forget who the person who forgot to declare 5 million dollars last year. Dear Ukrainians, you know, when you wear summer shorts and you find 50 bracelets there, you're happy. So Greensky found a $5 million in shorts he just forgot to declare. Thus, the court also helped Zelenski to take responsibility for the misstatement. And now they're giving us a show that Greens wants to start this trial and do something. He's an adapter of simple solutions. How can we stop the war? Just stop shooting. How Can I Cope With the pandemic? Just don't test. How can we overcome the problems of the Constitutional Court? Just run it. That's not how it works. I just need you, this Supreme Council, and we really need to go to the election. And so that people can tell who has the right and who has no right to remain in this session room. In these local elections, people told you how you flew green umbrellas past Kiev and beyond other cities and regions of Ukraine, winning only 4 regions after total victory a year ago. And we understand very well that you're not going to win any of the elections. People give you an estimate. Stop destroying the state. You can't run the state. Green doesn't have the power to rule the country. Gather around and get out of here. It's just the right thing to do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-04-m0.u24	Suffritch Nestor Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-04-m0.u25	Thank you. The esteemed presiding officer, respected colleagues, ends the elections in the United States. We remember that we have a debt, namely, the creation of a commission of inquiry between two interlocutors. Considering that my statement from this rostrum will no longer affect the outcome of the elections in the United States, I want to say that we still have to create a commission of inquiry and find out who the prosecutors were filming and who was raising the tariffs for. We've reached an agreement not to be accused of having any influence on the election, it's a matter of delaying. And this position was taken. But right now, we have to figure out who, what, what, what, what, and how many. Next: about tariffs. Tell me, please, how can it be that the price of oil in the world is going down, that in the summer of the Naftogaz NAC has bought so much gas that all of our shelters are blowing up and people are raising tariffs? Something like that, and I know gas. If we bought at the minimum prices of summer gas and we're proud to have secured ourselves all winter, and today the price of oil is going down, I can't understand why tariffs are rising? Where's the logic? Once again, people want to close some holes, and then they want to go to a big building, and then they want to steal some more. It's going to be the next topic that we're going to study here with you, and we're going to make commissions. But I don't rule out that this is going to be the next Supreme Council. Mr. President, why, weak? He said the election is the election, the stadium is the stadium. That's why we don't have to take the pontoon. We know that very well. And this, by the way, I am addressing you as "ministers of the people" so that you can demonstrate the principle and firmness of your understanding of the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine. So, dear colleagues, I really want to testify that there is some responsibility in this Supreme Council, at least for the time being, in the attempt of individual representatives of the Presidential Executive Authority to put the Constitutional Court in an anti-constitutional way. Responsibility, common sense, will save our country’s constitutional system. But what is happening today cannot be tolerated. And I want to believe that it is the Supreme Council of Ukraine that will be the forpost that will protect both democracy and the rights of our citizens. And let's go from dijitalization to real life here in Ukraine, not somewhere in virtual peace, where you're good and people are bad. And you must serve them. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-04-m0.u26	Dear colleagues, the time for performances is up. A statement came from two factions replacing the performance. Sergei Volodymyrovich Shahov. Then let's get to work.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-04-m0.u27	Sergey Shahov, Luhanščina, Deputy Group "Trust". Dear colleagues, there are a lot of questions that have accumulated until you and I have sat in Parliament. You know, our group has won practically all over Luhansk, and people today are calling us at the reception: what's going on? They're miners, they're burners, they're people who came and said, in spite of this terrible disease that was feared by the whole state, and it was such a small turnout, but people came and said their word to the authorities that took 96.3 percent on Donbassa. Today is 0.6. Today in the city of Rubiznym, which one district city remains, the authorities have given 1 percent of the mayor, the governor-governor-governor, and in the people they call the governor-killer. From this rostrum on June 6, I spoke and said that they had burned people alive, burning their crimes -- foams, not trees -- in Luhanskish. From this rostrum, I've once claimed that they're taking out the green forest, and they're robbing Lugansk. No one was paying attention. And for the first time, they burned people, they brought the President to Luhansk, and they gave General DSNS his name. I warned you there would be both a second one, and the third one was a disaster and a tragedy, and no one believed it. The other one. The forest burned 85,000 acres [85,000 ha] and burned 11 people alive. Today, 500 families are plagued without homes in winter. The Prime Minister came, he was handsome, he said there would be money, and he didn't give money to anyone. Please tell me, what will be the responsibility for the crimes that are being committed by authority today? I am addressing President Zelensky: to immediately remove the head of the Hayday Military and Civil Administration, who is burning alive today the Lugansk area, which is killing people today; to remove the head of the Luhansk region of Psik; to make a temporary commission of inquiry from us national deputies and to listen from this podium of Chechtkin, the head of the DSS of the entire country, what he will tell us. Why did such an ecological and technological disaster take place in Donbas, where war is taking place? Why is no one today responsible for their crimes? Why were people not informed? Why are people burned up and struggling with children in their homes today? Why there isn't today.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-04-m0.u28	Dear colleagues, let's get to work. You are invited to consider a draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine concerning the introduction of information on the state border of Ukraine (registration number 3987). It is suggested that this issue be considered in a simplified manner. Please support and vote. [[10:50:20]] For 180. Decision taken. The Deputy Minister for Economic Development, Trade and Agriculture, Visatsky Taras Mikolajovich, is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-04-m0.u29	Good morning, distinguished colleagues, distinguished national MPs! For your consideration, there is Bill 3987 on amending some of the laws of Ukraine concerning the submission of information on the state border of Ukraine to the State Land cadastre. Unfortunately, there is a situation today that, although we have developed and reconciled in an international arena with countries such as the Republic of Poland, the Slovak Republic, Romania, Hungary, Belarus, the Republic of Moldova, and the borders of the state border of Ukraine, they are demarcated, delimited, but not physically incorporated into the State cadastre of Ukraine. This is because there is a technical legal disagreement, the Constitutional Court's decision acknowledged the lack of powers of the Supreme Council to reconcile technical documentation as a document, and the current legislation provides for the need to reconcile technical documentation prior to entry into the border. This bill removes this technical legal disagreement, which will open up the possibility of introducing, once again, at an international level, at the level of the boards of agreed borders of the state border into the State Land Cadastre. Also, this is important in the implementation of the national geospace data infrastructure. Thank you for supporting the appropriate bill that was passed in April and signed by the President in May of this year. Please support the appropriate legislative initiative, and we are ready to work on the second reading of the technical and legal remedies expressed by the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-04-m0.u30	The word is given to the co-reporter — the head of the Committee on Agriculture and Land Policy of Solski Mikola Tarasovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-04-m0.u31	Good afternoon, fellow chairman! The Committee of the Supreme Council on Agriculture and Land Policy considered at its meeting on September 30, 2020, a draft law reported by the deputy minister (number 3987). The bill proposes to amend the laws of Ukraine on the State Land Cadastre and Land Authority, according to which information on the State Land Border of Ukraine is submitted to the State Land Cadastre in accordance with approved documents of demarcation, redefination and delimitation of the state border of Ukraine on the basis of decisions of the Central Executive Authority that implements the State Policy in the field of land relations (to date, Dergeokadastr) without further approval by the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the individual documentation of the country with regard to the identification and establishment of the state border of Ukraine. The procedure of demarcation in accordance with the Constitution of Ukraine and the Law of Ukraine "On the State Border of Ukraine" provides for the conclusion by neighbouring states of international agreements, which are necessarily subject to ratification by the Supreme Council of Ukraine, together with the additions prepared by the intergovernmental commission, where all necessary coordinates are directly available. On the basis of such agreements, intergovernmental commissions are established, as I have already noted, which define the documents of demarcation, and the documents of demarcation are approved by Kabmin. The current edition of the laws of Ukraine on the State Land Cadastre and the Land Authority also envisages the development of a draft land structure approved by the Supreme Council, which first contradicts the Constitution of Ukraine, as pointed out by the Constitutional Court in its decision of 07.04. In 2004 And besides, I want to add that the Supreme Council has never looked at this before, and the de facto, and the de jure we have in the cadastral borders are not marked, they're just in nature. Therefore, these circumstances make it impossible for the FTC to provide information about the state border with countries, and the demarcation process has already been completed. Please support this bill in the first reading. Thank you. Draft law of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-04-m0.u32	Thank you, Mikola Tarasovich. Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss this bill? Yes, yes. That's why I'm asking you to sign up: two in, two in, two in. Please, Bakunec Pavel Andriyovich, MP group "Trust."
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-04-m0.u33	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs. Baconite Paul, the Lions. I also represent the border area, as many of you do, and we understand that there is now such, in fact, an urgent need for information on the state border of Ukraine on the basis of demarcation with the Republic of Poland, Romania, on the basis of a redefinition with the Republic of Slovakia, Hungary, on the basis of delimitation with the Republic of Belarus, Moldova, even with our aggressor. In fact, this bill resolves these differences in existing legislation and establishes a new order for the submission of information on the state border of Ukraine to the State Land Cadastre. Clearly, the Agrarian Policy Committee recommends that we, the Supreme Council, adopt the bill only on a basis. And in preparing for the second reading, we're going to need to reconcile its regulations with the structural parts of other bills or legislative acts. Therefore, honourable colleagues, I propose that this bill be adopted as a basis for further reading. And so we're going to have to make changes to the State Land Cadastre about our borders. So we're going to have also made points of a pass, and roads from the points of a pass inside our country. And we'll have a good look in the eyes of the Europeans and our neighbors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-04-m0.u34	The word is given to the People's Deputy of Princely Nikola Leonidovich, the faction of the political party "European Solidarity".
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-04-m0.u35	Thank you. Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues! The faction of "European Solidarity" marks the important purpose of this bill. At the same time, there are some inaccuracies and inaccuracies in this bill. In particular, the terms used are "demarcation", "remarcation", "delimitation." Legislation does not explain what may lead to ambiguous interpretation and problems in their application. Similarly, it is not clear from the content of the bill which authority of state will be authorized to approve documents of demarcation, redefinition or delimitation of the state border, since such provisions of the law are proposed by the authors of the bill to exclude. The new edition of part one of article 32 of the Ukrainian Law on State Land cadastre also refers to an electronic document containing information about the state border of Ukraine. Once again, however, it is not clear what kind of body such a document should be. Therefore, bearing in mind the importance of this bill, we will support it as a basis, but we feel that it must be further developed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-04-m0.u36	Petty Officer Valentin Aleksandrovich. Yvchenko? Ivchenko Vadim Evgenovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-04-m0.u37	Yvchenko, Fatherland. Colleagues, please tell me, where's the state? Today it is removed from the state, from the Supreme Council, the function of approving the border of Ukraine. And to whom is it given? They're handing over to the clerk. Not that official who for the past five years has given up 5 million hectares has no idea where? Isn't that the official who turns these lands around in the cadastre taking half of the lakes and half of the continental shelf? To whom do we give? You're counting on what we're taking from the Supreme Council today, and we're giving approval to the State Department and the introduction of data for what? Yes, I understand 10,000 hectares have put a border strip in the Lviv region under hunting. I understand that 134 hectares were put directly into the private property of the border in the Zakartat region. I understand when there are 24 areas. The D.A. filed a call to Beregovovo, and we have a private border. I understand, but at the same time, believe me, when you and I find ourselves in a situation where some official will give up a piece of Severerodonetsky, or something else, and bring it into the cadastre, how are we going to fix it with you if we don't have authority with you? Colleagues, the official will be responsible for what will be in the cadastre directly with the border. And to my great conviction, such a law should be here at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Foreign Service. Keep thinking about how to vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-04-m0.u38	Polakov Anton Eduardoovich. Rudik Sergey Jaroslavovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-04-m0.u39	Dear friends, look, on August 24, 2021, Ukraine will celebrate the 30th anniversary of our nation's independence. And in the six months until the 30th anniversary, we're only going to have to deal with the first reading of the issue of demarcation, delimitation and the general establishment of the state border. And it's about the south, the west and the east. And there's no one Eastern country, Russia. There are only two national deputies in this room who have passed the entire Ukrainian-Russian border -- 2,000 miles -- it's me and Sergey Shahov. We've seen so much that you just can't imagine. It has been three years, but unfortunately, most of the questions that relate to these 2,000 miles [2,000 km] have never been solved. Of course, our parliamentary group will vote in favour of this bill because it is technical. And don't let Vadim Yvchenko worry, because the official has already made a decision when Ukraine ratified these agreements with our international partners. These questions, which he was just talking about from the rostrum, should have been settled by now. We should not ask questions of national security -- and the question of the state border -- is the question of state security, depending on any decision taken by officials. We must place a dot once and for all, establish the state borders of Ukraine within Ukrainian ethnographic lands, and finally put a dot in relations with the Russian border, whether they want it or not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-04-m0.u40	Thank you. Are they still willing to make a statement? You were speaking, Mr. Yvchenko, you were speaking. My colleagues, he didn't say anything wrong with you. Dear colleagues, you have been insulted, brought to justice. Germano Vasil Ivanovich. May I help you, Vadim Evgenovich? Germany. Germany, please, from the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-04-m0.u41	Dear colleagues, I would like to draw your attention, above all, to what is the subject of this law, which is brought to the attention of the plenary. You see, first thing I'd like to say. The conclusion of the GNEU. We no longer see the conclusion of the GNEU as to whether such laws are in line with the Constitution. And it turns out that someone gave the team a hard and clear not to write it down. And GNEU concluded that there are gaps in this bill. And he doesn't say, but only so precisely does it indicate which body will solve the issue of border demarcation. Please tell me, do you know what the peace practice is when the neighbouring commissions of the two adjacent states work? And here.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-04-m0.u42	Thank you. 30 seconds, Yvchenka, turn on the microphone. The replica. Yvchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-04-m0.u43	Yvchenko, Fatherland. Colleagues, changes to the State Land cadastre on the border need to be made. But I said those stones we could face. We give it to the official and take it away from the Supreme Council of Ukraine, and in recent years, this official has given 5 million hectares inexplicably away. And we still haven't created a temporary investigation commission to investigate these issues. So let's make some changes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-04-m0.u44	Thank you. Dear colleagues, let's go to the vote. Please invite the people's deputies to the hall. The committee proposed that the law be adopted as a basis. I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine concerning the introduction into the State Land cadastre of information on the state border of Ukraine (registration number 3987). Ready to vote? Ready? Please support and vote. [[11:06:32]] For 276 Decision taken. An announcement was made for a break with a replacement for two factions. Ironborn Jaroslav Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-04-m0.u45	Good afternoon, colleagues! France, Spain, Belgium, Germany, Italy are not the countries that want to take away our car now through the Constitutional Court, but these are the countries that introduced strict quarantine restrictions last week. And now there's mass protests on their streets. In Paris, the cork is 700 km away because people want to leave the city. Belgium is urged not to wear masks. Barcelona is protested that the government has not warned its citizens that they are going to shut down the business. And people have already bought food, people have already hired employees. We all see numbers -- 9,000 500 today. And it's not a record yet, unfortunately, it's going to increase because the government doesn't do anything. And unfortunately, we have a very high risk that the government will surprise us in the near future: put in a hard quarantine, stop the economy again. If they do this, as in Europe, we are facing a collapse, we are facing mass protests, and we are in fact faced with our citizens ignoring security measures. Dear colleagues, I would very much like our economy to continue to work, but most of all, I would like to have a safety net so that the government doesn't do surprises. We've prepared a very simple solution, two pages that says basic things. I will address all of you today in order to sign this decision. First. So that the decision about what the economy wants to close is made in seven days. It's okay, people can at least get ready. In order for the government to come out (not after it was in September, but before) with information on what kind of support package would be given to business and citizens. And the third. In order for the introduction of laddown, not after, the government came up with draft tax laws, specialization in labour legislation, incentives, and we knew with the citizens and business how the country would continue to work. Dear friends, I want the economy quarantined. But I want us to be responsible, unlike other parliamentarians, and predict that the government will not surprise us or the economy. Please support this decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-04-m0.u46	Dear colleagues, we move on to the next issue of the agenda: this is the draft Act amending the Law on the Court of Justice and the Status of Judges on the settlement of individual matters of service at the Judicial Service (registration number 3935). It is suggested that this issue be considered in a simplified manner. Please support and vote. [[11:10:22]] For 210 Decision taken. The vice president of the Committee on Legal Policy, Valérie Ivanovich, is invited to attend. Turn on 4 minutes from the authors and from the committee, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-04-m0.u47	Good afternoon, dear colleagues. Today, you are considering a draft Act amending the Judicial and Judicial Status Act to deal with individual matters of service at the Judicial Service. The creation of this service began in April 2019 and continues to be implemented today in the area of the assembly and the material and technical provision of organs, offices, departments and departments of the service. At the same time, the experience of creating a ministry has revealed a number of problems that hinder its progressive development. First of all, this refers to individual matters of service at the Judicial Service. The purpose of this bill is to ensure that the Judicial Protection Service properly executes the tasks defined by law by removing gaps and improving the applicable rules in the field of regulation of matters of the conduct of the Service of the Court of Justice. The aim is to achieve this by introducing a series of amendments to the Law on the Judiciary and Status of Judges and other legislative acts. In particular, it is suggested that appointments to positions, salaries, social security of civil servants who work in the service be governed by the law on public service, taking into account the characteristics of the law. It also introduces the concept of "personal service" to which it is proposed to refer the categories of employees, civil servants and employees. The existing order of service at the Judicial Service is improving. It is envisaged that members of the Judicial Protection Service will be able to form professional associations, professional associations in accordance with Ukrainian legislation. Please support the bill as a basis. The adoption of the proposed changes will provide an opportunity to address the existing issues of service conduct at the Judicial Service and create the necessary prerequisites for the development and improvement of the quality of the service, as well as to contribute to the effective performance of the tasks assigned to it. The Committee of the Supreme Council on Legal Policy at its meeting on September 16, 2020, reviewed this bill of amendment to the Act on the Judicial and Judicial Status of Judges on the settlement of individual matters of service at the Judicial Service. It should be noted that at the time of the consideration of the bill, the Committee had reached the conclusions of the Supreme Council of Justice, the State Judicial Service, the State Judicial Administration, the Supreme Council Law Institute. And as a result of the drafting of the bill, they all came to the conclusion that the proposed changes would help solve the problems of the service and support the adoption of the bill. The National Police and the Anti-Corruption Committee have issued some warnings about a bill that, if necessary, can be corrected during the drafting of the bill for second reading. Dear colleagues, it's more of a technical bill, but it's important, because when it's adopted, we regulate and allow the normal work of the Judicial Service. In the light of the foregoing, the Committee on Legal Policy decided to recommend to the Supreme Council a draft law amending the Ukrainian Law on the Judiciary and the Status of Judges on the settlement of individual matters of service at the Judicial Protection Service (No. 3935), submitted by the People's MP Bozik W.I., on the basis of the first reading, to be adopted as a basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-04-m0.u48	Thank you, Valery Ivanovich. Please sign two in, two in, and two in, against the MP factions and groups. Hončarenko Alexyyyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-04-m0.u49	Please give the word to colleague Irina Heratchenko. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-04-m0.u50	Irina Volodymyrna's character.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-04-m0.u51	Thank you, Your Honor. Our faction, our national deputies are in the Ukrainian courts every week and are very familiar with the work of the judicial service. You know, there are times when it seems that court services are much more patriotic, more enlightened than those of the Bank’s Court. Today, we all sincerely welcomed the release of the hero of Ukrainian Markov. And, of course, we are waiting for him to return to Ukraine. But, at the same time, we would like to appeal to the majority to your President, who has already declared innocent Antonenko, Kuzmenko, Jana Dugar guilty a year ago, and that is why Rifmaster is still behind bars. Please, if this is how Ukraine fights for its people who are illegally held abroad. Perhaps the eyes of the Ukrainian Femid will be solved, and it will stop the people who are being accused just because Greensky has declared them guilty, and it has blessed these people to be released. It is, and it is important that we consider a law that is appropriate today. But notice that Zelensky, in his "durkobnik" and the majority in general, forgot about the key judicial reform when a bill was passed, absolutely unconstitutional, which even the "ministers" loyal to Zelensky, refused to vote and put into the agenda, where the law on the elimination of the most loudest in Ukraine, the questionable district appeal court of Kiev, where can this matter be settled legally? Perhaps because this court, in full coordination with the Bank, appears to be coming out of the film of the Wolf, perhaps because this court of film appears to be making its own corrupt, disgusting, illegal decisions in full coordination. Let's get on with the real judicial reform. And for this law we will hold because it has.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-04-m0.u52	The great Sergey Anatolyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-04-m0.u53	Good afternoon! Sergey the Great, Luhanščina, "Trust" group, "Our End." Dear colleagues, this project is designed to regulate the legal principles of service at the Judicial Service. I would like to point out that it needs to be settled at the legislative level on the issue of the extension of special military accounting to the members of the Judicial Protection Service. The bill proposes to grant the status of civil servant to individual categories of employees in the service and to settle the issue of pay, to grant employees the right to form professional associations. It is not only about rights but also about responsibility, for it is suggested that the National Police’s disciplinary statute be extended to the service. And this is actually going to help improve the social protection of workers and pay for their work. The adoption of the amendments proposed by the bill will be a major step towards ensuring the protection of the courts, organs and institutions of the justice system, the state security of judges, their families, the judiciary and the parties to the trial. So, colleagues, please support. Thank you for your attention. Sergey the Great, Lugansk.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-04-m0.u54	Jaroslav Romanovich Jurchishin.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-04-m0.u55	Thank you very much, colleagues. In fact, it is extremely important to improve the regulation of the State Security Service, taking into account the difficult circumstances in which our judicial system is now. But you can't, in principle, pass a law that contains substantial corruption risks, as recognized by the Anti-Corruption Committee. What do you mean? First, the extension of the disciplinary charter to the State Security Service officials obliges them to subject themselves to the leadership of the National Police, which is, in principle, illogically two different structures. Yes, it's very important to resolve social issues, but you can't run another force structure under the Home Secretary. The second is the broad discretion of the head of the State Security Service. He himself, without any competitive procedures, without any actual procedures, will appoint the heads of the State Security Service, as well as the use of disciplinary sequestrations. The general discretion of the leader is also a corruption body. In fact, we can create another successful principality. Indeed, it is necessary to raise and legally secure, in fact, the development of the State Security Service, but it cannot be transformed into another undirected internal force. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-04-m0.u56	Anna Constantine's speedboat.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-04-m0.u57	Give Rudy your word, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-04-m0.u58	Rudik Sergey Jaroslavovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-04-m0.u59	Dear colleagues, another technical bill that I think we are under obligation to adopt in the first reading. But I wouldn't be me if I hadn't mentioned a few comments that we have in our MP group. First. Mechanically, it's not right to take and call the protection of the judicial authorities of the police. I propose to you the quote, as it should be after the adoption: "The act of this statute extends to the police, the officers of the Judicial Service and the members of the military and principal staff of the State Bureau of Investigation (hereinafter: the police).".. What kind of police are they, company? "Compare to status" and "police" are very different things. And we have to understand that. After making these changes only in the preamble to the statute, we do not change anything in our essence. So, colleagues, come on, from the profile committee, work this out seriously for the second reading. Next item. The extension of the Ukrainian National Police Statute to members of the Judicial Protection Service is essentially the same story as the proposed amendments to the preamble. For example, the minister of the interior has specific functions: he can give orders, encourage, and impose specific sanctions on his fellow workers. Can a representative of this court of law do the same? Colleagues, we vote yes, but work together, there are a lot of questions that need serious and thorough work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-04-m0.u60	Vlasenka, Germany, then we go to the vote. Vlasenko Sergei Volodymyrovich. Invite the national deputies to the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-04-m0.u61	Thank you, Mr. Head. The bill is technical, and all the flaws can be worked out between the first and the second rounds, there are no questions. But the question is different. Who or what prevented President Zelenski from passing a comprehensive law on judicial reform over a period of one and a half years? Who or what prevented President Zelenski from implementing legislative reform in such a way that the courts were independent and administered justice? I have, by the way, in my own hands, the conclusion of the Venice Commission on Bill 3711, this conclusion since 9 October 2020. What the Venice Commission writes: "These problems are the result of an imperfect legislative process. That is: often hasty voting for draft laws (this is your well-known concern), a fragmented approach (this is what we are doing now), a lack of proper assessment of the consequences of adopted laws." And then there's the attention! - as a logical conclusion, the Constitutional Court later declared certain laws unconstitutional. Therefore, it is not necessary to go to the Constitutional Court, but it is necessary to prepare legislation in a qualitative and professional manner.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-04-m0.u62	Germano Vasil Ivanovich. Then we vote. Invite people's deputies.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-04-m0.u63	Germano Vasil Ivanovich, "The Opposition Platform for Life." Dear colleagues, first of all, I would like to say that on the basis of this bill and on the basis of the ideology in general, it is the creation of conditions that are safe for the judiciary and the co-workers of the judiciary. That's the first one. And the second. I want to tell you, more faithfully, to remind you. We're the only country in the world, you see what's happening in France with regard to the terrorist act, and we shut up when we cut off the heads of all the members of the family and the judges (this was a Kharkiv case, you know), that, we know, sometimes in Kiev we cut off the head in the elevator. And these people went free and became politicians. So, in my opinion, isn't that the problem for today? And that's why he's a statesman, he's a member of the judiciary.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-04-m0.u64	Thank you. Let's go to the vote. Ready to vote? I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Act amending the Law on the Court of Justice and the Status of Judges on the settlement of individual matters of service at the Judicial Service (Registration No. 3935). Ready to vote? Ready? Please support and vote. [[11:26:01]] For 267 Decision taken. Thank you. The next issue of the agenda is the draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on the strengthening of the responsibility for illegal mining of beneficial fossils (registration number 3576). It is suggested that this issue be considered in a simplified manner. Please support and vote. [[11:26:41]] For 230 Decision taken. The National Deputy of Ukraine, Jakimenko, is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-04-m0.u65	Dear National Deputies! Dear Dmitry Alexanderovich! Illegal mining of useful fossils of local importance, especially sand, has reached catastrophic proportions in virtually all over Ukraine. At the same time, today we have no criminal responsibility for the illegal mining of useful fossils of local importance. At present, only administrative responsibility in the form of a fine is foreseen for such an offence. The bill introduces criminal responsibility for the illegal mining of useful fossils of local importance, significantly increases the size of penalties for the extraction of all useful fossils and introduces a burdensome sign of "organised criminal activity" and the liability of legal persons in this area. And it also has the authority of a specialized organ in the field of nadr, which is the Dergeonandra, when they can also reveal the facts of illegal mining and refer to the court, because now all powers belong to the Derjekoinspection. This will further guarantee that no case of illegal mining of fossils will remain undetected. Please support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-04-m0.u66	Thank you. The head of the committee’s subcommittee on the law enforcement of Bakumov, Alexander Sergiyovich, is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-04-m0.u67	Dear Chairman, distinguished national MPs! You have before you the draft Ukrainian Law amending some legislation to increase the responsibility for illegal mining. The purpose of the bill is to recognize illegal mining of beneficial fossils as the local significance of criminal acts and to increase the responsibility for illegal mining in general. In order to achieve this goal, it is proposed that article 240 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine should be supplemented by rules on the establishment of criminal responsibility for the illicit extraction of useful fossils of local value in appropriate sizes and the strengthening of responsibility for violations of the rules of protection or use of nadrs, and for infringements of the right of State ownership by making appropriate changes to article 47 of the Code of Administerment. In addition, it is proposed to authorize the calculation of the extent of the damage done to the State and to present claims for compensation as a result of the arbitrary use of the dam by the central executive authority in the field of geological study and rational use of the nadr by making appropriate changes to the Ukrainian Environmental Protection Act. The Committee on Law Protection, at its meeting on 15 July 2020, reviewed the bill and recommended to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the outcome of the first reading to be adopted as a basis. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-04-m0.u68	Thank you. Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss this bill? Yes. Then please sign up: two in, two in, two in. The word is given to the national deputy of Tsimbaluuk Mikhailovich, the faction of the political party "The All-Ukrainian Union of the Fatherland".
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-04-m0.u69	Mikhailo Cimbaluk, Fatherland. Please give the word to your colleague after the faction of Evtushka Sergei.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-04-m0.u70	Please, Sergey Eutuszek, Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-04-m0.u71	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Sergey Eutuszek, Equinox, Fatherland. Dear colleagues, this bill deals with beneficial mines and illegal mining of local importance. But I would like to talk not only about sand and chalk and to increase criminal responsibility, because today we only have administrative responsibility not only for local fossils, but also for the public, such as granite, granite, and granite, such as amber. And to introduce criminal responsibility there, because the laws on amber production, in principle, have been adopted, the mechanisms and the possibilities to extract this mineral have also been approved and data, but, at the same time, we see partisanism, even though we have controlling power structures. Why is this happening? It is because today we have no criminal responsibility for illegal mining but merely administrative. It is therefore logical to adopt this bill in the first reading, since there are several warnings about the law, which will become the law. And for the second reading, prepare your papers and allow for the control of strong structures not only in administrative order but also in the application of the articles of the Criminal Code. So the "Fatherland" faction today will support this bill in its first reading and also encourage the authors of this bill to look at the state resources that are at stake and to develop the same criminal responsibility. We vote "yes" in the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-04-m0.u72	The word is given to Mezentzian deputy Sergiyevna, faction of the political party "Serve of the People".
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-04-m0.u73	Good afternoon, dear fellows! We are all well aware that the nation of Ukraine is a nation of nations. No subject or certain "local princes" can usurp this right. The strengthening of article 240 of the Ukrainian Criminal Code will ensure both control and proper use of local dramas. Just making changes to this article will enable us to ensure that the rules of protection, or mining, or the use of local dramas are enforced. In fact, we are all aware that this bill, according to the Chief Expert Office, has some flaws, but they may be further developed between the first and the second readings. I call on my colleague, as co-author of this bill, as a representative of the local district of Majority, to encourage and propose to support this bill in the first reading and to work out shortcomings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-04-m0.u74	The word is given to National Deputy Bondar Viktor Vasilovich, MP for the Future Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-04-m0.u75	Please pass the word to Anton Polakov.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-04-m0.u76	Anton Polyakov, Montenegro, 206 District, MP Group for the Future. Dear colleagues, we all know that Ukraine is a unique mineral and raw base. That's right. Ukraine has a unique mineral and raw base. And we all know that according to the Constitution of Ukraine, ownership of this mineral and raw base can. (Sorry, I forgot.) We all know that it is only on behalf of the Ukrainian people that the authorities and authorities of the local self-government can manage this mineral and raw material base. But we know that mining is a very profitable business, and a very profitable business that destroys our environment, destroys our infrastructure, and does not bring any revenue to local budgets. And what can the government do now? Just write a fine of 170 to 510 bracelets, that's all. So we have to adopt this bill, stop the destruction of our environment, illegally extract local fossils and impose criminal responsibility. I ask all deputies to support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-04-m0.u77	Suffritch Nestor Ivanovich. After that, there are no speakers? "Trust," "European Solidarity," and then we vote. Oh, and the Voice. The trunk's gone? Is it? Please turn on the microphone. And invite the national deputies to the hall. We'll vote in five minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-04-m0.u78	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. Please give the floor to Mother Gregory.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-04-m0.u79	Grigory Mikolaiovich Mamka
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-04-m0.u80	Dear National MPs, "The Opposition Platform for Life" only for a beneficial change in legislation that will essentially work. I would like to point out that since June 11, 20th, by law, all changes to the Criminal Code and the Code of Administrative Violations should go through separate laws and through the Committee of Law Enforcement. Regrettably, this law has failed again, a violation of the laws that have already been passed and passed. I want to emphasize that the bill proposes a legal definition. What is it? That if there is a problem in the state, it is determined by the problem of damage. The first is administrative responsibility. If there's too much damage, it's a criminal responsibility. At present, this law indicates that two responsibilities will be: (a) administrative and (b) criminal for trespassing or illicit mining of local fossils. Criminal responsibility, I'm going to reveal the mystery that it currently exists is article 240 of the Criminal Code. The second issue that does not work is the law enforcement, the law enforcement system in documentation, detection, detention of illegally mined persons, and accountability. That's another completely different question. But the bill does not have a regulator, which regulates and restricts administrative responsibility from criminal responsibility. For the time being, such a lack of regulation or a problem of damage, as practice has shown, will be total abuse. Now, imagine, they're going to get fossils of local meaning, they're going to get, you know, pay attention, they're going to get 8,000 fines, and they're not going to get criminal responsibility. We're not going to back up, we're going to support a healthy law update.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-04-m0.u81	Aresonkov Vladimir Yuriovich. After that, the Princess. Andrew Petrovich, I see. Okay.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-04-m0.u82	Dear Lord Chairman, dear colleagues! With great respect, I refer to, among other things, the critical comments of our colleagues regarding the bill. But I want to ask you a question. Is the topic of order in our natural environment relevant today? Is everything being done today to prevent the illegal mining of natural fossils, including those mentioned today: both amber in Polissa and sand in Zitomirsk, Montenegro, and so forth? So let's actually say that this bill is very important. And we need to look for ways to increase the fight against illegal mining. So the Trust MP group insists that we vote in favour of the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-04-m0.u83	Princess Mikola Leonidovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-04-m0.u84	Dear colleagues, indeed, 80 percent of the fossils of local importance are extracted in the shade. It's both sand, and clay, and chalk, and amber, and a lot of expensive really useful fossils. Such a bill is indeed needed. What's the problem except for those who've already spoken? And who will determine the damage to which they will determine whether they are responsible or not? Hold on. So it's going to be up to one official to decide whether or not to let something be mined. It's a totally corrupt norm. What is the confiscation of what is produced when the law only contains confiscation of property? It's not settled anywhere. Moreover, as already noted, only the Criminal Code can regulate similar violations. So in the first reading, understanding the importance of this project, we support it, but the corrupt risks to the future for us through the revisions we will urge them to take off in the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-04-m0.u85	Thank you. Andrew Petrovich Osadchuk And then we vote. Invite the national deputies to the hall. From where? Turn it on from there.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-04-m0.u86	Dear colleagues, there is no doubt that there is a need for order on the issue of the mining of useful fossils. But, as it just sounded, we have a criminal responsibility, and we often think that if we're "twirling" it starts to work very well right now. This must be a mistake. But the biggest flaw in this law is the issue of damage, which is determined by this project for the value of illegally mined fossils. But the issue of illegal mining is completely ignored. Let me explain. If some cheerful boys dug up 10 acres [10 ha] of land and removed half ahole of amber, they would not bear criminal responsibility, which is absurd. That is, the way illicit mining is no less important than the value of illegally mined fossils. So the legal structure itself is inconvenient. So we think that if we really want to put things in order, we need to do a lot better with these bills. We'll hold out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-04-m0.u87	Thank you. Let's go to the vote. Please be prepared. Invite the national deputies to the hall. Nestor Ivanovich Schufrich, 10 seconds. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-04-m0.u88	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. I want to state a conflict of interest and hold on to that vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-04-m0.u89	Thank you. No one else has a conflict of interest? None. So we vote. Ready to vote? Is there no conflict of interest? I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Law amending certain Ukrainian legislative acts to increase the responsibility for illegal mining (registration number 3576). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[11:42:55]] For 283 Decision taken. Show the factions, please. "The Servant of the People" – 203, "The Opposition Platform for Life" – 0, "European Solidarity" – 23, "The Fatherland" – 18, "The Party for the Future" – 13, "The Voice" – 0, "The Trust" – 15, "the Non-factional" – 11. Dear colleagues, the next issue of the agenda is the draft Act amending the Criminal Code of Ukraine to increase responsibility for criminal offences against journalists (registration number 3633) It is suggested that this issue be considered in a simplified manner. Please support and vote. [[11:43:43]] For 223 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, I will now give the floor to Kozemiakin Andrija Anatoliyovich, but I have an announcement. Representatives of several factions have been asked to hold a meeting with Parliament’s leadership and the heads of the MP factions and groups during the break from 12 to 12:30. Please, I'd like to invite you to my office right away. Ukrainian National Deputy Kožemyakin Andriy Anatoliyovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-04-m0.u90	Good day, Your Honor, colleagues! Andrew Kozemyakin, faction of the Fatherland. The bill 3633 was drafted to implement paragraph 9 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine decree on the previous report of the Provisional Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to investigate information on attacks against Catherine Hansuk and other civil activists. This was February 28, 2019. The report on the attacks by Catherine Hansuk and other public activists and journalists and hearing recommendations pointed out the need to prepare legislative initiatives aimed at enhancing the protection of legal professional activity of journalists and other media participants, as well as increasing the responsibility for criminal offences against journalists. The draft Law proposes to increase the sanction in article 171 of the Criminal Code, as well as to introduce in a new edition a part of article 345-1 of the Criminal Code, which provides for criminal liability for the threat of murder, violence, destruction or damage to the property of a journalist, his immediate relatives or family members, the deliberate involvement of such persons in beatings, light, moderate or serious bodily harm in connection with the carrying out of legal professional activity by the journalist, the recommissioning or the previous conspiracy by a group of persons or an organized group in the form of deprivation of liberty for a term of 7 to 14 years. The bill supports the Ministry of Justice, the National Police, the Authorized Supreme Council of Human Rights. So please support the bill in the first reading as a basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-04-m0.u91	Thank you. The chairman of the Committee on the Law Protection of the Monastery, Denis Anatoliyovich, is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-04-m0.u92	Good afternoon, dear fellows! A bill was considered by the committee. Indeed, and I am grateful to the authors of this initiative, it is designed for the execution and the results of parliamentary hearings. Our colleagues have also developed an even broader bill, which we will also soon consider on this issue. And I am also grateful that the bill applies not only to the increase in sanctions but to the establishment of additional qualifications to prevent the legitimate professional activity of journalists. And the main thing, I would say, personally, is that it's a very good indication of a previous conspiracy by a group of people, and that's going to be part of a fourth of the corresponding article "Threat or violence against journalists" from 7 to 14 years. That's the standard, I think, that will help to protect journalists from the attacks that there are, and that protection is in every democratic state. So I propose to support it clearly in the first reading, to work out proposals for second reading, and to immediately take it to the hall. Thank you for the initiative. And I'm asking you to back me up.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-04-m0.u93	Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss this issue? Then the request to register: two in favour, two in opposition. Please give the floor to the People's Deputy of Polakov Anton Eduardoovich, the MP's Party for the Future. Taras Ivanovich Batenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-04-m0.u94	Dear colleagues, to our deep conviction, to the belief of Ukrainian society, journalism is one of the most risky professions in the world. And, you know, at a time when we celebrated the anniversary of Hansuk's death today, at a time when the resonant loud cases of journalist killings are not being investigated, especially the Sheremet case; at a time when the journalist's profession is dangerous, obviously for the life of not only the journalist himself but also the family member; at a time when the journalist's research becomes a subject like Stus's, the Stus book, I think we have to protect the journalist in a variety of ways. And our parliamentary group "For the Future" supports as the size of fines in the sanction of article 171 "Invention of Journalist Activity" when fines increase by 10 times, and if the official person prevents illegal refusal to investigate journalists, it rises to 51,000; and because of the threat of murder, violence, destruction or damage to the journalist's property, his immediate relatives are criminally responsible. So the purpose of this bill is, I think, to definitely strengthen the protection of journalists, their close relatives and family members. I think today the journalist's protection is equal to the indicator of democracy and the state of democracy in Ukrainian society. Our MP group is voting in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-04-m0.u95	The word is given to the People’s Deputy, Cosemiakin, Andrew. Ah, Cimbaluk Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-04-m0.u96	Mikhailo Cimbaluk, Fatherland. First of all, I thank the author of this bill, Mr. Kožemyakin’s faction college for the fact that this legislative act came into the session hall. When it comes to the activities of journalists, this profession is actually likened to the profession of law enforcement. Only when law enforcement protects citizens’ rights and the Constitution do they have the means to protect them individually and with firearms. And journalists, in defending truth and word, sometimes only have video cameras or notebooks. As a result, both administrative and criminal responsibility for assaults, threats to journalists and members of their families must be really strengthened. And article 171 nevertheless, according to the author of the bill, reinforces fines. And we agree that 345th, part four, carries criminal responsibility from 7 to 14 years. The Fatherland faction will vote in favour and invite other colleagues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-04-m0.u97	Thank you. National Deputy Fedina Sofia Romanovna, faction of the political party "European Solidarity".
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-04-m0.u98	Please give my word to my colleague Volodymyr Ariev.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-04-m0.u99	Vladimir Ariev, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-04-m0.u100	I'm a journalist and an investigative journalist myself. And I know very well what threats are, and I know very well what a hindrance to journalistic activity is, personally. And my family knows what threats are. When Zelensky was still a comedian on channel 1+1, he set up a flash mob to protect one of the journalists, whom our colleague then, unfortunately, sent to his mother. The Flashmobe was also, in fact, not very, let's say, censored, but pretended to protect. When he became president, his press secretary attacked a journalist just because he wanted to ask him a question, she just pushed him away from the President. This shows a realistic attitude when you make a promise and when you do something. And in recent times, it is people who, through certain individuals close to Zelensky, have attacked journalists. I mean Portnova, who threatened investigative journalists. I'm talking about burning cars, I'm talking about trying to prevent journalistic activities that do, do security companies that are close to the best man of Putin. All of this remains unpunished. I'm sure of one thing: we can adopt a law today that will strengthen responsibility, and the faction of European Solidarity will support it, but one law does not solve it. For these articles to work, we need to press law enforcement authorities when another attack on journalists is carried out and statistics show dissatisfaction.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-04-m0.u101	Coltunovich Alexander. Nestor Ivanovich Šufrich. No one else wants to speak? I see an arrest warrant. Is there anyone else? Then please invite the national deputies to the hall. Nestor Ivanovich Šufrich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-04-m0.u102	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. On the Freedom of Speech Committee, the bill was considered and supported. Moreover, on the basis of the parliamentary hearings held last year, when this issue was raised as a major issue, namely the physical protection of our journalists, a bill is also being prepared, it has already been submitted, 4224, in which the same raising of criminal responsibility has been considered and an appropriate proposal made. You know, there's just been a statement that there's been an increase in the statistics of the attack on journalists. It actually got bigger, because after our parliamentary hearings, they no longer cover up attacks on journalists with different articles, like "hooligan" and other articles, 171st, 345-1 prime. , 347-1 p.m. 348-1 prime. 349-1 prime. All of these articles are now activated, and the Ministry of Internal Affairs is now actively using those articles if there is a real case of assault on journalists, or obstruction of activities, or destruction of property. And that, once again, is the result of our working together with you to sum up parliamentary hearings. But, of course, today we have no right to stop it, and the question of freedom of speech and the security of our journalists needs increased attention from the State. And those who were journalists yesterday have no right to close channels, to shut their mouths to journalists, not to fear the truth when it comes to their relatives. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-04-m0.u103	Aresonkov Vladimir Yuriovich. Then we vote. Please invite the national deputies to the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-04-m0.u104	Dear colleagues, in the observation of the Chief Scientific and Expert Office, it's about how we have to settle for the second reading of individual positions that relate to legal qualifications and so forth. We will do so, but I am convinced that everyone in this room must now gather around to vote on the bill. Because the basic concepts, such as freedom of speech, the provision of independent media outlets, of individual journalists, are extremely important today. That's what my colleagues were talking about. That's why the Trust MP Group supports a joint vote. And I think this will be an effective way of ensuring freedom of speech. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-04-m0.u105	Thank you. Prepare to vote. I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Act amending the Criminal Code of Ukraine to increase liability for criminal offences against journalists (registration number 3633). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[11:58:09]] For 305 Decision taken. Thank you, Your Honor. There's a break until 12:30. I'm waiting for the heads of MPs and groups in my office.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-04-m0.u106	Dear colleagues, get ready for work! You have been invited to consider a draft Act amending article 259 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine to increase responsibility for knowingly false reports of the threat to the safety of citizens. It is suggested that this issue be considered in a simplified manner. Prepare to vote. Ready to vote? Ready? Please support and vote. [[12:38:20]] For 158. Decision taken. Deputy Minister of Interior Heratchenko Anton Juriovich is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-04-m0.u107	Dear National Deputies! Dear representatives of the media! Respectable Ukrainian citizens! In Ukraine there is a very big problem with some citizens allowing themselves to make phone calls and to inform internal affairs about false substitutions. This is primarily true of serious critical infrastructures. There are calls on the telephones about the decommissioning of train stations, subway stations, and airlines. Thousands of people are under stress. Thousands of people do not get to work or go home. Legislation is now very soft with regard to such individuals. In fact, courts usually impose conditional terms or fines and individuals who allow themselves to be stressed by thousands of our fellow citizens and visitors to cities do not receive real punishment. Thus, the Ministry of Internal Affairs, along with a group of national deputies, developed amendments to article 259 of the Criminal Code, which penalizes knowingly false reports of substitution or terrorist acts. We suggest that if a person calls and cancels a train station or a subway station or other critical infrastructure that is listed in legislation, there should be between 4 and 8 years of imprisonment. This step is designed to ensure that judges who are very good are punished with real terms of willlessness, so that others are unmatched in calling and stressing millions of our citizens. This is the first reading, so I'm asking you to support all the factions, because all the parties, from the Opposition Block, and the Voice, and the People's Servants, and the MPs, and the Fatherland, and the EU. So I'd like you to meet me in the hall. This law is needed in order to stop or reduce this pool of calls for replacements.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-04-m0.u108	Thank you, Anton Yuriovich. The head of the committee’s committee on law enforcement, Alexander Sergiyovich Bakumov, is invited to attend. Please, Alexander Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-04-m0.u109	The honourable chairman, honourable colleagues, the purpose of the bill is to reduce the number of knowingly false reports about the threat to the safety of citizens, the destruction and damage of property objects, and to ensure the economics of the material and other resources of the public authorities used for their verification and removal of the negative consequences of the distribution of false information. In order to achieve the stated goal, it is proposed to amend article 259 of the Criminal Code, namely, to provide for the necessary additional penalties in the form of confiscation of property for the commission of such a crime and to establish criminal liability by adding a qualifying sign to a knowingly false report of the threat to the safety of citizens if the objects of a knowingly false report have become critically important infrastructures or buildings or buildings that ensure the functioning of public authorities or health institutions or educational institutions. The damage to public security caused by a notoriously false report of a threat to public safety, destruction, or damage to property items is primarily the attempt to cause fear and insecurity in citizens, to sow panic among the population, to halt the movement of railway, air, automobile, and to disorganize the normal activities of educational institutions and manufacturing institutions. The addresses of such messages are usually perceived as real, and are subject to significant checks. significant human and material resources are being affected, and significant material damage is being caused. This crime can be committed with hooliganic motives, even with special motives, such as a desire for revenge, jealousy, and so forth, but the primary direct object remains public security, since this is the first thing the legislator has protected. The Committee on Law Enforcement at its September 2nd 20th meeting reviewed the bill and recommended to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the outcome of the first reading to be adopted as a basis. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-04-m0.u110	Thank you. Please sign up: two in, two in, and no in, from the MP factions and groups. Pavlenko Rostislav Mikolajovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-04-m0.u111	Please pass the word to Geo Leros.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-04-m0.u112	Ladies and gentlemen, look, the problem is not that the punishment for this crime needs to be increased, but the problem is that there is no irreversibility. I'd like to remind you how National Deputy Mikli Tischenka's assistant replaced the Alexanderian Clinic. And what happened? This assistant did not suffer any punishment. So now that we're strengthening our responsibility for decommissioning, we need to ask the first question: Why are people helping national MPs who cancel clinics, why don't they have any responsibility right now? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-04-m0.u113	The word is given to the national deputy of Zimmerluku Mikhailovich, faction of the political party of the All-Ukrainian Union of Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-04-m0.u114	Mikhailo Cimbaluk, Fatherland. Honourable Chairman, Honorable Presidium, People's Deputies! We agree with the Ministry of Internal Affairs’ argument that criminal responsibility should be increased for the disappearances and those related to the diversion of special services, law enforcement agencies, the blocking of critical infrastructure, and vital social objects. And we'll support it. And we believe that article 259 of the Criminal Code should be more severe with regard to the punishment of the guilty. But the "Fatherland" faction is definitely against going through double punishment and confiscating property in a person. Why? We understand that large costs are spent to eliminate such woes. But imagine the situation when the court confessed to the perpetrator, brought him to criminal responsibility, and the family withheld property, even apartments: Where would those relatives live? We believe that the second reading needs to be worked out, and if this rule is deleted, then there is a possibility that we are increasing criminal responsibility, and that the material damage to the State should be compensated by bringing lawsuits to the perpetrator. The Fatherland faction will support it in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-04-m0.u115	Thank you, Mikhailovich. Tischenko, a national deputy with the right of reply, appealed. Please, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-04-m0.u116	Thank you, Your Honor. I am pleased that a national MP who has no honour at all to hold such a great status as the national deputy of the people of Ukraine in general, so often mentions Mikola Tishchenka. First of all, I want to say that everyone in this country is entitled to a trial. If there is no such thing, it just says that these are the political insinuations that Mr. Leros is doing. This is the first time. Secondly, none of my assistants to the National MP have any criminal grounds at all, no criminal experience, no criminal record. That's a second. Thirdly, Mr. Leros, who.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-04-m0.u117	The word is given to the National Deputy Sukhov Aleksandro Sergiyyovich, the MP's "Trust".
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-04-m0.u118	Thank you. Please pass the word to Sergey the Great.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-04-m0.u119	National MP Sergey the Great, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-04-m0.u120	Sergey the Great, Luganskina, the Trust MP. Dear colleagues, the "Trust" MP supports this legislative initiative to increase the term of imprisonment as a basic punishment. But we are critical of the initiative to complete the article with additional penalties in the form of confiscation of property. Usually, this type of punishment is applied to crimes for a useful purpose, that is, committed for the purpose of acquiring property in an illegal way. That is the nature of this type of punishment. At the same time, the need for such legislative changes is not justified in the explanatory note. It should be noted that the lack of appropriateness of such a legislative initiative is justified in drawing the attention of the NEU in its conclusion. Please note, therefore, that the conclusion of the GNEU indicates that the project is appropriate to re-establish the subject of the legislative initiative for further development. That's why the Trust MPs will not support this bill. Thank you for your attention. Sergey the Great, Lugansk.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-04-m0.u121	National Deputy Bobrovska Solomija Anatoliyevna, faction of the political party "Golos". After that, I was contacted by Mamka, a national deputy. And then we go to the vote. So I'd like you to invite the people's deputies into the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-04-m0.u122	May I have a word with Osadchuku Andry?
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-04-m0.u123	Andrew Osadchuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-04-m0.u124	Dear colleagues, we have just been accosted for how much damage unsanctioned mining reports are causing. And there's no discussion here, it's a terrible pity. At the same time, however, few of us are deceived when we are referred to as conditional terms of imprisonment or fines for similar offences. I'm going to remind the Hall that a valid article of the Criminal Code provides for a non-alternative penalty of 2 to 6 years' imprisonment, and in the event of severe consequences, which are also discussed today, for up to 8 years. Sorry, spending eight years in a Ukrainian prison is a serious punishment. Therefore, I would like to see the effective work of the National Police rather than looking for any argument as to why they cannot detain these offenders and hold them together with the courts for such terms. And the second moment is confiscation. Confiscation is possible only in the case of economic crimes. And this type of wrongdoing has nothing to do with it. So we're going to hold on to supporting this law as a matter of fact. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-04-m0.u125	Thank you. Mamka Grigori Mikolaiovich, National MP, faction of the political party "The Opposition Platform for Life". And then we go to the vote. I'd like to invite the people's deputies. Who else? And I can see it's from Trust. Please, Gregory Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-04-m0.u126	Ladies and gentlemen, I have listened carefully to both the representative of the bill and the deputy minister of the interior. I mean, article 259, it has the term "freedom," it's a serious crime. But what prevents work, detention, and the setting up of those who committed this type of crime? In my opinion, there is absolutely no prohibition of documenting, investigating, drawing on responsibility. Increasing sanctions by one year does not solve the problem. The problem of telephone terrorism must be solved. You need to run a program and do some work. We're not going to support this bill, because it's absolutely no solution, it's only seizing those people who don't have a place to live, who get punished and their property removed. It is also, in fact, an increase in punishment, but.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-04-m0.u127	Please, Shorty Anna.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-04-m0.u128	Anna Krakhod, MP for the Future. It was heartwarming to hear that the National MP’s assistants had no criminal experience. Perhaps after the adoption of the bill, it will appear to them. But the MPs clearly support it. And we hear over and over again about bridges, subways, hospitals, train stations, shopping malls, and that needs to be done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-04-m0.u129	Dear colleagues, let's go to the vote. Please take your seats and prepare for the vote. Ready? I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Law amending article 259 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine on the increase of responsibility for knowingly false reports of the threat to the safety of citizens (registration number 3911). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[12:53:32]] For 235 Decision taken. Thank you. Let's see the factions. The next issue is the bill amending the Ukrainian Roads Act (Registration No. 3901). It is suggested that this issue be considered in a simplified manner. Please support and vote. [[12:54:06]] For 222 The Deputy Minister of Infrastructure, Forsuk Natalya Valeriyovna, is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-04-m0.u130	Good afternoon, distinguished national MPs, distinguished media representatives! You are considering a bill amending the Ukrainian Roads Act, introduced by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. The draft Act provides for changes to the technical nature of Ukraine's Roads Act in order to bring its provisions into line with the laws of Ukraine: "For concession", "To amend certain laws of Ukraine concerning the reform of the road traffic management system" and "For local government administrations". These changes are purely technical and are designed to remove regulatory gaps. In view of the above, please support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-04-m0.u131	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-04-m0.u132	The chairman of the Committee on Transport and Infrastructure, Skyczko Alexander Aleksandrovich, is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-04-m0.u133	Honourable Dmitry Aleksandrovich, distinguished national MPs, has already been told, this bill provides for substantial technical changes in relation to the adoption of Ukraine's laws on amending certain Ukrainian laws on the reform of the road traffic management system" of 17.11.2016 No. 176 and Ukraine's new Act of 03.10.2019 No. 155 on concession. The bill is supported by the Chief Scientific and Expert Office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the Committee on Budget Affairs, the Ministry of Infrastructure of Ukraine, the Ministry of Finance of Ukraine and the State Agency for Roads of Ukraine. The Committee on Transport and Infrastructure, at its meeting on 30 September 2020, reviewed the bill and proposed recommending to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft law amending the Ukrainian Roads Act (Registration No. 3901, dated 17.07). 2020) as a result of its consideration, to be adopted as a basis and as a whole. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-04-m0.u134	Please sign up: two for, two for, one for, one for, two for, two for factions. Is there no need for discussion? Two factions. Mandatory Discussment? Sign up: two in, two in, two in factions. Majjkovich Mikola Romanovich. Hončarenko Alexyyyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-04-m0.u135	Alexei Hotcharenko, European Solidarity. Dear friends, our faction requires a review of Bill 3533 on Medical Insurance. We've been raising that question for weeks. We're talking about this at the conciliatory councils, we're talking about the leadership of the Supreme Council, we're talking about our colleagues from a monopoly: please, let's do medicine. Do we have a pandemic now? No! No! We're again being offered the Roads Act. It seems to me that we have some confusion: we have no war, we have no pandemic, we have nothing, we have only one road. Roads, roads, roads. Listen, stop it! I realize that someone might be interested in the roads, the roads that someone has, the associations, but they need to get to work. People, today’s pandemic, come to us as health minister and say: “There is a disaster. And what do we do when disaster strikes? We're looking at the roads. We're being killed by soldiers on Donbassa. What are we looking at? Honey. It's the same all the time. Dear friends, we urge you: 3533 medical insurance once. So let's finally solve the question of how to start testing. In two days, Slovakia protested more than half the country, all citizens over 10 years of age. Ukraine has not yet been able to ensure that a person receives quick material in the morning, but in the evening it is said that he will not be trained in cities, villages, villages. A lot of people don't have the money to just pay for the test. And so when we're told 9,000 500 today, who really knows how many people are sick? It's a fog like it was in Kiev this morning and like it was in Zelensky's head. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-04-m0.u136	Thank you. Black Victor Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-04-m0.u137	Please pass the word to Germany, Vasil Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-04-m0.u138	Germano Vasil Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-04-m0.u139	Your Honor, is this bill subject to the law at all? I'd like you to pay attention to the philosophy of this bill. First of all, Ukridor takes away responsibility not for driving the roads, but for driving and maintaining the roads of local importance, and of general importance. And they're passing it on to? There's a link between the administrations. They forgot that the drafters of the bill that we have today have territorial communities, that the legislator has divided people into territories, and they're going to transfer them to the local budgets for road maintenance and management. Here's what we're talking about. It is therefore impossible to support this bill, and it will not be in the interests of the territorial communities or in the interests of the state, if that is the case. One more thing I'd like. Dear colleagues, see what they have to do: But this is a matter of concession. Look, look what you did to the port, and we predicted that the port would be transferred to the concession and that you could get 60 percent off your taxes. And now we see that all these roads that go into concession, the user won't pay for them, and they won't keep them, and if they do, at the expense of the citizens. That's what we're going to do. And I'd like to say again, let's get out of here for a reason, and we're looking at the consequences, including the consequences, where we open another fairway of wealth. Therefore, the faction will not support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-04-m0.u140	Jacenko Anton Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-04-m0.u141	Dear colleagues, we have every major getting complaints about the quality of roads and that they are bad. But I believe that much depends on us. For example, when we passed the Road Fund Act in the past Council, which I have the privilege of being a coauthor, the situation improved. So now this law is technical, but it will improve the road situation. So let's not politicize, but let's still support this bill, and it's really normal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-04-m0.u142	Kulinich Oleg Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-04-m0.u143	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the "Trust" MP will support this bill. First of all, it's technical, we're clarifying in this bill that the sources of funding for roads used for concessions could be used by us on the road to general use: repair, reconstruction, construction of these roads. In general, the road situation is very difficult. Although they are being built, they are being spent enormously on the roads of national importance. And the roads that we have on the balance sheet of district government, on the roads that are on the balance sheet in OTG, are very, very difficult. On some roads, we can tell that there are no roads; there are only directions left. Therefore, it is necessary to do so, not just by adopting technical bills, but by considering how we can increase the percentages that travel on the local roads of the road fund so that we can repair the local roads more. Because in cities, in areas, the problem with roads is very difficult. And this bill is technical, we will definitely support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-04-m0.u144	Thank you. Now Ivchenko is a minute of motivation. Then let us proceed to the vote, please invite the people’s deputies to the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-04-m0.u145	Yvchenko, Fatherland. So I realized that the government found the best way to fight the pandemic is by road, it's by building roads. From now on, we are in good health. It's not just the roads, it's the roads. Because today, as sources of funding, we're introducing the concept of "concession" as paid roads. And let me put it this way: concession is secret privatization, colleagues. You don't vote for an electronic project to determine the concessionaire, so it turns out that the Mikolai port of Olivia pays three times as much, the concessionaire pays more than in Herson. Why? And because there's no transparency. Concession is temporary. It's a hidden privatization. So, colleagues, let's do better to increase the social benefits for people, increase wages, pensions, not pay roads during the pandemic and during total poverty in the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-04-m0.u146	Thank you. All those who wish to speak? Let's go to the vote. Please take your seats and prepare for the vote. Ready to vote? One more question: The committee recommends it as a whole. One faction against. Two. I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Roads Act (Registration No. 3901). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[13:05:56]] For 253 Decision taken. In general, isn't it? [[B in m in s a l in]] Who's against it? Don't scream! Two factions against. Shorten periods? In accordance with part two of article 116 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules, I am voting on the proposal to cut back on half the deadlines for the submission of rights and proposals and to prepare for the second reading of Bill 3901. Please support and vote. [[13:06:44]] For 229 Decision taken. The next issue of the agenda is draft Law registration number 3851: draft Act amending the Ukrainian Tax Code on State Support for Culture, Tourism and Creative Industries. The head of the Committee on Tax, Customs, and Financial Policy of the Gethmans Danilo Aleksandrovich is invited to attend. Who's going to insist on editing? Then let's go. Cosmiakin. Don't insist. Frolow. Windstorm. Cosmiakin. Kulinich. Don't raise your hand, I'll pass and see. Intruder. 37 lashes, Nalotov. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-04-m0.u147	Good afternoon! Amendment 37 refers to the support of tourism, one of the most important components of tourism infrastructure – hotels and other facilities. This law reduces the value added tax from 20 percent to 7. We implement part 112 of the EU Directive on the creation of a single system of value added tax. For example, the reduced VAT on a permanent basis works: Portugal – 6 per cent, Luxembourg – 3 per cent, Poland – 7 per cent, Georgia – 0 per cent. But we only enter this standard for two years. With my permission, I propose that this rule be made unscheduled. This will help the sector, first of all, recover from the crisis and go through it, reduce the shadow sector in the field, and most importantly, Ukraine will become competitive for investment and international hotel networks. Please support Ukrainian internal tourism. Thank you. Travel through Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-04-m0.u148	Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-04-m0.u149	Dear colleagues, we have accepted this benefit for two years for hotels in connection with coronaryism, in connection with what needs to be developed. If it's a horse feed, we're definitely going to continue this benefit. But I think you can do that as an exception. It's not motivated to do it on a permanent basis. Thank you. The committee's proposing a rejection.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-04-m0.u150	Committee position. It's number 37. Put it to a vote? I'm betting on the vote number 37 of Nalotov's national deputy. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[13:09:56]] For 261 Decision taken. Edit included. Iron. Forty lacquers. On what course will you insist? 40th?
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-04-m0.u151	Only 40.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-04-m0.u152	Please turn on Jaroslav Ivanovich's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-04-m0.u153	Dear colleagues, I'm brief. This bill needs to be supported. He is right and necessary. Even we blamed him for being late. I've got one thing to do. We have this problem in the Tax Code: that gastro business cannot be in the simplified taxation system. So it's only on the level of trade there with jewelry, oil and gas products and all that. It's my job to make it right. It makes it possible for those involved in gastro business to be on a simplified system. They do it anyway. They're going through other CWEDs anyway. Let's just correct this mistake and support this bill as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-04-m0.u154	Thank you. Do you insist on voting? Committee position, 40th Amendment, Danilo Alexandrovich?
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-04-m0.u155	The committee's position is to reject.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-04-m0.u156	I'm betting on the vote number 40 of the Iron People's Deputy. It's rejected by the committee. Please identify and vote. [[13:11:35]] For-90 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. Someone else will be on their books. I see Anton Volodymyrovich. Nobody. Invite the people's deputies to the hall, now have 5 confirmation rights. On account of that, huh? For confirmation. 5 confirmation rights, then we vote in favour of the bill as a whole. Turn on Jacenk's microphone. Let's put it this way: 1 minute -- and we're voting 5 rights. Okay?
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-04-m0.u157	Good afternoon, colleagues, again. You know, there's a term in crime, it's called "special cynicism." So today we have 5 right-handers: 3rd, 12th, 19th, 24th, 39th, which generally introduces the concept of "budget grant," which is then not included in taxation. So the company that's still got the budget, it's still not paying taxes. I understand Mr. Getmantsev because he has a tourist company of his own, so it's clear that it's a very good law, but I don't understand any of the other colleagues why it's necessary for the budget to lose money. So I'm asking these adjustments as lobbyists to put on confirmation. Thank you. Five straights.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-04-m0.u158	3rd, 11th, 19th.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-04-m0.u159	3rd, 12th, 19th, 24th, 39th.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-04-m0.u160	24th, 39th. Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-04-m0.u161	Thank you, dear colleagues, for your attention to my relatives and their possessions. Happily, they have no place in their possession and will never have. This amendment is specific. This is a targeted law, it's state aid, it's state aid or it's aid from local budgets that's not taxed because taxation on state aid is ridiculous. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-04-m0.u162	Ready to vote? Please prepare for the vote. I'm betting on the vote number 3 of the people's deputy, Getmantsev. It's counted by the committee. Ready to vote? The committee is accounted for and supported. I'm betting on her confirmation. Please support and vote. Amendment number 3. [[13:14:13]] For 261 Edit is confirmed. 11 Vetarovića. 12th? It's the railroad, isn't it? 12 ironwork. The committee is supported. Please support and vote. Confirmation, I'm betting on confirmation. [[13:14:49]] For 266 Decision taken. Edit is confirmed. Edit number 19 of the authors led by Getmance Danil Alexandrovich. The committee is also supported. I'm betting on her confirmation. Please support and vote. 19th Amendment. [[13:15:15]] For 272 Decision taken. Amendment number 24 of the people's deputy of Getmantsev. The committee is supported. I'm betting on her confirmation. Please support and vote. [[13:15:38]] For 271 Decision taken. Edit is supported and supported. I'm betting on the vote of extreme number 39 of the Iron People's Deputy. It is also considered by the committee. I'll bet this on confirmation. Please support and vote. [[13:16:06]] For 275 Decision taken. Edit is confirmed. Let's move on to voting for the law as a whole. I am voting for the second reading and, in general, with the necessary technical and legal regulations, the draft Law amending the Ukrainian Code on State Support for Culture, Tourism and Creative Industry (Registration No. 3851). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[13:16:52]] For 293 Decision taken. The law was passed in general. Thank you. The next issue of the agenda is the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislative acts to specify how water objects are leased in a complex of land areas (registration No. 0853). The chairman of the Committee on Agricultural and Land Policy, Solski Mikola Tarasovic, is invited to the rostrum. Is anyone going to insist on the readouts? It's a second reading. Can we vote? I'll bet on it. Thank you, Mikola Tarasovich. You're the only one out there -- see what support is there? I am voting on the proposal to adopt a second reading and, in general, with the necessary technical and legal regulations, the draft Law amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine to clarify the arrangements for the lease of water objects in a complex of land (registration No. 0853). Please support and vote. [[13:18:09]] For 279 Decision taken. The next issue is the bill amending the Ukrainian Law on State Support for Agriculture of Ukraine and other Ukrainian laws on the functioning of the State Agrarian Register and the improvement of State support for agricultural producers (Registration No 3295, Solski). Is there anyone here who's gonna insist on editing? Is that a delay? Dear colleagues, the chairman of the committee requests that we not consider this law today. Is there no objection? We're still in, nothing's happened yet, no. No, we haven't announced yet. Dear colleagues, the head of the committee is addressed. Is there no objection? None. Thank you. [[B in m in s a l in]] If they get there, they'll be looking at it this week. All right, we got a deal. Dear colleagues, the next question is the draft Law amending the Ukrainian Law on the State Budget for Ukraine 2020 (for the implementation of article 11 of the Ukrainian Law on Natural Gas Market) (registration numbers: 4119, 4119-1, 4119-2). It is suggested that this issue be considered in a simplified manner. Please support and vote. [[13:20:09]] For 228 Decision taken. The National Deputy of Ukraine, David Georgiyovich, is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-04-m0.u163	Good afternoon, colleagues! I want to present Bill 4119, which aims to resolve the long-standing multi-year conflict between NAC Naftogaz Ukraine and Ukrnafta, in order to have a fuse in international arbitration, which is now in the interest of NAC Naftogaz State Company, to release an additional 10 billion dollars this year and direct them, 1.4 billion dollars, to pay off the miners' debt on wages, and to recalculate the rest to the Coronavirus Foundation. Please support and vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-04-m0.u164	The word is given to the national deputy, Mr. Andrey Ivanovich, coauthor of the second law. Please, Andrew Ivanovich. Cold Andrey Ivanovich. There is no co-author. The word is given to the coauthor of the next bill, the national deputy of Ukraine, Thorochti Bogdan Grigorovich. None. The word is given to the co-rapporteur of the Vice - Chief of the Committee on Budgets, Trukin Aleksandr Mikolayovich. Please, Alexander Mikolayovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-04-m0.u165	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe it is necessary to support this bill, which is very important, to solve the systemic problems that are now in the mutual accounts of the players in this market, will allow the COVID Fund to be complemented by 8.9 billion for the country and will pay $1.4 billion in debt to miners. So the Committee on Budget Affairs, with the participation of the representatives of Minfin, the Court of Auditors, Minneergo and NAK Naftogazu, reviewed the bill 4119 and drew the following conclusions. The Committee on Budget Issues recommends to the Supreme Council, on the basis of its first reading, that the draft Law 4119 be adopted as a basis and generally as a law, taking into account the proposals made by the Committee listed in the notes. That's why the committee's asking you to support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-04-m0.u166	I understand the committee supports the first bill, 4119. That's what we need to talk about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-04-m0.u167	Dear colleagues, please sign up: two for, two for, and two for, the other for, the factions. Lopushana Andriy Jaroslavovich
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-04-m0.u168	I'd like to give you a word to Nina Petrovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-04-m0.u169	Nina Petrovn Jujanin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-04-m0.u170	Dear colleagues, dear Ukrainians, just from the changes to article 1 of the Ukrainian State Budget for the 20th year, it is clear that the sum of the equipment will be 42.5 billion dollars. And then again, there's no specifics. With regard to the introduction of new sources for the creation of a special fund. Is it true that the amount of the debt owed to Pat Crohnafti by tax debt, reconciled and uncoordinated, fines are not exactly known and will be determined by the guidance of the controlling authority at one time? And the current liabilities arising from this equipment, the VAT from the Ukranafta and the income tax from the NAC "Naftogaz Ukraine" are also unknown? Why are all these functions transferred exclusively to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine? Can you be fooled today, national MPs? Are you going to believe that the sum of 9.8 billion could come in an extra order and be distributed in a separate order approved by the Cabinet of Ministers, and also in such directions? The directions obviously were chosen to tell you first that you have no right not to vote for it. You can't believe it again to give an unknown amount of money to the unknown, which direction it's supposed to be at the COVID fund. Haven't we heard recently that there is no such fund at all? This is another deception that the authorities are preparing again to vote the deputies, and they have done black work with their hands. Not this thing! You can't assign 42.5 billion to your own judgment. Or you have to change the text of the law, give specific sums, and you just put 66 billion into the COVID fund, and then we'll talk about it. Good intentions lie in deceiving us, the national deputies, and the entire nation. Crooknaft is to be dealt with by NAC Naftogaz in the framework.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-04-m0.u171	Abdulin Alexander Rafkatovich. Krulko Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-04-m0.u172	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. The benefit of this bill, which is currently being considered, is only one thing in fact, that maybe the state budget will get an additional 10 billion that will go into two programs. The first program is eight and a half billion on the issue of fighting COVID. And the second program is wage for coal miners, 1.4 billion. Debts accumulated during this year because nothing is done by the government to restructure the coal industry and enable Ukrainian miners to sell coal in Ukraine and have their wages. So I think that in this situation that happened at the end of the year, coal miners need to solve their debt on wages. And the second question is the question of COVID. Ladies and gentlemen, once again, I would like to point out that the decision taken at the initiative of Yulia Timoshenko in the fight against COVID is not being implemented by the government, and we have adopted it on October 20th. To this day, the measures taken to test people free of charge and to provide medicines directly to patients who are being treated in the infirmary and in hospitals are not being carried out, even though these two important things are not being done. So these eight-and-a-half billion that can go to the COVID have to go to the hospital with a goal, to buy drugs, and to do a total, total testing of Ukrainians, and to find out how many Ukrainians are actually suffering from COVID today. Because we're not going to get to statistics 9, almost 10,000 a day, and we're going to be in the leaders of Europe after COVID. And then what are we going to do in the country? So let's vote on this bill, although it's not perfect, and solve the problem of coal miners and COVID. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-04-m0.u173	Coltunovich Alexander Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-04-m0.u174	Thank you, Reverend Dmitri Alexanderovich. Ukraine's distinguished national deputies, the Opposition Platform for Life, have consistently advocated supporting the coal sector of Ukraine, for supporting those who are working today and who have such a hard job. Of course, the 1 billion 400 million dollars planned today under this bill to pay off the debt to coal miners, we will certainly support. But we are puzzled by the fact that it is "stuck" in this bill. And these are schematics that have absolutely nothing to do with the question of the natural gas market. If we're talking about a gas and tariff issue in Ukraine in general today, I would like to point out that the number one issue has to stand for economically appropriate and reasonable tariffs. Today we see an absolute price record in the natural gas market for the population, we see an average of 9155 across the country of gas prices, 9200 Kiev, 10200 (this with a shipping tariff) -- a tariff on gas for the population in the Mikolai district, that's the highest limit. This is how it works, and this is what the law is going to decide today, including the gas issue. You're lowering VAT for everyone who can: for the film industry, for the agrarian exporters who export raw materials, and for many others -- but you don't want to take away, for example, the price of using nadrama or VAT on gas that goes to the population in order to lower the price. So when we talk about gas issues, it has to apply exclusively to the formula, and the formula tells us that the price for gas has to be reduced by 2.5 times as the reduced average monetary value. And if we're talking about the coal industry, this is certainly a disgraceful phenomenon, which is, in fact, 1.4 billion dollars, has to be solved. That's why we support, although, again, there are completely inadequate things in this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-04-m0.u175	Participant Jurczin Jaroslav Romanovich, faction of the political party "Golos". Tzabal Volodymir, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-04-m0.u176	Dear colleagues! Tzabal Volodymir, the Voice faction. We see that we have some reporters here calling this law "black," some call it "white." In fact, for the first time we voted for him, there were 214 votes, the Voice faction backed up, but then this law changed. And now I want to go to those who haven't yet decided to tell you more about this law so that they can be defined. This law is four things. The first is the solution to the problem of Naftogazu in the long term. The Voice faction supports that. The second is the solution to the problem of green energy, and that's also the change in this law. We support that, too. The third is the solution to the problem of miners, and that's what we support. But there is a fourth thing that changed our position after the first vote. And this fourth thing is going to be 8.9 billion from 11 to the cadaver fund. I'll tell you what this is. It's actually a sort of multi-tracking thing. Where this money goes, none of us know now. That's why we want this law to be sent to the committee, and these eight and a half billion are specifically earmarked for medical programs. So that they don't accidentally go on roads, not on roads, doesn't make sense of what they're doing. And I guarantee you, they're not going to fight the coronavirus. Because we all remember that our Coronary Foundation is not a Coroner Fund. And if we go to the committee for further work, we'll put specific health programs on the committee. Then the Voice faction, and I'm sure a lot of other national MPs also support this law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-04-m0.u177	Now, Shahov is motivated by a minute. And then we go to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-04-m0.u178	Sergey Shahov, Luhanščina, Deputy Group "Trust". Dear colleagues, all thanks to miners from all over the country for finding $1 billion 400 million in six months in wages. Please tell me, will anyone in this country be responsible for the fact that families have been starving for six months? Anyone will be responsible for the fact that miners from the 15th, 16th, 17th, 18th, didn't get their salary? Article 175 of the Criminal Code. Did anyone get fired from their jobs for starving children today and still starving? I thank Mikhail Wolinz, Sergey the Great, Alexander Sukhov, each of the factions who approached Kabmin for this money. But what will happen next? Why is the coal industry in decline? Who's picking up today? And why does coal come from America, from Egypt? Why is our coal not bought today? Why are they begging today?
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-04-m0.u179	Thank you. Please prepare for the vote. I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Law amending the Ukrainian Law on the State Budget for Ukraine 2020 (for the implementation of article 11 of the Ukrainian Law on Natural Gas Market) (registration No. 4119). Ready to vote? Ready? Please support and vote. [[13:35:03]] For 279 Decision taken. I'm voting on the proposal to cut in half the deadlines for submitting proposals for rights and preparing for the second reading of the bill, registration number 4119. Please support and vote. [[13:35:36]] For 267 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, I have a question. Now we have the 4,120 bill, which is related to the past, to the previous bill. Next comes a letter from all the MPs and groups regarding Bill 4313. That's what the RRO was talking about yesterday. There's a proposal, we don't have much time left, now vote 4,120 without discussion. [[B in m in s a l in]] Let's vote without discussion and move on to the next question. [[B in m in s a l in]] No, we'll vote the RRO at the end. All right, here's the thing. It is proposed to consider bill registration number 4120 under reduced procedure. Please support and vote. [[13:36:48]] For 236 Decision taken. The National Deputy of Ukraine, David Georgiyovich, reports.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-04-m0.u180	Hey, guys, good day again! The Law 4120 is directly related to 4,119. In order for the entire transaction that has already been reported by the budget committee to take place, this bill also needs to be voted as an amendment to the Tax Code in order to complete the transaction. Please support and vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-04-m0.u181	Hetmans Danilo Alexandrovich, head of the Committee on Finance, Tax and Customs Policy.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-04-m0.u182	Thank you. Dear colleagues, this bill is technically complex, but it's very simple in essence: money, money from this operation, not to mix with equipment, equipment -- it was before, now it's a perfectly normal, legal operation that decides the interests of the state and the budget. Thus, the money that is counted in connection with the operation is not counted in the general budget but in the special fund, but in the state. Therefore, we make changes to the relevant articles of the Tax Code so that this operation is possible. This bill is fully related to the previous bill we have supported. So I propose to support him in the same way, despite all the stories about any equipment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-04-m0.u183	Thank you. Please sign up: two in, two in, two in, against. If you don't insist, don't write it down, please. Danuca Alexander Anatolyevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-04-m0.u184	I think this bill is in perfect time, and I support David Arahami, the leader of the faction. So let us not waste time and support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-04-m0.u185	National MP Vjatrović Vladimir Mihajlovich, faction of the political party "European Solidarity".
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-04-m0.u186	The Southern Nina Petrovney.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-04-m0.u187	Nina Petrovn Yuzanin.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-04-m0.u188	Dear colleagues, I'm not talking about the ivy, I'm talking about the equipment that the authorities have prepared in 42.5 billion. And I don't want to talk about it anymore when people are still talking about it. I would like to draw your attention, however, to the fact that although this bill seems to regulate tax finesse, you have not read the main bill that in the event of a violation of Scrooge of your obligation to all this equipment, the full responsibility will be to NAC Naftogaz. However, if after taking all of these measures in the 10-day term "Kkrunafta" doesn't call off all its claims about tax disputes and so on, and it definitely won't call them off, because now we're laying down another unconstitutional rule that it's supposed to pay the VAT on prepayment without the right to tax credit. How's that? The subject of an economic activity with a accumulated tax credit is sure to take into account it, and you will not get the $9.8 billion that you have already divided and distribute under the slogans for miners. Is that what is done? You see how it's written here, in this law? And then, if in 10 days' time Skrnafta won't remove all its claims to the state and agree on a tax liability on all fines, if that doesn't happen, then within five days, giving all the money to Skrnafti, NAK Naftogaz has to return the entire amount to the state budget. Where do you run on NAC Naftogaz? What do you take these changes for? I'm going to tell you this in a way that you can all understand: it's actually a tool in 2020. You'll have to think of her for a long time. 42.5 billion, you'll see what's going to happen to our country. Please refrain from voting for this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-04-m0.u189	Suffritch Nestor Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-04-m0.u190	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. Our faction supported the previous law because leaving people underground today, losing their health, risking their lives, is our responsibility. What's going on right now is a lot of questions. Where are those 73 billion bracelets that the golden boy Cobolev had? And now we're putting another 40 billion in there. As Ivan Stepanovich said, "you don't have to stick it in. " So I'm asking you to stop, close the register, and think about people. Today, in winter, gas has been purchased at the lowest price of gas in 10 years, and gas has already been sold to people on two roads to buy cheap summers. So, people now have to look at these "golden boys" who then transfer money to their moms in the United States? You know, I'm looking for my mom, not for $5 million from Ukraine, from the Ukrainian budget to the United States. They're good with money, but they're good with dollars. I want to remind you, they print them all they want and how much they want, and we're talking about it. So our position is very clear. Our shafts, we help them, and the golden boys don't. We need to figure out where the money is going, where these billions are going, and get it back to people, first of all because of tariff cuts. This will be both fair and fair, especially for those who call themselves "ministers." Who? It's the people. Then think of the people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-04-m0.u191	Oddzuk Andri Petrovich. Ironborn Jaroslav Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-04-m0.u192	Ladies and gentlemen, there were a lot of things here that were called "gears," "plums," "cassage." You know, I have a strong feeling that the main author of this law did not reveal all the brilliant reforming potential and the depth of the bill was not enough for him for 20 seconds. So I pass the word to David, Georgiyovich of Arahamaiah. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-04-m0.u193	He doesn't insist. Thank you. Let's go to the vote. Please take your seats and get ready for work. I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Act amending Chapter XX "Transitional provisions" of the Ukrainian Tax Code (as regards the features of the administration of taxes for the purpose of financing expenditure as defined in paragraphs 31-34 of article 14 of the Ukrainian Act "On the State Budget for Ukraine 2020"). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[13:44:56]] For 230 Decision taken. Thank you. Let's see the factions. Dear colleagues, a letter has come from all MP factions and groups proposing to consider today the ad hoc bill amending Chapter XX of the Tax Code of Ukraine and other legislative acts on the transfer of the validity of the rules on the deterrence of trade and services accounts (Registration No. 4313). We need to make a decision to put the matter in order of the day. Support is needed for 226 Ukrainian national deputies. Ready to vote? Is there no objection? Ready? I'll put it to the vote. Please support and vote. [[13:46:06]] For 274 Decision taken. It is suggested that the ad hoc procedure be considered and that a decision be taken at this plenary session. Please support and vote. [[13:46:30.]] For 280 Decision taken. It is suggested that this issue be considered in a simplified manner. Please support and vote. [[13:46:51]] For 245 Decision taken. No discussion? I'll bet you a vote. No discussion? No, wait, with discussion, colleagues. With discussion, because the committee accepted the committee's proposals. The Deputy Head of the Committee on Financial, Tax, and Customs Policy, Dubinsky Alexander Anatoliyovich, is then invited to the floor. And please, Alexander Anatolyevich, when you read, read clearly the proposal that was made on the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-04-m0.u194	Dear colleagues, I am very grateful to the leaders of the factions, the MPs who made this balanced decision. Because now, in terms of reducing the state budget, reducing the Ukrainian economy and reducing tax and business opportunities, under the development of the COVID pandemic, we can't do total fiscalization and force entrepreneurs across all businesses and business individuals to set up accounting registers. Therefore, a balanced decision has been made, for which I am grateful to the leaders of all factions, including the factions of Fatherland, Julius Volodymyrni Timoshenko, the leader of the "Serve of the People" faction of Mr. David Arahamaia, the leaders of other factions and MPs, for having made such a decision. And today, on the committee, we discussed the postponement of the introduction of accounting registers in the interests of natural persons entrepreneurs for one year. I would also like to add to this decision because on the committee today we have considered a proposal that we have adopted and recommended for this bill, with the following positions: tying the limits of the FOP to minimum wages. So I'm going to read how this is going to be changed in the Ukrainian Tax Code. First. In article 291.4, paragraph 1, the words and digits "1 million dollars" should be replaced by the words and digits "245 minimum wage for 1 January of the tax year". In the third paragraph of article 291.4, paragraph 2, the words and digits "5 million dollars" should be replaced by the words "1230 MPAs fixed by the law on 1 January of the tax year." In article 291, paragraph 3, 291.4 replace the words and figures "7 million dollars" with the words "1720 minimum wage levels established by the law on 1 January of the tax year". And in subsection 61, subsection 10, chapter XX, "End and transitional positions" in all paragraphs, you replace the digits "10 million dollars" with the words "820 times the minimum wage for 1 January of the tax year." I welcome all the natural persons who are entrepreneurs, and I welcome all of Ukraine with this balanced decision. And I think it's a real push to save, I'm not talking about development anymore, but to save jobs, the simplest system, and the individuals who are entrepreneurs in our economy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-04-m0.u195	I'll bet you a vote. The committee was not determined on the decision on this bill, so, as always, I put it first, and then, if there is support, in general. Please invite the national MPs. [[B in m in s a l in]] Wait. Did everything sound right about the committee's proposals? I ask the author again: everything was right. Galina Ivanovna, you can't hear. Is that right? I would like to vote on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Law amending Chapter XX, "Towards and Transitional Positions" of the Tax Code of Ukraine and other legislative acts on the transposition of the terms of entry into force of the rules on the deterrence of commercial and service accounts (Registration No. 4313). Ready to vote? Everybody ready? Please support and vote. [[13:52:39]] For 212 The decision is not taken. I'm voting for a motion to refer to the committee to prepare for the re-reading. Let's see the factions. First reading of Bill 4313. Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[13:53:14]] For 254 Decision taken. Thank you. Dear colleagues, we have five minutes left. Gerasim, what a question you are. I can't hear you. Turn on Gerasimov's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-04-m0.u196	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues! 4158. Decision on the technical change of one person to another in the DABIA TSK. Please vote without discussion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-11-04-m0.u197	Look, there's a request. One law without discussion? What's the law number? [[B in m in s a l in]] 3157. The DABI and the Sofiyukka. Is there no objection? I'm continuing the session, just in case, for 15 minutes. Bill number 3157. I am voting on the proposal to adopt a second reading and, in general, with the necessary technical and legal rights, the draft Law amending the Ukrainian Law on the Status of the National Deputy of Ukraine (Registration No. 3157). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[13:55:07]] For 274 Decision taken. I am voting on the proposal for adoption in general, taking into account the Committee's proposals and the necessary technical and legal regulations, the draft Decision on the Referral of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to the Cabinet of Ministers on the implementation of measures aimed at the inclusion of the National Dandrological Park "Sofiyuka" of the National Academy of Sciences of Ukraine into the UNESCO World Heritage List and its Development (Registration No. 4047). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[13:56:01]] For 277 Decision taken. Wait a second. I would like to vote on the proposal for adoption of a draft regulation on changes in the composition of the Interim Investigations Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the investigation of corruption in public architectural control and oversight bodies (Registration No. 4158). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[13:56:55]] For 255 Decision taken. Changes in Handzück's composition? Come on: 300 years of Scovorda, changes in the composition of Handzück and two 30-year-olds. Okay? I am voting for a motion for adoption in the entire draft Order amending the Supreme Council of Ukraine Ordinance on the Establishment of a Provisional Investigation Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to carry out parliamentary control over the investigations of the attacks on Catherine Hanszük and other public activists during 2017-2018 (as regards the change in the composition of the Temporary Investigation Commission). Ready to vote? Registration number 4165. Please support and vote. [[13:58:13]] For 276 Decision taken. I am voting on the proposal for the adoption of the entire draft Decision on the ceremony of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the occasion of the 25th anniversary of the adoption of the Constitution of Ukraine (registration No. 3007a). Please support and vote. [[13:58:55]] For 280 Decision taken. Next question: the draft Decision on a 30-year anniversary of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's adoption of the Act on the Declaration of Independence. Please support and vote. [[13:59:25]] For 280 Decision taken. And one last question. I'm betting on the vote on the proposal for acceptance as a basis and, in general, taking into account the Committee's proposals, the draft Decision on the 300th anniversary of the birth of Gregory Savich Skovorody (registration number 4084). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[14:00:05]] For 280 Decision taken. 2:00. I declare the plenary session of the Supreme Council closed.
