ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-05-m0.u1	Good morning, dear fellows! Please take your seats. Good morning, media officials, guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine! Dear colleagues, please prepare for registration. Let's start the registration. Are you ready to register? Please register. [[10:08:05]] There are 321 Ukrainian national deputies registered in the hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear colleagues, first of all, would like to welcome you. We have two colleagues today's birthday, Black Egor Volodymyrovich and Kovalczuk Alexander Volodymyrovich. [[Applause]] Dear colleagues, I wish you both from myself and from the Supreme Council of Ukraine, from colleagues of health, success, strength, achievement of the goals you set yourself. It's my birthday again. Dear colleagues, announcements. According to the application and in accordance with part three of article 60 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I report the entry of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Sánchenka Alexander Volodymyrovic, to the deputy faction of the political party "Slut of the People" in the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the ninth call. Dear colleagues, in accordance with article 25 of the Rules, we have 30 minutes on Wednesday for speeches by national deputies with proposals, statements, and messages. Please enroll the national deputies for the performance. Bobrovska Solomija Anatoliyevna
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-05-m0.u2	Good morning, fellow Ukrainians, dear Ukrainians, and the entire veteran and military community! Today, I would like to dedicate my speech to one person, who has become popular on a national scale and probably beyond it, especially among the diasporas and veterans who have finished their service today, is a colleague, unfortunately, who is in the walls of Parliament, a representative of the "Serve of the People" Party, Eugene Bragar. First. I hope because of the history of the dog, we haven't forgotten what history began with its popularity, namely how it acted and led itself by writing an application to the National Police under article 161 of the National Enemies of Our Veterans. That's the first one. The other one. It was very interesting and strange that he was invited after this particular story to the channel of Medvedchuk, actually already with the pro-Russian message of the day and took the line, the course of consideration, probably not Kiev, but Moscow, for what is happening today in Ukraine. Not enough, I'm not going to point out that a driver, like anyone else in passenger transport, has no right to impose any substance on our ears and anyone who uses intercity transportation and knows exactly what kind of pairing is done in the routes, but I will stress to all drivers and car owners about the mandatory license to broadcast. And please use the materials that are provided to you for broadcasting, especially in English, because you are violating the Law on the Functioning of Ukrainian as a State Language. And the last. I would like to say that the Women’s Veteran Movement today issued an application for Mr. Eugene’s wish to apologize to the entire women’s veteran community. And I think all the girls here who were supposed to support the girls who were coming back from Lutsk's funeral to Kiev would have no moral right to be on the road and come out because of this disgraceful act. And the last. There is no sorrow without good. Yesterday, laws were registered to put an end to this acoustic violence and to put a bunch of innocuous content into our ears. Thank you very much. And I hope that my colleague will find the courage to comment to journalists, first, and apologize to all the girls: (a) who serve and (b) They're all veterans. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-05-m0.u3	Thank you. Goose Igor Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-05-m0.u4	Good afternoon. Igor Goose, Future Group, 19 constituency. Dear friends, I would like to address today with a complex subject. I represent in Parliament the mining constituency, where so far there are only two active mines left in Novovolinsk and one Mine No.10, which is being built. The miners came to see me today, and we're going to try to meet with the profile minister, Orgel. But what bothers me. For six months, in fact, the government has been carrying out its duties, all of us, those who are involved in the coal sector, do not have any accurate information planned by the government’s department of expertise. We feel that the government wants to shut down the active mines, and the No.10 mine, which has been built for almost 30 years, which has been allocated nearly 2 billion dollars, is also planned, in fact, to freeze the building and actually close it down. I demand from the Government of the Pottery of Public Debate. I demand that Minister Eagle come to Novovolinsk. So that we can have a discussion with all those who are in pain. The leaders of Volinwogil, the managers of mines, trade unions, city leaders, areas, representatives of my team, the national MP, we want to be clear rules of the game, a transparent vision that the government is planning on closing or not closing mines in Novovolinsk. If the government wants to shut down the mines quietly, it won't, friends. Today, the working miners are about 2.5 thousand, you multiply it by 4, and their families are 10,000 people willing to stand up for their own interests. It just won't work without publicity. So once again I demand, on behalf of Volinian miners, a transparent, public debate on the mines of Novovolinsk. What are you planning to do? How do you plan to do that? And there must be a dialogue. Otherwise, there will be rebellion. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-05-m0.u5	Timishenko Julia Volodymyrna.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-05-m0.u6	Ladies and gentlemen, tomorrow may be a very special day for us in the Supreme Council. As we know, and as we are informed, tomorrow can be credible that the Law on the Sale of Agricultural Land will be considered in the Supreme Council. We are not sure what this will be, but there is great probability. I can say that tomorrow in the Supreme Council, without exaggeration, will be a historic day. Because in reality tomorrow, even after a reduced procedure, we are told, under such a synthetic procedure, without considering all rights without exception in the Supreme Council, they can press the buttons and leave Ukraine for hundreds of years without land. I'd like everyone in the room to think about what we're doing here in this room right now, essentially making history. And it's not going to go anywhere, it's always going to stay conscious, it's going to stay in the textbooks. And everyone who will be on the side of the world's speculators tomorrow at this moment, the apherists who have already put their eyes on our land. And you know, the law clearly states that foreign banks, foreign credit institutions, can buy land without limitation. Yeah, they want to do it because of the mortgage. Well, you and I know in whose hands the National Bank and that these pledges will in a few years become the property of banks, and we, Ukraine, will be left without land, without agrarian complex, without farmers, without villages and without resources at all, in which a country can become one of Europe's richest countries. I would also like to inform you and the whole country that is now listening to us that tomorrow there are agrarians at the Supreme Council, all associations, they have just a full congregation, trade unions, public organizations, parties coming together from all over the country that are not supporting the sale of land today. And it's going to be a real fight for Ukraine tomorrow. If Crimea and Donbas are 7 percent of the occupied territory, if the law is passed tomorrow, 72 percent of the territory of Ukraine will be occupied. Remember, too, that forests, waterholes, and natural reserves come from the hammer. Because that is what the first reading changes are made to the Codex earth. I call on all Ukrainian citizens to come to the Supreme Council tomorrow at nine o'clock to fight for Ukrainian land, for our future, for our children. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-05-m0.u7	The Danube is Sergey Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-05-m0.u8	Honorable Head of the Supreme Council, distinguished colleagues! Today, on the second day of the third session of the ninth call, I would like to ask all of us one simple question: What is next? We've been told we're all presidents now. Instead, there is a situation where no one is president but a few oligarchs who have conveniently invested money. And we have not seen so many best men, weddings, brothers, and loving friends in power even in the days of previous presidents. We were promised the end of a period of poverty. Instead, we have an era of life on the verge of survival. The miners have not been paid a salary for months, the budgeters have been delayed or cancelled, while the ministers and heads of the state - owned companies sign off on their giant bonuses. Teachers were promised salaries of $4,000. Instead, we have a draft Education Act that destroys this same education. We were promised peace. Instead, on my native Donbassa, the residents of the Dangerous or Torquekka still shudder at explosions and shots. In the east, Ukrainian citizens continue to die. And the authorities are reducing the age of 20 to 18. We were promised a professional government. Instead, we have an economic development minister who boasts about not reading books, and a prime minister who, in his words, is full of profanity in the economy. We were promised 40 percent of economic growth in five years. Instead, there is a reduction in industrial production and a negative balance on external trade. The government has attached the country to the solitude and is taking it along with it into a chasm. We were promised to return the Ukrainians home. Instead, we have job cuts and increased labour migration, increased crime. State - owned enterprises are cut to pieces. The Minister of Energy advises the children of miners not to follow their parents' profession, and there was no such pressure on small business even in the time of so-called "criminal power" from the collaboration with which you all are trying to rebaptize. We were promised decentralization. Instead, we have a project with one goal: to prepare everything for the sale of land to the oligarchs. We were also promised to take care of the same little Ukrainian. Instead, we have a draft Labour Code that will turn the people of Ukraine into slaves. There's also a bill on the legalization of the gaming business, which will add gambling to all the other problems. Even us, the Ukrainian Parliament, the most important national institution, are trying to turn us into a broken printer whose only task is to ensure that we have the same self. Dear colleagues, we have a tradition here: the deputy finishes his speech on this high court, and someone is certainly applauding him. But why are you applauding? What did this Council do to deserve a round of applause? I address each of you. Before supporting another criminal and anti-national bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-05-m0.u9	Thank you. Dear colleagues. Thank you, Sergey Volodymyrovich. Sergey Vladislavovich was involved.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-05-m0.u10	Dear colleagues, the present that the citizens of Ukraine have received since the new year, when, in addition to paying for gas transit, they are still getting payment for access to information, I think the scariest thing could not have been invented by any authority that existed in Ukraine. You may wonder: Now our citizens have to pay for this in order to obtain true objective information. I think there are two things that need to be divided here: the business and, in fact, the information security of the state. Now put yourself in the position of citizens in the territory of the occupied Donbas or the annexed Crimea. How can they count the money from their payment card to the providers to get into the FSB's agency network? For immediate investigation, who is looking at the territory of the occupied Crimea and Donbas, the Ukrainian canals that are the only ones who carry the truth in this territory? And then they're going to turn on the satellite plate and see that there are seven Russian channels free of charge that they can watch day and night and get information instead of Ukrainian channels, the false information that Russian intelligence is reporting. Who came up with this idea of actually an information blockade on Ukrainian citizens? What about our citizens in a controlled area, in remote villages, who in their time had the opportunity to place satellite plates, or, for example, in mountain areas where they would never receive objective information now and would receive them again from Russian sources? I think the Fatherland faction is addressing the leadership of the state, the President, the Head of the Supreme Council, the head of the government, it's actually a matter of information policy, the information security of the state. We need to look at this immediately, including on the Supreme Council's profile committee, so that a little bit of the economy that someone seems to be getting doesn't end up with the state not having its own direct, direct information space policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-05-m0.u11	Shahov Sergei Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-05-m0.u12	Sergey Shahov, Luhanščina, Deputy Group "Trust". Ladies and gentlemen, yesterday in the city of Mountain, women began to starve with children because their parents had not paid home for six months. From this rostrum, I have repeatedly claimed that the coal sector is one of the most powerful sectors of our state in the Soviet Union. The treachery began in 1993 when one energy deputy prime minister shut down mines and flooded them, killed hundreds of thousands of miners without war, and today we have to answer for it. I urge all appropriate force structures to start investigating right from then on. The paper will hold everything. Second, how many more miners are going to starve? Only the women began to strike yesterday, immediately began to pay their wages, at least in a month. Our colleague, Igor Goose, spoke for the Volin 10th mine, where billions of dollars were poured into it, and it still doesn't give you any power up there. Now they're trying to shut her down. Who will be responsible in our country for the waste of government funds? There are no public funds, as Margaret Thatcher said, that there are taxpayers’ costs. From every pensioner’s pocket today is spent on those who sit in the office, and you can’t pull them out like a wart from a chair. Who will be responsible for the failure of miners to pay their wages? And yet there is in the Criminal Code, article 175, if I am not mistaken, for my responsibility. Who will bear this responsibility? Why is one of the deputy ministers today saying that the mines will be closed without holding a round table with trade unions? They didn't have a round table with miners, but only the viewers can drive and say they're going to shut down the mines and destroy the coal sector again. Why does Ukraine today feed America, Africa, Russia, or those who dig coal? Why are there 600 million dollars of coal in warehouses today and not paying money for it? Why is someone looking at this money today, please explain. That's why our team requires the President's immediate intervention in this matter: to set up a task, as appropriate, and to respond from this rostrum to the Minister of Environment, Energy.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-05-m0.u13	Sergey Volodymyrovich, we agreed. Thank you. Mokan Vasil Ivanovich. Jasca Elizabeth of Alexandria
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-05-m0.u14	Dear colleagues, distinguished Ukrainians, national MPs! There was another session last week, a January session of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, and as the head of the delegation, the Ukrainian delegation, I would like to report on the results of our work. The Ukrainian delegation in PARJE, which is made up of representatives of all factions, went through military baptism and joined four political groups, participated in all plenary meetings, and started work on committees. The Ukrainian delegation was the only front behind every amendment, because every amendment and resolution is very important to us, for Ukraine. As a result of our work, first of all, PARJE officially acknowledged Russia as party to the Minsk Agreements and demanded that military aggression be halted against Ukraine. The report also referred to the issue of the policy of nonrecognizance of Crimea’s annexation. Secondly, we have some results in the Baltic Plus coalition. We voted in a coordinated and consolidated manner together and resolved a number of issues. We also signed a declaration together on the Russian Federation’s demand to implement the decisions, recommendations adopted by the South Africa. Representatives of countries from Slovakia, Great Britain, Poland, Iceland joined the declaration. Thirdly, we have made a number of proposals to draft resolutions that are currently being prepared in South Africa. They relate to environmental issues and women’s rights. Despite the positive order of the day, we are deeply concerned that some member states of the Council of Europe allow themselves not to implement the Assembly's recommendations and resolutions. This has been the case during all our bilateral meetings with the Governing Council of Europe, PARJE, as well as at bilateral meetings with various delegations. I am convinced that the voice of Ukraine in PARJE sounded unique. And we are in the case of the factions of different factions, with one exception, standing together and alone. And we really want to continue working together in the international arena alone and for Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-05-m0.u15	Trebushkin Ruslan Valeriyovich. You don't? No Trebushkin? None. Labunsky Angela Victorian. Well, I'm out, well, so what can I do, dear colleagues? There's no Labunski? Krulko Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-05-m0.u16	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. The end of last year was marked by such a loud enough scandal in the session hall, and even the first day of the meetings in the new year, what were we talking about? We're going to hear about the gruesome wages and bonuses paid to the boards of directors, the ministers, and so on and so forth. A new session has begun. This question has never been solved in any way. We, as the Fatherland faction, have registered a bill under number 2798, which we propose once and for all to settle this issue by limiting 10 minimum wages along with premiums throughout the power sector, including state enterprises, including ministers, including national MPs. And that'll be fair. And we think that such a bill should be adopted urgently, because when they tell us what they're going to tie to an average salary that's not known how it's going to be, plus a double bonus, that means legalizing the current state of things. Cynicism when supervisors receive salaries that are 10, 20, 30 times higher than the salaries of top officials when they are hundreds of times higher than the salaries of teachers and doctors. It seems to me that such cynicism cannot be tolerated. That's why we, as the "Fatherland" faction, require the adoption of Bill 2798 and the resolution of this issue, and the end of the disgrace to all the Ukrainians and to the world. And the second question. If we're already talking about solving this issue, which is just completely going to blow off pretty bad. And in this background, from all over Ukraine, we hear about debt on wages, especially in front of miners. 15 miners are starving in the Luhansk region's First Maquis Building. The debt on the compound’s salary is 185 million dollars. 185 million dollars is as much as one official in Naftogaz gets a bonus. The Donetsk region, the Mine Capital, 53 miners are protesting at the depth of thousands of meters. Debt is 150 million dollars. Total sector debt is 1.5 billion dollars in front of miners. Please tell us, first of all, that today’s government should not tell us what they need to pay and how hard it is to live, but rather solve the problems faced by miners who, at the depth of thousands of meters today, seek their own, which is then earned by blood. So, in fact, for Ukrainians to believe in power and trust in the state, they need to first address the issues that apply.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-05-m0.u17	Thank you. Klochko Andriyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-05-m0.u18	Pass it on to Podlasi.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-05-m0.u19	Rocksolana Andriyevna.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-05-m0.u20	Dear colleagues, good morning! Rocksolana Podlas, "Serial of the People" faction. You all know very well that President Zelensky and the People's Servant Party went to the polls to make a new policy. New policies, respected colleagues, are primarily about fulfilling their promises. We promised to cancel the parliamentary immunity, and this was done in the first full - time session of the Ninth Council. We promised elections on a proportional system with open lists, and the new Electoral Code came into force on January 1, 2020. We promised to upgrade power at all levels and reduce the number of national MPs, and yesterday we approved changes to the Constitution. We want to change the political culture. Let's define once and for all: the number of deputies does not mean their quality. You can debate and politicize as much as you want, but 450 deputies are no more effective than 300 national deputies. Let's be honest with ourselves and with the Ukrainians, not all MPs work too hard. Blocking the rostrum, fighting in the hall, thousands of meaningless amendments to the bills that introduce important reforms. Do you seriously believe that steelware or sanitation is a hard job? Ask the pensioner, ask the doctor, can Ukraine support this number of national deputies? I'll tell you more. By the year 2000, the Ukrainian people had already said their word: 91 percent of the citizens were in favour of reducing the number of national deputies. We are told that this referendum was falsified by the then authorities. We have no illusions, it's possible. But then, in September 2019, a social survey by the Ratings group confirmed a huge social demand: 92 percent of citizens support a reduction in the number of deputies to 300 even 20 years after this referendum. In doing so, almost all the factions opposed the bill. If you have done so in the Supreme Council, have the courage to go out to the people and say that you are against it. And have the courage to hear what they think about it. Some politicians tell us that we cannot rely on the people’s thinking on such important issues. But the "Serial of the People" faction went to Parliament alone to listen, to do and to hear people's will, not to support an inefficient political system. So today I am addressing all the factions: hear the people and in the next session give your vote for reducing the number of national deputies to 300. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-05-m0.u21	Thank you, Rocsolana Andrienne. Osadchuk Andri Pavlovich. Juršin Jaroslav Romanović.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-05-m0.u22	Please give Jurczyn to me.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-05-m0.u23	Dear colleagues, distinguished voters! I have a small appeal to you regarding the important value that I believe has brought us all into this hall, namely human dignity. As national MPs, we must guarantee that this value is respected in our society, especially in relation to law enforcement agencies with our citizens. In mid-January, a very sad event occurred when the capital police proudly raised how they had discovered a criminal group, namely: a so-called apartment garden, where parents were forced to hand over their children in order to spend their free time surrounded by peers. Why? Because as a nation, we have not been able to get the builders to build such kindergartens. And parents are young. And we've recently become witnesses to what a huge demographic problem in Ukraine, that young parents actually think very seriously about whether or not they can afford children. And here, when they organized themselves and arranged the garden, our militia knocked out the door, forced the organizers of these gardens to write an extremely large number of explanations. Why is that? Because some officials were hindered by children who were walking in the yard. Another case is similar. A Muslim holiday. The mosque. People without a passport are captured and tested, again by the police, and once again by a demonstration of dishonesty. Colleagues, we could immediately build up political charges and talk about what a minister we have. And I'm saying that unfortunately, we still have law enforcement agencies acting, not as a service, to make the lives of citizens quality, but as a lady of life. I'm asking a lot of questions and I'm asking the Education Committee, the Ministry of Education, colleagues, let's think together about how we can develop Ukrainian preschools and help parents have a place to give their children and provide them with a decent and peaceful preschool. I call on all those responsible to conduct, perhaps some training for our law enforcement officers, to explain that it is not the duty of a Ukrainian citizen to go with a passport, but the duty of a lawyer to protect any citizen irrespective of religion, ethnicity and other indicators. Colleagues, we were brought here by the Dignity Revolution. The police have to look after and protect the dignity of citizens, and we, as national deputies, have to control it. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-05-m0.u24	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the time for performances is up. A statement came from two factions replacing the break for the performance. The word is given to Pottery Alexiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-05-m0.u25	Alexei Hotcharenko, European Solidarity, Clothing. Now I have the honour to speak on behalf of both my faction and the "For the Future" faction. Dear friends, there are now several thousand people under the Supreme Council. I think you went, everyone saw them. Who are these people? These are simple workers, these are people who came from Hmelniččina, Ivano-Frankishte, Cherkaščina, Poltavščina, Hersonščina, from all over Ukraine. These are people who work at Ukrland Farming and Avantgard, and who today, these companies, are creating 1 percent of the GDP of the state. There are 27,000 people working there, paying 2.5 billion dollars of taxes, once again, 2.5 billion dollars of taxes. And today they came to the Supreme Council. Why? In order to contact us with you, they have come to us for protection. Who are they asking to protect them from? From the actions of Artem Sitnik and the National Anti-Corruption Bureau. And that, of course, offends me, the person who, by their vote, created these organs, the new anti-corruption system. But today this new anti-corruption system has actually gone awry when the Director of the National Anti-Corruption Bureau of Ukraine, Artem Sitnik, was introduced into the National Register of Corruptioners of Ukraine, recognized by the Ukrainian Court, by two institutions, the name of Ukraine, a corruptionist. How could that be, the director of the National Anti-Corruption Bureau of Ukraine? And instead of fighting top-corruption among officials, NABU detectives, it turns out, as people say, are going to bird factories and counting chickens or whatever they're doing there, it's not clear. This is top-corruption in the state. These companies are the ones that are laying golden eggs for our nation that feeds us all with you. It feeds all of this NABU, all of the law enforcement agencies that are in the state today. But they're not allowed to work. But they're being destroyed. We're looking for investors all over the world. Who will come to us with investments when such huge businesses are destroyed and 27,000 people are afraid that they will lose what they are going to feed their families? Dear friends, today we have spoken before them and my colleagues, Stepan Kube, "European Solidarity", colleague of the Cimbaluk of Fatherland. I think there are other deputies. I invite you to go out to the people and talk to them, speak to them. I think we need to work this out with you right now. Stop the mess in the NABU. Change the NABU manager. A man who has completely disgraced herself. Which today destroys an extremely important institution of the National Anti-Corruption Bureau, which the state needs, but which has to deal with, not some stupid thing. It's very important. Here's a signed letter on the release of Sitnik from office as director. Dear friends, I invite you all to sign this.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-05-m0.u26	No, I'm afraid not. Dear colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-05-m0.u27	[[Unheard]]
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-05-m0.u28	Thank you, Alexeiovich. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to daytime issues. So let's move on to the day-to-day issues. However, the first question is Bill 2483. The chairman of the committee was also invited and is in the position of the Committee on Legal Policy to postpone consideration of the matter. Would you please tell me there's no objection? We can't vote. Let's move on to the next question. Okay. Dear colleagues, you have been invited to consider the draft Law on Amendments to Certain Legislative Acts of Ukraine (reforming patent legislation) (registration No. 2259). Dear colleagues, it is suggested that this issue be considered in a simplified manner. Please prepare for the vote. Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[10:46:10]] For 227 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, a word for the report is given to the deputy head of the Economic Development Committee of Podlasy Roxolani Andriyevni.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-05-m0.u29	Dear colleagues, good morning again! Bill 2259 is part of a package of legislative initiatives on protection and intellectual property reform in Ukraine. I am pleased that the Economic Development Committee in this convening is working hard and consistently to reform this area. Law 2259 proposes to solve problems related to the protection of the rights to inventions and beneficial models. We're using similar tools for them: this is also an electronic application, and a simplified registration, and a pre-grant defence mechanism called the "opposition pre-grant" and a simplified complaint procedure for the post-grant opposition mechanism. This means that violations of rights can also be brought before the Court of Appeal at the Ministry of Economics. This is how we finally create the conditions for the development of creative activities in Ukraine. Bill 2259 also proposes changes that are critical to Ukrainian patients and the Ukrainian pharmaceutical industry. One of the key novels of the bill is the introduction of the so-called "bolar position" into Ukrainian legislation. This is a mechanism that will allow Ukrainian pharmaceutical manufacturers to use the existing invention for research and development of generic drugs without violating the rights of the owner of this invention. This means that Ukrainian drug manufacturers will be able to prepare for the state registration of a generic medicine before the patent expires for the original medicine. This allows the generation of Ukrainian production to enter the market in much shorter terms after the impact of the patent on the original product. The adoption of this bill will reduce the cost of drugs for Ukrainians and give rise to the development of local pharmaceuticals. I would like to point out immediately that we are in constant dialogue with the National Health Committee and pharmaceutical manufacturers and patient organizations. We already know that during the preparation of Project 2259 for second reading, we will be conducting extensive consultations on making changes to part of the so-called "eternal green" or secondary patents. This is about patents on salt, isomers, new therapeutic methods, and much more. The draft Law 2259 will provide preconditions for the activation of inventive activities in Ukraine and will promote a balance of interests between the patent monopoly and the right of Ukrainians to access medicines. The Economic Development Committee adopted a decision to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, following a first reading review of the adoption of Bill 2259 as a basis. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-05-m0.u30	Thank you, Roxolano Andriyevno. Dear colleagues, do you need to discuss the matter? It's necessary, isn't it? Please sign up for factions. Oddzuk Andri Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-05-m0.u31	Please pass on the word to Olga Stefanishini.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-05-m0.u32	Stefanine Olga. Dear colleagues, you may be asked to leave the central passage. Kowalczuk! Thank you. Your place is a little bit there, isn't it?
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-05-m0.u33	Dear colleagues, good afternoon! The Voice faction will support Bill 2259 in the first reading. And especially because of the important norm that the reporter was talking about regarding "eternal green patents." I want to give you an example. Today, Ukraine is paying $135 million for a single HIV treatment. Why is this happening? Because the manufacturer company used so-called "eternal green patents" and twice extended the secondary patent to these drugs. It is now in operation until 2026. Over the course of this time, we're actually paying 3 billion dollars, which is a third of the whole state's drug program in 2020. Thus, of course, such a situation is dangerous for both Ukrainian patients and unfavourable for the Ukrainian budget. So in September we registered draft Law 2089, which is duplicated in draft Law 2259. Of course, we will maintain such an important standard because it is essential for the health system in Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-05-m0.u34	Thank you, Olga Anatolyevna. Princess Mikola Leonidovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-05-m0.u35	Dear colleagues, "European Solidarity" will also support this bill in the first reading, because it is a positive and certainly restricts the possibility of the so-called Big Pharma to continue a patent monopoly on drugs and reduces the possibility of abuse as a result of patent trolling. But we have very serious comments before this bill, which we will necessarily make to the second reading. What a colleague of Podlas said as a big plus, what a quasi-sodium procedure is being introduced, we see it as a minus. Because the Appeals Chamber, which is empowered to declare invalid intellectual property rights and inventions on a model, violates the jurisdiction of the judicial authorities, since it is only within the jurisdiction of the judicial authorities, and such powers other than the courts, have no other authority, and the granting of them to the Appeals Chamber is contrary to articles 124 and 125 of the Constitution of Ukraine. The Constitutional Court, in a similar situation, has determined that similar bodies cannot invalidate their previous decisions, amend them if, in accordance with the provisions of these decisions, legal relations have arisen in relation to the exercise of certain subjective rights and legally protected interests, and the subject of such decisions denies their change or termination. This law also contains a whole range of evaluation standards. For example, adding new forms to the list of objects that cannot be registered. It's a quote from the level of medical technology, if it's not significantly different from its properties in terms of safety of efficiency. Obviously, the different properties of safety or efficiency are difficult to evaluate during the stage of expertise. So in the first reading, we will support this important bill, and we will continue to apply. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-05-m0.u36	Coltunovich Alexander Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-05-m0.u37	Thank you. Dear Mr. Head, honourable national MPs, the Opposition Platform for Life faction will support this draft law in the first reading, because it is really important and relevant for resolving the issue of patent legislation or reform, as it is called loudly. Yet, in our view, and we will make appropriate adjustments, there is one warning about the so - called transitional period. What are we talking about? The point is that they've already made the right applications and they're there today or they're in. By the old rules, it's about them, and they're already in the process of being considered. So, in our view, we need to propose a transitional period that would allow those who have already taken advantage of the pre-legislative initiatives that have been adopted and are now in place, for the time being, by still existing legislation, we might have to deal with this issue fully and comprehensively -- this is the first aspect. And the second, where the more important aspect is. It's actually the third draft of a law that deals with any kind of intellectual property issue. Of course, the third draft of the law, it's also important, but I repeat, the fundamental first question is the support of science, the technical and scientific development at the stage where they're being created, is the financing of the National Academy of Sciences, the scientific research institutes, the creation of an intellectual product, the unique intellectual product that our nationals form, including scientists, and scientists working outside scientific research institutions. So, in our view, it's important to review both the budget of Ukraine and other legislation that would stimulate and directly support precisely research and research and development. Thank you. And once again, we're going to support this draft law in the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-05-m0.u38	Sergey Vladislavovich was involved. Taruta Sergey Alexiyovich. After that, Lubinets, we move on to the vote. Please invite the national deputies to the hall. Turn on Sergey Alexiovich's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-05-m0.u39	The Fatherland faction will support this bill in the first reading. I will not repeat what the speakers have said before, there are very many strengths here, there are also weak sides -- what Mr. Knieżicki said, we will work on it between the first and the second readings, and we will make it one that will fully match both the protection of our patent intellectual property activities and Ukraine's commitment to European integration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-05-m0.u40	Lubinet Dmitry Valeriovich. Then we go to the vote. Please invite the national MPs. Princely speaking, distinguished colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-05-m0.u41	Dear citizens of Ukraine! Honorable Predestination! Dear National Deputies! The MPs will vote and support this bill. Yesterday we voted in favour of two bills that protect intellectual property rights, and we voted on more than 300 votes. And we really want this bill to get more than 300 now, and we've shown that we're protecting people who are creating an intellectual product in our country. But, at the same time, we point out that there are shortcomings, that the NEU directly points to them, and we very much ask the profiling committee to take into account all the comments made by the Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority in preparing for the second reading. Thank you. We vote for intellectual Ukrainian property!
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-05-m0.u42	Thank you. Dear colleagues, let's go to the vote. Please take your seats. Are you ready to vote, Your Honor? I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Act amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine (reforming patent legislation) (registration No. 2259). Please take your seats. Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[10:59:23]] For 369 Decision taken. Thank you, Your Honor. Please show by factions: "Serve of the People" – 231, "Responsible Platform for Life" – 34, "European Solidarity" – 21, "Fathership" – 19, "For the Future" – 17, "Voice" – 19, "Trust" – 17, "No" – 11. Let's move on to the next question of order of the day. Dear colleagues, you are invited to consider the draft Law amending the Forest Code for National Forest Inventory (Registration No. 2379). There is an offer to consider it in a simplified way. Please support and vote. [[11:00:16]] For 259. Decision taken. Ladies and gentlemen, the report is given to the head of the Committee of the People’s Deputies of Ukraine, Bondarenko Oleg Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-05-m0.u43	Good afternoon, distinguished chairman of the good day, distinguished national deputies. The purpose of the draft Act amending Ukraine's Forest Code for National Forest Inventory is to create legislative conditions for the introduction in Ukraine of a national forest inventory as a new collection system and to generalize forest data on a national scale. The bill proposes to amend Ukraine’s Forest Code, including the addition of a new article 55 p.m. "National Forest Inventory", which defines the content of this concept and the characteristics of its implementation, the mandate of the central executive authority, which implements the policy in the field of forest management, the purpose of its implementation, and the sources of funding. Dear colleagues, this is not really a bill on wood accounting -- it's about our forest strategy. This is a very important bill for us to finally start reforming the forest economy. This bill is one of the first. We'll finally see a few more bills, but this bill is very important, and I'm asking you very much to support it. In order to take into account Minekoenergo's observation of the possible conflict of interest in one body regarding the provision of objective information on the state of forests, the Committee supported the proposal of the Ukrainian deputy Bondarenko on the need for an exception, in accordance with part one of article 116 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Rules of Procedure, the introduction to the text of a bill of proposals, a right that is not considered in the first reading, namely article 28 of the Ukrainian Forest Code on the powers of Minicoenergo, paragraph 2 of the first article 28, which reads as follows: "Ensures the formation of public policy in the field of protection, protection, use and reproduction of forests, forest management, public cadastra, treatment, monitoring and national inventory." Please support the committee's decision to adopt this bill as a basis.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-05-m0.u44	Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss? Then please sign up: two in, two in, two in. I invite you to the words of the National Deputy of Sinyutka Oleg Mikhailovich, the faction of the political party "European Solidarity".
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-05-m0.u45	Please give the word to Mikola Knieżick.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-05-m0.u46	Please give me your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-05-m0.u47	Thank you. Our faction will support this bill, because the inventory of forests is certainly important because the way that accounting is now done, including the areas that are used for forest farming, sometimes just resembles parody and has a lot of abuse. But obviously, the second reading will have to take into account the GNEU's proposals in order to prevent forest inventory from becoming a simulation that is now, in order to clearly determine the organs responsible for this. The European Solidarity faction will support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-05-m0.u48	Thank you. Please, National Deputy Bondar Viktor Vasilovich, MP for the Future. Please, Taras Ivanovich Batenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-05-m0.u49	Good afternoon, dear friends! Our parliamentary group "For the Future" has been very responsible for adopting this bill, which deals with changes to the Ukrainian Forest Code, because we understand and know that tens, hundreds of hectares of land in Ukraine are being cut out, cleared, and no one is responsible for it. Environmental inspection will determine the responsibilities of zero. I believe that the inventory of the forests in Ukraine, which concerns state forests and nonstate forests, is long needed, has long been a problem. And we fully support the need for such general data on forests on a global scale. We need information on quantitative and qualitative state and state dynamics in the country. We need to understand their resource potential and, in general, the potential of the country, which will ensure that national inventory is carried out. But we need to understand who needs to do this, and we need to understand that this is now actually going to be done by the body of the Ukratzhlis project, which in the structure of the State Department in accordance with the Forest Code of Ukraine, which is responsible for the Degree Agency for the Forest Management System. That is, we focus both on the host and on the control functions in one object, a government object. So I think we need what the reporter said before to work out and develop these concepts through the Ministry of Environmental Policy, Minecoenergo, and to determine the clear authority of the authority that will do land inventory, so that the State of Ukraine will not do so, in fact, has not been written off by hundreds of hectares of land that you will never return. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-05-m0.u50	Thank you. The word is given to the national deputy of Labunska Angelica Viktorovna, a faction of the political party "The All-Ukrainian Union of Fatherland".
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-05-m0.u51	I'll pass it on to the scientist.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-05-m0.u52	Please, Vadim Yvchenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-05-m0.u53	Vadim Yvchenko, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear colleagues, the law is necessary. But he's declarant. In government legislation, we'll see the essence of the bill. But inventory is needed. It doesn't need to be selective, as it says in this law. We need it completely. We all know that in Ukraine about 10 million acres [10 million ha] of land, 17 and a half percent of our territory. Fifty-one percent Alpen's muzzle. We're all going around our territory and we're shooting, and then we're putting it on Facebook and we're showing naked arrays, and we're writing: But what have we done with you to preserve the Ukrainian forest? The Inventory Act is necessary. And as a result, input data into the cadastre with all of the boundary signs and the turning points. Whoever understands this will understand me. This will not allow any bits of forest to be stolen. And finally, we need you, colleagues, to change completely forest policy. Well, how did state-owned enterprises come up with the idea of transferring them to accounting enterprises? I mean, look at the woods and pay your wages. More be careful, more pay. Well, is that what you have to do? We need to change this policy eventually. It's necessary that the State does not have to do economic functions directly to keep them under surveillance. Household functions should be transferred to other businesses that are not supposed to be under one roof. And finally, colleagues, in Ukraine since 2000, about 165 meters of Cuban forest have been cut down, according to statistics. Some 10 million were smuggled out of Ukraine. According to our smuggling, Romania and other countries are building whole factories. We have to stop this. We've adopted a moratorium and let's stick to it. Let's get the system straight on ours.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-05-m0.u54	Thank you, Vadim Eugeneovich. The word is given to the National Deputy of the Movement Valery Sergiyovich, the faction of the political party "The Opposition Platform for Life". Excuse me, yes, please, Michael Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-05-m0.u55	Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine! Dear citizens of Ukraine! I am now acting as Ukraine's national deputy to the faction "The Opposition Platform for Life," and while Ukraine's national deputy, who represents Bukovina, is such a beautiful country. But today there is a huge problem — the problem of forests. And this problem is complex. And when I look at this bill, I have a question about how a person who's been through these few epochs, every Supreme Council is starting to fight for the Ukrainian forests. And you know, the paradox is that every fight we fight ends with our forests being cut down. Today, it is easy to show the Ukrainian National Deputies space images of the Ukrainian Carpathians. And you will see the difference between the Romanian Carpathians and the Ukrainian Carpathians. And you'll see that we don't have the Carpathians, but we have the mountains, and we need to think about how to rename. We've already done, I can see these shares, when the chips were intruding, touching all of our forests. Then, when it was divided, no one was able to identify the forms of ownership, that is, the forests of the rainforests, the forests of the APC, the forests of the local communities. I mean, respectable friends, one request. This law, so it was written by scientists, and I would very much like to have experts involved in this work, so that we can speak, not with slogans, but clearly and clearly in the law, also put checkpoints. That's the job we're planning. And it says here that the year's demand is about 12 million dollars. I don't believe it. I don't believe you can make a national inventory for 12 million dollars. So it's either a line of cracquetball, or. Until it's in the law of clear control points where the Supreme Council can hold.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-05-m0.u56	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I'm still giving the final word to the head of the Subcommittee on Environmental Policy and the Environmental Use of Julia Yuriovna Ovčinnikov because I missed her speech. I'm sorry. Julia Yuryovna, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-05-m0.u57	Good afternoon, dear fellows! I'm going to point out that forest policy is now in the state of absolute inventory, because there is a need for full monitoring of the legislative field, and now a package of documents is being formed on forest policy issues. This bill is the beginning of a real inventory to see how many forests need more than a certain protection. I'm going to point out that this is necessary at the regional and, of course, at the national level. The Ukrainian delegation to Paris has taken a step towards initiating the issue of moderation and monitoring of forests at European level. And this is the report in the PARJE resolution. What I'm also going to say is that the Ministry of Environmental Protection, energy, is proposing that as soon as possible, get specialists and practitioners involved in the policy-making process. It should be noted that the committee has examined the bill, and the subcommittee directly recommends that the bill be adopted on the basis of all the comments taken into account and that the community should be given the maximum possible involvement of all steakholders in the analysis process. The State Agency is the beginning, but the legislative initiative is behind us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-05-m0.u58	Thank you. From the motives of Shahov, yes, I understand. One minute, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-05-m0.u59	Sergey Shahov, Luhanščina, Deputy Group "Trust". Of course, the "Trust" MP group will support this bill. But today I want to pay attention to all my colleagues and start an audit of the forests from Luhansk region: the Peace Valley, from the Kremin region, from the station Lugansk region, where the war is going. Four years in a row, I say in this room that 26,000 acres [26,000 ha] are rotting today. Because of that rotten forest, a crocodile is thrown into a living forest and devours it without being cut down. What about the Peace Valley? There's a gang in Severerodonetsk, too, that I'm talking about all the time in the rostrum, a botkov gang that cuts out that forest, pulls a brick every day at night and day. Power structures don't respond. Please review the Luhansk area in the forest sector. Thank you. Sergey Shahov's "Trust" MP.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-05-m0.u60	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we have concluded our discussion. Requesting to take our seats, we move on to the vote. Dear colleagues, I ask you to take your seats. We're moving to a vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-05-m0.u61	Dear colleagues, please prepare for the vote. Dear colleagues, ready to vote? I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of a proposal by the Committee to take into account the proposed clarifications in the preparation for second reading in accordance with article 116 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Rules of Procedure, the draft Act amending the Forest Code for National Forest Inventory (Registration No. 2379). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[11:14:54]] For 374 Decision taken. Thank you. Show me the factions, please. "People's Servant" – 233, "The Opposition Platform for Life" – 32, "European Solidarity" – 23, "The Fatherhood" – 19, "For the Future" – 17, "The Voice" – 17, "The Trust" – 17, "The Non-Factional" – 16. All of it? [[B in m in s a l in]] No, two. We can, can't we? No, I'm good. The chairman of the committee believes that we need to work on the second reading. Thank you. Dear colleagues, let's move on to the next issue of the agenda. You have been proposed to amend some of Ukraine’s laws on access to construction, transportation, and electricity infrastructure. electricity, I'm sorry. Registration number 2042, this is second reading. Reports Fedienko Alexander Pavlovich, deputy head of the Digital Transformation Committee. Alexander Pavlovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-05-m0.u62	Good afternoon, dear fellows! Draft Law 2042 on access to infrastructure. In view of further suggestions for the bill, I suggest that I send it back for a second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-05-m0.u63	Thank you. Dear colleagues, is there any point in discussing matters? No, it's not. That's why I'm betting. Please take your seats, prepare for the vote. Dear colleagues, I am voting on the proposal to return to the committee for further work and to re-read the draft Law amending certain laws of Ukraine regarding access to infrastructure for construction, transport, electricity (registration number 2042). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[11:17:52]] For 284 Decision taken. Thank you, Your Honor. Dear colleagues, next question is the agenda. This is a bill of recognition that has become invalid, Ukraine's Power Statute Act of the Armed Forces of Ukraine (registration number 2466). It is suggested that this issue be considered in a simplified manner. Please support and vote. [[11:19:02]] For 256 Decision taken. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the subject. The word for the report is given to Besseus Mariana Volodymyrna.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-05-m0.u64	Gentlemen, your opinion is proposed by the Ukrainian National Deputies, members of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Committee on National Security, Defence and Intelligence, the draft Act on Recognition of Persons Deprived of Validity, the Ukrainian Law on the Armed Forces of Ukraine (Registration No. 2466). The bill has been drafted for the purpose of regulating the sub-legislative laws of matters that are currently governed by the Ukrainian Law on the Power Statute of the Armed Forces of Ukraine. The adoption of the bill will allow it to bring the relevant acts into line with Euro-Atlantic norms and NATO membership criteria by amending legislation and other regulations. The main scientific and expert office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine analysed the project, concluding that the first reading of the bill would make it appropriate to return the subject to the right of legislative initiative for further development. This was due to the fact that we are actually reshaping what has been regulated over the years by legislative acts, sending this to the decision of the Cabinet of Ministers and the Ministry of Defense directly. The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on National Security, Defence and Intelligence at its meeting on December 12th considered the bill and recommended that the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopt as a basis and as a whole a bill of the Ukrainian law on recognition of such that it lost its validity under the Ukrainian Law on the Power Statute of the Armed Forces of Ukraine as a result of a first reading review. In fact, it's a small law that just delegated this concept to the level of the Cabinet of Ministers, the Ministry of Defence and other ministries in particular, so that we don't decide how the soldier is going, the law of Ukraine. It's a modern adaptation technique. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-05-m0.u65	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please sign up for the speeches by the MP factions and groups. Juršin Jaroslav Romanović.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-05-m0.u66	Please pass the word to Kostenko. Kostenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-05-m0.u67	Costenko Roman.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-05-m0.u68	Good afternoon, colleagues! We fully support this law. What I'm saying is that the Power Force Statute is just a translated statute of the Soviet Union, so we just have to walk away from it. This gives us the right in the future, for example, that if a soldier doesn't zip a button there, and he's already thought to have broken the law. All of this is regulated by orders from the Minister of Defense and the Ministry's decrees, we'll move away from the legislation. That's why I think this is another step towards the transition to the Nativity standards. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-05-m0.u69	Vitatrovich Volodymyr Mihajlovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-05-m0.u70	Please pass the word to Irina Fries.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-05-m0.u71	Friz Irina Vasilovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-05-m0.u72	Thank you, Mr. Head. Unfortunately, there is now no co-author of this bill, our famous General Michael Zabrodsky, who today has been questioned by the D.B.I. But on behalf of our faction, I want to say that the bill is fully supported by our faction and the appropriate hall. Because it meets our Euro-Atlantic path, it meets NATO standards and criteria, and so it will bring our battle statutes into line with the NATOs. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-05-m0.u73	Sergey Vladislavovich was involved.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-05-m0.u74	Sobolje, Fatherland. I wouldn't be so happy about the Nativity claims. I don't see how a government where half the government didn't serve at all in the Armed Forces would approve the statutes, not the Supreme Council of Ukraine -- as adopted in any country of the world. Secondly, I have no idea how such powers are passed on to the government by the Supreme Council, if the regulation of the armed statutes is the most important point in the functioning of the Ukrainian Armed Forces. Third. Read carefully the findings of the science-expert management, it's all clearly written. You can't mix security services, the External Intelligence Service and other units with the Ukrainian Armed Forces, I don't understand why the drafters mixed it all up. So our proposal is consistent with the proposal of scientific and scientific management. We propose that the authors of the legislative initiative be returned and translated not only into translation but also brought into line with the laws and the Constitution of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-05-m0.u75	Papiev Mikhailo Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-05-m0.u76	Thank you. Please give the floor to the People's Deputy, Burmich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-05-m0.u77	Please, National Deputy Burmich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-05-m0.u78	Fellow warlords, so far, all paramilitary formations have been directed by the army in their work, teaching, everyday life, the Constitution of the Ukrainian Armed Forces. He predicts that the commander is subordinate; and everyone is accustomed to it, and there are no problems. Someone wanted to break up an army in war conditions, break the relationship between commanders, subordinates, lower discipline, turn everyone upside down. I don't understand, but I do. They want to lead to some standards. But we have our own standards, we have our own army. And the Cabinet of Ministers, who admitted that they're not what they're dealing with, but what they're dealing with in constitutional relations. I believe that this issue is irrelevant today, especially in terms of war and armed conflict. It should be directed to further work, to approach from the state’s positions, and to focus on issues that are now relevant. I suggest we get him back to work, and we won't support him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-05-m0.u79	Dear colleagues, please prepare for the vote. All those who wish to speak? Oh, no, Shahov Sergey Volodymyrovich. After that, for the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-05-m0.u80	Sergey Shahov, Luhanščina, Deputy Group "Trust". Of course, both order and discipline should be in the army. And standards have to be Ukrainian. We have to look at other countries that are developing, in which a serious army, such as Israel, should all be Ukrainian. Next. It's about the military. The main thing for families to be warm is their apartments, their homes, and their children to be able to go to kindergartens, with their purses, and their families were fed, and they were protected. And then the military will take their duties seriously. And when a soldier sits in a trench and thinks that he doesn't have a house and a homeless family running without a salary, without a woman working as a teacher today and not getting her salary, what will be the discipline? Of course, the statute is necessary, but we also need to consider the military. Thank you. Sergey Shahov, trust MP.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-05-m0.u81	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-05-m0.u82	Dear colleagues, all who would like to speak have spoken. Please, come on, time for discussion is up. Please prepare for the vote, invite the national deputies to the hall. Dear colleagues, let's go to the vote. I'll bet you a vote. There is another question: Please tell the committee to accept as a whole. Are you ready to vote? I'm betting on a motion for adoption based on the draft Recognition Act, which has become invalid, the Ukrainian Powers Act (Registration No. 2466). Please support and vote. [[11:29:59]] For-300 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, may we vote in general? Nothing will change, what difference does it make, dear colleagues? He's out of commission. [[B in m in s a l in]] May I? Do you mind? Why can't you? Do you have a note? What? He's out of commission. What might be noted in one article, respected colleagues? Maria Mikolayevna! I am voting on the proposal for adoption in general with the necessary technical and legal rights of the draft Law on Recognition in such a way as has become invalid, the Ukrainian Law on the Power Statute of the Armed Forces of Ukraine (Registration No. 2466). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[11:31:15]] For 278 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Thank you, Your Honor. Show me the factions, please. "People's Servant" – 229, "The Opposition Platform for Life" – 0, "European Solidarity" – 21, "The Fatherhood" – 0, "For the Future" – 3, "The Voice" – 17, "The Trust" – 1, "the Non-Factional" – 7. Thank you again. Let's move on to the next question of order of the day. Ladies and gentlemen, you have been invited to consider the draft Act amending the Act on Notariat in Ukraine. Dear colleagues, the speech is given to the Head of the Committee on Legal Policy, Fris Igor Pavlovich. Excuse me, subcommittee. Excuse me, fellow officers. Andrey Evgenyovich, I apologize.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-05-m0.u83	I'll take the card, one second.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-05-m0.u84	You don't need a card right now. You won't be voting yet.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-05-m0.u85	Good afternoon, dear fellows! Thank you, Mr. Head, for having, since the ninth attempt, passed a bill on notary to make changes to the rostrum and to Parliament. You know, since 1995, there's been a private notary in our country, and since 2004, the new Civil Code has been in force. And to this day, notaries of Ukraine continue to use the old terminology that was in the old legal instruments and in no way found their reflection in the Ukrainian Notaryate Act. It doesn't change that much during its activities, but today many terms, such as "agreement," "trafficking," "actions," have not found their reflection in the actual legislation on notariat. It does not provide for the law and the right of notaries to register. And as we know, today or not, notaries are the main subjects of the state registration of property for immovable property and the state registration of legal persons and natural persons entrepreneurs. Imperfect is the procedure for determining the physical person alive, determining his place of residence, and giving appropriate testimony in this regard. Nor is there a proper procedure for a person to be in a certain place, especially in the case of minors and incapacitated persons. These and other problems in their majority have been reflected in the stages of law enforcement, that is, notaries in the pursuit of a particular activity apply different mechanisms and give them this in legal credibility. But still, according to what we're working within the bounds of an undisputed legal relationship, I'm sorry to say "we," and I'm still counting myself as a notary. Hence, notaries, of course, who work within the bounds of an undisputed relationship, require that the laws in force be totally applicable to those acts and to the rights they bear witness to. Today there is some inappropriate quality of the Ukrainian Notaryate Act, and we need to make appropriate changes, taking into account those rules of the Civil Code that are not being regulated. The purpose of this bill is to improve the legislative technique and harmonize terminology, to regulate established relationships by replacing outdated names, concepts and terms, to predict mechanisms for the implementation of individual mandates and to perform notary actions. What this bill will give us, which you and I are about to adopt on our first reading. It should remove the outdated terminology of legislation, detail the procedure for determining residence for individuals, minors and incapacitated persons. It should clarify the list of persons who have the right to take certain notary measures and provide for the procedures already in place with which the notary has been operating for the last seven years, probably since 2013, this is about the state registration. At the request of the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on 4 September 19th, the Committee of the Supreme Council of Legal Policy reviewed at its meeting on 9 October 19th, the draft Act amending the Act on Notariat of Ukraine (with regard to the removal of legislators and omissions). In order to achieve the purpose of this bill, the Ukrainian Act on Notaryate, which removes outdated terminology, words: agreement, assignment, citizens and businesses, institutions, organizations, executive committee of rural, rural, urban council of national deputies, etc. A list of individuals who are already performing certain notary actions is being clarified. And it provides for the right of the notary to carry out registration activities in state and sole registers that are created and operated by the Ministry of Justice. In considering the bill, the Committee on Legal Policy came out of the following. The Constitution of Ukraine defines Ukraine as a democratic, social, legal state. Human rights and duties, their guarantees determine the meaning and orientation of the State. The State is responsible to a person for its activities. It upholds and guarantees the rights and freedoms of a person who is the primary responsibility of the State. The authorities of the State, including the Supreme Council as the sole body of legislative authority in Ukraine, are obliged to act only on the basis, in a manner and determined by the Constitution of Ukraine. Thus, the organization and activity of the notary are determined exclusively by the laws of Ukraine. And the Supreme Council is the only body of legislative authority in Ukraine, one of which is the adoption of relevant laws. The committee members believe that the drafting of the bill meets the objective set out in the explanatory note to it and will be able to remove the outdated terminology of the current Ukrainian legislation on notariat and bring them into line with other legislation that currently regulate the issue of notarial action. But as the author of the bill, I agree with the opinion of the committee, members of the Legal Policy Committee, who have expressed some of the comments and clarifications that the bill requires. Yes, section I, paragraph 1, of the bill provides for amendments to paragraph 1 of section 4 of the Ukrainian Act on Notariat, namely: it is proposed to be made in the following edition that notaries are entitled to require from natural and legal persons the information and documents necessary to carry out notarial actions, to carry out State registration of immovable property rights and their burdens, and to carry out other statutory powers. However, the authorization of a notary as a public registrar is determined by a separate law, and this is the Law of Ukraine on the State Registration of Real Estate Rights and Their Burdens. In connection with these members, the Committee expressed its wish to make the following reference to article 4, paragraph 2, of the Act on Notariat: that notarius has the right to require information and documents from natural and legal persons for notarial action. I mean, get those documents out of here that apply to government registration. Section I, paragraph 7, of the bill provides for amendments to article 58 of the Ukrainian Notaryate Act, by changing the word "trouble" in all its exceptions to the word "trust." However, according to part three of article 244 of the Ukrainian Civil Code, confidentiality is a written document that appears to be another person to represent before third parties. In turn, a valid law edition, article 58 of the Ukrainian Act on Notariat, is presented in such a way as notary or officials who act notary acts, certify a commission made on behalf of one or more persons on behalf of one person or several persons. In order to introduce the provisions of the Ukrainian Act on Notariat to the requirements of the Civil Code, the members of the Committee, in turn, propose a part of the first article of article 58 to read: "Notarius or officials who act notary acts shall certify the confidence that appears to one person to be represented in front of third parties." According to the committee, this would be a perfectly logical statement. Thus, we will allow individuals and legal persons to exercise those rights that are defined by the rules of the Civil Code. According to the general concept of the Ukrainian Act on Notariat, notary acts, including those carried out by authorized individuals, are carried out by local self-government authorities. However, the law, in its current version of the Ukrainian Act on Notariat, states that local self-government authorities have the right to do so, rural, rural, city councils and their executive bodies. In view of this, with a view to unifying the terms used in the Ukrainian Notariat Act, members of the committee propose in article 159 of the law the words "rural, rural, city council of national deputies" should still be replaced by the words "local self-government authorities." This will be more perfect and will cover, in principle, all the relevant bodies that are provided by law for notarial action. In turn, the Chief Scientific and Expert Office of the Supreme Council supports this bill and these changes in the first reading, taking into account the comments and suggestions made to it. The professional self - control organization of the notaries of Ukraine, the Notary Chamber, similarly sent its support to the committee on behalf of the bill, taking into account some comments that will be considered on the second reading. We will be able to make appropriate changes, including most likely to be announced, and I will be presented with changes in the reproduction of the existing article 34 of the Ukrainian Act on Notariat, where it will be possible to do another notary action, such as removing the ban on immovable property in view of what is now considered a technical action, although the Ukrainian Act on Notariat, article 74, expressly provides for the authority given to public and private notaries. Taking this into account, the Committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the adoption of the draft Act amending the Act on Notariat of Ukraine (for the removal of the legislative commissions and gaps) (Registration No. 1220 of September 2, 19), submitted by the National Deputy of Ukraine, Fris Igor Pavlovich. Please consider the bill and express your thoughts on it and accept it in the first reading. Thank you, colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-05-m0.u86	Thank you, Igor Pavlovich. Please, will there be questions for the reporter? Please sign up for a question to the reporter. [[B in m in s a l in]] Well, how do we vote? Suffritch Nestor Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-05-m0.u87	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. Of course, we are discussing a very important question. The only thing I'd like you to do is to give us a clear answer as to how much easier it will be to benefit from the appropriate services of this bill of our citizens? Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-05-m0.u88	Thank you, Nestor Ivanovich. Igor Pavlovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-05-m0.u89	The bill aims not only to simplify the work of notaries in part of the performance of their functions, but to ensure that our citizens are aware that those or other notary actions that will be adopted and that their participation in one way or another, taking into account inappropriate terminology, can be found invalid in the final court or that do not comply with the law. To my conviction, it is the essence of an undeniable relationship that notaries, by doing these notary actions, not only give free access to the notary, but also ensure that they are sure of what they are doing, which will provide for the citizens' interests. Thank you, Nestor Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-05-m0.u90	Thank you, Igor Pavlovich and Nestor Ivanovich for asking. Papiev Mikhailo Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-05-m0.u91	Thank you. Dear reporter, you know, it's as impressive as the previous bill that "ministers of the people" write bills with English translation into Google. Why? Because look at the text of this bill. It says, "the place for the National Deputies." Do you have any idea what year we stopped having institutions like the local councils of the National Deputies? That is, you would like to bring this law into line and at least read it when you submit it to the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-05-m0.u92	Thank you, Your Honor, for asking. But you probably did not carefully read it. We're just trying to change the old form of these local councils that exist in the Notariat Act, assuming a different name -- local self-government. That's the goal of correcting what happened, not translating it into Google. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-05-m0.u93	Thank you, Igor Pavlovich. Ruslan Alexiovich Stefanchuk
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-05-m0.u94	I'm sorry, Igor Pavlovich, I just want to support your bill because it's extremely important because the terminology base is the basic foundation of any legislation. And you know that in his time Descartes was saying that half of mankind's mistakes could have been avoided if we had agreed on the terms. It's very important what you're talking about, it's a terminology fit and especially in such an important category as the notary process. Because notaryus is the one who testifies to facts, events, and it's very important to have a single terminology with other legislation. At the same time, I just want to draw your attention, maybe you're working on this bill in the future. You have 80 articles, you suggest, you introduce this term "young child." I just want to remind you that according to article 31 of the Ukrainian Civil Code, this term is "youth person." So I think it's important, too, if you're already going to be a termist, it's very important to say that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-05-m0.u95	Thank you, Ruslan Alexiyovich, for your attention. And to the second reading, in addition to other rights, those that we predict, including colleagues from the Notary Chamber, we will also eliminate this variance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-05-m0.u96	Thank you. Question time's up. Let's go. Thank you, Igor Pavlovich, you can take your place. You won't report from the committee? I said, didn't I? Please sign up for the factions for the performance. Vitatrovich Volodymyr Mihajlovich. Knyazevich Ruslan Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-05-m0.u97	Dear Sir, dear colleagues! I, frankly, working on this subcommittee, want to thank the head of the subcommittee for taking this initiative and really paying attention to the nuances that only a professional notary can see. For the sake of objectivity, we always lacked professional notaries in Parliament. Igor Pavlovich, a very highly qualified man, drew attention to these things, and we are very grateful to him. Why Thank You? Actually, my friends, we have a complex problem, a problem related to the Notariat Act itself. The 1993 Law is morally outdated. This is an objective reality, and it must be recognized. To this law, dozens of point changes were made only in my memory. They don't solve the question. This was, indeed, then overlapped with other codes, both civil and procedural codes, certain things that would then have to be changed, dominated and so on. These things, which, unfortunately, we have today, Mikhailo Mikolaiovich, that we still have Soviet terminology in the Notaryate Act, which was written in 1993. And not just in this law. But I would suggest supporting this bill today as a basis. In our second reading, we take into account certain things, including our faction, which must be taken into account. But that's not the answer. I would also ask the head of the subcommittee, perhaps the head of the committee, to think about the idea of creating a working group and drafting a new law that meets modern realities. Because this kind of change will never end or end. We recently passed a law amending the law, the recorder law. And that law, which was also registered before that law, is contrary to that law. This bill race will never end. The Notaryate Act is one of the basic laws that must be considered. And it would be good if we included it in the legislative work plan, about which the First Deputy Head of the Supreme Council is aging us, and I support this idea, we have to accept it. This is one of the laws that must be adopted during this session. Because we give so many powers to notaries, and we don't give them tools to properly implement these powers. Thank you. We support on the basis.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-05-m0.u98	Thank you, Ruslan Petrovich. Bacunec Pavel Andryovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-05-m0.u99	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs, especially I address you as a reputable reporter! Thank you for taking on the solutions of these legislative commissions and gaps. Paul Bakunets, Deputy Group "Trust", Jovkovsky, Yavorovsky. I'm also a member of the Legal Policy Committee, and I've joined in reviewing the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on Notariat. It is very important to our society and is in time. And the "Trust" MP will support this bill in the first reading. We realize that the need to make a number of changes to legislation that will help eliminate contradictions in terminology and bring legislation on notary into line with the realities of notarial practice is very important, and that is what this bill is about. Of course, it has a technical character, because it refines the use of a series of terms and complements the Act on Notariat with such separate important rules on notarial action. I would also like to stress that this bill is expanding the ability to do notary work and for local self-government bodies, which is very important. So realizing that effective notary work is vital both to society and to the state, and especially to the inhabitants of all districts, to all areas of Ukraine. And our trust MP group consists of majors, representatives from both Lvivstian and Carpathian as well as Lugansk. Therefore, our Trust Group will have to support all legislative initiatives aimed at improving this effectiveness. We vote yes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-05-m0.u100	Thank you. Suffritch Nestor Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-05-m0.u101	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. I would like to express my personal thanks to my faction for trusting in participating in the discussion during the discussion of this bill and for the right to express the faction's position on this bill. Of course, given who is the author of this bill, we can emphasize a professional approach to drafting a law that will remove some of the disagreements that today are in the Notariat Act, for example, with the Civil Code. I hope that the author of the law no longer has any interest in notary activity, a corresponding lack of conflict of interest. But as we deal with the issues that are painful, in fact, when we actually solve the issues that are reality today, we want us not to stop at this step, we want the Supreme Council to put a stop to the black activity of other registrants who today are using evil for their rights, and we have severe consequences on the illegal possession of our citizens' property. So I hope that this is just the first step, and I certainly can't, like my faction colleagues, accept the positive desire to uphold the principle of dominating the law. But recently there was a very covert example in this room when the Supreme Council in general did not support the decision, the commission of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine to implement the Constitutional Court's decision to ensure the social rights of our citizens. On the one hand, we are fighting for the rule of law and law, on the other hand, we are ignoring the obligation to implement the Constitutional Court’s decisions in such matters as the protection of the interests of our pensioners, the Chernobylites, and war veterans. I think that the approach that will now be demonstrated when this law is passed should be when all the laws that apply to the fate of our citizens are passed and, above all, the protection of their social rights, not just property rights. Then we will, indeed, be the People’s Supreme Council, and we will be Ukraine’s national deputies. Thank you for your attention. We support this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-05-m0.u102	Thank you, Nestor Ivanovich. Thank you for your position. Dear colleagues, I propose as follows. Kostin Andriy Evgenovich of the "Slut of the People" faction. Then we go to the vote to get to the break. And Sobolev, yes, wanted to speak? Sobolen. All right, we got a deal. Then, after the break, we'll be voting for the law. Thank you, Your Honor. Kostin Andriy Evgenovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-05-m0.u103	Dear colleagues, we have waited a long time for this law. We understand that, in the first place, it introduces purely technical remedies to the law, brings it in line with other normative acts, because the issue of the quality and trust of society in notarial action is very important to the notary system. You realize that notaries are not the only ones that need to be conducted. to enter into agreements, but also in cases involving their family relationship, relationships that relate to other matters. The drafters worked very hard to bring this law into line with the legislation in force. But when we hear the debate that has taken place in this room today, we understand that we should go to a different format and maybe create a working group on the committee, maybe involve colleagues from other committees, because we as citizens use notaries, and notaries, they're relevant to any of them. to the various agreements and to the various processes that are taking place both between people and in economic relations. So there's this proposal to create a working group on the basis of a committee. Involve a colleague to still adopt the Notariat Act in a new edition that will correspond to the changes that have taken place in social relations and in legal relations in our country. I want to ask, colleagues, to support this law in the first reading and allow us to further improve this institution. Thank you, colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-05-m0.u104	Thank you. Dear colleagues, Sobolev. I see, of course, Sergey Vladislavovich, the Fatherland faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-05-m0.u105	Sobolje, Fatherland. We are pleased that such a law is being considered in full procedure. It's respect for the notary, for the reporter, and we will no doubt support it. But I wish that our work would not be a haste, but that is what every bill would look at. Yes, it's actually kind of a technical bill at first sight, but it's a bill, without which, formally even in court, certain decisions of notaries can be accused. Because the variations, the variations that exist in the various normative acts, make that possible. And we know perfectly well, and you and I have approved the first, I hope, not the last piece of legislation that concerns the work of so-called black notaries. We already see the first evidence of black notaries already in the new year, where the first such agreements were stopped. But I think that's just the beginning. Our faction no doubt supports these changes, but we believe that the general changes that need to be made to legislation that regulates notarial activity have already matured, perhaps even matured. And we will actively participate in working on such changes. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-05-m0.u106	Thank you. You're insisting on the performance, aren't you? Then Lubinec Dmitry Valeriovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-05-m0.u107	Honorable Presidium, distinguished national MPs! The MP's "For the Future" insists on the performance. We will vote and support this bill in the first reading. We certainly support the technical corrections that we're going to make in this bill, but we're paying attention to the fact that, certainly, when we talk about notary and notary work in Ukraine, this cannot be decided by such a small technical bill. We insist that there be a systematic approach to the activity of notaries, that there be a basic serious bill that will solve all the issues really, what the previous speaker said: and the activity of black notaries, and the abuse of its notary right, where we have virtually no mechanisms to protect ordinary citizens. We're dealing with very loud cases where notaries change the property situation and then to make a difference, we need to get to the personal minister of justice who, by his personal signature, has to cancel it. This is virtually impossible for ordinary citizens living in rural areas in small settlements. Therefore, the MP Group "For the Future" supports, votes, stresses and supports the drafting of a basic serious bill on notariat in Ukraine. Thank you. We vote yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-05-m0.u108	Thank you, Dmitri Valeriovich. 12:00. Dear colleagues, there's a break at 12:30. Ask not to be late. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-05-m0.u109	Ladies and gentlemen, we are returning to our work. Invite the national deputies to the hall. We still have time for speeches by national deputies. Please sign up for the performances by the national deputies. Papiev Mikhailo Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-05-m0.u110	Thank you. The country's distinguished national deputies, the honourable chairman, our faction "The Opposition Platform for Life" will support this bill. It's systemic enough, despite the fact that there are observations to it by individual Ukrainian national deputies, as well as by scientific and scientific authorities. And I wanted us to consider two very serious reasons. My fellow Members, I am addressing the Ukrainian National Deputies, especially the drafters, because there is this situation, if you look at the bills, there are a lot of people who are, let's say, concerned with this professional activity, they think they're as experts, they're absolutely automatically able to submit these bills, but they don't take into account the little detail that I wanted to draw attention to. This is article 35 of the Ukrainian Anti-Corruption Act. Dear colleagues, I'm just calling your attention, it's never been applied, and I wouldn't want the National Anti-Corruption Agency to be a national MP protocol. But if you are lobbying a question, it is perfectly stipulated by the Rules and the Law when you go out and claim a conflict that is present or potential. a real or potential conflict of interest. I mean, I wanted this practice to be introduced in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And another little detail. Dear Mr. Head, one day we don't pay much attention to personal voting. There are dozens of Ukrainian national deputies who are absent from the Supreme Council of Ukraine and who are not even present at the meeting today, but they are absolutely calm, and we normally have just in the "Council" electronic system voting for all the bills. Therefore, given that section 11 of the first article 78 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine stipulates that it is the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine who ensures the presence of Ukrainian national deputies in the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I would ask you to ensure the presence of those Ukrainian national deputies who are not present and who vote to come and personally vote in favour of the bills. Our faction will support this bill. And we ask him to put it to a vote only in the first reading. Because we have suggestions that will improve it and improve the accessibility of Ukrainians in general, and their protection by coming out of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-05-m0.u111	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the next speaker, Andryovich Zinovy Miroslavovich, the "Slut of the People" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-05-m0.u112	Deputies! Andriovich Zinovyev, 87 district, Suviranščina, Jaremčanščina, Bogorodščina, Otnijščina. I'm speaking from virtually all major MPs, and I'm addressing the Prime Minister of Ukraine with a very important question that has recently led to the mass discontent of the population. That is, the question raised in the natural gas market is the setting up of a subscription fee for distribution.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-05-m0.u113	Dear colleagues, I'm sorry, dear colleagues. Zinovy Miroslavovich, I apologize. Does that apply to the notary? Then, well, I'm sorry. No, I'm sorry. The question is, we're considering notariat. Presentations from the National Deputies, distinguished colleagues. If by notary, please, but it's not possible, it's not 30 in the morning. That's right. People's deputies. Katchura Alexander Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-05-m0.u114	Alexander Kachura, "Serial of the People" faction. Now, you see, a colleague just confused the question, so in the notary we've had all these years, because many terms were completely undefined in the current legislation. Before my election, I was a lawyer, and I often had to deal with notary actions. The questions of notariat, which were and arose in my customers, were purely from a technical point of view, from the point of view of the Civil Code, because of the inadequacy of other normative acts, could not be satisfied with those who applied to the Notaryus. This bill clearly modernizes all relations governed by the Notaryate Act. We define it in this bill and we remove the old terminology. The bill details the procedure for determining the place of residence for individuals, minors, incapacitated persons, and details the list of persons who are already carrying out appropriate notary actions. This bill foresees the existing right of notary on state registration. This was not done before, but these actions were done. The Notaryate Act needs to be modernized, and we know that. The previous Parliament has not been able to do so, so we must complete this process. Some recent procedures, such as property registration for real estate, have not been reflected in the law at all. And now the group that made the necessary changes, including the previous notary. Because in this bill, the most important thing is to bring in the practice that is necessary, the standards that really need to be applied, they are embodied in this bill, because the previous draft of the bill was taken away from reality. And now we're going to go back to the fact that the person who goes to the notary every day, to the doctor, is actually the exact same concept, every day people can't do the notarial actions they need because the collegiates of legislation are going on. So we only vote green, we support. And remember that you are voting now for millions of Ukrainians, for whom a simplified procedure will be simplified and appropriate procedures will be put into the legal field. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-05-m0.u115	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the time for the performance is up. Please invite the national deputies to the hall and prepare for the vote. Dear colleagues, please prepare for the vote. Dear colleagues, I am voting on the proposal to adopt the draft Act amending the Act on Notariat (removal of legislative colleges and gaps) (registration number 1220). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[12:43:08]] For 338 Decision taken. Show me the factions, please. "The Servant of the People" is 220, "The Opposition Platform for Life" is 27, "European Solidarity" is 19, "The Fatherland" is 10, "For the Future" is 14, "The Voice" is 17, "The Trust" is 17, "The Trust" is 17, "the Non-Factional" is 14. Thanks again. Let's move on to the next question of order of the day. Dear colleagues, you are invited to consider the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian laws on the right to receive pensions to individual categories of citizens. It is suggested that this issue be considered in a simplified manner. Please support and vote. [[12:43:57]] For 240 Decision taken. The word is given to the Ukrainian National Deputy to the Royal Natalia Yuriovni.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-05-m0.u116	Dear colleagues, the honourable ones present, we will now consider one of the most important bills as the first step towards broad social peace in our country. As a first step, when we can demonstrate that all Ukrainian citizens live in an uncontrollable territory today, whether they are forced displaced, but they have the right to defend the state. They have the right, as all citizens of our country, to pay their pension. And I thank the international organizations, the public organizations, the Committee of Social Policy, the representatives of almost all the factions of our Parliament for being able to unite our efforts to correct that colossal injustice in relation to more than a million people, pensioners, those who have remained behind the lines of fighting and, every two months, with incredible efforts, cross the checkpoints to prove that they are alive. Ladies and gentlemen, we now have a chance to correct this injustice and give people without the help of a displaced person, without these two-month mandatory intersections of the line of separation, to receive their well - earned pension from their country. We're going to fix those mistakes that were made in the previous regime. We will unite today, bringing together people who live in an uncontrollable territory. And that's why "The Opposition Platform for Life" asks you to support Bill 2083-d and all the halls to prove that we can do it together.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-05-m0.u117	Thank you, Natalia Yuriovna. The word is given to the Head of the Committee on Social Policy and Veterans’ Rights to the Third Party Galina Mikolayovni. And you're from the committee, right? Four minutes, please turn on.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-05-m0.u118	Honorable Chairman, Honourable National Deputies, Honorable People of Ukraine! The Committee on Social Policy and the Protection of Veterans’ Rights has considered amending certain Ukrainian laws on the right to receive pensions by individual categories of citizens (registration number 2083). As well as amending certain laws of Ukraine concerning the implementation of the right to a pension (registration number 2083-d). At our meetings, we considered this on November 13 and December 4 this year. The National Deputies of Ukraine, members of the Committee, during the consideration of Bill 2083, submitted to the Supreme Council of Ukraine by the People's Dept. of the People's faction, the political party "The Opposition Platform for Life" supported its goal. At the same time, the committee took into account a number of comments to the bill (registration number 2083) expressed by the Chief Scientific and Expert Office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and decided to draft the amended bill. Thus, the National Deputies of Tretlyak, Tsimbaluk, Royal, Mrs. Timoshenko and Lubinec of Dmitry, I call you the Heads of Committees, and Mr. Raduccik, who supported this bill and the factions that supported this bill, initiated the introduction to the Supreme Council's consideration of the amended law of 2083-d. I would like to point out that our legislation does not contain the specificity of the payment of pensions during the wartime when we are fighting Russian aggression. And so all the documents that we regulated the features of pension payments were contained only at the level of the Cabinet of Ministers' decrees. The bill (registration number 2083-d) is proposed. Simplification of pension entitlements and their size, by cancelling the obligation to issue paper documents. A bunch of paper retirements stayed in Crimea, LNR and DNR. We have electronic information and we have the possibility of including such a pension in our controlled territory. The bill also proposes cancelling for the stated category of persons the restriction on the possibility of receiving an unpaid pension in only 3 years, including heirs. Including the bill, it takes into account the possibility of repurchasing an insurance internship without applying the penalty for doubling the amount of the single contribution. These include the special regime and the procedure for receiving pensions for pensioners who have stayed in the temporarily occupied territories of Ukraine, and so on. The bill is supported by the UN Human Rights Monitoring Mission, the United Nations Refugee Agency, the Human Rights Committee. Committee position. As a result of the discussion, the committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft Ukrainian Law amending certain Ukrainian laws on the right to receive pensions to individual categories of citizens (registration number 2083) to return the subject to the right of the legislative initiative to work. And the draft Ukrainian Law amending some of the Ukrainian laws on the implementation of the right to a pension (by registration number 2083-d) as a result of the first-reading review to be adopted as a basis. Please support the committee's decision, and the issue of financing the hep between available resources in the Pension Fund, to decide between the first and second readings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-05-m0.u119	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please sign up from the MP factions and groups. Cimbaluk Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-05-m0.u120	Mikhailo Cimbaluk, Fatherland. Dear Mr. Head, Your Honor, the honourable authors of this bill! I would like to express my gratitude to and to the head of the committee of Mrs. Trelyakowi, also to Mrs. Royal and all those who have found understanding in a difficult discussion and have come up with the bill that is today 2083-d, and is proposed for consideration in the session hall. This bill establishes justice for those people or categories of Ukrainian citizens, first of all, who have come back here, into a controlled territory and want to form a pension. Unfortunately, the working order makes these people go back to DNR-LNR and take the supporting documents where they worked this period. Generally, those people are no longer willing or able to return here. Next thing. We set up justice for those categories of citizens who have returned from Crimea and want to form a pension for Ukrainian legislation because all their conscious lives have been working here, and the current Pension Fund is sending a request to the Russian Federation for confirmation of this internship. Nonsense! And people have been waiting months or years for justice. This bill is forcing the Pension Fund, other government authorities to use the civil register that existed before 2004. The Fatherland faction will support the first reading, and we will actively work on the second reading. I'd like you to support my colleague. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-05-m0.u121	Shahov Sergei Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-05-m0.u122	Sergey Shahov, Luhanščina, Deputy Group "Trust". I give the word to Oleg Kulinich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-05-m0.u123	Kulinich Oleg Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-05-m0.u124	Thank you. Oleg Kulinich, trust MP. Dear colleagues, this bill is extremely important because it determines the order of retirement for internally displaced persons, because it is an extraordinary problem that must be solved long ago. These people have the right and must receive pension insurance, as required by current legislation. But bureaucracy has not solved this problem in years. It's a long time to decide. And if we are talking about the return of territories, about the reintegration of Donbas, then we must ensure social commitment, the fulfilment of social obligations to our citizens. Of course, there are refinements, inaccuracies, shortcomings, they need to be corrected, I think this can be done in the second reading. And that's why the trust MPs will support this bill in the first reading, and we'll get involved in working on a normal bill for the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-05-m0.u125	Thank you. Pauline Yuri. Natalia Juryovna Kraljevska.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-05-m0.u126	Dear colleagues, once again I want to prove three main arguments, these three main issues that this bill will address. It's that we can get a pension without a VPO. Now every two months, thousands of people are in line for CERs. In 2018, we lost 50 people at the point of crossing the checkpoint, and in 2019 we lost more than 60 people. So you and I now have the opportunity to save people's lives, because 60 percent of the people who cross CERs are older people. The main task of the second is that the payment term is unlimited. Well, we can't now say that in just 3 years or 5 people. If a person has a pension, he has the right to receive it during his life. Well, the main thing is that without considering the fact that a person lives in a controlled or uncontrolled area, he is an internally displaced person, or not -- without any help, a person can get his legal pension. For five years these people have been bullied, they have been driven around for five years, and they have been asked to bribe, and where, then, to cross the line of separation, you and I now have the opportunity to join forces and protect more than 700,000 pensioners who have not been able to assign this pension right now. And we know and very much believe that the main task of our Parliament, the main task of every MP today, is to do everything we can to bring peace closer to our country. And this is the first step in protecting the people that our Ukrainian citizens live in an uncontrollable territory. Thank you very much for your support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-05-m0.u127	Rachmanin Sergey Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-05-m0.u128	Please pass the word to Volodymyr Cabal.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-05-m0.u129	Once again, I'm sorry. Cabal Volodymyr.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-05-m0.u130	Dear colleagues, indeed, the Voice faction, like all the other factions that have spoken, we are advocating that the people who claim to retire and do not receive the pension who are in the temporarily occupied territories of Ukraine should receive this social justice, and they have received this pension. But the look in which the bill is now being drafted needs serious work. What do we do now with this bill if we support it in the first and, God forbid, in the second reading? First, we send the wrong signal to the aggressor state that they will reap all the economic benefits, take from the poor of our fellow countrymen taxes there and in the occupied areas of Crimea and the Donetsk region, all the benefits of the occupier brother, and the social obligations of Ukraine guarantee them that it assumes, including pension liabilities. This signal will be sent if this bill is adopted as it is now. And the second is the main thing. And close to 100 billion dollars that will have to be paid out of the money that the occupying person has actually taken from potential pensioners in the last 5 to 6 years, these 100 billion dollars will have to be paid out of the pockets of Ukrainian pensioners in Donetsk, Dnipropetrovsk, Lviv, Lugansk regions or what? Where will this money come from? This one needs to be seriously worked out by the committee and then re-examined to solve these two problems that I just mentioned. The Voice faction for social justice. According to this bill, we're going to hold on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-05-m0.u131	Thank you. Taras Ivanovich Batenko is a motive. Shahov, you're on. No, no, no, I'm sorry. There's been a performance from "Trust." After that, the "ES" and then the deputy minister is motivated. And let's go to the vote. The vote will be in three minutes. Taras Ivanovich Batenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-05-m0.u132	Colleagues, the aggressor took from us Crimea and Donbas, that's 20 percent of GDP and about 25 percent of industry, not yet recovered. Those citizens who work there don't pay. In doing so, they do not pay the insurance premiums, nor do they pay the pension fund of Ukraine. We're responsible citizens, let's think about reintegration. Think of the burden you are putting on Ukrainian citizens today, which you represent as Ukraine’s elected national deputies. I want to tell you that under this bill, you have to pay pensions all the time, that's 115 billion dollars. And in the first year we have to close, in the first month we have to close the entire year of the occupied period, and then restructure. I am more than convinced that without the position of the government and the Ministry of Finance, we cannot vote so lightly for this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-05-m0.u133	Yes, please, Viatrowich, the EC faction party, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-05-m0.u134	The drafters of the bill have good intentions. The road to hell has been paved with good intentions. Imagine that all pensioners of Crimea and Donbas will be able to obtain pensions from Ukraine alone or through an intermediary, including in the years of occupation, even documents need not be filed. That is what Moscow requires of us. This approach confirms the Russian thesis on internal conflict. And international law provides that the burden of securing the population of occupied territories is the occupation. Moreover, this law will win our economy and destroy social justice. The explanatory note says that the law will not affect the budget. Today this figure has been called 115 billion dollars a year. The pension fund is deficient, so all of these 115 billion are the extra expenses of the budget, which is what we're going to miss for the army, education and roads. In spite of the law on the protection of the rights and freedoms of citizens and the legal regime in the temporarily occupied territory of Ukraine, pensions are also granted to those who receive it now from Russia. So at our own expense, we're demonstrating that people are getting in occupation.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-05-m0.u135	Thank you. I invite you to speak to the Deputy Minister of Finance, Jigir Yuri Anatoliyovich. One minute of motive, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-05-m0.u136	Good afternoon, distinguished national MPs. The government requests that the bill be withdrawn and that it be further elaborated on the committee with a view to finding compensators. The figure already mentioned is an extra expense, and in the current edition, the bill has resulted in an additional expenditure of 115 billion dollars. This is an unsustainable additional public budget liability, since the pension fund’s own income at this stage is fully eligible for the repayment of pension liabilities, current pension liabilities. Accordingly, we can make such a significant amount as additional budgetary commitments only with adequate income compensators that we propose to develop, develop, develop and submit a bill with appropriate income compensators.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-05-m0.u137	I got it. Galina Mikolayevna! Galina Mikolayevna, position of the committee, remind me again. Third party, please, more.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-05-m0.u138	The position of the committee: finding the hepaes, the more it seems to me personally, that the amount that the Pension Fund has calculated is twice as high, because we don't know how many pensioners are in the territory of LNR, DNR and Crimea. In addition, the payment will not be one-off, the payment will be cut in time, and it is a payment of this amount, which can be restructured or deferred. We have a commitment.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-05-m0.u139	Galina Mikolayevna, I have a short question. What is the position of the committee?
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-05-m0.u140	This is about the recognition of these people’s rights.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-05-m0.u141	Galina Mikolayevna, you didn't hear me.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-05-m0.u142	Committee position: to resolve this issue between the first and the second and to adopt Bill 2083-d as a basis. Yeah.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-05-m0.u143	So take the first one, take the basis. Yeah? [[B in m in s a l in]] Wait a minute. I can't hear you. That's what you've done for a reason. [[B in m in s a l in]] Wait a second. With a motive, please. [[B in m in s a l in]] Please, the motive is Klimpush-Cincadze. Okay, one second, Trelyak's request. Please, first of all, Tretyakova, she'll clarify something. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-05-m0.u144	I'm sorry, during the fire performance, she said, "DNR" and "LNR," so-called "DNR" and "LNR," so we don't have any readings.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-05-m0.u145	You're demanding more of your word, aren't you? [[B in m in s a l in]] One second, guys. One second. I give, for reasons, 30. And then you get it, okay? Please, for reasons of 30 seconds, Klimpush-Cincadze, and after that, 30 seconds will be given Papiev. And who else? Batenko. Give it another 30 seconds each. No questions asked, come on. Please, Klimpush-Cincadze is 30 seconds in motive.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-05-m0.u146	I'm glad Mrs. Tretyakova realized her mistake. This is unacceptable for the Supreme Council of Ukraine to have these abbreviations imposed on us by Moscow. So I am very grateful that you admitted your mistake, which is the occupied territories of Ukraine and the separate areas of the Donetsk and Lugansk regions of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-05-m0.u147	Thank you. Please, Mikhail Papiev.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-05-m0.u148	The country's distinguished national deputies, this is a very important vote. And I'd like to pay attention to the next thing. First. Please see the Constitutional Court’s decision of October 7, 1999, which states that the pension is deferred from salary, are the personal expenses of the citizens who pay the premiums. That is why the Constitutional Court ruled that citizens are entitled, and the State is obliged to ensure that pensions are paid independently of the country of residence and where this person is located. These are her personal expenses, her deferred retirement expenses. So let us vote and restore justice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-05-m0.u149	Thank you, Mikhailo Mikolaiovich. The word is given to National Deputy Shahov by "Trust," please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-05-m0.u150	Sergey Shahov, Luhanščina, Deputy Group "Trust". Dear colleagues, a million 700,000 displaced persons who have come to this country, peaceable, and four million who have remained in the Crimea, in the Luhansk and Donetsk separate areas that have not received their pension, for lack of money to go to the great peaceful Ukraine! For six years, people did not receive their 50 - year pension by tearing their hands to blood. They worked in Ukraine for 28 years. Say 150, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-05-m0.u151	Thank you. Taras Ivanovich Batenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-05-m0.u152	Colleagues, I am convinced that if we vote this law on the first reading today, the Kremlin will applaud us by standing. I'm more than convinced to listen to the position of the Ministry of Finance. It must be a government bill, a government bill, and not even a majority. Listen to them. 115 billion dollars is not in the law. We are bound by other laws. Because our citizens can get money from the Russian Federation. Let's count it, not cover it up with populist phrases. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-05-m0.u153	Thank you. Please, from the Voice. Please, Ironman, from Voice, please. Iron.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-05-m0.u154	Dear colleagues, well, it's a very strange situation. It was a very simple position of the Ministry of Finance that this law was worth over 100 billion dollars. Coalition position now, I take it, not to listen. Then the question is, where do we get this money from -- pensioners, medics, educators. Make changes to the budget first, and then draft such bills. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-05-m0.u155	Thank you. She's rich from The Servant of the People. And on that, my friends, we will conclude the discussion.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-05-m0.u156	Guys, I'm definitely against this law. I'm a mover. We have a huge number of displaced people who have virtually nothing from the state, nothing! And now we're going to pay pensions to pensioners who stay in occupied areas. Who will determine what viewpoints, attitudes, and attitudes they have toward the pensioners support Russia or not? We'll pay them! We're spittin' all over all the movers who need housing right now, payouts here, and get nothing.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-05-m0.u157	Dear colleagues, dear colleagues. Fatherland, Sergey Sobolev. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-05-m0.u158	Sobolje, Fatherland. I think we need to calm down. Fellows, we need to calm down and no one here will take anything, so we need to take a clear count. See what the bill provides. If a person's pension is accrued, but he lacks an internship due to his being in occupied territory and then back to his country, there are no questions -- we have to count it to him. Moreover, we give her the right to acquire this internship, as is the case with any Ukrainian citizen. The second situation is what it refers to.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-05-m0.u159	Dear colleagues, I understand that there are no clearly formed positions, so please take your seats and prepare for the vote. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues! Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, I'll just remind you. Dear colleagues, I'll remind you that there is a position of committee that suggests that we accept as a basis and work. There is a position of government that requires, I understand correctly, to withdraw this bill. That's why. For work, yes. Therefore, I ask you to prepare for the vote. Dear colleagues, I'll put it to a vote. Please vote. [[B in m in s a l in]] Yes, it's the committee's offer. A committee proposal is made as a basis. Please vote. [[13:11:58]] For 184 The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues. [[B in m in s a l in]] Ladies and gentlemen, let's take a look. Wait a second. Dear colleagues, an alternative bill is then put to the vote because it is under the Rules. If he doesn't. [[B in m in s a l in]] I can announce first, and then we'll watch. It becomes an alternative, if it doesn't pick up, then the first draft will be placed on the draft. You got it, right? Dear colleagues, we consider the first reading of Bill 2083 to be an alternative. Ready to vote? Please vote. [[13:13:21]] For 155 The decision is not taken. It goes on. Since neither one nor the other is supported, the question is to restore the subject to the right of legislative initiative to draft the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-05-m0.u160	Ladies and gentlemen. No, the question does not go back. Dear colleagues, we return to the committee for re-reading. Dear colleagues. Dear colleagues, calm down, please. Dear colleagues, I am voting on the proposal to refer to the Committee for a re-reading of a bill amending certain Ukrainian laws on the right to receive pensions to individual categories of citizens (registration number 2083-d). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[13:15:13]] For 314 Decision taken. Let's see the factions. Dear colleagues, let's move on to the next issue of the agenda. This is a bill amending some Ukrainian legislation (for restaurant farming) (registration number 2136). It is suggested that this issue be considered in a simplified manner. Please support and vote. [[13:16:29]] For 245 Decision taken. The first deputy chairman of the Committee on Economic Development, Taruti Sergeyyovich, is given for the report.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-05-m0.u161	Deputies! A draft Law 2136 is proposed for consideration regarding changes to certain legislation regarding restaurant management. It's a very simple law. First of all, it changes the concept of commonality and provides for the unification of legislation in order to replace public food for a restaurant. Secondly, it provides an opportunity to increase fines for the illegal spill of alcoholic beverages in cities that are not covered by the draft Law. And that's going to be 10 times the increase. Today it's about 6,000, it's estimated at 41,000. And thirdly, what was proposed in the bill was compulsory insurance. But after we had a conversation with the representatives of the field, we agreed that between the first and the second readings, we would withdraw from the compulsory insurance policy for voluntary insurance. And so we ask that we support this bill because it will harmonize as part of the government's regulations that we have, and it will also unify it with European legislation. That's why I'm asking you to back me up.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-05-m0.u162	It's time for the committee. Is that all you need?
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-05-m0.u163	From the committee. The committee has adopted this bill as the basis. We met within the committee, too, with representatives of the field. And there was only one question, and everyone supported it, there was only one question about compulsory insurance. We agreed that we would change to voluntary insurance. Although large players said that they were, in principle, obliged to do so. Because there are a lot of problems with the quality of food. And the quality of our diet depends very much on our health on the quality of our diet. That's why we agreed there would be voluntary insurance. GNEW has no objection. And the budget committee, he sees the possibility of increasing income to the budget.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-05-m0.u164	Thank you, Sergey Alexiovich. Dear colleagues, please register: Two for, two for, and two for, the factions against each other. Germano Vasil Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-05-m0.u165	Dear colleagues! Dear colleagues, friends and members of the Ukrainian Parliament! I think it's a higher degree of political cynicism to put these issues together for consideration. We've just had fun with 4 million people, Ukrainians. This is for those who voted against it to provide a source of livelihood for the elderly, pensioners. Now for this bill. Dear colleagues, when we talk about improving our diet, we need to look at what people say. Not the big ones the reporter told us about and the restaurant business. You can see that we are already required to vote that between the first and the second readings there will be a contractor to decide by law how to expand the business of the restaurant industry. That's all there is in this law. It's not the simplicity of the law, it's the borrowing of money from people's pockets. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-05-m0.u166	Nikolainko Andri Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-05-m0.u167	"Paternality" will definitely support this bill and urge everyone to support it, because the standards that Sergey Alexiyovich stressed in his speech are clearly clear. We want the Ukrainians to avoid selling doubtful quality alcohol products elsewhere, thereby creating a danger to life. Secondly, we want those who are called "community" from the Soviet past to be responsible for the inequitablely prepared food, because I, I think, like most, it's sad to see when we see people being poisoned there and there in the summer. Therefore, they must be responsible, and they must be afraid of such cases so that people will receive proper treatment. The bill is very good, correct, and is supported by a professional environment. That's why I think we need to support him, and I urge everyone to vote in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-05-m0.u168	Kubi Ivan Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-05-m0.u169	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished colleagues, a venerable presidency! The bill is very important. This bill concludes not only in 2002 but also in 2002 the process of replacing the concept of "social food" but we are talking about standards and the quality of public food that affect people's health. Modern life, when we talk about restaurant food standards, we can clearly confirm that today's technologies are completely perfect, predictable, and we need to make a quality product. The other one. The bill proposes to strengthen responsibility for the sale of alcoholic beverages and the spilling of malpractice, we are talking about shadow business. When we looked at the alcohol industry, remember 82 alcohol factories: pricing policy, privatization, and so on. This is the right approach to a future that is strategic. Third. With regard to compulsory insurance, it was said that the responsibility of restaurant business subjects to consumers needed further discussion. We have time between the first and the second readings to do and engage an expert environment. Four. Restaurants are less accessible. But if there is normal competition and quality of production, price policy will also be regulated. And the fifth. Which could lead to a risk to a small, medium-sized business, to startups. Believe me, this discussion can be continued, and between the first and second readings, the position should be removed and supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-05-m0.u170	Dear colleagues, now for reasons – Francis, then – Shahov, then we go to the vote. Please invite the national deputies to the hall. Fries Igor Pavlovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-05-m0.u171	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that today we have voted on one technical bill, which is presented by another. But compared to the first one in this bill, there is a very narrow norm that I would like to stress, which is the establishment of mandatory restaurant insurance for liability for damage that can be done to third parties. Given that the drafters of the bill agreed that this rule requires further harmonization and that it is likely to be deleted for second reading, I propose to support this bill. But at the same time, we really need to control this, because the extra pressure on the business involved in liability insurance, which is nowhere in the world, we need to do something about it. Because it can have a negative impact on such broad areas of civil relations as social relations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-05-m0.u172	Shahov Sergei Volodymyrovich, then we vote. Please invite the national deputies to the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-05-m0.u173	Sergey Shahov, Luhanščina, Deputy Group "Trust". Dear colleagues, I believe you've heard what Andrew Nikolaynko said and read the bill carefully. It clearly states: State regulation of the production and circulation of ethyl alcohol, cognac and fruit drinks, alcoholic beverages, and tobacco products. This will organize and settle the situation with the restorers and actually fill the budget of Ukraine. There will be no forgeries, and there will be no deaths today that are being poisoned by the inadequacies of alcohol. Next. What Germany said. It's really cynicism, when four million citizens who worked for a state who today cannot come to the UK and 150 billion dollars used by officials who don't come out of office and don't see what happens to pensioners in the state today. Therefore, these bills need to be considered immediately. Sergey Shahov, Luhanščina, Deputy Group "Trust".
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-05-m0.u174	Thank you. Dear colleagues, let's go to the vote. Please invite the national deputies to the hall. Take your seats, get ready to vote. Dear colleagues, I am voting on the proposal to adopt as a basis for the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation (restaurant) (registration number 2136). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[13:27:37]] For 316 Decision taken. Let's move on to the next question of order of the day. Dear colleagues, you have been invited to consider the draft Law on the Ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Lithuania on Employment and Cooperation in the Field of Labour Migration (Registration No. 0021). It is suggested that this issue be considered in a simplified manner. [[13:28:15.]] For the 250. Decision taken. Dear colleagues, would you please tell me what you need to discuss? Can we vote? Oh, no? Okay. Reported by Deputy Minister of Social Policy Vitaly Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-05-m0.u175	Good afternoon, distinguished national MPs. The draft law is drafted in accordance with the Ukrainian Law on International Contracts for the purpose of carrying out the internal procedures necessary for the entry into force of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Lithuania on Employment and Cooperation in the Field of Labour Migration, done on 7 December 2018 in Kiev. With the adoption of the draft law, a treaty will be ratified to strengthen and develop cooperation to ensure the protection of the rights and interests of workers of both countries and to combat illegal work. Ratification of the agreement will provide an opportunity for the official employment of Ukrainian citizens in the Republic of Lithuania, which will also improve the financial situation of Ukrainian families. The ratification of the agreement will also allow the participation of highly qualified specialists and workers from the Republic of Lithuania to Ukraine. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-05-m0.u176	Thank you. The report is given to the head of the Committee on Integration with the European Union, Vintonjak Oleni Vasilivni.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-05-m0.u177	Honorable Presidium, distinguished national MPs! The draft law on the ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Lithuania on employment and cooperation in the field of labour migration has been prepared with a view to carrying out the internal procedures necessary for the entry into force of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Lithuania on employment and cooperation in the field of labour migration. The objective of the agreement is to strengthen cooperation and to provide mutual assistance to ensure the protection of the rights and interests of the workers of both countries, both Ukraine and Lithuania. This will contribute to the fight against illegal labour migration, social protection of the rights and obligations of workers of both countries, and further social and pension security. According to an explanatory note to the draft law, the implementation of this act does not require additional costs from the State budget of Ukraine. The Ukrainian Supreme Council Committee on Integration with the European Union at its meeting on 15 January 2020 considered the bill. National deputies, members of the committee, decided to submit a bill for consideration by the Supreme Council and recommend that it be accepted as a basis and as a whole. The Committee's decision is also in line with the conclusion of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-05-m0.u178	Thank you. Yes, please. Sit down, Olena Vasilovna. Dear colleagues. Yes, of course. Two in, two in. Please sign up for the factions. Klimpush-Cincadze Ivanna Orestovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-05-m0.u179	Please pass the word to Mary Ionova.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-05-m0.u180	Maria Mikolayovna Ionova
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-05-m0.u181	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, with the Republic of Lithuania, unite long-standing very good-neighbourly relationships and, therefore, by ratifying the agreement, we are going through a really further strengthening of mutual cooperation and are going to provide mutual assistance in ensuring the rights and interests of the workers of both nations. And I would like to say that in fact the projection of the impact of the implementation of the act on the key interests of Ukraine is very positive and will allow more effective protection of the labour rights of Ukrainian citizens. As a result, "European Solidarity" will support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-05-m0.u182	Thank you. Germano Vasil Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-05-m0.u183	I pass on the word to Mikhail Mikolaiovich Papiev, "The Opposition Platform for Life."
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-05-m0.u184	Papiev Mikhailo Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-05-m0.u185	Dear Ukrainian National Deputies, this is a very important bill and I would like you to draw attention in general to our government's approaches to interstate agreements. So in 2018, you remember, the previous authority, they had the main goal of getting Ukrainians out of Ukraine at all. And as a result, I'm going to analyze this agreement because I know what migrant workers are, and I keep talking to them. 11 million Ukrainian citizens today are migrant workers. This covenant has absolutely no bearing on the protection of their rights. Because, you know, today, what's the main problem with our migrant workers? And I'm explaining to those people, and especially to those who are affected by the social sphere. Today, we have a minimum insurance period of 35 years. Right? In most European countries today, 35 years is the same minimum insurance period as getting a pension. Our citizens drive, mostly 74 percent between the ages of 30 and 40. So they can't make a pension in Ukraine, just like they come to the countries of the European Union and can't make a pension there. And it turns out that in view of the fact that our government is completely not working on this issue, our citizens do not have a pension in Ukraine or in the European Union and are forced to live for social assistance. I started signing interstate laws in due course so that we could, you know, have a joint pension to make the total period count for 35 years, but at the same time, for the period that a person has in Ukraine and has paid to the Pension Fund of Ukraine, and for the time that a person has paid contributions to the Pension Fund of the European Union, the country has paid. It's not in the contract. This is the main problem of protecting ours.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-05-m0.u186	Thank you. The performances are over. Ah, Shahov, yes, with motive, please. Oh, no? Have you written it down? I don't have one here. Kulinich, please. Then the national deputy of Shahov.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-05-m0.u187	Sergey Shahov, Luhanščina, Deputy Group "Trust". Dear colleagues, it is a good thing that the European nations are now stretching out their hand to assist Ukraine with ratification. And moving our personnel to Poland, to Lithuania, to Europe, to Asia, to Moscow, to Peter, to Rostov. As long as we lose our footage, please? Lugansk, the Donetsk region is occupied today, as it were, why not open the way today? Why is the blockade on Lugansk and Donetsk today? Why Is There No Lugansk Coal Today? Why does metallurgy not work in our country? Is it Ukraine or not Ukraine? Let's be clear. Why do we lose scientists today? That year. In four years, 70,000 doctors, teachers, and professional personnel have left the country! Why does the chemical industry not work today? Why does the coal industry not work today? Why is the agrarian sector not working today? We need to develop, not destroy. Clearly, relations with the European Union must be maintained. But not to lose, but to return our Ukrainian images to the state. Labour footage that can work for the benefit of the state. We're losing tens of billions of dollars today that we don't get in the budget from the Lugansk and Donetsk regions. Look what is happening today, who is using Ukraine today for his own benefit, what oligarchs are behind it, what gangs are behind it! So at this point, we're supporting, trust group, this ratification. But we need to look at how to develop and build the industrial sector of Ukraine. Thank you. Sergey Shahov, Luhanščina, Deputy Group "Trust".
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-05-m0.u188	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please prepare for the vote, take your seats.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-05-m0.u189	Ladies and gentlemen, let's take a look. Ready to vote? Get ready, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-05-m0.u190	Ready to vote? Dear colleagues, I am voting on the proposal to adopt the whole draft Law on the Ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Lithuania on Employment and Cooperation in the Field of Labour Migration (Registration No. 0021). Please support and vote. [[13:38:38]] For 324 Decision taken. Thank you, Your Honor. The procedure is Ivan Ivanovich Krulko.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-05-m0.u191	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. Honorable Head of the Supreme Council, distinguished colleagues! The next bill, number 2075, which organizes the activities of youth centres across Ukraine, is the need to work together with the committee in order to move forward with the agreed position. So I propose not to consider it today, to consider it at the next plenary week, when we and the committee have a negotiated position. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-05-m0.u192	Dear colleagues, tell me, does the committee not object? No, should we vote change? Well, if there's consensus, we can't vote. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, I am voting on the proposal to change the order of the day. Dear colleagues, please support and vote. [[13:40:03]] For 346 Thank you. Decision taken. 346. Dear colleagues, a statement has been made regarding a break with a replacement for the performance. Who will act? A boy? Young Andrey Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-05-m0.u193	Ukrainians find it hard to believe, but every week we witness an increasing number of persecutions against Ukrainian Atos who fought for Ukraine and fought for Ukraine in the east, Ukrainian volunteers and Ukrainian patriots. We are now faced with the persecution of a patriot, a member of Sofia Fedina's European Solidarity Team, for expressing her position with regard to today's power. We remember, that's what happened. We already had one president who was very afraid of criticism. His name was Yanukovic, called Viktor, who fell from a falling egg and who forced the law enforcement authorities to open criminal cases for criticizing Yanukovic. [[B in m in s a l in]] Who do you call "disgusting"? You're shouting "dignity" to those law enforcement agencies that are run by the President's Office, and yesterday the minister of the Cabinet was talking about it. The law enforcement agencies that run the Office of the President are now pursuing only the fact that patriots, Ukrainians, have a different opinion and can criticize active authority. To that end, you are penetrating your Disinformation Act to open up your hands for even greater persecution by Ukrainian patriots, volunteers, and Ukrainian fighters. And I have a general call from the entire European Solidarity Team: Stop! Janukovic’s experience demonstrates that this is very bad. You want to scare the patriots, you want to scare Sofia Fedina and our team of European Solidarity? I want to tell you, you won't be afraid! You are pitiful and try to strike fear against those who were not afraid of Yanukovich and were not afraid of his callings. We will not allow the persecution of Sophia Fedina. All the Ukrainian patriotic forces will become shoulder to shoulder, protecting Sofia Fedin, protecting all the Ukrainian patriots that you are now trying to intimidate through the paid courts. Today, the legendary Ukrainian General Zabrodsky is being questioned by the DBR. Today at the DBR, Jan Zinkevich is an outstanding Ukrainian volunteer. I want to call first and foremost members of the "Serial of the People" faction, those who consider themselves patriots, those who were both in Maidan and in ATO. You have to resist this trend of opposition persecution. Let's not let reprisals happen! Let's defend Sophia Fedina! Glory to Ukraine! And thank you to Fatherland and Voice for the speech, for the break. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-05-m0.u194	Dear colleagues, let's move on to the next issue of the agenda. You are invited to consider a draft Act amending certain legislation in Ukraine (for the implementation of certain international agreements and EU directives in the field of animal and plant protection) (registration No. 2351). It is suggested that this issue be considered in a simplified manner. Please support and vote. Quiet in the hall, dear fellows. Dear colleagues! [[13:44:28]] For 223 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, please take your seats. Take your seats, please. Thank you, colleagues. Colleagues, please take your seats. Let's not confuse where we are. Ladies and gentlemen. Maria Mikolayevna. Dear colleagues, please take your seats. Let's move on to the question. The word is given to the Ukrainian national deputy Marikovsky Alexander Valeriyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-05-m0.u195	Dear colleagues! Ukraine ratified the international European Convention for the Protection of Pets. But over the next five years, its standards are not implemented in Ukrainian legislation. There are also several EU directives in the EU that regulate the humane treatment of a number of groups of farm animals on the protection of animals used for experiments and other scientific purposes, animals during transport (transport). There are all the directive numbers written in our law. Article 89 of the Ukrainian Code on Administrative Offences, which punishes the cruel treatment of animals, is virtually ineffective. This is explained by the fact that this article is not in line with the Ukrainian Animal Protection Act. Until now, the destruction of species of plants and animals or their habitats, which are protected by the Bernese and other international conventions ratified by Ukraine, has not provided for administrative responsibility. It is also not for similar activities in relation to the list of species of animals and plants that are subject to special protection in the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, areas, cities of Kiev, and Sevastopol. The purpose of the bill is to introduce European human values and animal standards. The purpose of the bill is to protect animals from cruel behavior. Now it's short. The law prohibits euthanasia as a method of regulating numbers, smuggling wild animals, photographing wild animals in populated areas, promoting cruel treatment of animals, beatings, killings, poisoning, mutilating homeless animals, begging with animals, keeping wild animals in food establishments, and other unapproached activities, sealing animals in basement facilities. Please, colleagues, this act, this bill 2351 to support in the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-05-m0.u196	Thank you. Dear colleagues! Dear colleagues, please be a little quieter in the hall. Ruslan Valeriovich Trebushkin! If you don't mind, a little quieter in the hall. Thank you. The word for the report is given to the head of the Committee on Environmental Policy and Environmental Use of the Yulia Jurijovni.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-05-m0.u197	Dear colleagues, let's say that the committee had considered the bill on November 26 and discussed its basic positions. The humane attitude and ratification of all necessary agreements into Ukrainian legislation are now vital. But after examining both the zoological community and the scientific community, a number of regulations that will be introduced need direct intervention and active work. In 2013, the previous speaker noted that the European Domestic Animal Agreement had been ratified, but no rules had been implemented. Let us note that all institutions have considered the bill very carefully, even more than carefully. The Ministry of Energy and Environmental Protection supports the bill. But he suggests making a number of comments. The main scientific and expert office has carefully considered the bill, more than 15 observations. At the same time, the Committee on Environmental Policy points out that we are ready to process these comments for second reading. The zoological community, environmentalists are asking to support these initiatives. However, we also received the conclusions of the Academy of Sciences, with which we are ready to work for the second reading. So we support this bill and the humane country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-05-m0.u198	Thank you. Dear colleagues, is it necessary to discuss this bill, or should we vote immediately? Dear colleagues, then, the draft Ukrainian Act amending certain Ukrainian legislative acts to implement certain international agreements and EU directives in the field of animal and plant protection (project registration number 2351), with the conclusion of the committee to be adopted as a basis. Dear colleagues, are you ready to vote? Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[13:50:30.]] For 318 Decision taken.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-05-m0.u199	Thank you. Dear colleagues, let's move on to the next issue of the agenda. I'm going on for 15 minutes. morning session to consider the matter. Dear colleagues, you have been invited to consider the draft Law on Amendments to the Code of Administrative Offences (to increase liability for violations of forest fire) (Registration No. 1149). It is suggested that this issue be considered in a simplified manner. [[13:51:18]] For 256 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, do you need to discuss the matter? We're voting and we can close the morning session. Dmitri Juryovich, you don't insist, do you? Don't insist. Dear colleagues, I am voting on the proposal to adopt the draft Law amending the Code of Administrative Offences (Registration No. 1149). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[13:52:14]] For 352 Decision taken. Just a minute. Yes, Dmitri Yuriovich. Please turn on the Sphinx microphone. One minute, please don't split up.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-05-m0.u200	Good afternoon, dear fellows! Please consider adopting the bill as a whole. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-05-m0.u201	Please tell me, can we vote in general? Is there no objection? [[B in m in s a l in]] Can we vote? Dear colleagues, I am voting on the proposal for adoption as a whole of the draft Law. with the necessary technical and legal regulations for the draft Law amending the Code of Administrative Offences (Registration No. 1149). Please support and vote. [[13:53:23]] For 322 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Dear colleagues, announcements. Out of procedure, Heroshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-05-m0.u202	Thank you. Dear Mr. Head, I want to make your point that our political power insisted that the previous law, we wanted to make amendments, you put it to a vote. And I also want to say that now we have 25 minutes left before the end of the day, you've announced another 15 minutes of extension, we suggest.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-05-m0.u203	To address this question, Irina Volodymyrna, I said so.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-05-m0.u204	And our political power thinks that this is unfair to President Zelensky, that the second day in a row you are canceling the changes made by President Greene to the Constitution. We demand that you put them to the vote now and honor your President. It's not fair that you haven't considered changing the Constitution in two days. Please enter this vote now and consider it.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-05-m0.u205	Look, the continuation of the meeting is the mandate of the Head of the Supreme Council. I've been proving that 15 minutes is until the registration number 1149. Let me not take the authority of the national deputies, and you will not interfere with mine. If we're talking about this, it's over. And we agreed that it was going without discussion, and the room voted for it, without continuing the session. If not, the procedure could be followed. Announcing by Ruslan Alexiovich Stefanchuk i.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-05-m0.u206	Thank you, Dmitri Alexanderovich. There have been reports of changes in the management of the interfractional parliamentary association "Transformation of Ukraine". From now on, the head of the MP is the representative of the deputy faction of the political party "Slut of the People" Kloczko Andriyovich, the representative of the deputy faction of the political party "The All-Ukrainian Union of the Fathers of the People" Kirilenko Ivan Grigorovich and the representative of the parliamentary faction of the political party "European Solidarity" Klimpush-Cincadze Ivanna Orestovna. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-02-05-m0.u207	Thank you. Dear colleagues! Come on. Dear colleagues! No, it's not motive and it's not procedure. Dear colleagues, I declare the morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine closed. Thank you all. Don't forget your card. We'll start work tomorrow at 10 a.m. Thank you.
