ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-05-m0.u1	Good morning, dear fellows! Good morning, media outlets. Let's get started. Please prepare for registration. Dear colleagues, until the session starts and our distinguished national MPs are in place, I remind you that we agreed that today's request reading would take place instead of the different one from the first to the second hour. And that's what we're working on. [[B in m in s a l in]] No, we can't. I think we'll get through, we'll get there. There was no query before completion. The board made a decision. Mikhail Miklaiovich, you remember the Rules well, but you wrote them. I realized that your questions needed to be answered. Please be prepared. The hour will be taken. Please prepare for registration. Dear colleagues, ready to register? Please register. As always, I remind you, registration takes place by clicking on the green pros button. Please register. [[10:10:50]] There are 253 Ukrainian national deputies registered in the hall. Dear colleagues, we're starting our work. But before that, I would like to remind everyone that tomorrow, June 6th, in our country is the day of the journalist. I'd like to say hello to my colleague. [[Applause]] I'd like to thank you for the hard work you're doing today, helping us do it, and it's very often stimulated. Well, so that your achievements will always benefit our nation. And for you, new achievements, new achievements. Once again, with the holiday. In accordance with article 229 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules, “the hour of questions to the Government ” is held on Friday, at 10 a.m. The Prime Minister of Ukraine, Denis Anatoliyovich Schmigal, and members of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, participate in the meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Please welcome a colleague. On the Conciliation Council, it was determined that members of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine today would answer questions about the activities of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine in the area of combating organized crime, public order and public security. The following schedule for our work is proposed: Within 20 minutes, the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine is scheduled to speak; the report from the MPs and groups is given up to 21 minutes; and the responses of the members of the government and questions from the national deputies are given up to 20 minutes. Is there no objection? None. Minister of Interior Arsen Borisovich Avakov is invited to the podium.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-05-m0.u2	In my speech, the distinguished national MPs and the distinguished people of Ukraine will give me complete information on the resonant criminal events of the last days. I think it's very important to focus on the facts instead of the gossip and innuendo that certain political forces are trying to fill the information space. But first, I want to thank the Supreme Council, the deputies of this and the last call. This week, we launched a system of auto-photo-revisions that we worked on with Parliament for not one year, but very intensively in the last year. And in the early days, there's a positive effect: the number of speed violations goes down every day. Look at the slide. I think it's fundamentally important to society, an indicator of our work together. Thus, we will preserve life. I'll talk about it later. Now for the resonant events. The Ministry of Internal Affairs has 360,000 people, the National Police has 132 thousand. Both the Ministry and the National Police are a reflection, a cut and a flesh of Ukrainian society. Among us are heroes, laborers, and unfortunately, there are those who break the law. In every society, every police force in the world has negative resonance events. But in principle, how the IMF responds to these events is important: it does not cover up, it does not dabble, it does not try to hide, it acts quickly, it acts harshly, it reacts in accordance with the law. A disgraceful incident took place at the Cagarlik Police Department when police officers used torture, beat up and raped a woman. The villains were immediately detained, and the information was transferred to the D.B.I. These are facts. In these days, many took advantage of the opportunity to attack the police, including in this room, by moving facts and broadcasting lies to the public. What happened in Kagarlik is unacceptable and requires the most severe reaction that followed from the police and now exists on the side of the Attorney General's Office and the State Bureau of Investigation. But using a totally unacceptable incident involving police officers, some try to match the events in Vradivka in 2013. Now, however, the situation is fundamentally different. They tried to hide it. We're not hiding anything. Two bad guys were immediately detained, and a D.B.I. investigation group was called to the scene. Police department's down. Cops are out of state. The next morning the police published information for the public. I want to give you the chronology of the events in Kagarlik. At 6:46 p.m. on Sunday, May 24th, a hospital report of violence and torture against the victim was sent to the Obuchi police department. At 7:15 p.m., law enforcement found suspects in the crime of police officers. At 7:40 a.m., suspects were detained, operational measures were taken to preserve the tracks and the crime scene. Investigative group of the State Bureau of Investigation called. Less than in time, we've detained criminals since the message. On Monday, May 25, at 8:00, the head of the Ukrainian National Police, Igor Klimenko, signed an order for the deployment of the Cagarlic Police Department, the removal of all its leadership, and the head of the Obukhov Police Department. At 10:23 a.m. Monday the National Police made a statement about the fact of violence and torture and the detention of suspects. The investigation is now being conducted by the State Bureau of Investigation with the full support of the National Police. In addition, the National Police are conducting their own service investigation. The Cagarlic Police Department is completely disbanded. 60 police officers have been removed from the state. The degree of participation and punishment, the possible continuation of the service, the release or transfer of materials to the court -- each of these officers will be examined separately. That's not the way the system should work. We immediately responded and also made substantial conclusions about the shortcomings in the work of the National Police Special Inspection. Based on an analysis of this incident and a joint meeting with the Supreme Council Committee on Law Enforcement, certain decisions were made regarding the introduction of additional functions of inspections from the National Police. In particular, first. The Custody Records system will be implemented in all police departments, i.e. the full video fixation of the investigation. The other one. A complete review will be made of the personnel composition of the special inspection. The inspection will involve employees with experience working in operational units. Third. There's going to be an increase in wages and the technical and material security of the inspection itself: the car for checks, the equipment for fixing violations, the bodycams, and so on. Four. It will be granted the right to inspect any unit of the individual staff during the service at any time of the day. Fifth. In the professional selection of candidates for the police service, additional psychological examinations will be carried out on new methods to detect hidden signs of aggressiveness and deviant behavior. And the culpability of "dirty" police officers is also safeguarded by effective internal security work. Unfortunately, as I said before, the police are a reflection of society with all its characteristics. But we are systematically fighting for the quality of the special police force, including the harsh methods of internal security of the National Police. During the year 2019 and the year 5 months 2020, 1,000 37 criminal conducts were launched in relation to police officers reporting 482 suspicions. These are almost two criminal conducts and one suspicion a day. Think about it. A thousand 206 administrative protocols have been drawn up regarding police officers for violating anti-corruption legislation. Four thousand 622 targeted tests have been conducted. A total of 178 people were released under negative circumstances. I emphasize that it is according to the Department of Internal Security of the National Police that up to 90 percent of the conduct of law enforcement officers is opened by the State Bureau of Investigation. However, it must be remembered that the police employ tens of thousands of police who faithfully serve Ukraine, protect the law, expose crimes, and carry out war tasks in the OOS area, risking life and health. I mean, I'm calling on you, honourable deputies, not to blame the entire 130-thousand National Police force on a number of bad guys. The vast majority of police officers are worthy people, loyal oaths. On May 21, 2020, an enemy mine under the village of Triochizbank, Luhansk, was killed by Colonel Sergio Gubanov. He was one of those Luhanskian lawkeepers who did not betray an oath, went into captivity, tortured separatists, fought for the liberation of Ukrainian cities from the invaders. He was in charge of the welfare of the Lugansk-1 patrol battalion. He was awarded the Order of Bogdan Hmelnick and was named "The Hero of Ukraine" by the President's decree posthumously. The two events divide the days when a worthy police officer served and died for Ukraine heroically and when two villains committed a shameful crime. The hero doesn't justify criminals. But they don't have to black out his feat and the whole police. In the last six years, 175 police officers have been killed in the line of duty. It is they and thousands of other dignitaries who carry out the ministry in an honest and dignified manner all day long and are the face of our police. Now I want to report on the progress of the investigation of the events in Barovara. Here it is important to speak frankly and understand that the shooting was the result of transparency, corruption in the area of state control regarding the granting of transportation permits in the Kyiv region. This is artificially created conflict between carriers from Borovarov and carriers from Winnice and Kiev on the ground of shadow calculations, which on May 29 was turned into a shooting. Within minutes, the police arrived, stopped the conflict, and caught up with the hot arrest of 11 suspects. I'm asking you to look at the slides. In time, more than two dozen suspected participants were detained on their way to Winnica, where they lived and worked. On Monday, June 1, the police carried out a series of actions that detained 13 more people in Kiev, Borovara and Irpen, including the leader, the initiator of the breakup, the criminal authority of the name Viha, who was the "Jurabel". All of them were involved in a shooting, as if they were local carriers. As of this morning, 67 persons involved in the shooting were identified, 44 reported suspects, including five in absentia, 39 persons were selected for precautionary measures, 29 were detained for 60 days without the right to be arrested, two were held in custody for 60 days with the right to lodge a mortgage, five were daily house arrests for 60 days, and three were house arrests during the night. I feel a little sorry for these young people who have been arrested for housing, food, and 800 dollars a day and are likely to receive a real prison term for participating in an organized criminal group. But we won't have another reaction. If anyone thinks he's ready to bring back to our lives the traditional gangster contractors, the criminal breakdowns, the climate of fear, we're going to respond very hard with the full force of the law. Then let them not be surprised. I believe that the police responded adequately and literacyly to the situation on May 29 in Brovar. However, there are certain claims against some employees and department heads regarding the possible prevention of this situation and the operational services. As a result, in some of them, disciplinary action has been taken by the head of the National Police until positions have been removed. And this is the normal working situation, the professional activities and competence of the head of the National Police of Ukraine. We are grateful to the teams of prosecutors who have supported the principled position of the charge of the matter, as well as to the judge of the Brovar Court, who have taken an uncompromising position. I hope that the results of the investigation will result in the same just punishment. At the same time, with the members of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the Prime Minister initiated the issue of strengthening the monitoring of passenger transport rules and licensing rules. You need to make them transparent, and control is hard, principled, so there's no black money that can finance crime. Now a few words about the current criminogenic situation in general. The most significant data is the number of murders they say you don't hide the body. Here's statistics on the number of murders since the 61st. This slide shows the dynamics and corrects the insinuation of what we think is worse than in the '90s. It's statistics in Ukraine from 61st to this year. That's not true at all. Compared to 4 months this year with 4 months last year, the number of deaths has dropped slightly, serious bodily damage by less than 16.7 percent, severe bodily damage by more than 16.4 percent. But it's not just the dry figures that reflect the temperature of the criminal situation and the prevention, but the quality of police work is still at the level of openness, of responding to crime. So now there's a murder discovery in 2020 that's 92 percent, severe bodily damage -- 92 percent, severe bodily damage with fatalities -- 91 percent, rape -- 91 percent. We see that these numbers have been going on for the last three years, the dynamics from 70 percent to the numbers you see. We see a remarkable positive dynamic. And that's an answer to those who generally claim that we don't seem to have any change, that people who work for the police and the IMF don't succeed. The work of the National Police changes dramatically year after year. But such isolated experiences in Cagarlik show that, unfortunately, relapses are taking place, and it is vital that they respond adequately and properly. And on this subject, finally, I want to highlight one more thing. We have analyzed the social status of those who committed murder and rape over the past year and a half. Among those whose crimes have been proved and brought to trial are private entrepreneurs, military officials, business leaders, institutions and organizations, doctors, atheists, heads of public organizations, lawyers, and even ministers. I mean, the profession is not a criminal marker. And the law and its irresistibility of punishment should be the only one for all, even more strict for law enforcement. Turning to current issues and recent developments, I would like to remind you that, as promised, we, together with the Ministry of Digital Transformation, have put in place digital images of the ID card and passport of a Ukrainian citizen to go abroad within the framework of the "Dia" project. And the latest piece of news I've mentioned is the introduction from June 1st to the automatic fixation of PDR violations. The goal of the system is to reduce the level of public road accidents and reduce the number of heavy traffic accidents. During the years of our country's independence, the DTR has been killed, so please think about it and pay attention to this figure, 174 thousand of our citizens, and more than 1 million 200,000 people have been injured. And so now that we've seen what it might be like to have a 40 percent reduction in the rate regime, we can see how much we can preserve human life. I want to put myself at work by the Ministry during the epidemic. From the beginning, our rescue workers, our police officers, our border guards, the N.C.C. and our doctors were and remain in front of the COVID-19. Most of the individual compositions were involved in countering the distribution of coronavirus — from sanitary posts to the search for patients with coronary disease to those who left the hospital on their own. The Ministry’s employees are second to the level of risk and post-medical infection. In many ways, thanks to the efforts of the Ministry of Internal Affairs, Ukraine is going through an epidemic in light regimes compared to many other countries, including our immediate neighbours. Dear colleagues, I think the brief information I presented gives you an understanding of the ability of the IMF system and the National Police to respond quickly and effectively to any challenges from responding to crime in the ranks of the police to the epidemic and gang fire. That's why, despite the war and the difficult socio-economic situation in the country, as well as the populism of some political forces speculating on weaknesses and difficulties, such sad cases as in Kagarlik, the IMF units are certainly among the leaders at the level of trust in society. According to the most independent sociological services, the U.S.S. Departments have a steady level of trust on the part of society. In particular, the latest surveys of February 2020, the Center for Social Research of Razumkova, the level of confidence in the IMF system units is: the National Police, 43.7 per cent, the National Guard, 60 per cent, the State Emergency Service, 65 per cent, the State Border Service, 60 per cent. These are very high indicators, and for us this is the highest responsibility that cannot be deceived. I've now taken with me a lot of information on the questions that we've received from the people's deputies at the previous meeting, as well as on other questions that you might ask. So I am ready to answer your questions. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-05-m0.u3	Thank you, Arsen Borisovich. Dear colleagues, please sign up for questions from MPs and groups. Papiev Mikhailo Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-05-m0.u4	Thank you. Please pass the word to Jury Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-05-m0.u5	The city’s Yuri Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-05-m0.u6	Thank you. Yuri Zagradny, faction of "The Opposition Platform for Life." The events in Barovara showed the need to monitor the actions of carriers on the part of the National Police. Mr. Minister, please tell us what actions or actions are being taken or are being developed by the National Police, the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine in order to ensure that passenger transport is not monitored in order to prevent similar events that have occurred in Barovara, in the future, and what action is being taken by the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, the National Police, to ensure the safety of Ukrainian citizens in the course of passenger transport? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-05-m0.u7	Thank you for your question. What I'm trying to say is that I don't quite agree with your wording, and I want to give my vision. But I agree with you in fact. The functions of the National Police include only road safety control and road traffic enforcement by its participants. If we analyze events in Brovar, we have a broader situation. In doing so, the situation that took place in Barovara is the result of failed work, as I said, of certain services, of public authorities. Yes, the Ukrainian State Department of Transportation Safety, among other things, is responsible for the State’s supervision and supervision of passenger compliance. transporters of the requirements of legislation, showing illegal carriers, issuing licenses for the carriage of passengers and controlling compliance with licensing conditions. In my opinion, the functions of the Ukratrans security function are correct, but they are not effective at the moment. Also known are the facts of corruption among the senior management of the Ukratrans Security Department, which has been taking place since the last cadence. Now the state has an organ that I think is not only able to control passenger transport, but also to implement fully the other functions that it has. We are now consulting on changes in interaction, functions between government authorities, including the National Police, Ukratrans Security, government authorities on licenses and the specific features of road traffic control. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-05-m0.u8	Nagorniak Sergey Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-05-m0.u9	Mr. Minister, good afternoon! I thank you for your frank conversation of not being afraid to talk about the problems and the achievements of the National Police. I personally thank myself for arresting guilty criminals. As a former carrier in 2012, I dealt with them and got rid of my business, too, because these bandits who fought in Barovara today, and they're already detained, I thank you for that. And I want to ask you a question. Please tell us what the situation is with our Nazi Markiv. I know you were in court last year. What is the situation today? What is the situation in this matter? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-05-m0.u10	Thank you for asking. Of course, Markov and I have some background material here. I thank you for taking care of this matter. The liberation of Vitali Markiv, who came to Ukraine from a prosperous Italy in the 13th year, fights for the state, for Ukraine first in Midan, and then on the line of confrontation with the invaders, that's an important thing. We are confident that the charges of murdering an Italian journalist are fully falsified and are a special operation of Russian special forces that is being implemented in Italy. We're doing everything we can to get Vitaly Marks released. The issue of the release of Vitali was raised at the highest level of the state. Yes, in February, President Zelenski of Ukraine had talks with the President and Prime Minister of Italy, as well as with Pope Roman Francis, where the issue was raised at the highest level. Now, in short, we expect the end of quarantine in Italy in connection with COVID, a hearing of the Court of Appeal will be announced, where we are confident that we have very good positions, and continue diplomatic efforts at the level between governments. In addition, we resumed our investigation last year into the circumstances of Mr. Rockelli's murder. This year, a few weeks ago, there was an investigative experiment proving that Mr. Marks could not have been temporary even physically, even at a distance to this murder. So we make an effort, we think Mark will be free. I really want this to happen in the coming months. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-05-m0.u11	Arjev Vladimir Igorovich
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-05-m0.u12	I give the word to Mary Ion.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-05-m0.u13	Mr. Minister, you didn't mention the Sheremet case during your speech. And that affects the court. The killer of a five-year-old boy was released. Do You Feel Responsibilities? Because the investigation is over in the Sheremet case. But the defenders, apart from the list of materials, did not provide the evidence themselves. So the materials have been discovered, and they don't give the basics. Why is the investigation so interested in keeping Kuzmenko, Antonenko, under guard for more than 180 days, regardless of the ECHR practice? And the second question. How many quarantine disorders have been detected? And have Greensky and the President's Office been fined for violating quarantine while visiting a food facility? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-05-m0.u14	Thank you for asking. I didn't touch the Sheremet case, because I was sure there would be a question, so I prepared for it. The murder of Paul Sheremet is very difficult and with many burdensome and generalized circumstances. However, there is already a great deal of material and considerable work to be done in this regard. What's going on now? More than 200 volumes have now been collected. Three suspects have been reported today, as you said. Each suspect has the right to defend himself, and the court must rule on the entire system of charges, suspicions, and defence. The investigation believes that it has a comprehensive set of arguments to make a statement of suspicion. The suspects, using all their defenses, nevertheless, point out that they refused to give evidence, to participate in investigation experiments, and to carry out polygraph tests. The investigation handed over all the materials to the court. And in the competitive process, the court must establish the truth, as well as the precautionary measures. The trail is now. There is no need to speculate politically about this situation. The investigation is very serious; it has nothing to do with the personnel, the careers of my or other officials, or the police. I can't go into any more detail about this case, but this episode of three suspects is now out and brought to trial. The 38 volumes are open to the public. They're completely open to colleagues of lawyers. According to other episodes of this case, the investigation is ongoing according to customers, organizers, mechanisms, executions, and other accomplices. Obviously, it can be a resurgence of new facts, and these facts will become known to society. We pay attention to all the versions that are available, including the conspirological ones that are now appearing in space with the participation of some resonant characters. This matter should follow its course regardless of political speculation. It's about your quarantine system.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-05-m0.u15	Thank you. Belkova Olga Valentinovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-05-m0.u16	Dear Minister Arsene Borisovich, we recognize, indeed. I'd like to ask you a question about Kagarlik. We really admit that this time the police have acknowledged the situation in Cagaryka. At the same time, you are in your report. You know, you called what happened, an accident. On behalf of the women of Ukraine, I'd like to ask you to honestly call it a crime, a serious crime. I'd like you as a minister, including. I understand you're defending the uniform, and I admit that the police are completely different today than the police have ever been, and all the police are not the same. At the same time, this crime offends society. I want you to speak for the women. I want you to protect every single one of us who can make such a sacrifice every day.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-05-m0.u17	I thank you for that accent, Madam MP. I completely share your opinion. It's a crime, a bold crime. And I demand the harshest punishment for these bastards. This is my position, and I'll keep an eye on it.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-05-m0.u18	The great Sergey Anatolyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-05-m0.u19	We had a meeting with the district police chiefs yesterday, and yesterday we placed our accents very tightly. Each of them understands the responsibility he will bear. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-05-m0.u20	The great Sergey Anatolyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-05-m0.u21	Sergey the Great, Luganskina, the Trust Group. I give my word to my colleague from Valeria Lunchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-05-m0.u22	Valérie Lunchenko, trust MP. Mr. Secretary, I have a question for you. Please tell me recently, it seems that in April, you presented us with a treaty, a ratification with France for shipping ships. Then you said it was going to be a localization of production, creating new jobs. Please tell me, at what stage is this contract currently in status today, and is there any obstacle in this direction of work? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-05-m0.u23	Thank you for asking. It was the localization of production that was the key idea, the key requirements of the contract. I'll remind you that we have the only Ukrainian factory that could work with the sea aluminum that makes these boats of this class, this is a feudal plant called the Sea, which is now in the temporarily occupied Russia. In Crimea. Thus, the contract between the foreign service and the French state company OSEA explicitly prescribes the production of five ships from twenty at the Ukrainian company. As a result of this analysis, at this point in the market, OSCE stopped its choice at the Nibulon Shipbuilding Company with its capacity in Mikolayev, where hopefully this year this production will begin. I am confident that, once this project is implemented, Ukraine will have technology and will be able to produce ships of sea aluminum again in the mainland of Ukraine until we have Crimea back to Ukraine. So this year we will be able to visit Ukrainian production. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-05-m0.u24	Lubinet Dmitry Valeriovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-05-m0.u25	Dear Arsen Borisovich! Deputies, Party for the Future. We're composed exclusively of major MPs, we're consistently supporting decentralization reform, and on the ground that we're facing the final unification of the territorial communities, we'd like to ask questions about the "police community officer" project. The Ministry of Internal Affairs has already announced the launch of this project. We'd like to ask what stage he's at, how he's getting there, and how this community officer is going to help in the OTG to get things done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-05-m0.u26	Thank you. I'm going to open my report on this. What do we have now? We now have 190 police officers from the community working in ten regions of the state. We realize that this project, which now covers 251 territorial communities with 2 million people, has received a favorable assessment of people. That's very good. We've been counting on it. This project involves the introduction of a universal police officer who says "sheriff", a community police officer in a rural area, and a small town where he serves a community where he lives 24/7, we say "I'm always here." And this is the question of the implementation of this project throughout the country, in every OTG that will now be created. But it's also a question of money and funding. It's a matter of funding from local communities -- housing. And that's the issue of funding from the National Police of Ukraine -- car equipment, radio and so on. There's an appropriate plan that we're moving from that point to that point. And that's where we're going. I think a police officer of the community will be in every OTG by mid-term next year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-05-m0.u27	Sussun Inna Romanovna
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-05-m0.u28	Arsen Borisovich, we have just heard from you many well-prepared answers to well-prepared questions. I have no questions for you. But I want to hear something else from you. We heard the answers. We have not heard your personal responsibility for not being punished by the men who killed their son. I want you here from this rostrum to apologize to the parents of Kiril Tlyavov and apologize to the girl who was raped in Cagarlik for four hours. I repeat, I don't want to hear the answer to your questions, I want to hear your apologies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-05-m0.u29	I'm not gonna do what you want, I'm gonna do what I have to do. And what I have to do, I will do. You lied when you said that the people who killed Five-Year-Old Man were free. That's not true. One of them, he's a former police associate, now he's here. He's in custody, he's in prison. Two court-appointed officers two months ago, if I'm not mistaken. A minor also has a measure of restraint. Today. Yesterday was the anniversary of the boy's death. And the police along with that family have always been a police officer, including yesterday. That's why you don't have to speculate, Mrs. Sosun. You don't have to. You don't have to play political dividends on tragedy, I advise you. And you don't have to teach me how to love my family. I'm a patriot to the bone and I'm going to work for the state, not for the political interests of some political parties. Thank you for asking.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-05-m0.u30	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the time for questioning is exhausted. For 20 minutes now, to the government. I invite Arsen Borisovich into the government's bed, and I ask you to sign up for a question to the members of the government. Questions from the National Deputies. Katchura Alexander Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-05-m0.u31	Alexander Kachura, "Serial of the People" faction. Dear Arsene Borisovich, this is still a question for you. There's been a recent raid on a foreign investment company, the Turkish company MESA-DORBUD. Technology was stolen for tens of millions of dollars from this foreign investor. I know that you personally and Anton Gerashchenko have taken the matter under control. What is being done on this issue, and what is done on the part of the Ministry of Internal Affairs and you personally so that foreign investors are not afraid to invest money in the Ukrainian state and develop our economy? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-05-m0.u32	Your Honor, you know that we've created a working group on this issue, we've now held a meeting with the Turkish Ambassador to Ukraine, we've clarified the circumstances. I think we're going to protect this investor. And these means of production and the other assets that we, some of the hunters took from them, will be returned. You can get a reference to this question, I think, in a week or so, you'll have a more or less understanding period of procedural action. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-05-m0.u33	Polakov Anton Eduardoovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-05-m0.u34	I have a question for Mr. Schmigal. As an MP of the 206 district of Montenegro, I appeal to you and ask you to take personal control and help correct the criminal actions of the Ministry of Fuel and Energy and Ukrtorf. With numerous violations of the strategic enterprises Smolin Torfost Plant and Chernigovtorf, on March 3rd was transferred by the Government of Honcheruk to the Holding Fund. The appointment of a new leadership has repeatedly taken place in violation of the procedure and the charter of the Skrthorfu. You've been approached on numerous occasions by the Chernigiv District Council and the government, and the labour teams. I understand that you're more interested in DTEK and SCM, but it's the energy independence of our country, because this enterprise provides thorphobricettes to all of Montenegro: kindergartens, schools and households. Help me, please. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-05-m0.u35	Thank you for asking. Let's get him to work. We're actually working on it, and it's going to be solved.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-05-m0.u36	Aresonkov Vladimir Yuriovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-05-m0.u37	First question to the Home Secretary. Arsene Borisovich, not even a question, but a request. It is understandable that the problem, including the low level and low level of qualification of individual National Police officers, investigators, experts, including the shrinking process of training professionals. I urge you not to allow the training programs to be cut short. It is not possible to follow the calls of the individual countries of the neighbouring countries where reforms have taken place. The shooting program, let's prepare investigators and others in a week. You can't let that happen. And the question to the Prime Minister. Tell me, the latest forest fires in Žitomirsk, in other areas, the whole package of measures that need to be taken to prevent these fires from happening again, because the rapidly warm weather, the heat weather again and, please, the entire package of measures that are needed.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-05-m0.u38	I'm going to tell you about the location of the investigators' training. Our position is that the investigator should be trained for at least four years at an appropriate specialized altitude. And as for the police, it's a six-month start-up, and then it's a special one. That's our position. That's why I heard you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-05-m0.u39	It's about the second part. The State Department is carrying out a series of measures to prevent forest fires, including in Žitomirščina. Now the attention is special after the fires that were there.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-05-m0.u40	Coltunovich Alexander Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-05-m0.u41	Please give the floor to National Deputy Kiwi Illy Volodymirovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-05-m0.u42	Kiwa Ilya Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-05-m0.u43	I have a question for the Home Secretary. Dear Arsen Borisovich, if you will excuse us, the Ukrainian National Deputies, last year passed the Ukraine Act "To Change Certain Legislative Acts of Ukraine to Simplify the Trial Investigation of Certain Categories of Criminal Offences", which takes effect on 1 July of this year. Is the National Police Ready to Institute Criminal Offences? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-05-m0.u44	You know very well that this law will be put into effect on 1 July, and the meeting of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Law has taken place. After that, a coordination meeting was held with the Attorney General, where all the heads from the National Police to the Security Service, the D.B.I. and others were present. And we're, let me put it this way, now we're ready for 95 percent, and by 01.07 we're ready to do 110 percent of these tasks. And we're going to have a situation where every investigator is not going to have 300 cases on his head, but actually do important conducts, and the chicken theft is going to be investigated at a different level, on the first line, for example, by a police officer of the community. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-05-m0.u45	Kuznitsov Aleksandrovich
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-05-m0.u46	Please pass the word to Ljuboti Dmitry Valeriovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-05-m0.u47	Dmitri Lubbott, "Serial of the People" faction, 177 constituency, Kharkishte. I have a question for the Minister of Internal Affairs. Arsen Borisovich, may I have your attention? Arsene Borisovich, the village of the Arkadivka Shevchenkov district of Kharkiv district, where only half a thousand people live, has a fantastic forty million debt to Naftogaz. As a result of decisions made by the government and the Kharkiv government, the gas supply facility was transferred to public property in the 12th year and later to the management of a private company. The debt was hung in a small village. Given the scale of these actions across Ukraine, we are dealing with the withdrawal of tens of billions of budget funds in the interests of private companies. I have a question: do you know this scheme, and how do you protect yourself if in the 12th year it was founded by the government, Choda and Naftogaz? Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-05-m0.u48	Thank you for asking. I don't know this scheme. If you please give me the materials, let's look at them and then we'll draw conclusions. Thank you. I'm waiting for you with the materials.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-05-m0.u49	Petty Officer Valentin Aleksandrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-05-m0.u50	Puzichuku, please. Puzichuku Andria.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-05-m0.u51	Please turn Puzichuku Andria on.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-05-m0.u52	Puzichuk Andryu, "The Fatherland" faction, Zitomirščina. Mr. Prime Minister, listen to me. You know, you're not just going to be left with a ruined economy, you're going to be left with a burning Ukraine. And it will be burned, not in a figurative sense, but in a direct sense. This is evident from the fires that occurred in Zitomirsk. I'll tell you what you're doing and what you're doing: you're rewarding criminals for being caught up in Zitomirsk. Yesterday, the head of the Forest Resources Agency rewarded the Chief of Administration of the Zitomir region. What was the reward? For the burned-out Ukraine? For burned forests? For burning up the plant and animal world? Since when have Ukraine been rewarded for burning Ukraine? Where are your references to the Attorney General's Office regarding the investigation of these.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-05-m0.u53	Denis Anatolyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-05-m0.u54	Fires in both Chernobyl and the world’s forests are involved. Infringements of appropriate criminal conduct, criminal cases under investigation. And you know what's appropriate, you've adopted legislation to increase responsibility for the proper arson and burning of forests. All work by. [[B in m in s a l in]] All the fire-fighting work was done heroically by members of the DSS. I can convey the word to Arsen Borisovich to confirm once again the criminal cases that are currently being committed in connection with the fires in the forests of the world. [[B in m in s a l in]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-05-m0.u55	Dear colleagues, let's not interrupt each other. Andrew Viktorovich, you were not interrupted by the Prime Minister, neither by me, nor by any of your colleagues. [[B in m in s a l in]] No, I understand. But let us act in such a way that we hear one another. [[B in m in s a l in]] And where in the Rules, Andrew Viktorovich, and where does the Rules state that even a national MP can interrupt someone? Salichuk Alexander. It wasn't a line, nothing wrong with you. Salichuk Alexander Viacheslavovich
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-05-m0.u56	Please pass the word to Dublin Alexander.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-05-m0.u57	Alexander Anatolyovich Dubinsky
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-05-m0.u58	Good afternoon, dear colleagues. Question to Prime Minister Schmigal We already know that a signed memorandum, a letter of intent and a memorandum by the International Monetary Fund. Yesterday, Finance Minister Marchenko announced this. But I have a question for you. This memorandum states that the heating tariffs will be increased, the social cost of gas for the population will be abolished and it will be marketed. It is also written that strategic state enterprises will be sold without exception, as well as granted access to the establishment or appointment of judges. Will all these facts be reflected in your next revision program? If not, will it not be counted as the lie of the government of the people of Ukraine that you have been engaged in for two months? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-05-m0.u59	The information you provide does not partially match the reality, is a lie. For the part that is true, I ask the Minister of Finance to answer for the structural beacons presented in the IMF memorandum that is now being prepared for signature. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-05-m0.u60	Please turn on the microphone. Marchenko. Turn on the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-05-m0.u61	No tariff increase is foreseen, no other restrictions are foreseen. And we talked about this to you yesterday, so I can only confirm it. The International Monetary Fund programme, there are reform measures that we still have to do. If you need more details, I can comment in more detail on each of the reforms. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-05-m0.u62	Kucherenko Aleksei Yuriovich
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-05-m0.u63	Thank you. Alexy Kucherenko, Fatherland. I have a question for Mr. Prime Minister. Mr. Prime Minister, when you were assigned to this room, I asked you if you were going to figure out the NAC Naftogazu debt -- 120 billion receivables, or are you going to figure out why gas prices are going down and the tariffs are going up. Answer that question when it will be done, because without it, no plan will be implemented. Answer the question, why is the state company Centrenerego 2.5 billion dollars of damage, and who are the bastards that took her in the 19th year? Mr. Prime Minister, once again, I would like to emphasize that any good plan will not work until you've restored the state power management system until there are independent supervisory boards and independent regulators. You're always going to be extreme, understand this and restore the state-run management system in.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-05-m0.u64	Dear Mr. Kucherenko, really, you are a member of the same anti-crisis energy headquarters, where we are practically on a weekly basis currently working on those measures, and there is a whole list that is supposed to lead to a normalization of the energy situation. There is indeed a question about past periods, over past years of debt, there is really a question of imbalance in the energy market, and today all of this work is being done, starting with a meeting and, let's say, approaches to debt repayment, ending negotiations with renewable energy investors on tariff reductions, continuing with the balance sheet of the financial component of the energy market. So all this work is done, and thank you for being a direct participant in the Anti-Crist Energy Headquarters, where we do all this work together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-05-m0.u65	Kradenko Vladimir Viktorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-05-m0.u66	Please pass the word to Crassus Alexia.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-05-m0.u67	Mr. Prime Minister, it is no secret to you that there is information in the media about the possible violation of anticorruption legislation by the ARMA officials. There is reason to believe that the activities of the ARM are ineffective. ARMA is controlled by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Therefore, there is a question of whether there is an official’s official investigation in view of the anticorruption committee’s appeal to you as a result. When will the results be delivered? Have you considered disposing of officials in the course of official investigations? What decision was made? In February, the term of office of the so - called ARMA goals. Can you finally contract on a legal basis with the head of the ARMA and assume responsibility for the organ’s activities during quarantine? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-05-m0.u68	Thank you for your question, it's really important. And I'll pass the word to the Minister of the Cabinet. We're working on this issue about the ARMA, about the effectiveness of their work. We're working on the address we have, and we're really dealing with it every day. Please Oleg Mikolaiovich Nemčinov.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-05-m0.u69	Good afternoon! Thank you so much for asking. Regrettably, we cannot, on a legislative basis, appoint a leader directly to the ARMA because the task of directing is governed by special legislation. In fact, the time is running out for the manager, and I think we're dealing with this in the nearest Cabmine. And I want to make it easy for the people's deputies to finally approve the election of the members to a commission that will actually take away such a leader. Thank you for asking.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-05-m0.u70	Thank you. Ivchenko Vadim Evgenovich. Puzichuk Andri Viktorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-05-m0.u71	Andrew Puziyczuk, Fatherland faction, Zitomirščina. Mr. Prime Minister, please don't move the arrows to the MNP. I want to say thank you from Zitomirščina, from the MPs to the DSNS workers who have been fighting fires for two weeks. I have a question for you. Please state that the answer to the Rules should be accurate: Since when do markings for burned land begin to be awarded in Ukraine? What are they rewarding for? For the fire that went down to Chernobyl from Winterfell? Are they rewarded for having a elevated radiation background in Kiev? Do the rain forest reward the firemen? Tell me, where is the impact disposal program? Instead of showing you how to fight the consequences, how to restore what the head of the agency is doing, he rewards you for arson! Tell me, explain.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-05-m0.u72	On the basis of your request, we'll conduct an investigation.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-05-m0.u73	Larissa Mikolayevna. [[B in m in s a l in]] Turn on the Prime Minister's microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-05-m0.u74	I gave you the answer, and you didn't listen. I said on the basis of your request, we'll conduct an investigation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-05-m0.u75	Larissa Mikolayevna.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-05-m0.u76	Please pass the word to Urban Anatoly Igorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-05-m0.u77	Urban Anatoly Igorovich
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-05-m0.u78	Good afternoon! I have a question for the minister of culture. I heard some sarcasm yesterday about Odessa's film studio. And now I want to hear an open answer about the future development of the Odessa Film Studio. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-05-m0.u79	Alexander Vladislavovich Tkachenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-05-m0.u80	I don't know where you heard sarcasm. But in fact, with the development of the film studio, and not just the Odessa, we started working on the committee. We'll invite you both to the committee and the ministry. We're going to present you with development plans. And I think that the extra questions that hide non-sarcasm, yours, will be given the clear answers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-05-m0.u81	Thank you. Last question, Olena Constantine's Condratuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-05-m0.u82	Thank you, Dmitri Alexanderovich. I have a question for the Prime Minister of Ukraine. Mr. Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-05-m0.u83	Dennis Anatolyevich, vice-speaker asks a question.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-05-m0.u84	Mr. Prime Minister, since June 15, the European Union has lifted the entry ban for foreign tourists. Greece, in particular, is opening its borders with 120 countries around the world, including China. Unfortunately, Ukraine is not on this list. Don't you think it's a mistrust to do tests on us and generally on our statistics being done? And I have a second question for the Ministry of Education. Does the Ministry of Education and Government guarantee particularly the safety of the participants? Will testing be conducted, particularly for children, by instructors who conduct the UNV? Who will be responsible if there is an outbreak after the KNW is carried out? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-05-m0.u85	Thank you for asking. So since June 15, we also have an international airline as well as international communication with our neighbours and partners. I'll take the floor for the first part of the answer to Mr. Cooleby's foreign minister. To the second part, I would like to ask the minister of education to answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-05-m0.u86	Thank you for asking. We're running with all the countries that are interested in Ukrainians as the points they're planning to go to this summer. When these countries adopt decisions regarding the admission of Ukrainian citizens, there is no problem with confidence in statistics, there is no problem with confidence in the number of tests, it is a problem of numbers such as because there is a limit to the number of patients per 100,000 people. We're very close to that threshold. And a slight even improvement in the situation in Ukraine will allow us to conform to standards and the entry for Ukrainians will be open. But I would like to point out that this question is one of the priorities at the moment and it is on my control. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-05-m0.u87	Thank you, Your Honor. An hour of years. Oh, I'm sorry, Ministry of Education.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-05-m0.u88	Thank you for asking. The Ministry of Education has signed all the necessary documents, issued appropriate orders to carry out a state-wide summary evaluation in the form of an external independent evaluation. A decision has been taken by the government to provide assistance, to allocate funds for implementation, to provide education with personal protection and disinfectors and antiseptics. All things will come to the district government, and then they will be transferred to the testing stations. Individual protection will begin next week. There are methodological recommendations for the creation of safe conditions in the education facilities of the Chief State Sanitary Doctor, so we are in a calm manner preparing for a state-wide summary evaluation in the form of external independent evaluation and preparing safe conditions for more than 1,000,700 testing points. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-05-m0.u89	Thank you, Your Honor. The "hours of questioning to the government" are over. I would like to thank the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the honourable members. Thank you. Let's move on to the next one. Vasil Ivanovich by procedure. Germany.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-05-m0.u90	Mr. Chairman, the point is that today should be the time for the government, not 20 minutes, that we listened to the Minister of Internal Affairs, is the second one altogether. Please follow the Rules and give 40 minutes to ask questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-05-m0.u91	Vasil Ivanovich, thank you. Let's raise the Rules, and it is there that you should have been in writing to ask the ministers, and they should have answered that. If you propose to return to the Rules, the next time will be as it had been when the minister stood and actually read the answers to the questions that were sent in writing. If your proposal room is being held up, we can go back to such a mechanism. Are we going back to written questions next time? Faction position, please raise your hand, who supports Germany's position? With all due respect, I don't see anyone supporting her. Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the day-to-day issues. Next question of the agenda.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-05-m0.u92	Thank you. Mr. President, we are going to consider the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine 2020. This is registration number 3509, 3509-1, 3509-2. Dear colleagues, since there's a question of putting it into the agenda, let's move it later and go to other laws, there's an offer, for a few points. There's no objection, is there? Then let's move on to the next one. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-05-m0.u93	Honorary Colleagues, on June 4, 2020, the Supreme Council of Ukraine was adopted in a second reading and as a whole as a bill of amendment to some Ukrainian legislation on military service titles (registration number 2247). Please invite the national deputies to the hall. There will be a discussion and a vote now, if the discussion is necessary. In accordance with article 131 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules, we need to remove some disagreements in certain provisions of the law. Suggestions for the settlement of disagreements are given to you. If there is no objection, I will put this document to the vote for a decision. There was no question as to what, when the law was voted yesterday, there was no question. Dear colleagues, listen, please. When the law was voted on the basis and in general, it was not said that the terms of entry into force. I'll give my word to the committee head. Alexander Mikhailovich, please, on the bill of title, position. Ensign Alexander Mikhailovich, please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-05-m0.u94	Dear colleagues, it's about change, it's only about a date. In the previous version of the law it was written "entering into force on May 1st." Since the date has passed, the change is "from 1 May 2020" to "from 1 October 2020" to "from 1 October 2020."
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-05-m0.u95	Dear colleagues, is there a need for discussion? We can vote, right? Please prepare for the vote. Ready to vote? I understand correctly that all factions will be able to support this proposal? I am voting on the proposal to remove disagreements in the text of the adoption of the Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation on military service titles (registration No. 2247). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[11:18:39]] For 280 Decision taken. Thank you, Your Honor. Show by factions. The next issue of the agenda is the draft Ordinance on the Establishment of a Temporary Special Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for the Protection of Investors' Rights (Registration No. 2601). It is suggested that this issue be considered in a simplified manner. Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[11:19:21]] For 242 Decision taken. Needed to Be Discussed? Yeah. The National Deputy of Ukraine, Janchenko Galina Igorovna, is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-05-m0.u96	Good morning, fellow. Your opinion is on the proposal of Decree No. 2601 on the establishment of a temporary special committee on investor rights. Today, in times of economic crisis caused by the coronavirus around the world, our country needs investment as air. Not loans, not IMF, that is, investments externally and internally will save our country's economy. Therefore, the involvement of investments should be a priority for all branches of government. The president has repeatedly stressed this, and this should be the priority of the Supreme Council. That's why we're proposing to Parliament to create a Special Commission for the Protection of Investors' Rights. It will be composed of 13 national deputies of virtually all MPs and groups. Among them are two committee heads and six committee heads. The work of the TSK will take place in two directions: the first is to create an investor-friendly legislation, because today there is an investor struggle in the world and simple and understandable legislation can become our competitive advantage; the second major direction will be the consideration of business complaints. Regrettably, today there are still cases where individual officials of the public authorities are unsanctioned. In particular, there is a problem such as raiding. Therefore, one of the first legislative initiatives of the TSK will be two bills aimed at overcoming the raid. Colleagues, please support the creation of such a special commission and help our country to develop in the right direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-05-m0.u97	Thank you, Galina Igorna. The word is given to the head of the Committee on Rules of Procedure, Deputy Ethics, and the organization of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Mr. Calchenk, Sergio Vitaliyovich. Please, Sergey Vitaliovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-05-m0.u98	Dear Lord Chairman, distinguished national MPs! At its meeting, the Regulatory Committee discussed the draft Ordinance on the Establishment of a Temporary Special Commission for the Protection of the Rights of Investors (Registration No. 2601), which is proposed to establish this temporary special commission to ensure the establishment of a State policy on the creation of investment activities in Ukraine and the protection of investors’ rights and freedoms. According to the proposals of the MPs and the MPs who have come to the initiator of this bill, the project's author proposes to identify the number of members of this committee, consisting of 13 deputies, and to select representatives of the "Serve of the People" faction, "The Voice", "The Opposition Platform for Life", "The Fatherskina", and the MPs "For the Future" and "The Trust". There was no proposal from the European Solidarity Party's MP for the Commission's quantity of personnel, and there is no representative of this faction in the project. In summary, the regulatory committee decided to recommend to Parliament a draft of the regulation and to take a decision on it in accordance with article 138 of the Rules. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-05-m0.u99	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the discussion. Please sign up: two in, two in. Please give the floor to National Deputy Nikolainek Andrija Ivanovich, faction of the political party "The All-Ukrainian Union of the Fatherland".
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-05-m0.u100	Cool, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-05-m0.u101	Ivanovich Krulko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-05-m0.u102	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. The bill proposed for the creation of a temporary special commission on investor rights is now in the agenda. And I'd like to start by saying, "Don't teach an apple to bear an apple, you better get rid of it!" And so with investors: you don't have to teach them how to make money, you put those investors on their knees, you don't let them work properly, you don't have to teach them how to make money, you don't have to put them on their knees, you don't have to put them on their knees, you don't have to work properly, you don't have to fight them, you have to make them pay bribes -- that's what's going on in Ukraine. But when we talk about investors who just have to come, let's think about those investors who are already working in Ukraine, about our internal investor, who for years, despite all the shortcomings in legislation, all the struggles that our investors are facing. They must be protected first. To make them understand that in Ukraine it is fair to engage in entrepreneurial activities, which in Ukraine can pay adequate taxes to the state budget, that state law enforcement and control bodies are primarily service bodies that protect them, because their taxes also finance the work of Parliament, both the President, and the government, and the control, and the law enforcement authorities of the entire budget sphere, and the teachers and doctors. Clearly, then, the questions of investors, their protection, those who work and who can come in the future are of great importance. And if we can, including through this special commission that will be created, show the world that those investors who are already working can do business properly, believe it, others will come and there will be many, because Ukraine is interesting for investment, but as long as corruption continues, Ukraine will be walking the tenth road. The Fatherland faction supports this bill, and we've proposed to this commission a colleague from the Fatherland faction. In this context, I believe that this special commission will be able to work effectively and at least report to Parliament, and what happens to Ukrainian investors. Thank you. And this bill needs to be supported.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-05-m0.u103	Thank you, Ivan Ivanovich. It's not a bill, it's a draft decree. Yes, thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to invite you to the speech of the National MP of Sinyuk, the faction of the political party "European Solidarity". Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-05-m0.u104	Dear fellow MPs, I think we've taken an interest in creating additional committees in this room. And it's very surprising that the proposals for special commissions, especially the commission of inquiry, come from the authorities, because it's not clear what this special commission is going to do. Maybe she'll be looking for an investment nanny who just turned up, and maybe this special commission will be looking for rats who ate capital investments by 30 percent, because that's how much capital investment went down in the first quarter of 2020 compared to the first quarter of 2019. But the worst part is that authorities like these special commissions want to replace the work of state institutions, because I have big questions. What is being done today in the direction of improving Bill 1210, which you voted in this room? You've just created additional dragon powers for fiscal services that have definitely worsened the investment climate and are killing small and medium-sized businesses. I have a question. What have you done with DABI? When you haven't eliminated one part yet, and you haven't created another part, and today you've created a bottleneck through which entrepreneurs are trying to move their documents to get at least some kind of permission. The root of the problem is in the destruction of today's "ministers of the people" of state institutions. And I'm asking you to start rebuilding state institutions from the resignation of the government. Thank God we finally got the signed letters yesterday, and I urge all the deputies of the majority to sign. Don't worry, sign your government resignation. And we act as the great Shewchenko told us: "Fight, we fight, God helps us."
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-05-m0.u105	The word is given to the national deputy of Ironborn Jaroslav Ivanovich, the faction of the political party "Golos".
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-05-m0.u106	Dear colleagues, this commission has probably been preparing for a few months to be taken to the hall, and I am very grateful to Galina Yanchenko's head and other colleagues who have joined. I hope they join her. In fact, the issue of investment, the involvement of protection is one of the biggest problems in our country right now. We have repeatedly stated from this rostrum that unfortunately, because of the government's limited work, we are facing a major financial crisis. There are now 42 billion underexpenditures and many billions of local budgets. And if we don't care about investment, we won't save this situation together, regardless of coalition, opposition, government or parliament. So I am grateful to all the colleagues who have joined in creating this commission. I'll be grateful for that. That the draft decisions and the legislative initiatives that will be proposed were quickly and unanimously supported in this room, and guarantees that on the part of the Voice faction there will be all kinds of support for the commission's activities in order for us to be together as a support and protection to our investors. If the government fails to meet this challenge, I am sure that Parliament will be able to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-05-m0.u107	Thank you. The word is given to Coltunovich Alexander Sergiyevich, the political party "The Opposition Platform for Life". Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-05-m0.u108	Thank you. Dear Ruslan Alexiyovich, the distinguished national deputies of Ukraine! Coltunovich, "The Opposition Platform for Life." Frankly, it is very surprising to see the establishment of a temporary special commission of the Supreme Council on investor protection, including the involvement of foreign direct investment. Because the results of the activities of the Supreme Council and the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine have already led to a decline in Ukraine’s investment potential. If you don't believe it, look at the official figures of the State: $2.9 billion was foreign direct investment in the 18th, based on 19th to 2.5. A colleague of European Solidarity has already talked about reducing capital investment in the first quarter of 2020. These are the results of our work with you. I very much ask that this commission, which will be created, should pay attention to the lifting of the economic blockade of Donbas. Because the issue of conflict in particular areas of the Donetsk and Lugansk regions is being undermined by the investment potential of Ukraine, and everyone knows that. Another very important point on the issue is the positive and development of international economic cooperation and integration. Instead of engaging in a free trade zone with Britain, you need to reestablish economic ties with the countries of Asia. It's not about SND and others, it's about BRIX, SCOS, ATES, ASEAN and so on, and so on, including the countries of the Eurasian Economic Union. It's important. How will we evaluate the work of your temporary special commission? But of course, we're going to evaluate it exactly in those macroeconomic indicators: how much exports have increased, how much foreign direct investment in the national economy has increased. And another very important moment. As a representative of the Economic Committee, I want to say that we have a business institution in Ukraine. I want you to coordinate with him so that you don't duplicate your work. Our faction will support this draft decree. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-05-m0.u109	Thank you. The word is Bilozer's national deputy, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-05-m0.u110	Colleagues, our group, the Future Party will support this draft decision, and I'm on this temporary special committee. Indeed, we will consider cases of infringements, proposals for legislative change in the field of investment. It's all good. But we really need a quality Investment Act, but as long as we don't have fair courts, a law enforcement system, any such commission of inquiry, and all the other organs, state bodies, today there are more than 20 involving and protecting investment, they won't work. So first of all, we have to work on having a normal system at all. Right now, we have problems with the quotas for mineral fertilizers, we have lobbyism. In fact, buying fertilizers at market prices is our internal investors because they are the main investors, not the external ones, and it has always been, not the higher ones as a result of lobbying. That is why we will consider such things.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-05-m0.u111	Thank you. Dear colleagues, have all those who wish to speak? Checkout from "Trust." Shahov Sergei Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-05-m0.u112	Sergey Shahov, trust MP. Dear colleagues, surely we will support the creation of such a commission and, as our parents said, we do not need to help, we should not interfere with business today. We need to develop small and medium-sized businesses and big businesses, get rid of the oligarchic groups in the country today. And the "Trust" group still needs to put to the vote a bill on the free zone of the Donetsk and Luhansk region and to allow for the disposal of 3 skins from the entrepreneur today and the loading of small and medium-sized businesses today. Thank you. Sergey Shahov, Trust MP, Luhanščina.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-05-m0.u113	Dear colleagues, please prepare for the vote. Ready to vote? Please. I'm betting on a motion for adoption as a whole of the draft Ordinance on the Establishment of a Temporary Special Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for the Protection of Investors' Rights (registration No. 2601) Please prepare for the vote. Ready to vote? I can't hear you. Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[11:36:17]] For 319 Decision taken. It's been decided. Dear colleagues, there's been a statement from two factions about a break with a replacement for the performance, "Trust" and "For the Future." Here comes Shahov Sergey Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-05-m0.u114	Sergey Shahov, Luhanščina, Deputy Group "Trust". Dear colleagues, I'd like to ask Kabmin these questions, but unfortunately not everyone has enough time. Three questions in the agenda. The first is the Luhansk and Donetsk regions. Please tell us that we have brought people from Uchan, China, from Ukraine to our Ukrainians, from Europe, from Asia, from all nations of the world. But our Ukrainians who live in that area, 1 million 700,000 displaced people who live here, they can't get to their children, they can't talk to their parents, they have surgery plans, they have cancers, they have heart attacks, there's a lot of questions that are on the agenda today. More than 40,000 signatures were collected from the Lugansk and Donetsk regions for the opening of CERs. Please, these signatures have been sent to President Vladimir Zelenski and Prime Minister Schmigal of Ukraine. Make a decision and soon open the ICE. Give people a normal life, it's Ukrainian. The second question is again to Donbas, to Donetsk and to Luhansk. It is good that some have allocated money to the Lugansk region today to build roads. But I wanted not to drive the President on a helicopter in Potemkin villages, but to take the roads that are in the worst condition today. Why did Kharkiv to Kupyansk make the road, and Trootic, Bilokurakine, Svatov, Milovsky, is the New Year’s Region, the Staribal region today in decline?Oh, my God! Mark’s region, the region of Bilovod, is now in complete decline, like a grave?Oh, my God! Transfiguration's not working! Please, there is a war going on, even though there were no tanks. There is a distinction between Russia and Ukraine and we need to show our faces. Let's make a decision and put money there to build roads. And the most important question is our doctors. In that year 70,000 doctors left our country. Why is there a lack of medical support throughout the country today? Today, during a pandemic that had not yet ended, quarantine was on its way, and today doctors began to quit their jobs! Not that 300 percent of them add to their wages today, but they just start getting laid because they don't seem to have any money. I am addressing the minister of health. Get into the process now and ban the vacchanal on the release of doctors today. It's not just Donetsk and Lugansk, it's the whole country. Thank you. Sergey Shahov, Luhanščina, Deputy Group "Trust".
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-05-m0.u115	Dear colleagues, can I have your attention for a moment? You and I have made up our minds. Dear colleagues! Thank you. You and I have decided that from the first hour to the second hour, questions will be read. There's an offer to cancel the break from 12 to 12:30 in order to work. Is there no objection? I can put it to a vote if you insist. Well, really, well, because we are. A year of questions plus a year on. Do you agree? Thank you. We're continuing our work.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-05-m0.u116	Dear colleagues, we are moving to Bill 3509, 3509-1, 3509-2, the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the State Budget for Ukraine 2020. In order to consider it, we need to vote on its inclusion in the agenda. Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to ask you to take your seats. I am putting to the vote the question of the inclusion in the agenda of Bill 3509 and its alternatives. Are you ready to vote? Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[11:41:09]] For 265 Decision taken. I shall then put to the vote the ad hoc procedure for consideration and decision-making at this plenary session. There are also 226 votes to be voted on. Please support and vote. [[11:41:36]] For 258. Decision taken. Next to consider. I'm asking the question of dealing with this with a reduced procedure. To do that, we need 150 votes. Please support and vote. [[11:42:04]] For 245 Decision taken. I now give the floor to the Vice-President of the Committee on Budget Affairs, Mr. Trukin Alexander Mikolayovich. Please, Alexander.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-05-m0.u117	Dear Dmitre Alexandrovich, honourable national MPs, allow me to present Bill No.3509 from the author's team and to express the position of the Committee on Budget Affairs on him and the alternative bills 3509-1, 3509-2, which were not available at the time of consideration of the matter before the Committee on Budget Affairs. By amending article 28 of the State Budget Act of the 20th year, Bill 3,509 provides for the possibility of channelling the cost of a stable fund created in difficult times for the State to improve transport, construction, reconstruction and capital-based repairs of motor vehicles. Such changes broaden the direction of use of the stabilisation fund, and the priority and extent of allocating these funds in a direction will be determined only by the government of Ukraine. The Chief Scientific and Expert Administration of the Supreme Council and Minfin in their expert conclusions to Bill 3509 made recommendations that were fully considered by our committee during the consideration of the bill. As a result of the committee's consideration, the committee adopted the following decision: recommending Bill 3509 to the Supreme Council as a basis and as a whole, taking into account the committee's proposals related to the proper drafting of the bill and taking into account further proposals for expanding the direction of use of the stabilisation fund, namely, the reception offices and all the things the President has told us about and everything we have promised our voters. So thank you and we'll support it.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-05-m0.u118	I give the floor to the National Deputy of Ukraine, Zabal Volodymyr Vladimir Vladimirovich. Please. Zabala Volodymyr Volodymyrovich, faction of the Voice Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-05-m0.u119	Dear colleagues, I'm going to be very brief, because my alternative law is only one thing different from the basic. I want to remind everyone that two months ago we were making a budget sequester. In this Sequestre, the main change was the allocation of more than 60 billion dollars into the Coronation Fund. To take this money, it had to be removed from culture, education, local self - government, road construction, and so forth. But we promised that if this money wasn't fully used, we would put that money back where it was taken. And this is, indeed, provided for in the Budget Act, that is the possibility. But there's not one possibility, two, actually. The first is to return money to the construction of roads that are already provided for by the basic law. And the second is to return the money to local self-government. Because in five months, 13 billion dollars were under-funded by local budgets. It's from a reduced plan. Accordingly, my alternative law completely repeats those positive rules of the basic law, and it also provides that money can be transferred from the fund to the fight against the coronavirus into local budgets. So, colleagues, please support my alternative bill. And if that doesn't work, it's the main one. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-05-m0.u120	The word is given to the national deputy of Ukraine, Vasilchenko Galini Ivanovna. Please. Dear colleagues, while the reporter is on his way, I'm going to ask you to step out of the way so that people can get to the rostrum. Please, Galina Ivanovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-05-m0.u121	Galina Vasilchenko, Voice faction. Dear people's deputies, Your Honor Mr. Head, dear Ukrainians! The Voice faction consistently advocates the interests of small, medium-sized businesses and submits relevant bills. It is no longer a secret that we will not be able to escape a serious economic crisis. But we can significantly reduce the consequences especially for those who really had to close down their businesses during the pandemic and now need real state aid and support. Today, most micro-entrepreneurs claim that they have reduced their income by 90 to 100 percent and are forced to fire their employees. And we now have over 500,000 unemployed. So the main challenge is to minimize the consequences that actually kill micro and medium-sized businesses. And my alternative bill provides for the assistance of funds that are actually saved, as my colleague Volodymyr Tsabal noted, since only 13 billion of the planned April-May funds were used. And now we have the opportunity to provide real help to those who really need it. We have to protect small and medium-sized businesses. I ask you to support my very own alternative bill and help small and medium-sized businesses in this complex economic crisis. Thank you very much. I hope you'll be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-05-m0.u122	Thank you, Galina Ivanovna. Dear colleagues, there's a need to discuss this bill, isn't there? So please sign in: two in, two in, two in, please. Please, National Deputy Laba Mikhailovich, faction of the political party "Slut of the People".
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-05-m0.u123	Dear colleagues, this bill has almost every faction in it. And we understand perfectly that by autumn, everyone will be doing both economics and medicine and other things. How, then, can we do this without much construction, without roads? So this bill is aimed at these original things that were declared by almost all factions. Please support him in general and vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-05-m0.u124	Thank you. I would like to invite you to the floor of the People's Deputy, Mr. Lunchenko Valeriyovich, MP's "Trust".
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-05-m0.u125	Please pass the word to Kulinich Oleg.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-05-m0.u126	Oleg Ivanovich Kulinich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-05-m0.u127	Thank you, Valery Valeriovich. Good afternoon, dear fellows! An extremely important bill. Why? Because in the conditions that the country is now in, when we're doing a lot of action to combat the coronavirus, everything should work equally in the economy. The economy needs to work, infrastructure projects need to be restored, infrastructure projects need to be restored, and these are primarily roads. Because roads are the life of the country's economy. And we know that the deputies of our group, in fact, all major MPs know the state of our roads, especially in rural areas, especially local roads and roads of territorial importance. And it's this bill that gives a clear mechanism, like quarantine, under the conditions of the Coronavirus. Therefore, it is vital to vote on the basis and in general, since what can be done this year must be done this year. Because if we put these things off for years to come, we're just going to turn the roads into directions. They are already some roads in most parts of the country, not roads, but directions. That is why it is vital that we do so this year. The Trust MPs will support this bill, which is extremely important for the country and is extremely important for local self-government. And that's why we call on all factions and groups to also support it as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-05-m0.u128	Thank you. I give the floor to Lubinci Dmitry Valeriyovich, MP's Party for the Future. I'm sorry. Taras Ivanovich Batenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-05-m0.u129	Dear colleagues, the MP's Party for the Future thinks it's an extremely important bill. As we know, we've pumped a stabilization fund to fight the coronavirus under 65 billion dollars, of which 13 billion have already been used. Where used as used, as far as medical is concerned, this is a controversial issue. Nevertheless, we insist on how the parliamentary group "For the Future Party," which our main patient remains, is the Ukrainian economy, the entire budget sphere, all our pensioners. And if the economy goes down, everyone goes down. And this obviously applies to infrastructure. So the provision of repairs and restructuring, the reconstruction of hospitals and the roads to them, is a priority issue that we should do the same. We believe that our parliamentary group considers and requests the budget committee as a professional committee and the Head of the Supreme Council to add to the vote and to present section I, paragraph 1, of the bill in the following words: to complete the "car routes of general use of state importance" with the words "car routes of general use of state and local importance". It's actually going to be what we're talking about, the return of money, including local self-government. And I think that's going to be the answer that we have a steady increase in official unemployment, as noted by our colleagues, over half a million people, and it's steadily increasing. I ask the honourable Alexander Mikolaiovich Trukin to consider this question under the transcript. Thank you. We're voting "yes" in general, taking this position into account.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-05-m0.u130	Please give your word to Vasilenko Lesi, please, the Voice Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-05-m0.u131	Good afternoon, fellow Ukrainians! It's very good that we're discussing today the reallocation of funds from the stabilisation fund, which have not been properly used. In addition to roads and business support, however, attention should also be paid to programs that were cancelled by 100 percent. And today, on Environmental Protection Day, by the way, I'm talking about conservation programs that were reduced by 100 percent as a result of the budget review. Remember when Kiev headed the most dirty cities in the world? So in order for this not to happen again, there must be money in the government budget to set up air quality monitoring systems. It's like a minimum. Do you remember when Chernobyl burned? So from this budget they took all the money to develop a zone of alienation, the money that would go to warn these fires and their origins again, which is probably already in August of this year. I absolutely don’t mind developing infrastructure in Ukraine to build quality roads. But I would also like us to pay proper attention to the issues of protecting the environment in which we all live, and of violating our environmental rights with you. We are ready to support this bill. But at the same time, I insist that either the Supreme Council or the Kabmin forces, which are not working so hard, be reimbursed for conservation measures and programs. And I would also like all of us to celebrate the Day of Environmental Protection, which, for the first time in the history of Ukraine without a ministry, is celebrated without a minister of environmental protection. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-05-m0.u132	Coltunovich Alexander Sergiyovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-05-m0.u133	Thank you. The honourable chairman, the distinguished national deputies, well, of course, I don't think there will be any people who don't support the topic of reconstruction, capitalization and the current repair of automobiles. However, I am puzzled by the very subject of the budget collapse that is taking place in Ukraine. You know, the accepted budget is minus 298.4 billion dollars. You know, the extra loans this year are 642 billion dollars, both externally and internally. You all know how much we've had reduced subsidies, which is a deficit in the Pension Fund. And that's why it's very questionable from this point of view that the cost savings in the COVID-19 fund are very questionable. Another very important point, some colleagues mentioned. Where, then, is the report on the use of funds? The fund was 64.7 billion, some of which was used, where exactly did it go? So we certainly support the idea that roads are to be built in Ukraine, but please propose a realistic budget that will not be made of external and domestic borrowings by 65 percent. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-05-m0.u134	Thank you. I give the floor to the faction of the European Solidarity Party of Mikola to the Prince's People's Deputies, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-05-m0.u135	Thank you. Dear colleagues, have we run out of COVID? Look, in that same Lviv 70-90 sick people every day. Doctors are all secure? And we returned to culture all the money we took from there? And to the local budgets, we compensated for what they didn't get because they didn't get the money now? Of course, roads need to be built, but there are many important things. And to look at the budget manually, having a really huge deficit of 300 billion to think about what we're going to do in September and where we're going to pay the budgeters, I think it's pointless. So our faction will hold. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-05-m0.u136	Thank you. I saw Ivan Ivanovich, yes, I think. Krulko Ivanovich, I think he raised his hand. From Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-05-m0.u137	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. Of course, it is a key project to allocate funds to the hospital’s reception facilities. But at the same time you know that we have a terrible situation with FAPAs and outpatients in rural areas. That is why the honourable chairman of the session agreed with the drafters of the bill to add to the body the words: "and also the rural FAPs and outpatients." And that's the wording: "Hospital reception units, (coma) rural FAPs and outpatients." So that they can buy equipment there and have the opportunity to repair it. And I'm asking Truhina Alexander, the author of the bill, to give the floor to confirm this very agreement, and with this amendment, to vote on this bill in the session room. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-05-m0.u138	Before I pass on the final word from the committee. I'm sorry, Your Honor, the People's Deputy Anton Yatzenko has already spoken from your group. No, one person speaks from factions and groups. All right, I'm sorry. I give the floor to the Committee of the People's Deputies of Trukin. The only thing I want to warn all the initiators is that we can put them to a vote, and we agreed with you, just what the committee went through. We don't put the changes out of our voice. So if you're in the committee's decision, we're putting them in. If there's no, there's a procedure of second reading, of introducing such a law and so on. Please, I'm giving Alexander Trukin.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-05-m0.u139	Thank you, Your Honor. Thank you very much for your comments and your added suggestions on the possibility of using and developing, launching the economy and supporting rural medicine and the directions that have been made by the members of the Trust and BUIT groups. These are very important directions. And I think if it's possible for the committee and the hall to support such important initiatives and directions. I don't know if I can do this with the Rules, let the chairman say it, but the committee would support such directions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-05-m0.u140	Alexander Mikolaiovich, if the committee were to support it, would have to be in the committee's decision. So I can't put anything else in the committee's decision. That's fair, and we agreed on those rules at the beginning of our office. Therefore, respectable colleagues. Huh? Whatever you say. Dear colleagues, then I am voting on a bill of 3,509 amending the Ukrainian Law on the State Budget for Ukraine for 2020. Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[12:00:31]] For 274 Decision taken. Show me the factions, please. Dear colleagues, the committee's decision is: In general, taking into account the committee's proposals. Are there any who deny it? "The Fatherland" denies that "the servants of the people" deny it. Who else? Yes, "For the future" is denied. Dear colleagues, then I'm putting a cut in the preparation time for the second reading. All of it. Dear colleagues, I'm putting to the vote a cut double the deadlines for preparing proposals and amendments to the second reading. Please support and vote. [[12:01:30]] For 280 Decision taken. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-05-m0.u141	Dear colleagues, the next issue of the agenda is the bill amending the article of the Ukrainian Code on Administrative Offences and the Criminal Code of Ukraine on increasing responsibility for failure to meet the legal requirements and hindering the activities of the Ukrainian National Deputy, the Court of Auditors, the Deputy Local Council. The chairman of the Committee on the Law Protection of the Monastery, Denis Anatoliyovich, is invited to the rostrum. Ladies and gentlemen, will you insist on your work? Who's going to insist? I see 2 people. Oh, no, that's when they went straight. Eugene Nina Petrovna, number two. Maybe we can get together sometime, Nina Petrovna, right?
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-05-m0.u142	Dear colleagues, this amendment relates to what we talked about yesterday and today, by the way, many colleagues have expressed themselves about the answers they received and their requests. And it was the amendment that referred to the one who would determine completeness, reliability, and true information. So I hoped that in this law, by changing its name and adding one paragraph to the amendment to the Ukrainian Law on the Status of the People's Deputy, we would form the mechanism through which all of us could use it. Because there's a responsible person in the Supreme Council's apparatus who makes up administrative protocols, but who determines the completeness and reliability of information, there is no. So my amendment applied precisely to change the name, because there is a further change in the Law on the Status of the People's Deputy, and to make an amendment in such a way that the National MP, together with the employee, can determine the fullness, reliability of the proposed amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-05-m0.u143	Do you insist on voting, Nina Petrovno? Denise Anatolyevich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-05-m0.u144	Dear Nina Petrovno, we, because we've considered this law very quickly and we have a separate bill dedicated to the very mechanism of execution, namely, this responsibility, 3503, and we're going to be considering it very soon, and I'm going to tell you that on the local councils we also had a debate, but we didn't come to how this mechanism works, and there's a separate Bill 3381, within which we're working on these issues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-05-m0.u145	Do you insist on voting? No, I'm sorry. The next revision will be. I'm betting on the vote number 2 of the Southman. Please identify and vote. [[12:04:35]] For 104 The decision is not taken. Edit 3, Polakov. Are you insisting? Turn on Anton Eduardoovich's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-05-m0.u146	Dear colleagues, we've applied for remedies. Well, first of all, this bill I support, it's very nice, because I've also asked over and over again, more than a thousand petitions and requests for nine months of work. But we need to understand that not only do we need to strengthen responsibility but we also need to put in place a mechanism to make it an irresistible responsibility. That is why my colleagues and I applied appropriate regulations that coincide with the conclusions of the GNEU, and I do not understand why their committee did not support them. I don't insist, but I wanted this law to be working, not just for, say, that it existed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-05-m0.u147	Anton Eduardovich, and will you insist on other revisions? The committee's position is still on the move.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-05-m0.u148	Again, I repeat, this is about making. In order to take a deep look at the question of responsibility, that is exactly what we are doing within the framework of Bills 3381, 3503. And within that, I suggest we work with you on this mechanism, and it will be, I think, perfect. In this case, we're talking about a few things that we agreed on, this addition to. responsibility for failure to respond to and increase the size of this answer. I think after this, with regard to the procedure, including in criminal law, we will be able to continue the discussion with you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-05-m0.u149	Next line is number 5, Southern Nina Petrovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-05-m0.u150	Dear colleagues, if you had actually spent a little more time on this amendment, we would have accepted it today in the second reading and in general, and we would have expected tomorrow whether after the signing by the Head of the Supreme Council and the President to receive reliable, complete information and influence, and to bring to justice literally everyone who gives it in incomplete size or even discounts. But I hope and trust you, Mr. Chairman of the Committee, that when you're working on the second reading of Bill 3157, you'll be inviting the committee to meet. And that's exactly what we're going to be able to find, because I've had to fight to get and bring to justice the previous heads of the State Fiscal Service for not providing information. So I want everyone to be able to exercise this right, and we could, through a direct rule of law, do this kind of thing. So call, invite the committee to a meeting, and we will work together. Thank you. And you may not put the amendment to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-05-m0.u151	Thank you, Nina Petrovna. Mushroom, 6 rows. Are you insisting? Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-05-m0.u152	Dear colleagues, my bill was also about the mechanisms for applying all the declarations that we are going to adopt in this law. The law is, of course, necessary. But if there is no mechanism, it will, unfortunately, not work. So I'm asking you to vote for the amendment. I heard Mr. Monastirski's reply that there would be another law. And to be honest, I don't understand, why do we have to make so many laws if there's anything we can do in the same law? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-05-m0.u153	Do you insist on voting? I'm betting on the vote number 6 of the people's representative of the Greeb. The committee's dismissed. Please identify and vote. [[12:08:38]] For-81 The decision is not taken. Dirdin. Don't insist. Minko, Yatzik. Bakumov Alexander Sergiyovich, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-05-m0.u154	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues! I'm not going to insist on the papers, on the votes I've been given. However, I would like to point out that this legislative initiative is important. And the functions and responsibilities that a national MP performs within the public interest must be heard, and we have the right to know the answer to our questions when we make appropriate parliamentary requests or petitions. But to my profound conviction, the essence of this question lies in another: to review the Ukrainian Information Act, we need to write in more detail what is information with limited access, particularly what is confidential, secret, service, order of inquiry and order of reply. And unfortunately, we started with responsibility and increasing it. So I do propose to review the Information Act.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-05-m0.u155	Let's go to the vote. You don't insist, do you? Ivchenko Vadim Evgenovich, 11th edition.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-05-m0.u156	Vadim Yvchenko, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear colleagues, this way. A very important law, and it strengthens the status of the national MPs and deputies of the local councils and of the plenipotentiaries of the Court of Auditors today. But at the same time, I would like this law to be more complete. So in my direction, I suggested that the responsibility for failure to meet the demands and obstacles to the activities of the National Deputy, the Court of Auditors, the deputy of the local council should be borne not only by officials but also by ministerial servants. Because we have both office and service in our legislation, that is, those that have certain functions in different forms of farming, for example, including in state enterprises. We don't take this into account for some reason. Explain, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-05-m0.u157	Do you insist on voting? I'll bet you a vote. Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-05-m0.u158	In the Ukrainian Code of Administrative Offences, this formula is used as an official. Officials -- language is in the Criminal Code. And this concept is generalized in KUPAP and it fully corresponds to the question that you're asking in this direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-05-m0.u159	I'm betting on the vote number 11 of the national MP Ivchenka. It's not considered by the committee. Please identify and vote. [[12:11:41]] For-89 The decision is not taken. 12 papers, Yatzenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-05-m0.u160	Dear colleagues, I have made an amendment, which also provides for responsibility for not providing for the immediate admission of an MP when, for example, a deputy wants to be admitted under article 17 of the Law on the Status of the People's Deputy, and he is told that a director or a minister is very busy can accept in a month or not at all. So, of course, I think that this amendment is correct and I don't quite understand why the committee rejected it. I'd like to hear the committee's position, and I'd like you to place this amendment on confirmation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-05-m0.u161	I'll bet you vote number 12. Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-05-m0.u162	The subject matter of the bill concerned the failure to respond to the requests and requests of members of the people, the requirements for the admission of members of the people were already different subject matter, so we rejected the amendment within the framework of the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-05-m0.u163	I'll bet on the vote number 12 of the Jatzenka. The committee's dismissed. Please identify and vote. [[12:13:08]] Z-91 The decision is not taken. Amendment 14, Timoshenko. Don't insist. Torochtius, 20 lashes. Julia Volodymyrna, won't you insist? Yvchenko. Is he going to insist on law enforcement? 36 law, Yvchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-05-m0.u164	Thank you. Vadim Ivchenko, Fatherland. Colleagues, with this right, are invited to include in the KUPAP a position that directly foresees the responsibility of officials of public authorities of enterprises, institutions, and organizations for refusing a national deputy in the immediate reception of matters of parliamentary activity. Colleagues, we all know the problem when we want to meet with the heads of central authorities and ministries immediately, when we are approached, including in districts, from associations, from territories, and we wait months for these receptions to make, say, a meeting and explain positions on a particular issue. Colleagues, why is this amendment rejected again? This is not an increase in the role of national MPs. If this amendment is not taken into account, these are actually questions and appeals will be, let's say, reinforced, and the issue of personal presence and explanation for the immediate acceptance of the national MPs will not be resolved in this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-05-m0.u165	Do you insist on voting? Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-05-m0.u166	Colleagues, I've already explained the question, as far as personal acceptance is concerned, that this was not the subject of this law. We also know that there is a decision by the Constitutional Court to explain the issue of immediate adoption. And where it took more time to process, given the terms that the committee had for work, and these were the shortest terms that were defined literally by the days, we defined exactly the limits that the drafters had set. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-05-m0.u167	Thank you. Vadim Evgenovich, will you insist on other regulations? Which one, the next one? Thirty-seven. Yvchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-05-m0.u168	Vadim Ivchenko, Fatherland. Colleagues, the following amendment, see, if the previous one was about an urgent reception from the question of parliamentary activity, this right refers to the unimpeded visit of public authorities and local authorities, and unhindered access to all state-owned enterprises. We proposed amendments to the 188 Code of Administrative Offences to make it easier for such individuals to be held accountable. Again, this amendment was not supported by a committee. So that means whether we're going to write letters with you, and this role of letters and queries is actually getting stronger. And if a national MP wants to be accepted without delay, or have access without hindrance to the relevant State institutions, the role of a national MP is not strengthened, as we are told, as another law is supposed to be prepared. But we know that this law may not have been passed in the Supreme Council Hall for years. So I suggest you support this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-05-m0.u169	Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-05-m0.u170	Repeat. In the sense that these initiatives were not part of the original idea of the bill, so it was rejected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-05-m0.u171	Don't you insist on voting? Okay. Thank you. Nina Petrovna, 38th Amendment. Will you insist? Thank you. Batenko Taras Ivanovich? Don't insist. Tsymbaluk. Polack Anton Eduardoovich, won't you, yes, insist? Cimbaluk Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-05-m0.u172	Mikhailo Cimbaluk, Fatherland. The Honourable Chairman, the Presidium, the Honourable Head of the Committee, in fact, the law is essential. And to the second reading he increased. And for that, I thank the head of the committee and the members of the committee who worked on it. It was 256 articles of the Ukrainian Code of Administrative Offences on Responsibility. Because the very last case I felt when the address addressed to the head of Ternopil's ODA came back after a month and a half after the signature of the deputy head of the Parliamentary RDA. And the answer is nothing. That is why such a law is needed. If Denise Anatoliyovich says about a new bill that will allow you to strengthen the responsibility and expand the spectrum we talked about, then I'm ready to join and I don't insist on voting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-05-m0.u173	Thank you. You insist. Don't insist. Polakov, 43.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-05-m0.u174	Denis Anatoliyovich, I understand exactly what we're offering, do you want to amend Bill 3503? I just want to be clear so that I don't insist on what I'm doing.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-05-m0.u175	Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-05-m0.u176	The two bills are now on the committee’s agenda, 3503 and 3381. Now within these projects, we can work with you to improve the mechanism. Indeed, within the framework of this project, it is not possible to solve all problems with the activities of the national deputies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-05-m0.u177	Thank you. Yvchenko, 42.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-05-m0.u178	Thank you. Vadim Ivchenko, Fatherland. Colleagues, the following amendment refers to changes to article 256 of the protocol code. Here's your address as a national MP, and you got a receipt or no answer at all. 256 articles help employees of the Supreme Council, the Apparatus, to report to officials for either writing off or inappropriately referring to parliamentary appeals. Denis Anatoliyovich, please tell me this amendment and my next order 43, immediately, 49th, where I propose for failure to comply with the legitimate requirements of the MP factions and the MP groups, that they bring, including to implement the decisions of the interim commission of inquiry, penalties under the current legislation. Are you going to take this into account in the following bills? Because we've done the right thing, and I just don't see any sense here of whether these bills are going to be going to the Supreme Council Hall soon, to strengthen the status, including.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-05-m0.u179	Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-05-m0.u180	Colleagues, for each of these rights, including factions and groups, I think there should be a professional professional discussion, clearly and a committee, and I think that all factions are set up to reinforce the role of both the individual national MP and the MP and the faction. So let's just take more time to really work out the mechanism. There are objectives there -- how to determine who has to make the protocol, whether the Supreme Council's apparatus should do it, if so, in which procedure -- we have not found a solution to this issue within the limited time that the committee had. So I think we're going to work with you on this, and this bill is going to go into the hall. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-05-m0.u181	Thank you. Do you insist on voting? No, it's not. Cymbaluk, 45 lashes.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-05-m0.u182	Mikhailo Cimbaluk, Fatherland. Dear Chairman, Your Honor, the head of the committee! This was based on an observation by the scientific and expert management regarding the very mechanism of protocol making, warning and getting acquainted with those who are involved, because in fact the mechanism has proved to be extremely complex. The Supreme Council's apparatus has generally given statistics that 80 percent of the protocols do not pass through the court because it is not always possible to get to the place where the protocol is made up, and that is the distance, that is the shipping, and the court is closing these protocols accordingly. But I hope that in future bills we will take this into account with the committee, and I think that this amendment can be taken into account there. You don't need to bet on confirmation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-05-m0.u183	Forty-seven lashes, Yatzenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-05-m0.u184	Well, again, it's about increasing responsibility. So I'd like to support you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-05-m0.u185	Don't you insist on voting? I'll bet 47 votes. Please identify and vote. [[12:23:28]] For-81 The decision is not taken. Please prepare for the vote. Let's move on to voting for the law as a whole. I am voting on the proposal to adopt a second reading and, in general, with the necessary technical and legal remedies, the draft Law amending the article of the Code of Administrative Offences and the Criminal Code of Ukraine on strengthening responsibility for non-compliance with legal requirements and hindering the activities of the National Deputy of Ukraine, the Court of Auditors, the Deputy of the Local Council (Registration No. 3354). Ready to vote? Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[12:24:59]] For 329 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. The next issue of the agenda is the draft Act amending the Code of Bankruptcy Procedures (Registration No. 2276). The chairman of the Committee on Economic Development is invited to the rostrum. Amendment number one, Dubinsky. Don't insist. Don't break up, please, there's not a lot of law. Eight lashes, Grissom. Don't insist. Motovlover. Don't insist. Stefanchuk. Taruta. Please prepare to vote for the law as a whole. Alexy Vasilovich, you can sit down, you have a short speech. Ready to vote? Please invite the national deputies to the hall. I am voting on the proposal to adopt a second reading and, in general, with the necessary technical and legal rights, the draft Law amending the Code of Bankruptcy (Registration No. 2276). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[12:27:02]] For 303 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. The next issue of the agenda is the draft Amendment Act. I'm sorry. A statement came from two MPs about a break with a replacement for the performance. Geo Bagravitch Leros.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-05-m0.u186	Dear colleagues! We will now consider Decree 3592, where we will vote for our colleague on the composition of the committee for the selection of the DBR head. I know the situation, and many of you know the situation when the law enforcement committee chose one person, and then someone from the President's Office called her and asked her to withdraw. I have a question for you. How long are we going to put up with this bastard, the corrupter Jermak, breaking parliament through the knee and destroying parliamentaryism in this state? I have a question for my colleagues. Remember when you went to Parliament, with what self-respect you went here. I want to ask you, so other factions press the red button to show that this is the parliamentary-presidential state. You can't break this Parliament and anyone else's knee. If that's how Jermak wants to break parliament over his knee, let's start with his best man first. Please press the red button for this action. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-05-m0.u187	Let's move on to the next question of the day. Draft Decision on the appointment of representatives of the Supreme Council of Ukraine as a member of the commission for the appointment of the Director of the State Bureau of Investigation (Registration No. 3592). It is suggested that this issue be considered in a simplified manner. Please prepare for the vote. Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[12:29:45]] For-195 Decision taken. The report is given to the Head of the Committee on Legal Protection of the Monastery’s Denis Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-05-m0.u188	Dear colleagues, the committee secondly makes a proposal for candidates to serve as a competitive commission for the election of the State Bureau of Investigation. And this time, the committee was determined by the principle that 1 national MP and 2 non-members would be proposed in the Supreme Council as representatives. As a result of the rating vote, it was determined that the committee recommended up to 3 persons. Andrija Georgievz Kozlova. This is a well-known lawyer who has been delegated by the Voice faction. A member of the High Qualifications Commission of Judges in the 16-19's. Moscow's Lydia Mikolayevna. He is the head of the Department of the Sudour and Procuratorship of the National Law University of Jaroslav Wise, a doctor of legal sciences, a professor. Delegated by the "Serial of the People" faction. And a member of the Committee on Law Enforcement, the head of the subcommittee on the activities of the Public Prosecutor's Office of Vladen Nekludova. Please identify yourself as to the proposal proposed by the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-05-m0.u189	Please sign up: two in, two in, and two in, against the MPs and the MPs. There is no procedure during the consideration of the matter. Two, two, against the factions.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-05-m0.u190	Please, National Deputy Zinkevich Jan Vadimovna, political party "European Solidarity". Alexeiovich Honcharenko
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-05-m0.u191	Alexei Hotcharenko, European Solidarity. The story about the D.B.I., which is now correctly deciphered, well, after what happened at the museum, maybe the government's racket office. And after what we're looking at, it's friends, brothers, family, it's going on. Let me remind you that we've been offered a competitive commission to run the State Bureau of Investigation last week. I want to remind the audience, the viewers, the Ukrainians how this commission is formed. Three subjects: the President of Ukraine (who's going to come from Zelenski – other friends, brothers, saints), then the Cabinet of Ministers (fully controlled by Zelenski, 100 percent), and the third subject is the Supreme Council. That is, he is the only subject that could provide any independent opposition. But at first we were offered two national deputies from the "Serve of the People" and a third to look at. So 6 out of 9 is definitely Greensky. This is about these miserable 3 out of 9. This time we're offered one, but still a "minister of the people," a national MP. And what's interesting is, at a meeting of the Committee on the Rights of the People's Servant, Mrs. Yatzik said that President Zelenski himself had asked her to withdraw her candidacy and submit herself to her other colleague from the "Serve of the People." Tell me, my friends, what is it? That it's not an intervention by the head of state in how the Supreme Council is supposed to work. Zelenski sits and personally writes out who is to appoint the entire administration of the State Bureau of Investigation from the Supreme Council. And then you're surprised that instead of having rapists from Cagaryka fight them, they attack museums, they run after paintings, and they're involved in political repression. Just a red button.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-05-m0.u192	Batenko Taras Ivanovich. Jacek Julius Grigorovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-05-m0.u193	Dear friends and honourable colleagues, the "For the Future" parliamentary group believes that such a serious composition of a commission to conduct a competition for the Director of the State Bureau of Investigation should be completely unattached and objective. For him to be objective, there can be no representation of candidates from just one political power or one political direction. So we saw the procedure as it did on the committee, and I think that society also has its own assessment of the procedure. I think the committee has shown a rather unbiased approach to this issue, as my colleague has said, that a representative of the "Serve of the People" has withdrawn her candidacy from this commission after having influenced the selection of the board to the actual superior leadership of the state. We are concerned about this fact and we are concerned about the fact that the ignored position of the MP group "For the Future" where we applied for our candidacy. We are concerned that among the candidates appointed by the committee are people who have been released from their positions in the biography of their own time. These and other points, like the previous vote, give the MP's "For the Future" a basis for refraining from defining this composition of the committee. And we believe that they should reject it and continue to work with all the proposals and all the interests of the non-involvement of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And I think what we're seeing today is the direct engagement of the Supreme Council in part of the majority. This is unacceptable to such an important body as the State Bureau of Investigation. Thank you. Our MP group is voting against it.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-05-m0.u194	Thank you. The Yatzik of Julia Grigorovna, a replica, was mentioned.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-05-m0.u195	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I'd like to make it a little bit more clear, because I wouldn't want our fellow Members of Parliament to distort my words or my words on this matter. Yes, indeed, I withdrew my candidacy from the vote on the committee. Yet, the President himself did not call me or call me. There was a situation where I was strongly recommended to do so, and I made it -- that's my decision. And that's why I don't want to be manipulated by this situation. There was, indeed, an unhealthy situation on the committee. However, not as much as Alexi Hotcharenko said.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-05-m0.u196	Lozinski Roman Mikhailovich. There's no replicating. Lozinski Roman Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-05-m0.u197	Please pass the word to Osadchuku Andrija Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-05-m0.u198	Again, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-05-m0.u199	Dear colleagues, we are equally outraged by the fact that Geo Leros, a member of the People's Servants, has just been speaking about from the rostrum. The fact that the President is involved in the selection process is totally unacceptable. But we're looking at it as internal divisions in the "Serial of the People" faction and in the "Serve of the People" party. They simply demonstrate the standards of their work and behavior. The very quota principle behind this commission is that the various forces will be able to bring in unbiased professional people who are able to do their work in a high-quality manner on the committee. We look forward to the fact that the candidate proposed by the Voice faction, an outstanding lawyer who has an irreprehensible reputation and fully meets those criteria that went up to the commission, has so far been supported by the committee and is now among the candidates. We will vote in favour of our candidacy. We will support Andri Kozlov because we believe he will be able to perform quality work after participating in a competitive commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-05-m0.u200	Sukhov Alexander Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-05-m0.u201	Alexander Sukhov, Luganshina. Please pass the word to Sergio Shahov.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-05-m0.u202	Shahov Sergei Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-05-m0.u203	Sergey Shahov, Luhanščina, Deputy Group "Trust". Dear colleagues, there are maps in the log, but there are no changes in the state. All anti-corruption bodies, power structures, the Attorney General's Office is virtually out of work, are being chased by volunteers, public officials. In all the criminal conduct that our group violated, and there were 120 in the Luhansk region, there is no movement. When will order take place in our country? During the last week, 200 million dollars were stolen by representatives of the North Korean City Council. All relevant documents are sent to us. Do you think someone got up and lifted his pop out of his chair? No, it's not. No more deputies, they were called off. 25 deputies have been recalled, reloaded, but no one has done anything. The court ruled both on appeal and on the first line. Please tell me, who paid attention to this? Nobody. We will reload this commission, new governing bodies will be selected. I'd like to hear from the majority whether all the power structures are going to work. We recently, the High Prosecutor, Sukhov, Shahov, asked the Attorney General why a traitor, a criminal, a gang of criminals, a thief was appointed to the office, such a position in the Attorney General's Office. Thieves in law, thieves in law, as you would say, in the Lugansk region that have been stolen, I want to point out once again, in five years -- a billion dollars, in the last week -- 200 million dollars. I would like to hear the answer from this rostrum, who will be responsible for this in our country. Thank you. Sergey Shahov, Luhanščina, Deputy Group "Trust".
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-05-m0.u204	Thank you. The replica. Who was mentioned? Leros Geo Bagratovich. Wait, wait, wait, wait. The sediment was mentioned.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-05-m0.u205	Dear colleagues from the "Serve of the People" faction, I very much ask you to press the red button. Let's show the Office of the President of Ukraine, the head of the Office of the President of Ukraine, that this is the parliamentary-presidential republic, this is not the Parliament of the German Republic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-05-m0.u206	Please invite the people's deputies to the hall, let's go to the vote. The factions. No, there's no procedure here. None. There's no such thing. Anton Eduardoovich, no. You can go to court, you have experience. Did all the factions come out? Everybody here? Please invite the people's deputies to the hall, let's go to the vote. Montenegro's Yegor Volodymyrovich, motivated by "The Servant of the People," was not speaking.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-05-m0.u207	Dear colleagues, I actually didn't support this decision last time because two out of three were deputies, and I think it's wrong for the MPs to choose the D.B.I. head. But today, I understand the situation on the committee, today, just one representative from the deputy corps, the other two vice-presidents, and in order not to block the commission's work by choosing the D.B.I., I'm asking you to support this decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-05-m0.u208	Thank you. Ready to vote? I am voting on the proposal for adoption of the entire draft Decree on the appointment of representatives of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to a commission to hold a competition for the appointment of the Director of the State Bureau of Investigation (Registration No. 3592). Ready to vote? Ready? Please support and vote. [[12:43:51]] For 205 The decision is not taken. Let's see the factions. The next issue is the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian laws on access to construction, transport and electricity infrastructure (registration number 2042). You're welcome. Dear colleagues, silence in the hall, please. Deputy Head of the Digital Transformation Committee Fedienko Alexander Pavlovich Please tell me, who's going to insist on editing? Mushroom, I see. More. Just a mushroom? Black. On what course will you insist? On the other side? On two? Could you give me the numbers, please? Turn on the microphone, Mushroom, please. What's the number?
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-05-m0.u209	36 and 40.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-05-m0.u210	Again.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-05-m0.u211	Number 36 and 40 are two revisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-05-m0.u212	Okay. Amendment number 36, National Deputy Grib.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-05-m0.u213	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw your attention to this bill, because virtually all FSBs are against it. They came to me with a written statement, and they think it has nothing to do with digitization. This is a violation of the rights of the joint owners of OSBB, and we are talking to you about 33,000 OSBBs in Ukraine and 7.5 million of our citizens. Please pay attention. It is not clear why we returned this bill in February, and today we are looking at it almost again in the same way. Here are the advantages of large providers who will not ask OSBB, come in or not, because.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-05-m0.u214	Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-05-m0.u215	I would like to point out that this law doesn't favour any of the players in the field at all -- be big, be small. Moreover, this bill is democratic enough in terms of what everyone will have. I'm sorry. This bill does not give any advantage to any market entity; it is generally democratic. No matter how big that operator is -- whether small or large, we care about those who are in this building, they have the right to choose one or another operator. The position of the committee: we think it's necessary to leave this rule for a fair distribution of the expenses of operators.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-05-m0.u216	You insist, Victoria Alexandrovna? I'm betting on the vote number 36 of the people's representative of the Gryb. Please identify and vote. [[12:47:20]] For-61 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. Amendment number 40, National Deputy Grib. Dear colleagues, please return to the hall, because now one revision of the Victoria Alexandrovna, then the Black Dmitry Sergiyovich, is another amendment, and we go to the vote. There are no performances during the second reading. You're not the first time a national MP. Mushroom.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-05-m0.u217	This is my joint review with Mr. Kucherenko. I'm asking you to give him your word as coauthor. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-05-m0.u218	No, it's not. Edit 40 people's deputies Grib, there are no co-authors. You're either on the right, or we're on to the next one.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-05-m0.u219	My colleagues, I ask you all to look at this bill again. If you want 7.5 million, and that's the minimum, today you're looking at what you're lobbying here really is just the interests of big providers and you're standing up against Ukrainian citizens, then vote in favour of this bill. If not, then press at least the yellow button. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-05-m0.u220	Thank you. Do you insist on voting? Amendment No. 40 of the people's MP, Grib, not counted by the committee, please identify and vote. [[12:48:58]] For-69 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. Next line is 73, Black People's Deputy. 71?
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-05-m0.u221	No. 71.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-05-m0.u222	I'm sorry, 71 lashes.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-05-m0.u223	Yes, the Black People's Deputy, The Servant of the People. I respect the drafters of this bill, but I want to stand up for OSBB in Ukraine. And my bill applied to the following: the placement of telecommunications equipment on access infrastructure elements, the provision of telecommunications services without contracts for access to the infrastructure of objects is prohibited. So I ask my colleagues to support this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-05-m0.u224	Thank you. Let's go to the vote. Please invite the national deputies to the hall. You insist on 71 to the right? Is the committee off-limits? Colleagues, committee 71, are not included. So please identify and vote. [[12:50:31]] For the 180. The decision is not taken. Unfortunately, Dmitri Sergiyovich, this is not an option. Let's move on to voting for the law as a whole, please take your seats. Dear colleagues, I am voting on the proposal to adopt a second reading and, in general, with the necessary technical and legal regulations, the draft Law amending certain laws of Ukraine concerning access to infrastructure for buildings, transport, electricity (registration No. 2042). Please prepare for the vote. [[B in m in s a l in]] Don't shout, Igor Volodymyrovich. You forgot the mask, sorry. Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[12:52:00]] For-187 The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, I'm voting on the proposal to return the committee to work with the next submission for the second reading. [[B in m in s a l in]] You can't be against it, it's a standard. Alexi Yuryovich, please. [[B in m in s a l in]] No, there's not 30 seconds here. Dear colleagues, let's not be manipulative. I've already studied the Rules, thank you. Please prepare for the vote. For the second reading again, I just said. I'll take the mask off now. Dear colleagues, I am voting on the proposal to return the committee to work with a second reading of the draft Law on Amendments to certain Ukrainian Laws on Access to Infrastructure Construction, Transport, Electricity (Registration No. 2042). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[12:53:31]] For 224 The decision is not taken. [[B in m in s a l in]] Please don't yell, I know what to do. Thank you. Dear colleagues, the bill has been rejected. The next issue of the agenda is the draft Act amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine concerning the introduction into the market of natural gas accounting and gas calculations in energy units (Registration No. 2553). It is suggested that this issue be considered in a simplified manner. [[12:54:43]] For 215 Decision taken. The word for the report is given to the Ukrainian national deputy Zupanin Andriy Viktorovich, both from the committee and from the authors. Please give me four minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-05-m0.u225	Good afternoon, dear fellows! To your attention, Bill No. 2553, the essence of which is to introduce in the natural gas market the calculation and calculation of the amount of gas in units of energy. What does a bill with such a long name mean? It's very simple, with the entry into force of this project and the adoption of some sub-legislative normative acts, the traditional Soviet measurement of natural gas in cubic meters will be replaced by kilowatt-hours, i.e. units of measurement used in countries of the Energy Community. For whom and for what do we do it? First, we are moving Ukraine closer to the standards of the Energy Community and meeting the requirements of the Association Agreement with the European Union, secondly, this bill is a prerequisite for integrating the Ukrainian internal market with the European Union gas market and the free involvement of European partners in the use of the potential of Ukraine's gas transport system. And third, most important. We're doing this for consumers. Very often in this room is the question of what we do for the common people. So this bill cancels so-called "frozen coefficients." Maybe you've heard that 8.5 million domestic consumers suffer from "frozen coefficients," or gas-restricted and gas-supply companies. The company was fined both by the Antimonopoly Committee and by the National Committee on Energy and Utilities Regulation, but this needs to be done at the legislative level. We also do that to the consumer. I think he's finally gonna start paying for gas quality. Not for the amount of gas that can be manipulated, but for the quality of the gas, for its efficiency. Accordingly, the consumer can compare the efficiency of natural gas as a source of energy and electricity and make choices for a more efficient and cheaper source of energy. This, in turn, is a step towards energy efficiency. If everything is so good in our bill, what can cause concern to consumers? Well, first of all, is it going to have to replace natural gas accounting counters? Answer. No, you don't. Why? Because the count of cubic meters per kilowatt-hour is going to be given by an independent regulator. The other one. Will consumers receive worse quality gas? Answer. They won't. Because the quality of gas is guaranteed in Ukraine by government standards that will not be repealed and will continue to work. Third. Will the adoption of this bill lead to new payments for the population? Answer. No, it won't. The bill does not provide for the introduction of new payments for the population. This bill is unanimously supported by all members of the Committee on Energy and Housing. It is also supported by the Ministry of Energy and the Secretariat of Energy Cooperation. It is noteworthy that before this bill there are a number of logical and technical comments, we will certainly consider them and work together to prepare the bill for the second reading. Therefore, we ask you to support this bill, allow us to refine it in a second reading. Also request to support the shortening of the deadline for proposals from 14 days to 7. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-05-m0.u226	Dear colleagues, do you need a discussion? Please sign two in, two in, two in, and two in factions. Let's get this bill over with and get on with it. Okay? Not the "Variance" before you read the questions, I'm sorry. Please sign up: two in, two in, two in, two in.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-05-m0.u227	People's MP, Artem Olegovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-05-m0.u228	Please pass the word to the Mayor, Andriy Viktorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-05-m0.u229	Who? I didn't hear you. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-05-m0.u230	The parishioner.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-05-m0.u231	A parishioner, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-05-m0.u232	Colleagues, I'm saving your Friday hour. Again, a request to support the bill, to vote on it as a basis. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-05-m0.u233	Thank you. Vitrowicz Vladimir Mihajlovich, faction of the political party "European Solidarity".
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-05-m0.u234	Please give the floor to Michael Bondar.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-05-m0.u235	Mikhailo Bondar.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-05-m0.u236	Thank you. Dear colleagues! Michael Bondar, European Solidarity. In fact, on the committee we considered this bill, but even though Mr. Andrey said that we unanimously voted to put it into the session room, there was just as much discussion left. Because without replacing the counter to figure out what the quality of the gas is going to be, whether we're paying for the air or not, having some kind of formula, it's going to be hard to understand. Who will control the quality of the production and the supply to the consumer, there are also very many nuances that come out, and it is almost possible for the person who will supply the gas to control himself. And what Mr. Andrey said from the Supreme Council rostrum would be extra payments. First of all, the former government has promised to handle the additional transportation fees that are already available. So first of all, we have to deal with those that are already there so that we don't give two payments to the population, because that's indignant. That's number one question. And then we'll deal with the payments that will be in line with this new law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-05-m0.u237	Thank you. Please, National Deputy Kucherenko Aleksei Yuriovich, faction of the political party "The All-Ukrainian Union of the Fatherland."
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-05-m0.u238	Thank you. Dear friends, Alexy Kucherenko, Fatherland. And now I want to tell you why, in principle, this good bill is not going to vote "Paternity." Applying gas in energy units is already the height of energy reform. And this vertex without laying the foundations and without a base is a discreditation of the right idea. Everything should be done in its own time. Today, in the gas field and in the so - called gas market, there is a complete mess. We've been begging you for nine months, let's figure out what's causing the 120 billion debt to NAC Naftogaz, why no norm works, why there are no simple counters so far. Two million households without simple counters, and you and I will have to continue the deadline that ends at the end of this year. Regarding further action. What the so-called reform led to is 10 times the price of gas, 120 billion debt. Everyone owed each other money, one NAC Naftogaz company today, like in profits -- crazy bonuses, crazy successes and total failure. And that's why, my friends, before we go into energy units with the incomprehensible process and nature of debt formation, we need to do a full analysis of the movement of natural gas and the full analysis of the factors that caused this ridiculous reform. So by ideologically supporting this bill, I can say one thing, if you vote for it, the crisis will get even deeper under good terms. And the last. Please get rid of your independent so-called national commission, which is today becoming the epicenter of the energy disorder in Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-05-m0.u239	Please, National Deputy Burmich Anatoly Petrovich, faction of the political party "The Opposition Platform for Life."
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-05-m0.u240	Please pass the word to Coltunovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-05-m0.u241	Coltunovich Alexander Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-05-m0.u242	Thank you. The honourable chairman, the honourable people's deputies, our faction will not support this extremely powerful bill, which aims, including the transfer from cubic meters to kilowatt-hours. You know, actually, if you don't know what problems we have today in energy and tariff policy, we're going to notice that, for example, we're very troubled by the question of how the prices of imported gas fall and the price decrease in the internal consumer market go down. We're surprised how, if the import cost of gas decreases by 2.9 times, the gas population only decreases by 2.1 times. It's another important moment. If we're talking about the economic nature of pricing in the gas field, we haven't heard of what we need the so-called virtual gas reverse for today. We don't really understand to this day, there's no policy so public from most of what Dusseldorf and I are buying gas from, like where it's coming from, why we're going to import 5 billion cubic meters of solar gas from the United States. And most importantly, what the reporter didn't say, he didn't say what the price of gas would be for the population. Let's have a VAT number, a tariff on distribution or delivery, and other ingredients. Today, 4100, and as a result of the adoption of this law, what will be the cost of gas for the population -- 2,000, 1.5 thousand and so on? And most importantly, let them answer why 50 dollars of gas on European hubs and 120 dollars of imported gas on European hubs. Who do we put $70 in our pocket? Thank you for your attention. And what I'm saying is that you're not doing the reforms as the public service debt increases. Today, it is more than 63 billion. That's what we do here. And that's why we won't support it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-05-m0.u243	Thank you. Dear colleagues, representatives of the faction (I see, Sergey Volodymyrovich) have made a remark: Time is up, we need to move on to the questions. For reasons at the next plenary session, the Shahov is speaking. Who else is motivated? Chess, and then we vote. Now, let's move on to the query reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-05-m0.u244	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we have one request for the President. And I remind him that he should be voted on, too. During the plenary week, 83 parliamentary inquiries were made. Of the last plenary weeks, 273 remained unannounced. A total of 351 MPs have been requested for the announcement. Of these, to the President of Ukraine, 1, to the Supreme Council, 3, to the Cabinet of Ministers, 173, to the heads of other state authorities and local self-government bodies, 153 to the heads of enterprises, institutions and organizations, 21. So one request came to the President of Ukraine. First, we must vote and win 150 votes. Attention, fellow MPs!
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-05-m0.u245	Dear colleagues, please be quiet in the hall. Your questions. If you don't need them, we can close the meetings.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-05-m0.u246	Thus, there is an open and roll-call vote in support of the request by Natalia Royal and Yuri Solod to the President of Ukraine for the implementation of the decisions of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine reiterating the rights of citizens in the area of social protection. Please prepare for the vote. Ready to vote? Please vote, be determined. [[13:07:38]] For 185 Decision taken. Therefore, I ask you to vote on the decision to send a preliminary request to the President of Ukraine. Please identify and vote. We need to get 226 votes in order for him to be sent to the President. Please vote. [[13:08:11]] For 204 Unfortunately, no decision is made. Only 204 votes for. Please show by factions. Thank you. So let's move on to the question-reading. Sergey Koleboshin and Sergey Babak to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the objective necessity of cancelling and reprocessing the National Standard of Ukraine DSTU 7013:2009 technical requirements for school buses. Irina Konstankevich to the Ministry of Culture, Youth and Sports of Ukraine, Prime Minister of Ukraine, Head of the National Council of Ukraine for Television and Radio Broadcasting, Head of the Supervisory Board of the Public Shareholders Association “National Social Broadcasting Company of Ukraine”, Head of the Government of the Public Shareholder Society “National Social Broadcasting Company of Ukraine” on the non-admission of the destruction of regional radio and television language. Mikoli Skorika to the Prime Minister of Ukraine about the statement by the Minister of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine, Pristyk Vadim Volodymirovic, about the cancellation of the observance of Victory Day on 9 May. Mikoli Skorika to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine on the statement made by the Embassy of Ukraine in Montenegro regarding the visit of the Blessed Metropolitan of Kiev and all of Ukraine to the capital of Montenegro and the participation of the Serbian Orthodox Church. Anton Polakov to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, Prime Minister of Ukraine, State Bureau of Investigation, Attorney General, Director of the National Anti-Corruption Bureau of Ukraine to ensure the effective verification of the criminal activity of the Ukrainian Building Corporation, and groups of companies that worked and worked under the cover of the UKRD brand, which resulted in the theft of the funds of the Construction Fund. Anton Polakov to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, Prime Minister of Ukraine, Director of the National Anti-Corruption Bureau of Ukraine, State Bureau of Investigation, Attorney-General for combating the theft and ensuring the effective verification of the criminal activities of the Ukrainian Building Corporation UKRBUD and groups of companies that worked and worked under the cover of the UKBUD brand, which resulted in the theft of funds from the Construction Fund. Sergey Ljowczina to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on increasing the problem of increased debt from municipal services. Solomonia Bobrovsky to the head of the Ravenna District State Administration regarding the dismantling of the monument to the military commander of the Red Army, Olek Dundić, in the city of Reveny. Alexander Kachura to the Minister of Justice of Ukraine for the provision of reliable information on raiding in Ukraine Anna Wheeler to the officer responsible for the duties of the head of the Slobodan Customs of the State Department regarding the provision of information on customs officers. Alexander Matusevich to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the allocation of funds for the financing of the reconstruction of the road to the general use of the national value of R-21 (Dolina Hust, Valley of Mižgir) in the region of Ivano-Frankiv. Alexander Tkachenka to the Ministry of Social Policy of Ukraine regarding the provision of the constitutional right to housing for Vladimir Vkaulenko. Alexander Tkachenka to the Ministry of Energy and Environmental Protection of Ukraine on the use of effective measures to ensure the proper operation of the Lower East National Park. Alexander Tkachenka to the Ministry of Health of Ukraine on the use of effective measures to ensure the financing of medical facilities Alexander Tkachenka and John Shinkarenko to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on the issue of gasification of the villages of the Mologov United Territorial Society and the Shabiv United Territorial Society of the Bilgorod-Dnistrov district of Odessa. Ivan Shinkarenk, Alexander Tkachenka to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on the use of effective response measures to protect the constitutional rights of the Labour Collective of the Public Shareholder Society "The Orion Machine Production Association". Alexander Tkachenka and John Shinkarenko to the Attorney General’s Office for the improper conduct of criminal investigations. Alexander Tkachenka and John Shinkarenk to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine regarding the comprehensive review of the addresses of Odessa residents in the area of social issues. Sergia Soboljeva to the State Bureau of Investigation, the Attorney General, on the investigation of the destruction of part of the evidence base of criminal conduct materials, on the activities of the organized criminal group of the Zaporozky Criminal "Watching" Anisima, particularly during the time of the office of Attorney General Lucenk, and on the responsibility of the judges, prosecutors and investigators, according to which Anisimova E.O. was released from custody in early 2014 and unlawfully intervened in the course of the investigation and in the trial. Victor Myalik to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Ministry of Finance of Ukraine, the Ministry of Community and Territorial Development of Ukraine, the Ministry of Social Policy of Ukraine, the head of the Provincial Regional Administration for the allocation of funds for the construction of the underground gas pipeline of the villages of Berest, Orvijanica, Solomoniak, Kuras, the Coast of the Dubrovnik region of the Plain region. Michael Bondar to the Ministry of Veterans of Ukraine to explain the rights of Julius Petrisinius — the daughter of a dead military officer — to receive one-time financial assistance. Michael Bondar to the head of the government of the private shareholders association Lvivoblanergo on inequitable electricity supply on the street of Bicken Shevchenka, Busk Lviv district. Groups of National Deputies (Crowrukina, Koravchenkova, Zacharychenka) to the Ministry of Social Policy of Ukraine, the head of the Ingulatsky District in Krivom Rose Council, the head of the Pochrovsky District in Krivom Rose Council, the Crevice City Head, the head of the Central City District in Krivom Rose Council, the head of the Metallurgy District in Krivom Rose Council, the head of the Terno district in Krivom Rose City, the need to ensure the realization of the right of citizens to social protection. Groups of National Deputies (Crowrukina, Koravchenkova, Zacharychenka) to the Ministry of Education and Science of Ukraine, Ministry of Finance of Ukraine, Head of the Dnipropetrov Regional Administration on the need to provide funding for vocational (professional) education. Vladimir Vátrović to the Ministry of Culture, Youth and Sports, heads of the Lviv District State Administration on the need for urgent action in connection with the threat of losing a unique history in the village of Mshana, in the township of Lviv district. Alexander Dubinsky to the head of the Kyiv City State Administration for the purpose of using budgetary resources under contracts for the execution of works on objects: "Reconstruction of the Schlicherov Canal Collector", "Reconstruction of the Third Queue of the Novo-Darnitic sewer collector", "Building of the South-West sewer collector". Andrija Stryharski to the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, the Village Council of the City of Cherkas region, the State Service of Ukraine for Geodesy, Cartography and Cadastre, the Office of the Attorney General for Unwarranted Use of Land in the Vilshan OTG of the City District of Cherkast. Victor Mielik to the head of the Volin district council, head of the Volin district government, for granting permission to develop the project by building a hydrotechnic building. Maksim Zariski to the Ministry of Finance of Ukraine, Prime Minister of Ukraine, head of the Ministry of the Ministry of Finance of the Republic of Montenegro, head of the Montenegrin District Government, head of the Ministry of Education of the Republic of Montenegro for the allocation of funds for the construction of the sports hall and the establishment of a food cloud in the territory of the Starojadjavian Educational and Educational complex of the Town Council of Strážinetsk, the district of the Cernivetsky region. Maksim Zariski to Prime Minister of Ukraine, Ministry of Finance of Ukraine, Head of the Montenegrin District Administration, Acting Head of the Regional Regional Administration of the Montenegrin Region for the consideration of the issue of ensuring full-time dining activities in Ust-Putilski ZSO II-II. The Sofias of the Federation to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on reforming the system of war veterans. The Sofias of the Federation to the Ukrainian Security Service for the verification of the return of prisoners of war as part of the exchange in Ukraine of persons who had been abused by other captives. Oleg Kulinić to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the removal of arrests from the DP "Poltavo oblovtodor" Wat "DAC "Ukrainian Roads". Oleg Kulinić to the Ukrainian State Service for Geodesy, Cartography, and cadastre for the transfer of agricultural land to the municipal property of Zynkow, a united territorial community. Maxima Berezin, head of the Ukrainian State Road Agency for the repair of roads in the Lochwicki district of Poltava. Vitalia Bezgina to the head of the Johno-Frankow District State Administration regarding the deployment of the Tracian Rural Council of the Kosovo Region to the Mateyevsky Rural United District Society of the Colomia Region in the outlook for the formation of the communities of the Ivano-Frankiv region. Sergey Mandiya to head the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Budget Affairs, Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on the allocation of funds from the State Budget of Ukraine for 2020 with the aim of reconfiguring the Radiological Department of the Communal Non-commercial Enterprise "Hmelnicke District Anti-Pulse Centre" of the Hmelnicke District Council to modern linear accelerators. Alexander Gerega to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine for free travel grants. Tarasa Batenka to the Minister of Infrastructure of Ukraine, acting as head of the Ukrainian Railway Association's Management Board for the non-reorganization and transfer to the category of the small-scale only railway station Glibovich in the Premyslán region of Lviv. Taras Batenka to the Minister of Justice of Ukraine, the State Tax Service of Ukraine to arrange for the compilation of data in the Single State Register of Legal Persons, Natural Persons - Entrepreneurs and Public Forms, and to determine the legality of the requirements of the income and congregation authorities for the payment of debts to Ukrainian citizens who do not engage in entrepreneurial activities. Oleg Kulinić to the Ministry of Education and Science of Ukraine concerning the granting of permission to demolish emergency buildings at the address: ul. Curchatova, 15 in the city of Poltava. Alexander Danuci to the executive responsibility of the Chief of State Tax Administration in the Kirovgrad area of the need to use response measures to stop illegal activities of alcoholic beverages and cigarettes in the area of retail trade without the provision of legal licenses, including retail liquor through the electronic control and cassation apparatus, is not included in the licence. Andrija Nikolayenka to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, Ministry of Reintegration of the temporarily occupied territories of Ukraine, Ministry of Finance of Ukraine, Luhansk District Military and Civil Administration on the need to provide effective assistance to the Moscow Love of Petrovna, who as a result of the shootings lost her own residence and temporarily resides in the neighbor's apartment in a semi-broken multi-story building in the mind. Novotoskovsky, Luhansk district. Igor Goose to the head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Budget, Ministry of Finance of Ukraine on the need to amend the normative part of the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget 2020, with the aim of enabling local self-government authorities to finance the free feeding of individual categories of children. Igor Guza to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, head of the Volin District State Administration on the need for funding for the renovation of individual medical facilities in the Volin region. Igora Negulewski to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, Ministry of Finance of Ukraine, State Audit Service of Ukraine, State Fiscal Service of Ukraine on the verification of activities in the design of projects and the cost of capital construction and the repair of state institutions, the district budgets of the Snigur region of Mikolaiiv Region 2017-2019. Igora Negulewski to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, Ministry of Finance of Ukraine, State Audit Service of Ukraine, State Fiscal Service of Ukraine on the verification of activities in the design of projects and the cost of capital construction and the repair of state institutions, district budgets in the region of Mikolaiiv 2017-2019. Alexander Bakumov to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Minister of Infrastructure of Ukraine, the Kharkiv City Head, the Head of the National Commission for State Regulation in the Field of Energy and Municipal Services, acting as Head of the Government of the Ukrainian Railway Association for the purpose of verifying the validity of the increase in tariffs for centralized water supply and water supply services and not allowing them to increase consumers in the city of Harkov. Gregory Mamka to the head of the National Police of Ukraine, the Attorney General for the review of information on criminal investigation regarding the release of Doctor of Legal Sciences, Professor, member of the National Academy of Sciences of Ukraine, Vitali Opřska. Igora Vasilíví to the Prime Minister of Ukraine to make changes to the outlook for the formation of the communities of the Ternopil region. Anton Yatzenka to the Umman City Council to provide information on the direction of use of the city budget of Uman, aimed at the purchase of medical supplies to meet the needs of KNP "Umane City Hospital". Groups of National Deputies (Zabloc, Road and others) to the Minister of Interior of Ukraine, the Director of the National Anti-Corruption Bureau of Ukraine, the State Bureau of Investigation, the Attorney General's Office for Procedural Procedural Procedural Procedural Procedural Procedural Procedural Procedural Procedural Procedural Procedural Procedural Procedural Procedural Procedural Procedural Procedural Procedural Investigations, Frauded With Money and Property of the Ukrainian Agrarian Foundation. Valery Gnatenka to the head of the Antimonopoly Committee of Ukraine, to the head of the State Audit Service of Ukraine on possible violations of legislation and abuses by officials during the purchase of fasteners for Pat "Ukrasalznica". Victor Medvedchuk to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine for the full, objective and impartial investigation of crimes committed against the Ukrainian National Deputy, a member of the "Oppositional Platform for Life" of the Royal Natalia Jurijovina during the visit of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Social Policy and Veterans' Rights held in Lviv on February 27, 2020. Victor Medvedchuk to the Attorney-General for providing information on the possible funding of the International Fund for the Reunification of Prosecutors' Offices, individual prosecutors in 2014-2019 through the provision of additional funds, the organization of service missions of prosecutors, and the financing of the Public Prosecutor's Office by projects of international technical assistance. Jaroslava Dubnević to the Ministry of Veterans of Ukraine on payment of cash compensation for the residence of an internally displaced person, the disability of the war of the 3rd group. Sergey Nagorniak to the Attorney General's Office for the improper execution by prosecutors of the Kyiv Local Prosecutor's Office No. 6 in criminal proceedings. Sergey Nagorniak to the Supreme Council of Justice on the failure to comply with Ukrainian KPC rules during the trial of Judge of the Pecher District Court of Kiev Karaban W.M. Criminally conducted since 17.10.2017. Vladimir Ariev to the State Customs Service of Ukraine on the provision of information on the volume of exports by Ukraine of protective medical masks to the People's Republic of China and other countries in January-February 20th. Alexander Tkachenka and John Shinkarenk to the Attorney General’s Office for the use of effective measures to deal with the appeal of Andri Davidyuk regarding the improper conduct of criminal investigations. Sergia Minka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the dangerous situation in the closure of the network of anti-tubular institutions in Ukraine as a result of a substantial reduction in their funding. Anton Yatzenka to the Umman City Council to provide information on the alienation of municipal property located in the street. Celestial 100, 27 in Uman. Jury Boyka to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, Attorney General, on the illegal actions of officials of the General Directorate of the Ministry of the Interior in the Cherkas region for failure to execute a court decision. Vasila Petyevka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the improvement of the electronic auctioning mechanism for the sale of individual unprocessed wood lots. Igor Gerasimenko to the Minister of Defence of Ukraine for providing information on the amount of natural gas consumed by military units, institutions and organizations of the Ministry of Defence of Ukraine and the Armed Forces of Ukraine. Alexander Kachura to the Director-General of the Public Shareholders' Association for the provision of information on the amount of rewards, bonuses, compensations and other accounts for the management of AT "The Crucifixion". Alexander Kachura to the executive responsibility of the head of the Ukrainian Railway Association for providing information on the amount of rewards, bonuses, damages and other credits of the members of the AT "Urzalznica" management. Alexander Kachura to the executive responsibility of the head of the Ukrainian Railway Association for providing information on the sum of rewards, bonuses, compensations and other accounts of the member of the Supervisory Board of AT "Urzalznica". Alexander Kachura to the Director-General of the Ucrobornprom State Concert for the provision of information on the amount of rewards, bonuses, damages and other accounts of the management of the Ucroborinprom. Alexander Kachura to the head of the National Shareholders Association of Naftogaz Ukraine on providing information on the amount of rewards, bonuses, compensations and other accounts of NAC Naftogaz Ukraine. Natalia Pippa to the Minister of Health of Ukraine for the use of emergency measures for the purchase of medical supplies and medical devices under the budget programme “Providing health care for individual government programs and complex programming measures”. Natalia Pippa is under the responsibility of the Director of the Urban Department, deputy director of the Urban Department, head of the Land Administration Department of the Lviv City Council for the areas included in the project by the Land Facility within the Park of St. John Paul II of the Pope. Sergey Labazuk to the Ministry of Finance of Ukraine on income from VAT on passive income. Sergia Labazuka to the Ministry of Health of Ukraine, temporarily acting as head of the National Health Service of Ukraine, on the issue of the use of funds for the State Programme "Affordable Medicines" in 2020. Groups of National Deputies (Friz, Heraszczenko, Ionova) to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the granting of a subsidy from the State budget to the local budget of the Losovo OTG for the work related to the creation and provision of the function of the CNAP, including social services, in the format of the Transparency Office. Groups of National Deputies (Herachenko, Pavlovka, and others) to the first deputy minister of culture, youth and sport of Ukraine regarding the use of measures in the construction and installation of the National Memorial Complex of the Heroes of the Celestial 100th Museum of the Dignity Revolution in Kiev. Irina Herashchenko and Maria Ionova to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, head of the Cerkas District State Administration for the implementation of the implementation measures in the Cherkas region of projects under the State budget subsidy to local budgets for the socio-economic development of individual territories envisaged by the Cabinet as of 10 July 2019. No. 500, and the transitional balance of this subsidy for 2018. Alexander Tkachenka and John Shinkarenk to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine regarding the need for a comprehensive review of the request of the Bazarian Rural Council of the Tatarbunar district of Odessa to take effective action to create adequate conditions for the safety of the population. Zinovija Andryovich to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, head of the Ivano-Frankov district administration, head of the State Road Agency for the capital repair of road T 0906 Ivano-Frankivsk-Surround. Ivanni Klimpush-Cincadze to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the first Deputy Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine, the head of the Zacarpathian Regional State Administration on the critical state of the U.S. in the village of Kwasi in the area of Zakarpat. Ivanni Klimpush-Cincadze to the head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Environmental Policy and Use, the first deputy minister of energy and environmental protection, the head of the Zacarpathian District Council, the Hustian City Head, the head of the Zacarpathian District State Administration for the destruction of the coastal areas of the river River and Tis in the town of Hust Zakarpat. Romana Ivanisov to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on administrative obstacles to the voluntary unification of the territorial communities of the different regions of the Plain region. Sergey Vlasenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, acting director of the state-owned enterprise Ukrvakcina, Ministry of Health of Ukraine, on receiving information. Sergei Vlasenka to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, Attorney General, State Bureau of Investigation concerning the misconduct of the head of the State Border Service of Ukraine, Sergija Daineko, inciting citizens to commit illegal acts. Groups of National Deputies (Borzovo, Sukhova and others) to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the Ministry of Health of Ukraine, the National Health Service of Ukraine, the Kyiv City State Administration for the maintenance of the Kyiv City Clinical Institute of the Ophthalmological Hospital "Centre of Microsurgery of the Eye" for the provision of highly specialized ophthalmological assistance to the third level of the closed cycle in Kiev, which will serve the needs of the Chinese and other Ukrainian areas. Maxima Efimov to Minister of Interior of Ukraine, Office of the Attorney General, State Architectural and Construction Inspectorate of Ukraine, Head of the National Police of Ukraine, Head of the State Service of Ukraine, in exceptional situations to ensure an objective investigation into the fire, which took place on 29.02.2020, at the address of: Mr. Kyiv, Street. Dmitryvsky, 2. Rostislava Tistik to the Chief of General Staff, Commander-in-Chief of the Armed Forces of Ukraine, for the reconstruction of the building of the Ukrainian Ministry of Defence's archery complex in Lviv. Vladimir Timothychuk to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the 150th anniversary of Basil Stefanik's birth in 2021. Vladimir Timothychuk to the Attorney General about the improper conduct of pretrial investigations and the invocation of responsibility for those responsible. Groups of National Deputies (Ustinov, Dubnov and others) to the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine on the provision of information and legal evaluation published in the media of the facts about the possible commission of corruption crimes by the Deputy Chief of Investigations of the National Police of Ukraine, Eugene Shevtsov. Alexia Zmerenecki to the Ministry of Community and Community Development, Slavutski Miški head, head of the National Commission for State regulation in the field of energy and municipal services in the area of municipal accounts. Yurya Pavlenko, head of the Zitomir District State Administration, on urgent measures to complete the reconstruction of U.S.A. No.13 in the city of Korosten of the Žitomir region. Jury Pavlenko to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Ministry of Health of Ukraine, Head of the Regional Regional Administration of the Zitomir on the need to make changes to the CMU Order of 15 January 2020. No. 23 and the inclusion of the Pavlusenko Hospital 2 of the City Council of Žitomir in the health support facilities of the Žitomir Hospital District. Groups of National Deputies (Truchina, Gekuk and others) to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine, the Prime Minister of Ukraine, regarding the return to the Motherland of Ukrainian Women and their teenage children from the Syrian Arab Republic. Helen Copanczuk to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the implementation of measures to establish the relationship between the State budget and the budgets of the unified territorial communities, which held the first local self-government elections in 19th year, including the newly created Constituent and Sahnewice united Hmeljna district communities with the aim of ensuring adequate funding. Mikhail Zimbaluka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the non-closure of the therapeutic department of the Belgian District Hospital of the Lviv Region. Alexandre Litvinov to the Ministry of Health of Ukraine on the inclusion of a municipal non-commercial enterprise in the First-Major District Hospital in the list of health support facilities in the Kharkiv County Hospitals until the 23rd year. Kuzmini to the Attorney General on violations of Ukrainian law and abuse of office. Alexander Fedienka to the Head of the State Information and Information Service of Ukraine, Minister of Infrastructure of Ukraine for the conduct of a comprehensive status check and the implementation of cyber and information security measures by KP "International Airport Odessa" and DP "International Airport Borispil". Alexander Fedienka to the Head of the State Office for Special Communications and Information Protection of Ukraine, the Secretary of the National Security and Defence Council of Ukraine for the functioning of the Pro-Russian propaganda blocking systems. Alexander Fedienka to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine on the basis of the involvement of the "CORD" unit in investigating (search) actions. Alexander Fedienka, acting as Director-General of the Municipal Enterprise Odessa International Airport, Head of the Department of Cyber Police of the National Police of Ukraine for the damage caused by unauthorized interference with KP's information resources, Odessa International Airport. Vladimir Aresonkov to the Ministry of Health of Ukraine regarding the underfunding of state programs. Igor Kopitin to the Director-General of DPD "Spectechnoexport" on the provision of information on the terms of the trading project for the supply of An-178 to Peru. Roman Lozinski to the prosecutor of the Lviv district for the verification of the legality of law enforcement. Roman Lozinski to the executive director of the regional branch of the Lviv Railway Public Association of Ukrainian Railways for the cancellation of the Lviv-Mukachevo train (department from Lviv at 7:15) on Saturdays. Alexander Fedienka to the Minister of Defence of Ukraine, commander of the National Guard of Ukraine, Head of the Security Service of Ukraine for conducting an audit of cybersecurity activities. Sergey Litwinenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Ministry of Community Development and the Ukraine, the Head of the Accounts Chamber for the inclusion of the State Regional Development Fund for the 21st year of the construction of the school in the village of Viry of the Rhine region. Gregory Mamka to Kyiv City Head, head of the National Police of Ukraine for a proper review of the legality of construction in the land area, addressed: Michurina, Michurin Street, 11-13, in Kiev. Paul Melnik to Vice-Prime Minister for Digital Transformation of Ukraine, Head of the National Council of Ukraine for Television and Broadcasting on active response measures to address the low coverage of the T2 air signal in the city of Tokmak, Primorsk, as well as in the populated areas of Mikhailovsky, Yakimovsky, Priazovsky, Wesseliv region of the Zaporez Region, and in some of the populated areas of these areas, there is a complete absence of such an air signal. Paul Melnik to the head of the Zaporozhye District Public Administration for addressing the head of the Mikhail District State Administration of Zaporozhye in relation to the situation regarding the provision of insulin to patients with diabetes mellitus and non - sugar diabetes resulting from the underfunding of the corresponding government program. Dmitry Travel to the Attorney General, temporarily acting as Head of the State Fiscal Service of Ukraine, Head of the Security Service of Ukraine, State Bureau of Investigation for the possible violation of the requirements of legislation during the granting of a licence for retail trade in fuel. Dmitry Putnam to the State Bureau of Investigation, Minister of Justice of Ukraine, on the abuse of office by Odessa investigative isolation. Groups of National Deputies (Mazurasu, Greenchuk) to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the issues raised by the implementation of the second phase of health reform on April 1, 2020, and need an immediate settlement. Oleg Koljeva to Odessa City Head on changing the technical conditions of electricity supply to Apartment No. 53-A on Malinovsky Street, Odessa City for the construction of KP "Miss Capital Building". Victoria Kinsburg to Kharkiv City Head on the need to resolve a series of socio-infrastructure issues that have been violated by the community of Sadka village in the Nemisljan district of Kharkiv. Victoria Kinsburg to Kharkiv City Head for the numerous calls of Harkivians with complaints about the unsatisfying state of the streets and roads of the city of Harkov. Arsenia Pushkarenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the inclusion of KNP "Olewska Central Hospital" of the Olev City Council and KNP "Malinska City Hospital" of the Malin City Council in the list of supporting hospitals of the Žitomir Hospital District. Igor Negulewski to the Ministry of Infrastructure of Ukraine on the provision of financial plans for state-owned enterprises for 2020 and reports on their implementation in the first quarter of 2020. Igor Negulewski to the Private Shareholders Association of Kiev-Dniprovsky Inter-branch Industrial Railways, Philia "Centre of Industrial Management" of the Ukrainian Railway Association for the provision of a financial plan for 2020 and a report on its implementation in the first quarter of 2020. Paul Froll to the head of the State Agency for Road Traffic in Ukraine regarding the use of urgent measures to reconstruct the N 23 national road between Kropinicki and the Horn of Curve. Groups of National Deputies (Korowchenkova, Kriworukina, Zacharychenka) to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, head of the Dnipropetrov District Council on the need to ensure the realization of the right of citizens to health care and medical care. Groups of National Deputies (Korivchenkova, Kriworukina, Zacharychenka) to the Minister of Social Policy of Ukraine on the need to ensure the realization of the right of children with disabilities to social protection. Group of National Deputies (Korowchenkova, Kriworukina, Zacharychenka) to head the National Energy Inspectorate of Ukraine, head of the National Commission, which regulates national energy and utilities regulations, the Director General of the Association of Shareholders of Dniprovsk Power Plants, the Director of the Society with limited responsibility for Dniprovsk Energy Services, on the need to ensure the right of consumers in the city of Kryvni Horn of Dnipropetrov district to receive services in the provision of electricity of good quality. Vladimir Kabachenko to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the issue of payment of additional payments to medical personnel. Vladimir Kabachenko to the head of the Ukrainian Security Service on the sale of protective masks. Igor Negulewski to the Ministry of Infrastructure of Ukraine for information on non-profile assets, which are part of the administration of the Ministry of Transport and Infrastructure of Ukraine, between 19th and first quarter of the 20th year. Igor Negulewski to the head of the Mikolai district council for information. Alexander Tkachenka to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on the need for a comprehensive review of the appeal of residents of the village of Karnalyevka Bilgorod-Dnistrovsk district of Odessa to the non-admission of the forceful unification of the territorial communities. Alexander Tkachenka to the Attorney General’s Office on the need for a comprehensive review of Natalia Romanova’s appeal to take effective action to protect her as a victim of a crime. Alexander Guerrega to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the increase of the Hmelnicki ODA to 39.6 million dollars to cover the deficit on the mandatory components of the salaries of the staff of the rajh management. Alexander Guerrega to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the preservation of the Plujnian Sanatorium School of the Hmelni district council for children and adolescents with small and inactive forms of tuberculosis. Michael Bondar to the Ukrainian Defence Minister on the order and order of the assignment of Medvedchuk Viktor Volodymyrovich's military rank and the order. Michael Bondar to perform the duties of the Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine to amend the Law "On Full General Secondary Education". Vladimir Tsabal to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the agricultural producer support programme. Oleg Arsenyuk to the Chief of the Ukrainian Security Service in the Dnipropetrov region on the illegality of law enforcement. Irina Konstankevich to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the payment and payment of monthly financial assistance in accordance with article 37 of the Ukrainian Law on the Status and Social Protection of Citizens affected by the Chernobyl disaster. Irina Konstankevich to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Infrastructure of Ukraine, acting as Head of the Ukrainian Railway Association's Government for the transfer of the centralized water supply system, which is on the balance sheet of AT "Urzraliznica", to the municipal property of the Kivertske City Council. Alexia Movcana to the executive responsibility of the Minister of Energy and Environmental Protection of Ukraine, the head of the Poltava District Administration, the Head of the State Service of Ukraine for Emergency Situations, the State Environmental Inspectorate of Ukraine, the Head of the State Geology Service and the head of Ukraine for Environmental Disaster in the village of Jerzyvka Kremencuccik district of Poltaw region as a result of the functioning of the Jewish GCC. Alexander Tkachenka to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on the use of effective response measures to protect the farming subjects involved in entrepreneurial activities in the territory of the Killian United District Society of the Odessa Region. Alexander Kunicko to the minister of internal affairs of Ukraine regarding the taking under personal control of the search and the delay of the person hiding from the investigation. Alexander Kunicko to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, head of the National Commission for State regulation in the field of energy and utilities to improve the procedures for gas metering. Alexander Kunicko to the Attorney General, Head of the National Police of Ukraine, Acting Director of the State Bureau of Investigation for the improper investigation of road traffic accidents by the Investigation Department of the U.S. Office of the U.S. Office of the U.S.O.O. July of the World Health Minister of Ukraine, Prime Minister of Ukraine, for the provision of adequate medical care to residents of the region of Kharkiv. Valery Gnatenka to the head of the Donetsk district public administration, the head of the district military and civil administration regarding the change of name and type of Donetsk district institute of postgraduate pedagogical education at the Donbas Academy of Continuous Education and the appointment of the Rector of the newly created institution of the Rector of the Yulia Burtsev Institute. Vladimir Tzabal to the finance minister of Ukraine for the financing of Ukraine's 20th-year government budget for debt operations. Olega Koljeva to the Minister of Interior of Ukraine for the protection of the rights and legitimate interests of fraudulent investors of unbuilt apartments on the street of Gołkowska, 5-7 of the city of Odessa. Tarasa Batenka to perform the duties of Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine, Prime Minister of Ukraine for the amendment of the Law "On Full Secondary Education" in part of discriminatory and unconstitutional rules for the transfer of teachers and directors of pension education to term employment contracts. Vasil Pétovka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for payment of payments to medical personnel in the Tačivsky and Rakhiv regions of the Zakarpat region. Groups of National Deputies (Babia, Demchenka) to the Head of the Court of Auditors for the conduct of the Financial Audit and Audit of the Implementation of the National Judicial Administration of Ukraine and the State Enterprise "Information Court Systems" of the Single Court Information and Telecommunications System. Groups of National Deputies (Babia, Demchenka and others) to the head of the State Audit Service of Ukraine for the conduct of the State Audit Service of Ukraine's State Financial Audit of the implementation by the State Court Administration of Ukraine and the State Enterprise "Information Court Systems" of the Single Court Information and Telecommunications System. Bogdan Yaremenk to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Head of the Office of the President of Ukraine, Head of the Ukrainian Security Service, on the application of measures to hold officials responsible for interviewing terrorist Igor Hirkin. Romana Kaptielov to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the results of the planned internal financial audit of the State Enterprise "Science and Production Union of the Pavlovgrad Chemical Plant" in the 19th year. Romana Kaptielov to Minister of Interior of Ukraine, Acting Director of the State Bureau of Investigation, Director of the National Anti-Corruption Bureau of Ukraine, Prosecutor General for the conduct of a review of the involvement of officials of the Municipal Enterprise "Ternival Housing and Utilities" until the destruction and the acquisition of the funds of the community of the city of Ternivka. Groups of National Deputies (Ivanisova, Saliyczuk and others) to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the unsatisfactory environmental situation in the ecological responsibility zone TOV "Color S. I. M." Jaroslava Dubnević, under the temporary responsibility of the head of the National Health Service, Ukraine’s Minister of Health, to change tariffs and adjust the coefficients for medical services from palliative medical care. Eugenia Bragara to the Minister for Reintegration of the temporarily occupied territories of Ukraine, the Head of the Security Service of Ukraine, for the granting of permission for the entry of Cardew Catherine into the temporarily occupied territory. Eugenia Bragara to the Attorney General's Office on the need to verify possible illegal acts by individual officials of T.O. In-Time, which led to the violation of the constitutional rights of a large number of citizens. Eugenia Bragara to the Office of the North East Office of the Derjaudit Service in the Luhansk Region, the Public Prosecutor's Office of the Luhansk Region for the non-admission of the destruction of the city-based industrial enterprise of Lysicansk, the invocation of the responsibility of officials on the facts of the acquisition of state property on a particularly large scale with a view to its further reselling to third parties. Anatolia Ostapenka to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine for information on the provision of internal affairs by the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine for the status of a participant in combat activities to individual employees. Sergia Labazuka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the recovery of public budget expenditure in connection with the establishment of a fund to combat acute respiratory disease COVID-19. Igor Guza to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, temporarily acting as head of the National Health Service of Ukraine, on the need to finance the city's secondary health care facilities, Vladimir Volinsky. Igor Guza to the Minister of Infrastructure of Ukraine, who is responsible for the head of the Ukrainian Railway Association's Action Society for the need to improve railway connections in the direction of Lutsk-Lviv and Lutsk-Kiev for the development of the city of Lutka as a tourist centre. Solomonia Bobrowski to the Acting Director of the State Bureau of Investigation for the submission of unreliable data in the annual declarations of the Director of Derman-Ostria National Natural Park. Solomy Bobrowski to the Ukrainian Defense Minister on the kidnapping of the Russian side during the fighting on the line of control with the 95th single assault squad of Eugene Dobrinsky. Igora Negulewski to the Ministry of Infrastructure of Ukraine for information on the management of the Ukrainian Danube Cruise. Igora Kolyhayeva to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on the outcome of the parliamentary hearing on violations of the rights of the territorial communities of the villages of Nova Kamyanka and Navokaira in the Hersonian region. Igora Kolyhayeva to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the continuation of financing of the reconstruction of the cleaning facilities of the city of Berislav Hersson. Groups of National Deputies (Morose, Trebushkin, and others) to the Attorney General on the illegal pressure of domestic workers in the Ukrainian National Police. Oleg Volosin to Prime Minister of Ukraine on the capital repair of the road T-15-13 Nechayne-Ochakov. Sergey Ljowczina to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the need for the Government to implement effective anti-crisis measures. Michael Bondar to the Minister of Social Policy of Ukraine, Prime Minister of Ukraine for the financing of the All-Ukrainian Social Organization (UTOG) in a separate line of government to ensure the implementation of the Ukrainian Act on Social Protection of Persons with Disabilities in Ukraine. Alexia Movcan to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Infrastructure of Ukraine, Minister of Economic Development, Trade and Agriculture of Ukraine, Kharkiv City Head, Director-General of the Kharkiv Metropolitan Municipal Enterprise for the tender of the Harkovsky Metroliten utility for the purchase of subway trains. Yulia Ovicnikovov to the executive responsibility of the Minister of Energy and Environmental Protection of Ukraine to create new and expand existing forest national parks in Ukraine. Mikoli Kucher to head of the General Administration of the Dergeokadastr in the Vinnicki region to ensure the longevity of the land lease agreement for haystacking and grazing of livestock with an interest rate of 3 percent of the standard rate for residents of the village of Buda in the Province of Tristanec. Zinovija Andrivović to Prime Minister of Ukraine for the capital repair of bridges on the section of the road S090902 Suverna-Lanchin in the village of Krasno Suvirnjan district of Ivano-Frankiv region. Zinovija Andrivović to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the capital repair of road S090105 Ivanovnikka-Monastirčany in the area of Žuraki-Monastirčani-Solotvina. Dmitri Schenzeva to the Minister of Infrastructure of Ukraine regarding the restoration of railway transport. Dmitry Schenzeva to the Minister of Infrastructure of Ukraine for the maintenance of the relevant area of the road of general use of state importance in the region of the Great Bourbon region of Kharkiv. Anton Yatzenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for information on the status of the review of the reconstruction of the Uman military airport, located in Uman Cherkas region. Anton Yatzenka to the Umman City Council to provide information on the activities of the city head Uman through advertising and media for 2016-2020. Gregory Mamka to the head of Odessa District State Administration on providing information on the implementation of the budget programme "Builts of football fields with artificial coverage in Ukraine" in 2017-2018. Larissa Bilozer and Oleg Meidić to the Minister of Health of Ukraine, the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the inclusion of the Chargorodské CRL, the Barské CRL, the Illenic CRL and the CRL for the listing of health support institutions and for the provision of appropriate funding. Anastasia Lashenko to the first deputy head of the Ukrainian State Water Agency on the issue of the culling of the Sula River. Anastasia Lashenko to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the restoration of the hydrological regime and the ecological state of the Sula River. Anatolya Kostucha to the Minister of Health of Ukraine on the effectiveness of the treatment of children with hereditary diseases of exchange. Anatolia Kostuha to the Minister of Health of Ukraine regarding the activities of KNP "Augular Hospital" in the region of Zacarpathia. Igora Krivosheeva to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the removal of technical barriers to trade. Taras Batenka to the Lviv City Head for the ban on new construction and the issuance of new construction conditions in the Ped Golova Microregion of Lviv until the completion of the implementation of the proposed social infrastructure projects in the region. Taras Batenka to the first deputy minister of culture and information policy of Ukraine, head of the Lviv district administration for the preservation of the history of the "Fortec Mikolayev" in the Lviv region. Tarasa Batenka to the Minister for the Development of the Communities and Territories of Ukraine, Prime Minister of Ukraine, on taking into account the position of the territorial communities of the Lviv region with regard to the formation and unification of the territories of the communities. Sergia Dunayeva to the head of the National Anti-Corruption Agency of Ukraine for the purpose of carrying out a full verification of the reliability of information in the 2019 Declarations of individual officials of the Severodonet City Council of the Lugansk Region and the conformity of the information provided with the anti-corruption legislation of Ukraine. Sergia Dunayeva to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine for the elimination of official powers by police officers, which led to the collapse of traffic in the city of Severerodonetsk Lugansk region. Anton Kisse to the Prime Minister of Ukraine to make changes to the forward-looking plan for the formation of the Odessa community. Groups of National Deputies (Kultenka, Raduccik and others) to the Ukrainian Defence Minister for the possible abuse of Ukrainian Ministry of Defence officials in carrying out public contracts. Mikoli Skorak to the head of the Ukrainian State Property Fund on the situation around the Society with limited responsibility for the "Restraint Titano-Magnium Combined". Mikoli Velichkovich, head of the National Environmental Inspectorate of Ukraine for the destruction of the lands of important natural objects. Oksana Savchuk to the Minister of Health of Ukraine, Prime Minister of Ukraine, regarding the provision of clarifications on how to obtain insurance payments to public and municipal health officials in connection with the consequences of the fight against coronary disease. Paul Frolov to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine for the immediate implementation of the free system of informing drivers and car owners about the photo-fixing of traffic violations by texting and e-mailing. Alexander Kunicko to the Minister of Culture and Information Policy of Ukraine on the settlement of the conflict around the leadership of the Kharkiv Theatre of Children and Youth, and the preservation of the working group of the oldest theatre for children and youth in Ukraine, and the settlement of the issue of the failure to repeat similar situations in the working groups of the theatres, by developing a draft of appropriate legislative changes. Oksana Savchuk to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Finance of Ukraine, Minister of Health of Ukraine, to increase the financing and non-closure of the political aid facilities. Group of National Deputies (Klimpush-Cincadze, Mihayluk, Novikova) to the Minister of Infrastructure of Ukraine, acting as head of the Government of the Association of Associations of Ukrainian Railways for the protection of the constitutional rights of employees and veterans of AT "Ukrzaliznica" for high-quality medical assistance and rehabilitation. Romana Ivanisov to the Head of the National Police of Ukraine, Attorney General for Unwarranted Procrastination for the protection of the State's property interests in relation to the State's "Antar Rest Base" (Zanzitska oblast). Ludmila Buymister to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the facts found by the working group to study the situation on DP Artemsil, which may contain violations of the current legislation of Ukraine. Anton Polakov to the Minister for the Development of the Communities and Territories of Ukraine on the allocation of subsidies from the State budget to local budgets for the socio-economic development of the territory. Olga Savchenko to the head of the General Directorate of the Dergeokadastr in the Kyiv region for the removal of PP "Breig" and PP "Gross" land and removal from the forest fund. Romana Lozinski to the Minister for the Development of the Communities and Territories of Ukraine regarding the lack of adequate representation of cities that have become part of the OTG (which are not the administrative centres of OTG). Romana Lozinski to the Lviv City Head on non-payment of salaries for employees of utilities. Michael Bondar to the head of the government of the National Savings Bank of Ukraine, for the operation of the branch of the Lviv branch of the PAT "Savedbink". Paul Melnik to the performer of the duties of the Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine, the head of the Zaporozhye District State Administration regarding the conversion of the working group of the NDZ "Primorsky Professional Agrarian List" on the further proper functioning of this educational institution, as well as the issue of the merger with the vocational higher education institution of the NDP "Nogai College" of the Tavrian State Agrotechnological University. And one last question. Alexander Zavávnević to the Ukrainian Defence Minister on the situation surrounding the completion of the 129-acre residence building to provide accommodation for members of the Cerkasian garrison. We did it.
ParlaMint-UA_2020-06-05-m0.u247	Thank you, Helen Constantine. We even got in a little early. We still have some time. Perhaps we should consider some other drafts, but we will no longer be able to do so. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, the morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed. Thank you all. Nice worlds. Good-bye.
