ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-24.u1	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we are in a position to begin our work. [[It was 10 hours and 7 minutes.]] I would like to ask the honourable Members. Authorities please open the galleries to the public. I call on Mrs Maria da Luz Rosinha to read the file.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-24.u2	Mr. President, very good morning to all. I will announce the withdrawal of Bill No 527XV / 1. a ( CH). They entered the Bureau and were admitted by Mr President, draft resolution No 501 / XV1 / 1. a ( PSD ) and Law Projects Nos 579 / XV / 1. a ( L), 573 / XV / 1. a (IL), 574 / XV / 1. a ( IL), 572 / XV / 1. a ( IL), 570 / XV / 1. a ( IL), 569 / XV / 1. a ( IL), 571 / XV / 1. a ( IL) and 558 / XV / 1. a ( PS ).
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-24.u3	Mrs. Members of the first item on the agenda include the thematic debate on the situation in Ukraine, proposed by myself, and in accordance with Article 73. that of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly of the Republic, I will open the debate with your permission. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the first parliamentary debate on the military invasion of Ukraine by Russia took place on 24 February 2022. A few hours after the beginning of the invasion, Portugal's position was clearly and unequivocally formulated by all political sovereign bodies, namely: condemnation of the aggression of the Russian Federation; reaffirmation of the principles of the Charter of the United Nations and the inalienable right of each State to sovereignty and territorial integrity; firm refusal of any purpose to change by force the borders of Europe; intransigent support for the exercise of the right to self-defence by Ukraine; unconditional opening of our country to the reception of Ukrainian refugees; participation in strengthening the eastern flank of the Atlantic Alliance; defence of sanctions against those responsible for the invasion; and demand for the immediate end of hostilities with withdrawal from the occupied territory. Since then, Parliament has expressed solidarity with the people and the Ukrainian authorities in many ways. Of course, the solemn session held by video conference on 21 April with President Zelenskyy is highlighted. In the exercise of its own powers, Parliament followed the Government's action in implementing assistance to Ukraine, whether in the reception and integration of refugees or in political, financial and military support. Parliament also follows developments in the United Nations, the European Union and the Atlantic Alliance to ensure Ukraine's defence, to ensure the legal, political and economic accountability of the aggressor power and to stop the war, opening the way to diplomacy. It therefore makes every sense that today, exactly one year after the beginning of the invasion of Ukraine, the Assembly of the Republic discusses the situation in that country so that the Government and all the political parties represented here can express and confront their prospects and proposals. on my part, at the opening of the debate, I can only apply to the present simple principles, which have long been consolidated in the Portuguese Parliament. War is horror. The legitimate and effective way of managing and resolving conflicts is through political and diplomatic means, and applying international law. But when one of the parties provokes war by militarily assaulting the other side, as Russia does in Ukraine, this — Ukraine — has not only the right to defend itself by arms, and civilised nations must support those who defend themselves, condemning those who attack. [[PS, PSD, IL and L applause.]] Then, when the aggressive power deliberately targets civilians, bombards cities, residential neighborhoods, schools and hospitals, committing war crimes, the international community must act to bring those responsible to justice. The war in Ukraine concerns the whole of Europe. Europe cannot tolerate changing its map by the force of arms, nor can the right of each State to exist and freely decide its destiny be prevented by bombs and cannons. Europe cannot allow the logic of imperialist expansion to again put on the brink of the abyss. To preserve its security, Europe must support Ukraine, an aggressive nation, and how it defends its independence and integrity. To that end, European and Atlantic unity is essential, not to attack, humiliate or annihilate anyone, but to defend; to defend international law, to defend peace, to defend people, to defend order based on just and valid rules for all, to defend the reason against force. [[PS, PSD and L applause.]] We want peace for Ukraine. This is the only objective of the effort in which we are involved, peace in Ukraine. Peace passes through the end of the Russian military aggression and the unconditional withdrawal of the occupying forces from the Ukrainian territory; peace passes through the legitimate defense of Ukraine. It is therefore time to support Ukraine's defence. [[PS, PS, L, standing, and CH and IL applause.]] We are now moving to the stage of the debate and, to speak on behalf of the Government, Mr Foreign Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-24.u4	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: On 24 February 2022, at 4 am and 30 minutes in the morning in Kyiv, the first missiles launched by the Russian armed forces fell into Ukrainian territory. The world changed with the brutal and illegal invasion of Ukraine by Russia, for President Putin's exclusive decision and responsibility. Since then, we have had 365 days of lost lives, of destruction, of violent bombings, of separate families and of torn-out newspapers. We also clearly had war crimes and crimes against humanity. It was 365 days of violation of the most fundamental principles of international law, including respect for territorial integrity and sovereignty of a country. We have seen the United Nations Charter run-off by a permanent member of the United Nations Security Council. We saw, above all, an unbridled attack on the main pillars of healthy coexistence between nations and international order. We know of at least 21 293 civilian victims, including 8006 dead. There will be, perhaps, many others that we do not know. Due to the use of force by Russia, 18 million Ukrainian citizens, people who lived their lives in peace and tranquillity, have become refugees from one moment to another — the fastest forced population movement since World War II. Five million Ukrainian children saw their education interrupted, another 5, 4 million Ukrainians became internally displaced. Civil infrastructures were bombarded, including hospitals, kindergartens, schools, churches and residential buildings. There's no room to think it was by accident. Between 30 % and 50 % of Ukraine’s electricity grid was damaged at costs of at least EUR 106 billion. Sixteen million people were deprived of access to drinking water or basic sanitation, thus increasing the risk of disease. The entire Ukrainian population became a target for the Russian Armed Forces. It was 365 days of hell in the 21st century, but it was also 365 days of courage and heroic resistance of the Ukrainian people, their leaders, their soldiers and a whole people, despite the bombs, despite the lives destroyed, despite the Russian attempts to intimidate and demoralize them. It was also 365 days of international solidarity on the part of those who believe and defend that force and violence cannot be the current currencies of international life. Since the first day that the position of Portugal is clear, because the cause of the Ukrainians is fair and because there can be no lukewarmness in the condemnation of a clearly aggressive, unjustifiable and illegal war. We supported Ukraine's resistance efforts through the provision of humanitarian assistance, financial support and military equipment. We impose measures that condition Russia's political and military action capacity through sanctions and through its international isolation. A special package was approved for the reception, protection and integration of refugees and Portugal received almost 60 000 applications for temporary protection to date. To those Ukrainians who have found refuge in Portugal, I want to say, very simply, that they are welcome among us for the time that is necessary until they can resume their lives in Ukraine. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Some 4400 Ukrainian students were enrolled in Portuguese schools and 300 Ukrainians were enrolled in our higher education institutions, with the status of emergency student for humanitarian reasons. We are participating in school reconstruction projects in the region of Jitomir, west of Kyiv, and we specifically commit ourselves to the reconstruction of Liceu No 25, totally destroyed by Russian bombs. We signed a financial cooperation agreement with Ukraine of EUR 250 million last May, which includes the transfer of special drawing rights to the International Monetary Fund. We have defended the use of the European Peace Support Mechanism in support of Ukraine, with EUR 3600 million already allocated. We also supported the increase in this mechanism to ensure continued support for Ukraine, while at the same time advocating that this instrument should maintain its overall scope. I would also like to highlight here, with pride, the many decisive humanitarian support actions led by Portuguese civil society, as well as the commitment of our compatriots to making solidarity a national flag. Finally, I could not fail to mention the exemplary performance of our embassy in Kyiv, of Ambassador Alves Machado, of diplomatic and non-diplomatic officials, including the elements that guarantee the safety of this team every day, which tirelessly worked on contingency plans, regularly contacted national citizens resident in Ukraine, promoted contacts between the authorities of the two countries and transmitted useful information every day for our assessment of the situation on the ground. on this February 24th, so sadly loaded with symbolism, it is with great pride that we have in the Ukrainian capital our Minister of National Defence, once again expressing Portugal's full support for the Ukrainian people. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, it is part of the paradoxes and tragedies of international life that there are times when peace is only won by the force of arms. The fight against Ukrainians by their territory is also the fight for a more decent, more orderly and more peaceful world. This is the inherent right of self-defence of any nation under attack, a right provided for in Article 51. the Charter of the United Nations. in this context, we already provide about 315 tons of military material, a value that, with the next shipment, will increase to 532 tons, including armored cars, generators, ammunition and medical and sanitary equipment. At every moment we have sought to meet Ukraine's most pressing military needs, in accordance with our abilities and with high generosity. Within the framework of the European Union, Portugal participated actively, together with other Member States, in the preparation of several EU restrictive measures against Russia, with 10. the package to be adopted this week. Through these sanctions, the oligarchs on which President Putin's power is based were deeply penalized and, above all, the industrial production of a country which imported the most technological components of his military industry was seriously limited. Our goal is to continue to compromise financially and technologically the war machine of the Vladimir Putin regime. With regard to Ukraine's accession to the European Union, we unequivocally encouraged Kyiv to maintain his commitment to the internal reforms which he must make and which he has, in fact, continued to carry out despite the war, in order to fully meet the conditions of entry. We are available to provide technical support in the accession process, while we support that future enlargements will have to be preceded by institutional and budgetary reforms of the European Union. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members said the Secretary-General of the United Nations, Antonio Guterres, that this war is triggering a three-dimensional crisis—food, energy and financial—which is reaching the most vulnerable people, countries and economies in the world. The impact of war on Ukraine is therefore global and systemic. It was thought, for example, of the consequences of sanctions for third countries that Portugal was strongly and successfully committed to defending the introduction of derogations for agri-food and fertilizer products in order to mitigate the consequences for global food security. We welcome last December's historic decision by the United Nations Security Council to apply a humanitarian exemption to all United Nations sanctions regimes, and we will defend that it is also in the European Union sanctions regime, because sanctions should not harm the most vulnerable, including those living under the yoke of oppressive regimes. We have actively supported and participated in the efforts to achieve, and then renew, the agreement on exports of Ukrainian cereals through the Black Sea. And because the war has touched us all, also here in Europe, the Portuguese Government has adopted a set of measures to support the economy to deal with the consequences of Ukraine's military invasion of Russia, in order to ensure the necessary support for our fellow citizens as they rise above the price of food and energy and interest. The same support also extended to affected companies, in particular in the agricultural and transport sectors. Those who still think it is a war of the West against Russia are dissembled. This is simply an illegal, unjustified and absolutely unnecessary invasion by Russia of a sovereign country, Ukraine. We all saw what happened in the morning of February 24, 2022. We have all seen what has been the terrible reality of war over a year. We have all seen the belligerent rhetoric and absurd arguments with which President Putin sought to explain to his fellow citizens the terrible situation in which he put Russia. We all saw the absolutely irresponsible and dangerous form as he announced the decision to suspend Russian participation in the strategic arms limitation agreement, thereby compromising the only agreement remaining to condition the arsenals of the two largest nuclear powers in the world. And we all realize that what he fears, more than anything else, is that the Russian population understands the truth. We see it in the draconian control that the regime has established on the media; we see it in the Orwellian way in which it was decreed that it was a crime to pronounce the word « war», as if, in this way, it was possible to mask and transform reality. Let us not forget today, on this sad anniversary, that the greatest battle in Ukraine is between the return to the law of the strongest, which characterized the first half of the 20th century, and the survival of multilateralism, based on rules of international law, dialogue and diplomacy. [[P.S.'s applause.]] This large-scale return of war to Europe by Vladimir Putin forces us to confront ideas about the present of the European continent and the future of international order. Ukraine's defeat would be the victory of imperialism over multilateralism and international law. If this is the result, countries such as Portugal and the generality of the nations that make up the international community would be as losers as Ukraine, because the survival and victory of multilateralism and international law is not only a matter of ideology, it is a decisive issue, including for Portugal. We need to be able to have an international system and rules-based dialogue mechanisms so that our sovereignty is fully guaranteed, our ability to decide our own destinations. The vote that took place yesterday at the United Nations General Assembly in New York shows that the vast majority of United Nations member countries fully understand what is at stake. The resolution condemning the Russian invasion reached 141 votes in favour, with only 7 votes against, with 32 abstentions. This vote represents a parallel reflection of what we have observed among ourselves, with a overwhelming majority of the Portuguese population — and also of the Members elected to this House — to show that it supports the Ukrainian people, who do not consider there to be room for false equivalences. So, ladies and gentlemen. Members, just as the road to peace in World War II did not start with a negotiation with the aggressor side, in this case peace and justice will only be able to materialize through Russia's withdrawal of its forces from all over Ukraine. Only with Russia's return to respect for international law can there be lasting peace. When that happens, then we can, with mutual respect among all nations, begin to rethink and rebuild the fabric of the international system, so seriously damaged by the invasion of Ukraine by Russia. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-24.u5	The Minister has two requests for clarification, to which I assume he is responding in a bloc.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-24.u6	Exactly, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-24.u7	To make the first request for clarification, Mr Ventura, of the Arrival, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-24.u8	Mr President, Minister, I welcome it and, pointing out this date that we must all be united with the aim of a common defence of Europe and our civilization, I regret that we cannot begin with the topic of Ukraine on a day that is about Ukraine. I am sorry, because, being here today, Mr Minister, I wanted to point out the enormous disrespect you had yesterday towards this House, towards this Parliament, and the enormous disrespect you had towards the majority of the Portuguese Democrats.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-24.u9	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-24.u10	Yesterday in Brasília, the Minister announced that on 25 April, the Brazilian President Luiz Inácio Lula da Silva spoke in this House. It is not up to you, as Minister of Government, to announce who is speaking in this House.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-24.u11	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-24.u12	On this invitation, which would shame us all already—and certainly shame the majority of the Portuguese people—,... [[Protests of PS Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-24.u13	...it would not be you, but the Conference of Leaders and the President of the Assembly of the Republic, who would compete with this announcement. Today morning, the Brazilian press echoes its announcement and the newspaper Folha de S. Paulo says that the President of Brazil will speak in Portugal, in Parliament, on the anniversary of the Revolution of Cravos.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-24.u14	That's what's missing!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-24.u15	This is embarrassing! And your action—I don't know if it went to divert the attentions from anything else! — has led to a huge disrespect of Parliament.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-24.u16	All right! [[Protests from BE Pedro Filipe Soares.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-24.u17	Who's diverting attention I know who it is!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-24.u18	Therefore, Mr Minister, I could not allow this moment to pass without giving you this political note of repudiation for reconsideration on a date that is — or should be — of all Portuguese people and which for the first time will be highly partisan; but, above all, of criticism, for their unqualified attitude, as Minister of the Republic, to think that impunity can do what you want in this Parliament. [[Congrats from the CH.]] I would therefore like to thank you for clarifying this matter. Mr Minister, today we know that the financial aid to Ukraine of EUR 250 million will no longer be paid. I don't know if this is true, or not, but that's what a newspaper says this morning: that the promised help of the Prime Minister to Ukraine of EUR 250 million will not be paid. And, with a very detailed explanation, it is said that, after all, we will end up with a EUR 55 million grant of support. Mr Minister, let us see: Portugal supports what it can, and « whoever gives what it has, the most is not obliged». Now, let us excuse walking across Europe all making numbers that we're giving tanks I don't know what brand and helicopters that didn't work in the fires, that we're going to give 250 million or 300 million euros, and then, when the time comes to put the'mass', the newspapers say that we don't pay anything! We saved ourselves from this international embarrassment! You're the face of the country out there, and right now you're a pretty unhappy guy.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-24.u19	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-24.u20	So, we promise 250 million and we'll end up giving 55 million euros? Oh, my God! I would like you to explain to me whether this is true or not and if, after all, our support will be of this nature. As for tanks and helicopters, we do not know whether helicopters have arrived, or not, whether they are in maintenance or are in operation, we do not know. It did not work here, and the Prime Minister said that Ukraine — miraculously — would work, but it was good to know if they had arrived, or not. Are the tanks, which will arrive in March, really to arrive in March or is it more a play and a political number of the government in this matter? It is not enough for Portugal to be a member of NATO ( North Atlantic Treaty Organization ), Minister, nor to be a member of the European Union. It is not just to go to Kiev or to the European capitals that Portugal supports, that it is pleased to support and that we are on the right side of history if, when the time comes to really help, we turn our faces and it is as if we were not here. It was good to explain whether the helicopters have arrived, whether the tanks will arrive, or not, and whether this support is true or not. And now, Minister, because it is one year ago of this invasion that Mr Minister condemned and that the generality of political parties condemn — it cannot be otherwise, because losing this war in Ukraine is losing all this war in Europe — I ask you whether or not the Portuguese Government is going to declare Russia as a sponsor of terrorism, as several countries have done directly affected by the conflict in Eastern Europe. That was a brave attitude!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-24.u21	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-24.u22	The rest, Minister, are travels to Kiev, very beautiful, with the international press. But when the time comes to do something, nothing is done at all, because, in fact, we are afraid of Russia. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-24.u23	To make a request for clarification, Mr Pedro Filipe Soares, of the Left Block, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-24.u24	Mr President, Mr Minister, Mrs Minister, Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, on this important day, I would like to begin with what is most important: what we are now united is solidarity with Ukraine and this vote, this message, this solidarity must be at the heart of all the interventions. I would therefore like to ask you a number of questions about the solidarity that the Portuguese people, through the Portuguese Government, have and must have with the Ukrainian people.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-24.u25	That's not what you said last year!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-24.u26	I would also like to ask questions about the previous intervention, which I think is beyond the debate we are having and which requires an answer from all the Democrats and all the Democrats. We understand that yesterday the Minister "has put his foot in the pit" spoke of what he should not have talked about and made commitments for which he has no mandate. But on behalf of the Left Block, I would like to say that it should not be Mr. Minister's trick — we will see how, in relation to the President of the Parliament of the Republic — to prevent a moment that will fill us with pride, all of us,... [[CH protests.]] ... that it is to receive, in the Portuguese Parliament, Luís Inácio Lula da Silva, the man responsible for taking the genocide Bolsonaro out of power. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-24.u27	Genocide? Genocide is starving to death! Go to Brazil!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-24.u28	We know that the far right will not have any toe until perhaps lift posters against Lula da Silva here in Parliament.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-24.u29	Thief is in prison!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-24.u30	But I must say that he, like us, sees a compliment on each of these insults. Every insult to people who are against democracy, to those who attack democratic powers, to those who promote democratic coups is a compliment to those who defend democracy.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-24.u31	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-24.u32	What a shame!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-24.u33	Mr Minister, today is to discuss the situation in Ukraine, the barbaric war. [[CH protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-24.u34	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we must let the honourable Member intervene, because he is in use of his right. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-24.u35	Mr. President, this is the way the democrats of the return to the country are. [[CH protests.]] Mr Minister, we live a year of barbershop in Ukraine. It has spent a year since the Russian invasion of Ukraine, since Putin's absolutely abominable declaration, which entered Ukraine and took everything forward, without looking at the means to destroy the land and the lives of the people - there are tens of thousands who have already lost their lives, leading to 18 million displaced persons, the number which Mr Minister has recently moved forward.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-24.u36	We just need to get Socrates to talk!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-24.u37	Portugal's role has sometimes been mistaken on this path. If it is true that, at times, I wanted to defend peace, it is also true that at other times, in its intervention, it seems to accompany the escalation of arms. We do not ignore Putin's reality and condemn, with all the letters, the fact that we are watching an arms escalation on the Russian side, on Putin's side. But we look at the European Union, of which the Portuguese Government is part, and at the European Council, in which the Portuguese Government has no seat, and we realize that so many times this year the European Union has not taken on the role it should have played in the diplomatic space. We know that every new package of sanctions is always the largest package of sanctions ever. Until when? Until what's next. And when the following package of sanctions comes, we realize that, after all, there were still more possible sanctions to deal with Russia, it just doesn't realize why they were not taken at the moment before. This is the case from the outset, and therefore our understanding of the reality is that sometimes the only way in which we are going is that of weapons, when the diplomatic path, the path of sanctions, and forcing Russia to hold a peace conference, seems to have been put in the background. I would like to know the role of the Portuguese Government in this matter. Does the Portuguese Government intend to have a strong voice in defence of peace or, as it has so far, to have a submitted voice that does not appear to be different in the European Council? The second question I would also like to raise is what the Minister said, when he said that one of Portugal's main functions is the reception of refugees and refugees from Ukraine. On this matter, there are successful cases that we do not deny and value, but there are also many cases of failure and even cases of thousands of Ukrainians who, coming to our country in search of peace that they do not have in their own, have already left because they did not have a solution in national territory. From that point of view, we have a particular concern with children. We know of the difficulties there are in following up in regular education. So I ask, very directly, the following: what will the government do more? As the Minister has the protection of this matter, we have no problem if the Minister for Foreign Affairs gives him the floor to answer, because the question is to the Government as a whole, we are not interested in who answers in particular. This is our primary concern: the reception of refugees and refugees from Ukraine must be of integration, with the Portuguese State's follow-up, and not the ‘washing of hands’ of the Portuguese State, in particular children and young people, ensuring that their future will no longer be postponed, the fruit of war, and that Portugal can be able to help build a better future. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-24.u38	In reply, Mr Foreign Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-24.u39	Mr. President, thank you to the honourable Members. Mr André Ventura and Mr Pedro Filipe Soares asked the questions. Indeed, and I said well, Mr Pedro Filipe Soares, the central issue that brings us here today is this sad anniversary of Russia's war against Ukraine. Mr. André Ventura said he regretted not coming to talk about it, too, I regret that he did not come to talk about it. [[P.S.'s applause.]] With regard to the support that has been announced throughout this year, there is a very simple question that can easily be underlined: the word given is word to fulfill.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-24.u40	I talked about it!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-24.u41	The word of Mr Prime Minister, for example on financial support for Ukraine, is a word that will, of course, be fulfilled in its entirety.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-24.u42	After all, we've always talked about it!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-24.u43	With regard to the various dimensions of the support with which Portugal has demonstrated its solidarity with Ukraine over the course of this year, I would like to stress that Mr Pedro Filipe Soares spoke of the humanitarian dimension, which is a very important dimension. Regarding the Ukrainian children who are among us, there are a number of them — the Ministry of Education has made this survey — which are not in schools because they are having online classes. They are having their schooling in a different way because the situation also requires this. Mr President, I would like to stress that our solidarity has four clear dimensions: the humanitarian, which I mentioned here; the policy, which is in all dimensions, both in the United Nations and in our dialogue with other countries; the financial, which I have made a brief reference to, but has been quite extensive and generous; the military, an irrevocable dimension.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-24.u44	Mr. Minister, you have to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-24.u45	That is a tragedy, that is a reality with which we must live. Unfortunately, it is not feasible to think, to imagine a world in which this dimension was not possible. Our solidarity also goes through military solidarity with Ukraine. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-24.u46	Is that Lula? He forgot to talk about Lula!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-24.u47	For an intervention on behalf of the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group, Mr Sérgio Sousa Pinto has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-24.u48	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: It is said that the knowledge of history prevents the repetition of mistakes made in the past. But it is nothing guaranteed that the knowledge of history alone saves us from repetition and error. There is something, however, that only historical knowledge undoubtedly allows: it is to contemplate with painful consciousness the consequences of lessons not learned with past experience, the inability to block a chain of events that repeat themselves, similar, inexorable, as for 60 years, before our eyes and before our impotence. The invasion of Ukraine, triggered a year ago and still in progress, confronts us with this responsibility before history and before the past experience — the responsibility of learning and acting, the responsibility not to repeat what cannot be forgotten, the responsibility of giving meaning to the sufferings of those who came before us and who lived the horrors of the twentieth century. Putin brought back to Europe the fateful year of 1938, the decisive year for peace and war, which opened the doors to the most tragic carnage that history records and that had on the main stage our martyred continent, always the great destabilizer of the world. Here we are, therefore, again in 1938. In the fall of 1938, 36 divisions of the German army focused on the border between Germany and Czechoslovakia. Six months later, Czechoslovakia, the only democracy in Central Europe, had ceased to exist. The pretext of the invasion was the liberation of Germanic minorities, installed in the Sudets since the Middle Ages. The liberation of minorities, whether German, Russian, Serbian or other, yesterday, as today, serves as a justification and pretext for the greatest crimes and for almost all the wars of aggression. The European democracies of the time handed over Czechoslovakia to the aggressor. They therefore considered serving the cause of peace, sacrificing those who wanted to defend themselves and fight for their right to exist. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Chamberlain, if he were alive, could say, today, « but who knows where Ukraine is? Do not keep on seeking. ” [[The Member of the PS Rosário Gambôa.]] They simply informed Czechoslovakia that in the event of an invasion they would not help her. They did it to appease the expansionist and revisionist power of then Nazi Germany, and preserve peace on the continent. The result was the reversal of international order by force and an unimaginable war, a war of conquest, an anachronistic war, a war like Genghis Khan. The free peoples who sacrificed everything to peace did not save peace and lost freedom. [[Congratulations from the PS, IL and PSD Members.]] We learn, and we have a duty not to forget, that a revisionist power, confident in its strength, cannot be pacified, can only be discouraged by force and, if necessary, faced by weapons. [[Congratulations from the PS, IL and PSD Members.]] The doves of peace, a year back on the invasion of Ukraine, echoed by the commitment at all costs, chose to ignore history. They do so because of ingenuity, persistent hatred of the West or revenge against liberal democracies, the regimes that came out triumphant from the 19th century disorder. If the courage and sacrifice of the Ukrainian people, as well as the support of the West, weaken and the current situation on the ground actually freeze, even if not by law, Ukraine, as a free nation, will perish, as Czechoslovakia has perished. A Russia that extends from the gates of Odessa to the banks of Donbass will keep the keys of a defenseless and practically unviable Ukraine. A peace whose terms are dictated by Putin's Russia will always be a temporary peace, a peace that will not be worth the role in which it is signed, a peace that will only postpone the fatal disappearance of Ukraine as a sovereign state. [[Congratulations from the PS, IL and PSD Members.]] The revisionist Russia of the post-Soviet order cannot be flattened. Georgia and Crimea bear witness to this. Russia, being stronger than its neighbours, as it has always been and will continue to be, since the collapse of the central empires in 1918, enjoys no sacred right of conquest, expansion and magnification. You have no right to roughen your neighbours by force, by annexation or by satellite, denying them full sovereignty, recognized to all States by the Charter of the United Nations. The future of Ukraine will not be one of a buffer state, on behalf of the old spheres of influence, dictated by the policies of power of the past. Ukraine's destiny is not to offer strategic depth to Russia, against imaginary enemies of the West, as is Europe, contrary to Putin's view, is not a mosaic of Vasal States of the United States. [[PS, PSD and IL applause.]] Europe is aware of the inevitable implications of the reversal of the international order based on law. It was right that Europe founded the institutions needed to conceal the total wars of the twentieth century and to make its repetition unthinkable. International law, violated a year ago in Ukraine, is the same right as our security and that of all nations and peoples in the world, especially the least powerful, especially the democracies, as a rule the most peaceful actors in the external order. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the popularity of the autocrats is fuelled by the adventures and military successes, by which the strong impose the weak, from the beginning of the times. War adventures and wars of aggression are the historical remedy of the autocrats to deal with their original deficit of legitimacy. They seek legitimacy for the results, since not by law, burning the passions of the crowd, raising a sick feeling of national greatness, which feeds on the humiliation and domination over other peoples, the theft of their territories and the plunder of their resources. [[PS, PSD and IL applause.]] If we want lasting peace in Europe, we must prepare ourselves for the dark eventuality of war, because international law does not dissuade, i.e. the force and willingness to apply, in case of challenge to the international order based on law. Ukraine, martyred, at the end of a year of a war imposed on it and at the end of a year of military and economic support which has been consistently provided to it by the democracies, therefore represents the determined and total rejection of the pacification policies followed in 1938,... [[PS, PSD and IL applause.]] ...for the pacification of the forts, revisionists and conquerors is a futile exercise, whose inexorable failure is a fact of history. A new arms race, the end of the United Nations, would follow the fate of the Society of Nations, as well as the ruin of the international order after-1945, very imperfect but based on law. We must accept the sacrifices needed today to save our children the much worse sacrifices of tomorrow. We have a duty to combat the law of force, imposed on the letter, declared dead, of the Charter of the United Nations. « If you want peace, prepare yourself for war», the Roman General Vegetius, 2000 years ago, warned. It was the first formulation of the doctrine of deterrence. Armed peace is the only viable in an anarchic world, refractory to law and eternally threatened by man's most seen instincts, today as in Rome's time. Today we speak of collective security, the most important condition of peace, without which war only awaits its opportunity. Putin said that the war of Ukraine is one year old, and the wars of Peter, the Great lasted more than 20. It is unfortunate that those who hesitate, those who account, those who profess peace at all costs do not realize that they have before them a man with the mentality of the eighteenth century and another relationship with historical time. To them we will say: "Our adversaries will take your magnanimity and your love for peace and dialogue as signs of weakness. They will take away - your concessions and time and will fall upon you when they are sure, by their strength, that they will no longer have to endure the inconvenience of protesting a non-existent good faith in daring fake negotiations. Do not keep on seeking. ” That's how it's always been. alongside the sacrificed people of Ukraine, for whom one year no one would shed a tear and in which no one deposited great faith, the international community will resist the subversion of the world that our grandparents have built for us on the rubble of the last great catastrophe, against the conquerors and against the lack of memory, for the right, for the authentic freedom of peoples and for lasting peace in Europe and in the world, the world in which our descendants will live, a secure world for democracy. [[PS, PSD and IL applause.]] 40 years ago, Mitterrand, confronted with falsely naive manifestations of peace and disarmament, in times of Cold War, said the following: "I see that the pacifists are all in the West and missiles in the East. What has changed, after all, in the world? Who are the most vocals of the peace pigeons yesterday and outside? The rights which Ukraine invokes constitute the foundation of our own freedom. We are able to learn from history, knowing that we are neither more virtuous nor wiser than our ancestors. We were dragged into the past, into a dark past that we judged dead and buried. However, as a great writer warned us, on a particularly inspired day: “The past is not dead. The past hasn't even happened. Do not keep on seeking. ” [[PS, PSD, IL, stand up, and CH and PAN applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-24.u49	To speak on behalf of the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mr Joaquim Miranda Sarmento has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-24.u50	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Today we note one year about the start of the terrible conflict that has plagued Europe, with the invasion of Ukraine by the Russian Federation. Our first word must be of solidarity with the victims of this war, all the victims. Solidarity with the Ukrainian civilians who died, victims of the Russian attacks. Solidarity with children and young people, the elderly and women, innocent victims of senseless war. Fathers who lost children. Children and young people who have lost their parents. Young people serving in the Ukrainian Armed Forces who died or were wounded in combat, defending their land and nation. But I speak of solidarity with all the victims of this conflict. How many young Russians have been forced to fight in a war that they have not desired and that they do not understand or support? How many Ukrainian and Russian mothers and parents mourn the loss of their children? A year ago, dictator Putin launched Russian armies in the invasion of Ukraine. Many, starting with Putin himself, thought the war would be fast and Ukraine would fall at the end of a few weeks. The resistance and heroic courage of the Ukrainian people showed that they were wrong. Today we also pay tribute to this resistance and courage. [[PSD, PS and IL Members applauded.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the Ukrainians said they did not concern themselves with the threat, force and violence. The Ukrainians said they would resist the invader, if necessary for years, if necessary alone. But they weren't alone and they're not alone. Europe and the United States had been by their side since the first hour and remembered a phrase by Churchill, which said: « A pacifier is the one that feeds a crocodile in the hope of only being devoured last. Do not keep on seeking. ” All of us who believe in freedom, democracy and European construction cannot but be proud of the united way in which Europe has responded in support of Ukraine. But there's still a long way to go. We know that the next few months will be very hard on Ukrainians, but the Russian aggressor has to realize that he does not see the democracies. The Russian aggressor must realize that Europe is united in the defence of Ukraine and must realize that for us, Europeans, Ukraine is part of Europe, or, as historian Plokhy called it, « the door of Europe ». The Russian aggressor must realize that the time in Europe when a sovereign state invades another sovereign state has long ended. The Russian aggressor must realize that, although war is a long-standing reminder that our generations have read in the books of great historians, that is not why Europe's answer will not be firm and decisive. The Russian aggressor must realize that it is diplomacy, not war, that it is responsible for resolving conflicts. The Russian aggressor must realize that the tolerance and openness of Western democratic societies are their strength, and not their weakness, and that the enemies of democracy, whether internal or external, cannot overcome or never overcome. Slava Ukrainiani. [[PSD and PS applause standing, and CH, IL, PAN and L.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-24.u51	Mr Diogo Pacheco de Amorim has the floor to speak on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Arrival.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-24.u52	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We always understand that nations are built as living entities, with their own past, an active present and a community of destination. Likewise, we always understand that nations have a duty to respect themselves and to be respected by all others. This is because the wealth of humanity, its progress and its future depend not on an undifferentiated sum of equal people, but on the complementarity of different people. We also always understand, finally, that there are borders, that it is important to be respected and that its violation is a greater crime.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-24.u53	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-24.u54	Whether this crime is committed in Europe, Africa, the Middle East, Asia, or anywhere lost in the world, whatever the alleged right, the early reason, the proclaimed motive or the imagined crusade, the borders mark ways of life and that is why they die for them.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-24.u55	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-24.u56	We've been criticized. They told us that borders were mere imaginary lines, that globalization had made them obsolete, that nations had no sense and that men were all equal, measurable and interchangeable. Similarly, we were told that all European nations had built up their history and wealth in their looting and that this story was not going through a series of crimes. We did not accept criticism and continue to face it, yesterday as today, always accepting, with pride, the good and the bad steps of our secular journey, without asking, as we did not ask and we will never ask, sorry for whatever it is that has been done over 1,000 years. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, it was precisely for this reason that we were moved by this absolute conviction of the value of the nations, their roots and their borders, that we were the first party, or one of the first, to condemn the invasion of Ukraine by Russia. We have done so clearly, unequivocally and definitely,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-24.u57	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-24.u58	... but it was also with undeniable surprise that we saw so many people, who had so much criticized us nationalism, so narrow and short-sighted, follow us in this condemnation. After all, it seems that nations always count and are worth the sacrifice that they fight for. After all, it seems that borders always make sense and are worth all the blood left there to defend them. After all, and finally, men are different and it is always worth fighting for this difference.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-24.u59	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-24.u60	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, for a year now that countless thousands of anonymous soldiers have fought and died in Ukraine for the defense of their history, their traditions, their way of life and the borders that all this protects, or should protect, without wondering whether this story was politically correct or not and whether these borders are mere imaginary lines or materialize, there and now, the will of a people who want to keep on the surface of history. Here's the tribute to these anonymous soldiers.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-24.u61	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-24.u62	That's what I want to leave here written. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-24.u63	To speak on behalf of the Liberal Initiative Parliamentary Group, Mr Rodrigo Saraiva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-24.u64	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Government Members : Today, this day 24, all the free hearts of the world are in Kyiv, and in Kharkiv, Kherson, Mariupol, Donetsk, Lviv, Odessa, Irpin, Butcha. The free hearts of the world are with the Ukrainians, they are wherever they are. [[Applause from the IL.]] This brave people have been facing the most barbaric aggression in Europe since the end of World War II for a year. The Ukrainians suffer for them, for their freedom, and suffer for us too. In those cities, towns and villages devastated by the Russian bombs, there is a decisive struggle, also for our freedom, for our safety, for our future, for the future of our children. That is today the last frontier of the free world. One year ago Vladimir Putin ordered Ukraine to be invaded, to occupy Kyiv in a few days and to liquidate the legitimate leaders of that country, in flagrant violation of international law, of the Charter of the United Nations and of all the commitments that Moscow had made. And Putin failed. He failed in the military, in the diplomatic plan and in the reputational plan. He saw Russia isolated in several UN ( United Nations ) votes, saw the Euro-Atlantic axis increasingly invigorated, saw NATO consolidate and even expand with the accessions of Sweden and Finland, which thus reverted decades of neutrality. Above all, he saw the courageous Ukrainian people take his step, even with relentless bombings of civilian targets, even with the breakdown of all kinds of supply networks, even with about a third of the displaced population, even at the expense of chacinas that make us retreat at times when we found ourselves buried on the blackest pages of history manuals. The Ukrainians, attacked by the greatest nuclear power on the planet, firmly resist, led by President Volodymyr Zelenskyy, to whom we lend our tribute here today. [[Congratulations from IL, PS and PSD.]] Mr President, on this day of mourning, when it is signed a year since the Russian boots have stained with blood in an attempt to enslave the neighboring people, we continue to close ranks with the Ukrainians. Without hesitation, aware that the cause of them is also our cause, against the hypocritical discourse of the equidistant false pacifism, which puts on the same plane aggressors and assaulters, against those who make chorus with Putin's propaganda, that are examples of various political forces, here and outside Portugal, who are called peace defenders, while justifying the war of aggression triggered by Russia. [[Applause from the IL.]] Against Putin's fifth column in the European Union, personified by Hungarian Prime Minister Viktor Orbán, who dares point out the defendant's finger to the European Union and NATO, while the Russians violate, mutilate and kill on behalf of an ultranationalism that cannot take place in our Europe. [[Congratulations from IL, PS and PSD.]] Against Moscow accomplices in the international community, such as the totalitarian regime of Tehran, supplier of technology and weaponry to Putin. Against the "realists" who advocate the existence of limited states and sovereignty, something totally unacceptable. Against the new Pilates who avoid taking sides between freedom and barbaria on world stage, such as Lula da Silva, in line with their predecessor Jair Bolsonaro. Brazil's neutrality in this war is a shameful moral capitulation and does not place them on the side of freedom. [[Applause from the IL.]] We cannot remain neutral between those who commit crimes against humanity on a large scale and those who are the victims of these crimes. Therefore, in the Liberal Initiative, we do not hesitate to support that indomitable people who care for their wounds and bury their dead, but continue to fight for themselves and for all of us. Putin can't win. It may not attach one meter of territory of Ukraine. Ukraine has to win. Ukraine will win. Today, only two words can come out of the mouth of any democrat: Slava Ukraini! [[IL, PS, PSD, L, stand up.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-24.u65	To speak on behalf of the CFP Parliamentary Group, Mr Bruno Dias has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-24.u66	Mr. President of the Assembly of the Republic, Ministers, ladies and gentlemen. Members: It is a matter of great concern to everyone who aspires to a world of peace to the escalation of war in Ukraine, a war that lasts nine years, which has experienced new developments a year ago and which is urgent at last. The arms escalation, with the consequent prolongation and intensification of war, entails increased and serious consequences and dangers, not only for the Ukrainian and Russian peoples, but for the peoples of Europe and all over the world. Every day that passes, it is more evident that it is the workers and the people who are paying the costs of war and sanctions. We see the brutal increase in the prices of goods of first necessity, the attack on rights and living conditions, the deterioration of the economic and social situation, the worsening of poverty and inequality. However, if workers and people pay the costs of war and sanctions, large arms companies, energy, food, distribution or banking accumulate billions of euros in profits. Yes, every day that passes, it is increasingly ostensive who wins the confrontation, the war, the arms race, the sanctions. See the large oil multinationals; BP ( British Petroleum ), more than EUR 25 billion in profits; Chevron, more than EUR 34 billion in profits; ExxonMobile, more than EUR 51 billion in profits; Shell, more than EUR 37 billion in profits. In our country, while workers and the people accumulate difficulties and see their wages and reforms eaten by the use and speculation, the large economic groups, from energy to large distribution, passing through the bank, do not stop raising millionaire profits. Yes, every day that passes, you see those who earn at the expense of the worsening living conditions and the suffering of the people, particularly the Ukrainian people, who are interested in the prolongation of war. Who produces and sells NASAMS (National Advanced Surface-to-Air Missile System )? Kongsberg Defence & Aerospace, which had more than EUR 4, EUR 1 billion in new orders. Who produces and sells cannon M777 Howitzer? BAE Systems, which had more than 2, 3 billion euros of profits with more than 17 billion in new orders. Who produces and sells the HIMARS (High Mobility Artillery Rocket System) missile system? Lockheed Martin, who had more than $5.7 billion in profits. Only the arms industry in the United States of America had more than 50 billion profits. War is seen as an opportunity for the great capital and its interests, at the cost of death and destruction. But it is urgent to put an end to all this. It is urgent to stop the policy of instigating confrontation, which will only lead to the escalating conflict, the loss of more human lives, the greatest suffering and destruction. It is urgent to put an end to the apology of war, to the distortion of truth, to the instigation of hatred. It is urgent to put an end to the war and sanctions business. Immediate measures are needed to address the gross social and economic consequences, particularly sanctions. Measures such as the general increase in wages; the recovery of reforms and pensions; the control of prices of essential goods and services, such as energy, food and housing; the defence of public services, particularly the National Health Service; the extraordinarily taxation of the profits of economic groups, in order to combat speculation and to ensure that these resources are intended to meet the needs of the people and the country. We must put an end to the war, but it does not end the war by insisting on the path that led to it. The escalation of war, the arms race, the intensification of militarism, the increase and expansion of confrontation are not the way to achieve peace. We must reverse the incendiary measures that throw more thought into the fire, encouraging the escalation of the war. from here, in this House, we give a voice to all those who do not cease to fight for peace and who say: “Stop pushing humanity into the disaster. » From the very first moment we defend a negotiated political solution to the conflict. at a time when the desire for peace is unequivocally expressed throughout the world, we consider the appeals, initiatives and proposals for mediation with a view to the urgent political solution to the conflict. Portugal, instead of contributing to the escalation of conflict, militarism and war, should contribute to the peaceful settlement of international conflicts, to the simultaneous and controlled general disarmament. from here we express our solidarity with the victims of a war that lasts nine years and that needs to end. from here we condemn an entire path of interference, violence and confrontation, the 2014 coup d'état, promoted by the United States of America in Ukraine, which has established a xenophobic and bellicist power,... [[CH protests.]] ... Russia's recent military intervention in Ukraine and the intensification of the escalation of the belligerents of the United States of America, NATO and the European Union. from this we call upon the United States of America, NATO and the European Union to stop instigating and fueling the war in Ukraine and to open up negotiations with other actors,... [[PSD, CH and IL protests.]] ... in particular the Russian Federation, with a view to achieving a political solution to the conflict, the response to the problems of collective security and the disarmament of Europe, the fulfilment of the principles of the UN Charter and the end of the Helsinki Conference. Also in Ukraine, our commitment is to peace. [[PCP applause.]] [[Protests of PSD and CH, having hand-stamped Members at the end of the benches.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-24.u67	A Member was appointed to request clarification. To formulate it, you have the floor of Mr. André Ventura, from arrive.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-24.u68	Mr President, Mr Bruno Dias, after this regrettable speech you have made here in Parliament, I would like to ask you about your own question. You asked the honourable Member: who produces and who sells the missile system? Who produces and who sells all these ammunition? Any economic group, which is full of profits at this time. But I will give you something new, Mr President. If Russia had not invaded Ukraine, there was no company to profit from the war.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-24.u69	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-24.u70	It's not the fault of any company. The fault, as much as it costs you to admit, is the successor of your Soviet Union, is Vladimir Putin, and is Russia, which invaded Ukraine. [[Congrats from the CH.]] No matter how hard it takes to admit it. Sir, what's the problem? We have here the vote that the CFP has brought to the vote today. Like all the votes brought, we respect it and look at it. He spoke in Russian military intervention. What does it cost, after all this time, to speak in an invasion of Ukraine by Russia?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-24.u71	That's right! And condemn!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-24.u72	What is it difficult to say that Russia has invaded Ukraine and that we, like all the democracies in the world, must condemn? What is the problem with the word "invasion", if that is at stake, at every hour and every minute that passes, even in front of our eyes? Why can't they tell the truth? The confrontation between the United States of America, NATO and Europe. One country invades another, kills thousands of people, takes thousands and millions of trips to homes, families and everything in life, and the CFP calls on the European peoples, the United States of America and NATO to take responsibility. NATO that we are part of, NATO that is our defence alliance, is the great responsible for the war in Ukraine? It almost seems, Mr Bruno Dias, that your defense is not on this side, nor in this country that we all love.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-24.u73	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-24.u74	It seems your defense is in Russia of Vladimir Putin. So I'm going back to the beginning. It was the most regrettable intervention this Parliament has had in many years. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-24.u75	To reply, Mr Bruno Dias has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-24.u76	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr André Aventura, with the words you just said, has once again confirmed what has been evidence. It is that, in the same way that there is a shocking use of war and sanctions by the economic groups to accumulate profits of millions, there is also political opportunism to exploit the propaganda of war for the most devastating attacks... [[PCP applause.]] ... to whom, in our country, confronts more firmly and consequently the extreme right and the economic power that finances it. [[CH Protests and PSD Deputies.]] For the PCP, the problem is war. For Enough, the problem is PCP. And it is clear that this is the case. It is that when people suffer day by day the consequences, throughout Europe, but from now on in our country, paying for the bill of war, the sanctions and the exploitation they make of them, it is clear that those who defend more weapons to feed and spread the war want to carry in the paints of propaganda and manipulation,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-24.u77	You're defending Russia!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-24.u78	... with the rhetoric of the internal enemy and anti-communism, already the PIDE (International Police and State Defense) used 60 years ago, when the communists, in Portugal and Africa, fought against war and for peace. [[PCP applause.]] [[Ch's protests, having MPs punched their hands in the tops of the benches.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-24.u79	I ask you to be quiet so that you can finish your speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-24.u80	Thank you, Mr. President. When the scream is the only argument, you can see the reason you don't have.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-24.u81	Have shame on your face!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-24.u82	While you proclaim that peace will be achieved by war, while demanding more missiles, more tanks, perhaps nuclear warheads, while insulting those who defend peace and decree the regime of infinite war, we reaffirm that the solidarity of the CFP is with the Ukrainian people and with all the victims of war,... [[Mr Pedro Pinto's protests.]] ...and not with a xenophobic, bellicist and antidemocratic regime, surrounded and supported by fascist and Nazi chariscist forces. [[CH protests.]] And yes, Mr. Deputy, after 102 years, here is the Portuguese Communist Party fighting for peace, without fear, as we have never had. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-24.u83	This is North Korea! They shouldn't have come to the debate, as they did the other time!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-24.u84	Mr Rui Tavares has the floor for an intervention on behalf of the Free House.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-24.u85	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government : The war decided by Putin against Ukraine was not unpredictable — I stress, it was not unpredictable — it was already there in the territory of Ukraine since 2014. He was already there in the territory of Georgia since 2008. He was already there, in the frozen conflict of Transnistria, in Moldova. He was already there when Putin came to power in the Second Chechnya War. Putin is one of those leaders we know many in history, who, having had all the resources for the economic, scientific and social development of his country, has engaged them all in armaments, propaganda and espionage. There is no reason—no reason! — to believe that these leaders, who we know of history, are no longer existing today. In 2014 I wrote that Putin would only stop in Odessa, but it was wrong, because after Odessa there is Transnistria, the rest of Moldova and what follows.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-24.u86	You're the only one who's readin'!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-24.u87	Putin by when he's stopped. Putin's back when they force him back! [[PS, PSD and IL applause.]] at this moment, it is the Ukrainians who are giving their life for us and therefore we must support them. Let us take the instruction and inspiration of the many refugees who arrive in Portugal and who sometimes—I don't know—when they ask them why they have chosen Portugal, they say: "It's far from Putin that we could see on the map of Europe." That is our role, it is our role, it is our mission — we are the farthest from Putin in Europe! [[P.S. and P.S. and IL. Members' applause.]] When authoritarian leaders try to destroy democracy, we must be on the side of democracy, the side of the rule of law and fundamental rights. When the allies of Putin's allies, or rather, when the allies of Putin's submarines, in the European Union, suddenly, hypocritically try to get past the greatest friends of Ukrainians, we must be on the side of memory against forgetting. [[Congratulations from the PS and PSD Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-24.u88	Mr. Deputies, you have to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-24.u89	I conclude, Mr President, by saying that the battle for democracy, the rule of law, fundamental rights and, also, for parliamentarianism, against their daily abuse,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-24.u90	You've got 10 more minutes! You can keep talking!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-24.u91	...is a battle that, like the battles of every day, in Ukraine, must be fought every day, and will be defeated every day! [[PS (on foot), PSD and IL applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-24.u92	If you make a coalition, we'll stop listening! What a disrespect! Today has tripled the time!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-24.u93	To speak on behalf of the NAP, you have the floor of Mrs Inês de Sousa Real.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-24.u94	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government here present, accompanying us: It has spent a year since the invasion of Ukraine by Putin Russia. It was a year when Ukraine was under a frightening sound of alarm of aerial attack, the bullet whistle and the explosion of bombings. It was a year when parents and mothers, in a gesture of love for their family, but also of love for freedom, had to separate themselves from their children, sending them to countries such as Portugal, or other safe places, being the only answer they have to ask when we will see each other again? Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” It was a year in which we had knowledge of the most vicious atrocities and acts of genocide by the Russian army that no words can whiten out, such as the bombing of hospitals and schools; acts of sexual violence perpetrated against people from 4 to 80 years old, sometimes committed in front of close relatives; castrations and acts of torture of Ukrainian prisoners, which we considered impossible in the 21st century. It was also a year of true ecocidalism, with tens of thousands of hectares of burning forest, which will take at least 10 years to restore, with the death of many millions of animals,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-24.u95	What about people? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-24.u96	... or with the impact of explosions occurring in the Nord Stream pipeline. It was a year in which, despite all the sadness and barbarity, we were also reached, through courageous journalists, stories of hope that, even in the most unbearable darkness, there can be light — a light so strong that even the dictator Putin can erase. A light like Maxim's, Irpin's, to whom only a little longer than his garden has survived, and which has already managed to rebuild his house; like that of the cat Tasja, also of Irpin, who was hidden by his family, survived the Russian occupation of the city; or, still, like that of the birth of more than 10 babies a day, in maternity, in Kiev, which was only possible because of the generator that neither the bombings managed to stop. However, Ukraine continues to be massacred so that peace in Europe can be achieved. After a Holocaust, after a war of hunger, the Ukrainian people continue to resist a basic principle for all of us: the right to freedom, the right to self-determination of a people. this past year, the NAP — like this House — can only be supportive of the struggle of the Ukrainian people for a sovereign, independent, free and European Ukraine and for a European continent that is on the side of democracy, the rule of law and human rights. We converge on the importance of working for the restoration of peace, but this is only done by blocking Putin, blaming Putin and leading him to be judged in the face of the genocide and war crimes committed, which must be investigated, judged and duly punished. [[P.S. and PS.D. applause.]] To conclude, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I recall the words that Professor Andrés Malamud left us yesterday: "Democracy can only win the war. We therefore know how to value democracy, the restoration of peace, and also the sacrifice that the Ukrainian people are making for all of us." Slava Ukrainiani! [[Congratulations from the PS, PSD and IL Mr Rodrigo Saraiva.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-24.u97	Did they rise to Rui and not rise to Inês? Oh, my God! That's machismo!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-24.u98	For an intervention on behalf of the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mr Tiago Moreira de Sá has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-24.u99	Mr President, Mr Minister for Foreign Affairs, Mrs and Mrs. Members: When we look at the world, a rational instinct leads us to repair the apparent chaos and to find organizing principles. Three worlds appear to us as a hypothesis: the Hobbesian world, the grocian world and the Kantian world. The Hobbesian world, inspired by the work of Leviathan by Thomas Hobbes, is that of the state of nature, without sovereign, anarchic, typical of selfish states, in which the strong command and the weak obey, being justice synonymous with brute force. On the other hand, in the grocian world—inspired by the thought of the founding father of modern international law, Hugo Grocio—the brute force is subject to the force of law and relations between States are regulated by international law. The sacredity of the principle of the honorable compliance of international treaties, multilateralism as a fundamental political instrument and the peaceful resolution of disputes, mainly through international courts, are defining characteristics of this world. The Kantian vision of the world corresponds to the dream of Immanuel Kant of a democratic, perpetual and global peace. It is the conception of a world founded on fundamental axiological principles: democracy, freedom, the rule of law, human rights, free trade and interdependence. in this view of the world, these principles represent not only a moral repository, common to all peoples, but they are also the guarantor of peace, security and prosperity for all mankind. Since, in the early morning of February 24, 2022, the Russian Federation started a war, by choice, against Ukraine, we are constantly called to think that the world wants to build for us and leave for future generations. Russia certainly wants to live in a pure Hobbesian world, in which the only justice is the will of the strongest. from the invasion of Georgia to the involvement in the Syrian civil war, from the annexation of Crimea to the promotion of the secession of Donbass, from the current war in Ukraine to military movements aimed at threatening the neighbours, not forgetting the stabilization of the Balkans, the Caucasus and the Baltic, it is increasingly evident that Russia wants to impose on us all the most deplorable version of Hobbesianism. [[PSD and PS Members applauded.]] There is a deep connection between this globalization and the nature of the regime currently in force in Russia. It is natural that authoritarian regimes apply their internal practices — where the dictator's will is the supreme law and the rule of law is mere fantasy — to their attitudes in international politics. The actions of the Putin regime can be considered nothing less than a complete disregard of the most elementary international norms, laws, institutions and values, presenting, alternatively, a world marked by the most violent and loving anarchy. These acts serve as an example to other authoritarian regimes throughout the globe. authoritarianism is on the rise, and it is no coincidence that these increasingly neglected actions of the Russian Federation encourage other states, such as Iran, to become increasingly assertive and destabilizing. Hobbesianism of authoritarian regimes is antithetic of the conception of civilization of the community of democracies. We cannot accept that a vision of international relations, such as the postulate by the Russian Federation, will be allowed and will gain some roots throughout the globe. In the face of a conception of the world made up of predators and prisoners, we have a duty to defend an international order made up of sovereign States and in which law, customs, treaties, organizations and international courts are the threads of the conduct of States and the source of their legitimacy. [[Congratulations from PSD and PS Diogo Leon.]] For a year, Europe has been tormented by the scourge of war, a war of nude and cruel conquest, as we hoped not to see again on this continent. It is natural and human that we all want peace to return, and it is in the name of it that we should base all our political action. However, it cannot be a peace at any price. Let no one confuse himself with these words: we hope that peace will return to Europe. However, we cannot accept a rotten peace, which serves as a mere seed for new conflicts. [[PSD, L and PS and IL applause.]] Accepting a peace that involves the surrender of Ukrainian territories or that destroys Ukraine's sovereignty is playing Russia's game. It is to give him reason, when he thinks that the brute force is still able to move borders against the impositions of law and justice. That's telling you that war compensates. Unfortunately, we know the price of peacemaking well. It is essential to continue to send all kinds of support to Ukraine — military, humanitarian and financial — so that it can resist and not capitular. It is equally essential that those who support the Ukrainian cause do not fight on both sides of this war. We cannot, with one hand, support Ukraine and, with the other, feed the Russian war machine. It is essential that sanctions against Russia are not in the middle of the bridge and are carried to its last consequences: a complete embargo on all industries that in Russia finance war, with oil and gas on the front line. [[PSD and PS Members applauded.]] It is also necessary to equip Ukraine with sufficient military power to contain and deter Russia. Putin only understands the language of force, and only an impressive counterpower can stop him now and in the future. Finally, a lasting and healthy peace must also go through the clear reaffirmation of our commitment to the international legal order and the principle that international crimes do not go unpunished. Day after day, we are faced with new horrors and fresh atrocities that arrive from the battlefields in Ukraine. Extremely serious international crimes have been and are now being committed in Ukrainian cities and villages. We do not forget the massacres of Bucha and Irpin, nor the instrumentalization of winter, to try to kill human beings in hunger and cold. [[PSD, L and PS Members applauded.]] It is not acceptable to make a forgotten pact with regard to these atrocities. All these crimes must be investigated, tried and punished, in accordance with international law, and that is why we defend the establishment of an international special court to judge the crimes committed in the war of Ukraine. Mr. President, Mr. Minister, Mr. Members, we know that the international system is based on a hobbesian basis of anarchy and self-help, but we can never abdicate from continuing to build a grocian world, with a view to the desired Kantian dream of perpetual peace. We can do this, because even in the midst of human cruelty we can fight for decency. With clarity, we can understand that there is war and still fight for peace. Like the eagle in the great seal of the United States, we can hold 13 arrows in the left hand and have a branch of olive trees on the right. [[PSD, PS and IL (standing) and CH, PAN and L applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-24.u100	For an intervention on behalf of the Liberal Initiative, Mrs Patrícia Gilvaz has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-24.u101	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government: Our greatest duty is never to forget that, precisely one year ago, in tragic circumstances, a symbol of resistance emerged, the Ukrainian people, and a leader, President Volodymyr Zelenskyy.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-24.u102	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-24.u103	Zelenskyy became a global hero when Kyiv was under Russian bombing and almost surrounded by the invading army. He became a hero when words moved on and decided to share with the people who chose him the hard task of resistance to Russian invasion. Zelenskyy realized the importance of his gesture — Ukraine needed a symbol of union, a beacon of freedom — and, against the expectations of many Western leaders, he rejected all the asylum proposals that came to him and gave a sentence that inspired both Ukrainians and the free world: "I need ammunition, not a ride. Do not keep on seeking. ” [[Congratulations from the IL and from the PS Members.]] during this year of nightmare, Zelenskyy was increasingly conveying strength to his compatriots as it intervenes in the largest tribunes on the planet. In all his interventions he left alert messages in which we should reflect. Freedom, rights and integrity are never guaranteed, they always need us to fight for them.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-24.u104	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-24.u105	He did so in March 2022 when he spoke in the British Parliament. « We will not give up and we will not lose », he told those Members gathered in the same scenario where Winston Churchill spoke so often. It seemed, in fact, that there were echoes of Churchill when he promised: “We will continue to fight to the end, in the sea, in the air. We'll fight in the woods, in the fields, on the coast, on the streets. Do not keep on seeking. ” In December, at the Washington Congress, Zelenskyy left a vibrant appeal: « Your money is not charity, it is an investment in freedom, global security. » ; in our safety, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, on the safety of the Portuguese we represent here. [[Congratulations from the IL and from the PS and PSD Members.]] A few days ago, in the European Parliament, he transformed the speech into an opportunity to indicate new directions not only to his compatriots but to all of us those who live and cherish freedom. This man, who risks security and his own life every day without losing an opportunity to fight for the right to peace and prosperity of his people, unequivocally symbolizes the struggle for the ideals of liberal democracy, this struggle which we are celebrating today. Putin hasn't just turned out to be an enemy of the Ukrainians. Putin has become an enemy of the Russians themselves, increasingly oppressed and crushed by the consequences of the war. [[Congratulations from the IL and from the PS Members.]] We should not forget that many of them are equally victims of Kremlin's authoritarianism and that they deserve a government and a state that also serves them. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, there are historical moments that demonstrate the urgency of global cooperation against common threats. Russia's aggression to Ukraine is one of these moments and demonstrates the need to unite our efforts to defend international order, based on the rules of liberal democracy and freedom.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-24.u106	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-24.u107	There is much to be done for the reconstruction of Ukraine and for the reconstruction of international harmony. None of the crimes against humanity committed by Russia can be unpunished. [[Congratulations from the IL and from the PS Members.]] Whole cities transformed into rubble, torture and summary execution of civilians, large-scale deportations, children taken from families, rapes of women of all ages — this is what we have seen in the last year and these atrocities cannot be allowed to normalize. [[Congratulations from the IL and from the PS Members.]] Conquering the barbershop is a cause that should mobilize us all and each one of us. We therefore warmly pay tribute to the Ukrainian resistance in this parliamentary session, which is justified by the millions of defenceless victims, among the dead, injured, mutilated, exiled, displaced and refugees. Victims who have a duty to evoke and never to forget. [[IL, PSD and PS ( standing) and CH and PAN applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-24.u108	We are moving to the closing stage of the debate and to speak on behalf of the Left Block, Mr Pedro Filipe Soares has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-24.u109	Mr President, Mr Minister, Mrs Minister, Mrs. Members: War is barbarism; a year of war is therefore a year of barbarism. Every dead person, every life taken by a missile, a bullet, a bomb is an unacceptable loss, whether in Ukraine, whether in Syria or in Yemen, whether in Palestine or anywhere in the world. But today we reaffirm our solidarity with the Ukrainian people. A year later, we condemned, with the same conviction that we have done since the beginning, Putin's imperialist campaign, which is attacking Ukraine. We have always condemned imperialist bellicism, whether now that of Putin, or those perpetrated by NATO. We've always condemned all war crimes. The Left Block fights for peace and stands today, as always, against all wars. As always, war has become a huge business, first and foremost, of course, for the arms industry. War climbing shows that the choice of all sides is the prolongation of war. The recreation of political blocs and the policy of fear are other sides of this choice, with the arms race as the background. But it has also been a great deal for oil multinationals, who have millionaire profits. At the peak of inequalities, oil is the great winners, including on the Russian side. To prolong the war is also the pressure to postpone the energy transition and deny climate justice. And it has also been a great business for speculation about the price of essential goods, in particular food and medicine. One's business is the disaster for millions, a forced impoverishment, the break of the middle classes. In all this way, this entire year of war, the European Union has proved unable to take its role as a mediator, has given up on the diplomatic path, has given up to the will of Washington and NATO; and the powers of the world — I know —, starting in Putin, do not want peace. We always know that wars are paid by the people, never by those who command them, but today we must join in for peace, we must demand peace, we must immediately demand the closure of our weapons. Not a rotten peace, not a peace that is subjected to military blocs, but a peace solution that enables people to live in peace and security. Peace for the just reconstruction of Ukraine, which defends both the Ukrainian people and the European peoples, is our proposal. That the penalty replaces the bullet, that green energy replaces oil and gas, that climate justice brings about climate chaos. The call for a conference for peace is therefore the strongest tool for ending the war and the business of it, for the Ukrainian people, for our people, for all peoples, for the future and for peace. [[Congratulations from the BE and PS Member Eurico Brilliant Dias.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-24.u110	To close the debate by the CFP Parliamentary Group, Mrs Paula Santos has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-24.u111	Mr President, Mr Minister and Mr Minister, Mr and Mr. Members: Where do they want to push us, with more confrontation and war and the feeding of the arms conflict with increasing capacity for destruction, knowing that the prolongation of war will cause even more loss of human lives, more suffering, more destruction?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-24.u112	For the gulag!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-24.u113	Where they want to push us with the imposition of the logic of political-military blocs and the militarization of international relations,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-24.u114	For the gulag!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-24.u115	... knowing that this path is contrary to peace, security, cooperation among the peoples of the world? Where they want to push us...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-24.u116	For the gulag!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-24.u117	... with an increasing number of billions for arms, knowing that, shockingly and unacceptable, millions of human beings are debating themselves with poverty, hunger, undernutrition, lack of access to health care and social protection, lack of access to education by thousands and thousands of children and young people, denial of rights, lack of response to their basic needs? Where do they want to push us with the promotion of the arms race, including nuclear weapons, knowing that war does not solve any of the problems of humanity and that nuclear weapons are a serious threat to their survival? Where do they want to push us with more and more sanctions, knowing that their exploits and gross costs are being borne by workers and peoples—including Portuguese workers and people—and what are they leading to the worsening of living conditions, inequalities, poverty?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-24.u118	Our Lady of Fatima has warned Russia!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-24.u119	Where do they want to push us with the whitening, promotion and support of the powers of xenophobic, bellicist and antidemocratic chariscist, surrounded and supported by fascist and Nazi chariscist forces, knowing what they represent as a violent attack on freedoms, rights and democracy?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-24.u120	What about North Korea? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-24.u121	Where do they want to push us with the apologetics of war, the distortion of truth, the instigating of hatred, knowing that this is how we open the way to the most reactionary, backward and obscurantist conceptions?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-24.u122	That's communism!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-24.u123	They don't count on the PCP for this. We defend a peaceful solution to international conflicts, not the escalation of confrontation and war; we defend freedom and democracy, not the promotion of coups of State by xenophobic and fascist groups;... [[Protests by CH Member Pedro Santos Frazão.]] ... we defend the dissolution of the political-military blocs, not their enlargement and intervention throughout the world; we defend general disarmament, simultaneous and controlled, not the arms race; we defend cooperation with all other peoples for the emancipation and progress of humanity, not xenophobia, nationalism and fascism.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-24.u124	Russo!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-24.u125	Peace passes through the end of the course of militarization of international relations, the end of enlargement and the strengthening of political-military blocs, the end of the arms race. Peace goes through the establishment of arms control, limitation and reduction agreements — some of which have been abandoned, one after another,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-24.u126	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-24.u127	...for the last few decades. Peace goes through dialogue. Focus here on all efforts and not on arms races with increasing capacity for destruction. Peace goes through cooperation with a view to the implementation of confidence-building, mutual security measures, the dismantling of international relations. Peace passes through the end of sanctions and blockades, respect for the rights and sovereignty of peoples, the principles of the Charter of the United Nations. Respect for rights, solidarity and friendship among peoples must prevail in the face of artificially created divisions and confrontations, expressions of criminals and obscure interests contrary to the interests of the peoples.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-24.u128	Mrs. Deputy, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-24.u129	I will finish, Mr. President. Those who defend peace do not promote or prolong war. The CFP is where it has always been: on the side of peace, not war. [[PCP applause.]] [[Protests by PS Member Isabel Alves Moreira and CH Member Pedro dos Santos Frazão.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-24.u130	Mr Rui Rocha spoke on behalf of the Liberal Initiative at the end of the debate.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-24.u131	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members: Just one year ago, Vladimir Putin's Russia committed brutal aggression against the territorial integrity of a sovereign state and against international law. A year ago, Putin was convinced that Kyiv would fall in three days, but he spent a year and Kyiv didn't fall. [[Applause from the IL.]] A year ago, Putin was convinced that Zelenskyy would flee the aggressor, leaving the Ukrainian people to his lot, but he spent a year and Zelenskyy received President Joe Biden in the capital of Ukraine. A year ago, Putin was convinced that NATO was in decline, but spent a year and NATO assumed a new preponderance as a strategic defensive organization. A year ago, Putin was convinced that the Europeans would end up giving in to winter, to the energy needs and to the economic consequences of the war, finally falling into internal divisions, but it spent a year and Zelenskyy was received in London, Berlin, Paris and Brussels. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, a year has passed and Putin has been defeated every day, one day behind the other, that the Ukrainian people have heroically resisted the attacker's intentions. [[Congratulations from the IL and the Member of the PS Hugo León.]] But this victory, in each of these days of resistance, has already had countless costs that have directly impacted millions of Ukrainians killed, tortured, destroyed, displaced, traumatized — children lost, torn or forever delayed. That is why it is also because of these millions of victims that we must also win the battle of words. No, it was not a special operation, it was an invasion and the invader has a name: Vladimir Putin. [[Congratulations from the IL and from the PS and PSD Members.]] No, the same responsibility cannot be attributed to those who attack and to those who are assaulted. Yes, it is necessary to distinguish between acts of war and war crimes, and Putin has a name: he's a war criminal. [[Congratulations from the IL and from the PS and PSD Members.]] No, sir. Members, there are not in the same moral position those who vehemently condemn the aggression of Russia and those who invoke peace, but all they want is partial or total surrender to Vladimir Putin's claims. They are not in the same moral position those who defend the use of widespread hunger to millions of people across the globe, such as when the embargo on Ukrainian cereals was used as a form of pressure, or those who defend how to abandon or suspend the START (Strategic Arms Reduction Treaty) programme, nuclear containment. We're not all in the same position. It's not all the same, sir. Ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations from the IL and from the PSD.]] All the heroic victories of the Ukrainian people, every day of resistance, will be of no use if we do not continue to support their efforts: to support the Ukrainian military effort; to support the diplomatic aspect; to defend the establishment of a special court for the trial of war crimes; to welcome those who seek us as refugees; and to combat democratically all the fifth-columns, whose only meaning of their actions is to defend what is indefensible. [[Applause from the IL.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, there is only one morally acceptable way out of this confrontation. The aggressor cannot be encouraged or benefited, must withdraw unconditionally and must be judged by the atrocities committed. [[Congratulations from the IL and from the PS and PSD Members.]] Mrs. Members, the flag of Ukraine is no longer only the flag of Ukraine, it is the flag of all those who refuse to comply with the totalitarian power and the law of the strongest. Mrs. Members, the anthem of Ukraine is no longer just the anthem of Ukraine, it is the song of those who defend the very way of life of liberal democracies. And Slava Ukraini is no longer just a Ukrainian greeting, it is the cry of all of us, of those who love freedom. [[IL, PSD, PAN and PS ( standing) and L.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-24.u132	To close the debate on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Arrival, Mr Ventura has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-24.u133	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : We have been marking today a year since the war returned to the European continent. The worst ghosts, those we no longer believed to be possible, and the worst historical shadows are again falling on our continent today. Phantoms and gloomy stories again attack the free men and women of this Europe, again attack the freedoms of a democracy in which we believe. We cannot miss the strength and solidarity: the strength to face the enemies who have always been enemies of freedom and the solidarity to realize that there is only one right side in this story.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-24.u134	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-24.u135	Those who, under any false pacifism, want to pretend that we must deliver parts of territory to the aggressor are on the wrong side of history. [[Congrats from the CH.]] Those who want to fight, those who are going to fight are on the right side of this story. But there is evidence that this war has brought us. It is not only that we understand who Vladimir Putin's friends are, that we also realize who are the enemies of the West and the enemies of freedom. [[Congrats from the CH.]] This war has brought us this vivid memory of who are the enemies of that continent that we defend, based on freedom of economy, freedom of expression, free culture, free economy and its development.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-24.u136	It's the communists!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-24.u137	Today, Mr Sérgio Sousa Pinto said, in this House: "Those who today want to give Ukraine to Russia are the same ones who, under false pacifism, handed over Czechoslovakia to the odious apparatus of Nazi Germany. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-24.u138	Truth!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-24.u139	Only for this reason should the Socialist Party think more about who makes alliances with the Government of Portugal only because of these words of Mr Sérgio Sousa Pinto. [[Congrats from the CH.]] But this threat to our freedom is not just the threat to our lives today. More and more, it is the threat to the way of life that we defend. Russia does not like the way we live, it does not like the way we build our democracy or what we stand for. More and more, China follows the same path, in anticipation of a confrontation that may well come to be worse than World War II. in this confrontation between blocks that want to destroy us, there is no doubt of the only possible way. NATO, our historicly solidified nuclear alliance, is the only possible way to defend us. [[Congrats from the CH.]] That is why, Mr President, those who are against NATO, who want to leave NATO, who want to abandon the only alliance that can defend us, putting all generations of men and women at the mercy of tyrannys, should not take place in our democracy. [[Congrats from the CH.]] This war has also brought to mind the best that the European peoples have: the accrual defense of their borders, the unbreakable defense of their identity, the defense of their sense of belonging and their national pride. This resurgence of good European nationalism must be seen today by all as the struggle of those who want to regain their strength and sovereignty and who never abdicate their independence. We will therefore welcome Ukraine, and the European Union must welcome Ukraine within its own space, precisely because it is those who are the example of the struggle for the independence of free and sovereign States that we must want in that European Union. May Ukraine come to our European Union! [[Congrats from the CH.]] Mr. President and Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, it is Charles de Gaulle who reminds us that we can diverge, and we differ in a lot. We can diverge, and we differ, in most of the ideas we have discussed in this House, but when civilization is at stake, the men who stop are the men who are defeated. Those who give up are the ones who are defeated and at the moment our civilization is at stake. There are no doubting sides or parliamentary fractures. There's no wrong side, there's only the right side. And the right side is to be next to Ukraine. Long live Portugal and live Ukraine! [[On your feet, applause from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-24.u140	To close the debate on behalf of the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mr Ricardo Baptista Leite has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-24.u141	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government: With the advance of the war in Ukraine, there is much talk about the men who are in the front line, but too often the role of Ukrainian women is forgotten. Many of these women were forced to leave their homes with their children in their laps to leave Ukraine in the desperate search for a shelter port — refugee women of war. On the other hand, millions of women chose to stay behind in Ukraine to fight against Russian invading forces, including in front of the war. They're all women warriors. Last summer, when I moved to Lviv to serve as a volunteer doctor in Ukraine, I had the opportunity to meet many of these women and hear stories from so many others. Even in Poland, next to the border with Ukraine, I met Oksana, a volunteer cook at the war refugees reception centre. in this center, Oksana met a 5-year-old Ukrainian child. This child lost his father, who died in front of the war, and soon lost his mother—after he was able to secure his son's arrival in Poland, his mother ended up dying of a cancer that was left without treatment because of the war. It was at that moment that humble cook Oksana legally decided to adopt this orphaned child. Oksana told me: "The Russians are trying to blame us, but they won't break us. » A warrior woman! [[PSD and PS and IL Members applauded.]] When I arrived at the Lviv regional hospital, I was asked to work with colleagues in neonatal intensive care, given the brutal increase in premature births caused by war. The entire clinical team was made up of women. For months, these health professionals have been working in the underground bunkers of the hospital, protecting themselves from missile attacks. Under the ground, without natural light, in a warm and intense environment, between the sound of the sirens, fights for the life of newborn babies. It was in that bunker that I met Anastasia. This warrior woman was pregnant with twins and, a few days after my arrival, with only 7 months of gestation, she went into labor. One baby died; the other baby, Milana, survived, but little by little. When I met the baby Milana, she weighed 700 g and fought in an incubator against a serious systemic infection. The prognosis was very reserved. Two weeks later, Milana was already weighing more than 1 kg and out of danger. I could still see her on her mother's lap and she's home today. Milana is a warrior girl. The Russian forces can try to get rid of them, but they won't break them. [[PSD applause.]] But nothing I saw in Ukraine compares to the horror I felt when I visited the martyr cities of Bucha and Irpin. The Russian forces entered, killed and slaughtered the population: 10 percent of the inhabitants were brutally murdered, some bodies were placed in a common ditch, behind a church, and others were abandoned in the middle of the street. Terror is still visible today in the eyes of those who live there. Women were abused, raped, repeatedly raped. There are even reports of women to whom the Russian military, criminals and cowards split their wrists, broke their bones to ensure that they could not defend themselves — an abomination. I also highlight one more warrior woman: Oleksandra Matviitschuk, a lawyer and head of the Center for Civil Freedom in Ukraine, Nobel Peace Prize of 2022. The Oleksandra team has already identified 12,941 war crimes committed by Russian forces. If Putin is tried for war crimes, it will be thanks to the work of these lawyers, these women warriors. Putin's a good shot at them, but he's not gonna break them. [[PSD, PS Diogo Leon and IL Member John Cotrim Figueiredo applauds.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Ukraine's victory is the only possible result. Putin has to lose to get back to peace. We cannot accept another scenario other than the comprehensive recovery of Ukraine's territory for Ukrainians. Today, Ukrainians are fighting for freedom, democracy and also European values. In fact, the Ukrainian forces are fighting for all of us, so our gratitude must translate into absolute support for Ukraine, providing all the means necessary to quickly win the war. And when Ukraine wins, it will also be the victory of all Ukrainian women. Slava Ukrainiani! Slavic hero! Long live Europe, live Portugal and, above all, live freedom! [[PSD, IL, PAN and PS, standing, and CH applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-24.u142	To close the debate, on behalf of the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group, Mr Eurico Brillante Dias has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-24.u143	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The man who the land of border occupied by the Eastern Slavs on a plain beyond the Carpathians was Ukraine. The steppes inhabited by peoples from different backgrounds were and are a broth rich in culture, with different identities and with a unity in diversity that the Ukrainian state was forging in different circumstances. of the National Republic of Ukraine, of the post-war period, to integration as a Soviet republic, Ukraine has never ceased to be a European state that rises against totalitarianism, even with the marks of Soviet oppression, with the Holodomor in memory, in an ever disputed territory, a barn open to the Black Sea, which is not, it has never been, Mongolian or Ottoman, Czarist, Soviet or Nazi. It was always a social space built by who was clinging to the earth and in it wanted to root up an own identity. It has all the contradictions of wars, of attack and defense, of shed blood and, above all, of the struggle for survival. Perhaps it was here that, tragically, if the President of the Russian Federation has been wrong. Ukraine does not allow itself to be defeated by threats or extreme difficulties. You do not let yourself be defeated by passive abstention. Resist and resist, so that, at the border, you can live in a free and prosperous way, defending the values that you share with us. [[P.S.'s applause.]] With democracy and the franchise of Eastern Europe to trade, trade or different trades, or build, in this geography, a society open to the old transhumanities that characterize the connection of the Turkish and transcaucasic region to Europe. Will it take a lot? Is it too much to ask for freedom to be what you want to be, without stereotypes of a 20th century marked by war and Soviet and Nazi oppression? Is it too much to ask for territorial integrity under international law to administer a border space with a single continental and transcontinental value? No, it's not asking too much. It is only to ask for justice and freedom, to trace a proper path that the invasion of the Russian Federation wants to prevent and to which the Ukrainian people resist, city, city, street to street, door to door, being target of the oppressive violence of those who, with the weapons in hand, try to impose a totalitarian reality. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members :To Ukraine, every man and woman, every Ukrainian is due to democratic solidarity, underlining, democratic solidarity. Your fight is our fight. These are our values. They fight for life, for freedom, for democracy and for peace that we built in the post-World War II and which has in the European project and in NATO fundamental pillars. Shared and strengthened sovereignty spaces, which are a umbrella of pluralism, democracy and security, of which Portugal in April, I stress, Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, that April Portugal has never given up and that is the ambition of the Ukrainian people. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The peace we want for us depends on the peace that we are able to build from this conflict. Putin lost the war, precisely, on February 24, 2022. It was there that, alongside the Ukrainians, we said 'no' to the invasion, that we went to the Polish-Ukraine border and brought and welcomed Ukrainian citizens, side by side, without any gaps, counting on all: citizens, municipalities, central administration, without being able to forget the Ukrainian community that, living in Portugal, had a fundamental role in this reception. [[P.S.'s applause.]] That is when many Portuguese gave an undeniable token of empathy to people they did not know, with women and children who fled the war, leaving behind the lives of many men who continue to defend their land. It was in those days that European citizenship was faithful to the fundamental values that led to the construction of the peace project that we were developing from the idea of Schuman. It was in those days that we politicians, I stress, politicians, responded to an emergency, driven by a Community feeling in which the collective realized that this war concerns us. It was in those days that Europe clearly stated the founding principle of the Schuman Declaration — "World peace cannot be safeguarded without effort as the dangers threaten it" — and realized that we could no longer tolerate a Europe with millions of people on the run, with images that seemed to repeat the horrors of World War II. The Warsaw Central Station, the same city that lived the Nazi ghetto during the Holocaust, was once again filled with people who fled, who sought refuge and who, in the middle of a pandemic, also found a territory of peace and hospitality in Portugal. Today, from this rostrum, I cannot fail to pay tribute to the diplomats and officials who, in place, in Ukraine, Poland and Romania, served the country, serving an external policy that, without tibias, was next to the attacker and condemned the aggressor and who opened the doors of Portugal to whom he needed the most. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Today's war is not winning. If lost by Putin, the peace we desire has geopolitical, institutional and economic dimensions that are still to be drawn, even for study. A fundamental conference for post-war peace will be needed. There is a new peace to be built in which Ukrainians and Russians count, but also many of the countries from neighbouring east, without ever being able to neglect our southern neighborhood. For now we know that peace will not be made at the expense of Ukraine, which will not be a sacrificial entity at the altar of realpolitik. It's not fair, it's not what we want, and that's already a road to peace that we want to build and for Putin's inevitable defeat. Slava Ukrainiani! Long live Ukraine, live Portugal! [[PSP and PAN applause standing, IL and PSD Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-24.u144	To close the debate on behalf of the Government, Mr. Minister for Foreign Affairs, João Gomes Cravinho.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-24.u145	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: As a member of the Government responsible for foreign policy, I would like to tell you that it is very comforting to realize that the analysis of this war, its causes and its nature is a widely shared analysis by this House. For PS, Mr Sérgio Sousa Pinto and Mr Eurico Brillante Dias spoke. Mr Sérgio Sousa Pinto, in particular I would like to welcome the brilliant intervention you have made, reminding us that History is an implacable teacher. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Those who ignore their lessons condemn themselves to repeat their mistakes. Mr. Eurico Brillante Dias, thank you for stressing that the values for which Ukraine fights on the ground are also our values. For the PSD, Mr Joaquim Miranda Sarmento, Mr Tiago Moreira de Sá and Mr Ricardo Baptista Leite spoke. I am grateful for the reference they made to the united form in which Europe has responded to the Russian aggression. We believe, like you, that primary responsibility for Ukrainian resistance has been the courage of the Ukrainian people, but the European Union and the transatlantic Union is equally essential for the defence of international law and order. We must collectively meet this challenge. It is the great challenge of our times. Mr Tiago Moreira de Sá, in fact, you can easily see, in Ukraine and in the analyses that are made on Ukraine, the practical decoding of what the ancient philosophers teach us. And, Mr. Ricardo Baptista Leite, thank you very much for bringing here the tribute to Ukrainian women. It is an indispensable and unforgettable reality of this tragic moment we live in. I would also like to associate myself with the way Mr. Diogo Pacheco of Amorim has paid tribute to the anonymous soldiers who fight for Ukraine and the tribute he has also paid to the Ukrainian people. of the Liberal Initiative, I refer to the words of Mr. Rodrigo Saraiva, Mrs. Patrícia Gilvaz and Mr. Rui Rocha, stressing the successive defeats of President Putin in the geostrategic plane and on the ground. They point out, well, that tyranny translates weakness and lack of conviction. We share the conviction that Ukraine must win and that Ukraine will win. We also share the idea they have about President Zelensky's extraordinary structural leadership. The idea is not always realized that, in the face of extraordinary challenges, an extraordinary leadership emerges, able to inspire an entire people in their righteous fight. It happened here. I would also like to point out, Mr Rui Rocha, that we fully agree with the condemnation of the way in which President Putin seeks to take a whole people hostage. Mr Rui Tavares, we fully agree with your statement. Ukrainian courage is a believer in our full support and solidarity. Mrs Inês de Sousa Real, we also agree with the accountability it demands for the crimes committed in Ukraine. Mr. Pedro Filipe Soares, I would like to welcome the clear condemnation of the imperialist bellicism that he does, although I cannot associate myself with the caricatured version with which he portrays the European Union. Mr Bruno Dias and Mrs Paula Santos, here we have fundamental differences. This refusal to look forward to what has happened this year is indeed regrettable. It is as absurd as the cartoon that, in this analysis, Putin's attack is not an attack on international law, but only a capitalist conspiracy to produce extraordinary profits. [[Congratulations from the PS and PSD Members.]] Finally, we could say 'living the diversity of our political life', but I would like to stress that this strange interpretation only demonstrates how deeply minority the fringe of the Portuguese population that refuses to show solidarity with Ukraine. I shall finish, Mr. President and Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, as I began: International life rarely presents us with such a paradigmatic and so clear case. It is very comforting to see that the conduct of our foreign policy, in relation to this tragic war, is based on such broad support in this House representing Portuguese democracy. [[P.S.P.'s applause, standing up.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-24.u146	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-24.u147	Mr. Deputies, for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-24.u148	Mr President, it is to make an inquiry to the Bureau on the conduct of the proceedings.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-24.u149	Please, Mr. Deputy. Do not forget to address the Bureau.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-24.u150	Mr President, I will address the Bureau and apologize. I am not going to comment on Mr Foreign Minister's speeches. I am just going to address you as President of the Assembly of the Republic. I and all the parliamentary groups, I think, would not like to end this session without hearing from you the explanation because of the matter which you brought here at the beginning and to which you have taken to answer, since you have not answered the questions that you want the Left Block to have put.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-24.u151	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-24.u152	Therefore, Mr President, I would like to ask you, in this plenary, firstly, whether it was on your behalf and with your authorization that Minister João Cravinho announced in Brasilia the coming of Luís Inácio Lula da Silva to speak on 25 April and, secondly, whether he is able to restore the facts and give full clarification to the Portuguese Government that the Portuguese Government does not send in this House and that it will have to be decided at the Conference of Leaders and by all the parties that any president will come here to discuss. On the matter in question and on the substance of the matter, of course we reserve ourselves for the moment, but it was important, first of all, that Mr. President of this clarification the country needs to hear, because it is in him that the country has to hear whether or not the Brazilian President was invited to come to Portugal and speak in this House, without the permission of any parliamentary group. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-24.u153	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it is very simple: the Rules of Procedure are very clear in Article 76. on the way in which the sessions are organized, either the commemorative session of 25 April or the welcome sessions to foreign Heads of State. It determines that the model, the protocol organization and the terms of the use of the word are defined by the President of the Assembly of the Republic, heard the Conference of Leaders, and that is what will happen. We have the beautiful tradition, which we have always followed, to include in all state visits visits by the presidents who also make them to the Assembly of the Republic. This morning we received the President of Hungary.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-24.u154	And very well!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-24.u155	So that'll be done. Of course, this involves exploratory contacts and everything is being done so that at one of the next Leader Conferences you will have all the information you need to offer to parliamentary groups and single Members how we should organize the welcoming session to the President of Brazil when you visit Portugal.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-24.u156	The Minister was caught in excess of speed!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-24.u157	We have thus concluded this item on the agenda. We resign from the Government and move on to the second point, which consists in the general assessment of the Bill No 108 / XIV / 2. a ( ALRAM ) — Extension of the special nursing career to residential structures for elderly persons - amendment to Decree-Law No. 248 / 2009 of 22 September 2009 and of Bill No. 528 / XV / 1. a ( CH) — Due to the mandatory existence of a nurse in pre-school schools and elementary and secondary schools, generally, and petition No 82 / XV / 1. a ( Marta Maria Dias dos Santos ) — By the right to a nurse in public schools attended by children with specific health needs. To speak in the debate, Mr Jorge Galveias, of the Parliamentary Group of the Arrival, has the floor. I'm asking for only a few seconds so that the geography of the benches can be rearranged. [[Pause.]] I think we're in a position. Sir, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-24.u158	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: I want to leave only one initial note. A year ago the war returned to Europe, with the invasion of Ukraine and with it came death, hunger, destruction and pain. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the most sacred duty of a politician is the commitment to peace. Today, in a Europe at war, what European peoples expect from their politicians is the construction of peace and the end of war. When a man dies, we all die, because we are all part of humanity. Freedom can never be silenced and totalitarianism makes no sense in a democracy. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, nursing and nurses today have a relevant role in democratic societies, contributing to the strengthening of the well-being of the populations and thus the rule of democratic law itself. We must not forget that the right to health is one of the achievements of the April and November revolutions. Those who are currently paying attention to the dignity of all health personnel are the left reactionaries who want to perpetuate in power, at any cost. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, we must not forget that, when the management closed the Portuguese at home and left the health professionals to their lot, nurses were always by the Portuguese side, especially those who died away from their families. [[Congrats from the CH.]] Health professionals and teachers are not enemies of the people. The enemy of the people is the political class, which in the last 50 years has been transforming Portugal into a socialist republic, like Venezuela or Nicaragua. [[Congrats from the CH.]] Mrs. Members, nurses, doctors and all health professionals, teachers and security forces are not enemies of the working class, chavão so dear to the extreme-left totalitarian, as the Government of Antonio Costa wants us to believe.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-24.u159	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-24.u160	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-24.u161	These workers are only good people. The capitalist class, the worker's oppressor, lives in the Long Mouse and sits in the left wing of this House.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-24.u162	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-24.u163	This is the truth that hurts, it is the truth that, in this House, they want to shut up, with sanitary fences, walls or red lines. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-24.u164	It's just silly!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-24.u165	But the people are serene. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, in a modern society it is incomprehensible that the residential units of the elderly and schools do not have, within their staff, a nurse who is. Surely the presence of a nurse in schools will end with the trips of LGBTQIA+ activists organizations (Lesbics, Gays, Bisexuals, Transgender, Queer, Intersex, Assex and others), to teach gender ideology in schools,... [[Congrats from the CH.]] ...and thus end the financing of these organizations, with the taxpayers' money.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-24.u166	Truth!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-24.u167	No one can disagree that the presence of nurses in the homes of the elderly will contribute to the improvement of the quality of life of our elderly, who, after a lifetime of work, only want to spend the rest of their lives with dignity. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, to dignify is to take care, not to kill.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-24.u168	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-24.u169	To dignify is to accompany and clarify, it is not doctrine. The Portuguese need nurses to be dignified, but they need a lot of their care. We, ladies and gentlemen, know how to dignify this class. [[Congrats from the CH.]] [[In the meantime, he took the presidency of Vice-President Adam Silva.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-24.u170	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to congratulate the House. Let's continue with the interventions. Now, for the Left Block Parliamentary Group, Mrs Isabel Pires has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-24.u171	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: At the end of 2022, several nurses and nurses went out on the street to protest against working conditions in the IPSS (Special Institutions of Social Solidarity ), mercy and mutuality. The fact is that in many of these institutions they earn these nurses much less than in the National Health Service ( SNS ). The salary of these and other professionals is much lower and has not undergone significant changes over the years. These nurses and nurses rightly said in October: "Social-sector nurses cannot continue to accept that their wages, their professional skills and their working conditions are devalued and disregarded under the pretext of the sector's sustainability. Do not keep on seeking. ” These home professionals and other social and private sector institutions obviously have to earn more, have to have better conditions, have to guarantee at least the same conditions that are offered in the public sector, i.e. in the SNS. This is something that is not happening right now. We therefore welcome the proposal from the Legislative Assembly of the Autonomous Region of Madeira, but on this subject we also want to underline three points. The first point is that this does not mean that in the SNS there is no need to improve the situation of nurses. Your salary should be increased, from your career the obstacles to vertical progression should be removed and it is already more than time to abandon the idea of progression, only 10 in 10 years. We have proposed all this, but so far, without the reception of most of the parties, in particular those who so often say that they are on the side of nurses. The second point is that the private and social sector is, in fact, not a bottle for anything, as far as health is concerned. Once again, in this sector, this becomes evident. They pay less and cut in the number of professionals required. Therefore, let this serve as a warning to those who always want to deliver health to the private. The third point is that this discussion does not serve to mask the discussion about the need for a public offer of homes and continuing care throughout the country, including in autonomous regions. The pandemic has shown that there are conditions in many of these institutions that are not tolerable by anyone, that residential structures for the elderly must have much more quality and that they cannot only be deposits. For all this, ladies and gentlemen. Members, we say 'yes' to the best wages and working conditions for nurses and nurses in the social and private sector, but we also say yes to improving conditions in the SNS and finally to creating public responses to continuing homes and care. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-24.u172	For the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mrs Patrícia Dantas has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-24.u173	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: 22 years ago, Portugal had 100 elderly for every 100 young people. The ratio was one to one. Twenty years later, the relationship became from about 180 elderly to 100 young people and in 2050 this ratio would be triple. Increasing longevity, associated with this scenario, brings great challenges, particularly the need to adapt social policies. In the Autonomous Region of Madeira, health, with 21% of the regional budget, and where assistance to elderly people is included, is a central concern of government. In this regard, regional pioneering is highlighted in the creation of a long-term care model closer to the recommended by the European Commission and the World Health Organization, which deserved EUR 54 million from the PRR ( Recovery and Resilience Plan ), which will significantly increase the supply in number of beds and expand this valence to mental health and the pediatric area. All regional measures are aimed at maintaining, as far as possible, the elderly in the family context, because the conviction is that institutionalization is always the last resort. It is not possible to maintain people at home, in certain circumstances, the most effective response goes through residential structures for elderly people, the ERPIs, as they are known. The Autonomous Region of Madeira has 36 structures, which assist more than 1700 users, and 14 % of these are public management and cover 23 % of users, which reflects the size of this regional particularity. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, ERPIs have more advanced age users and a higher level of dependence and pathologies, which requires the presence of multidisciplinary teams 24 hours a day, with a high level of training, where nurses are included, who are the health professionals who spend more time with the elderly and enjoy an unparalleled capital of trust, including for families. In the light of the above, Law Proposal No 108 / XIV / 2. the, the Legislative Assembly of the Autonomous Region of Madeira, approved unanimously, recommends that in the special nursing career are included the ERPIs, including those of public management, given the similarity of functions that are exercised. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-24.u174	Thank you very much, Mrs Patrícia Dantas and now my appreciation for your efforts to continue your intervention despite the noise in the Chamber. I therefore ask the ladies and gentlemen. Members who create normal conditions for us to continue our debate. Therefore, for an intervention by the Parliamentary Group of the Liberal Initiative, Mrs Joana Cordeiro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-24.u175	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Today we discuss three legislative initiatives on the special nursing career, a bill presented by the Legislative Assembly of the Autonomous Region of Madeira and two draft laws of the Arrival. The bill extends the special nursing career to residential structures for the elderly, the ERPIs, and, as regards the laws of the Arrival, one extends the same career to prison establishments and the other extends it to pre-school educational establishments, basic education and secondary education. Mrs. Members, about whether the existence of nurses in stay in the ERPI is decisive and urgent, no one has any doubts that they do; about whether the existence of nurses in stay in prisons and schools is decisive and urgent, no one has any doubts that they do. But then, what is the question here? In our view, the proposed legislative changes represent a positive discrimination of nurses against all other professions whose presence is also decisive in these and other places. We are not saying with this that changes should not be made to the special nursing career and that its scope should not be extended to these institutions. Of course! Of course, nurses need and deserve better working conditions, but we consider, once again, that we are faced with initiatives that legislate profession, career career, in an avulous way. With this, one is fleeing again the one that should be the main solution, a comprehensive and profound reform of the Public Administration. by doing so, even if this is not the intention, we will be at risk of creating more injustices among the various professions — worse, among professionals of the same profession. We have already said this, but I repeat: for the Liberal Initiative, it is urgent that we move forward to a structural reform of the Public Administration, which stimulates career progression based on merit and that it values and distinguishes the best professionals. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, what we are discussing here is too important to be treated lightly, but it is important to say that it is the government that has to play its part in this matter. It is a government that has been in office for more than seven years and that has done nothing for the careers of the various professionals of the Public Administration, quite the contrary. on this subject, the government only promises and nothing does, and that is why this Parliament is always required to get involved! in this sense, precisely because we realize its relevance, we will not impermiss any of these three legislative initiatives, so that we can discuss them and improve them in the field of specialty. But, ladies and gentlemen. Members, if the Government does not do its work and resigns itself from its powers, then resigns its duties and gives room to those who have the courage to reform Portugal. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-24.u176	For an intervention by the NAP, Mrs Inês de Sousa Real has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-24.u177	Mr President, I begin by welcoming the more than 8,000 petitioners who today see your petition here under discussion, along with the initiatives put forward by the Arrival. I wanted to start by saying that we do not need a new pandemic to realize the essentiality of these professionals, nurses and nurses in our country. As the bill of the Legislative Assembly of the Autonomous Region of Madeira refers to — and well! — we face the progressive ageing of the population, which necessarily brings us new challenges and brings new demands on health systems. For this reason, policies must have a more comprehensive strategy that includes the role and appreciation of these professionals, including at the level of dependence on residential structures for the elderly and in the homes of the elderly who, for various reasons, receive care there. in this sense, we understand that it is essential to include nurses in existing multidisciplinary teams, which would increase the quality of services provided, on the one hand, but would also make career enlargement an important step towards improving the quality of life of users and valuing professionals. In conclusion, I would like to say that the OECD ( Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development ) and the European Commission report shows that in Portugal nurses continue to be of the worst payments in Europe, as well as that the ratio of these professionals remains lower, which shows how much we have to do.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-24.u178	For an intervention by the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group, Mrs Susana Correia has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-24.u179	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Today we are discussing three initiatives, one of the Legislative Assembly of the Autonomous Region of Madeira and two of the Arrival. The proposal for the law of Madeira's Autonomous Region aims to extend the special nursing career to residential structures for elderly people and the two initiatives presented by the Arrival aim to make the existence of a 24-hour nursing team compulsory in prisons and the requirement of a nurse's existence in pre-school, basic and secondary schools. Mrs. Members, on the initiative of the Autonomous Region of Madeira, should report that it is said in itself that one of the main challenges of our century will be to meet the greatest demand for health care, adapt health systems to new reality and maintain viable systems, with consequences for the financial, economic and social plan of our country. The question that arises, at the outset, is this: to what extent do the initiatives presented here result in answers to the greater demand for health care, the new reality of health systems, the social, economic and financial impact and the recognition of the importance of health professionals through the enhancement of careers? If we argue that the valuing and defrosting of careers, the counting of points, the performance assessment process and the equalization of employment contracts in public functions and the CIT(individual employment contracts) should be treated, negotiated and agreed at the centre of social consultation, we ask: what justifies the inconsistencies in presenting legislative initiatives to amend the decree establishing the special nursing career regime and their professional qualifications requirements? [[P.S.'s applause.]] To propose this extension to the ERPI may even appear disarticulated and reducing, taking into account the range of social responses in various public and non-public institutions where nursing career is not equal to the public function. I would even like to stress the unfavorable opinion of the Legislative Assembly of the Autonomous Region of the Azores, the Parliamentary Group of the Democratic Social Party and the Arrival, and I suggest that they consult the grounds indicated. With regard to the initiative of the Arrival, which proposes the compulsoryity of nursing teams in prisons, it lists that: there is a lack of health professionals in all sectors, including in the SNS; prisons are an environment conducive to the circulation of communicable diseases; prison establishments are a distant and closed world—we have 49 prisons scattered across the country, with about 186 nurses—and working in prison is generally perceived as a job at risk. Mrs. Members, having regard to this initiative, should mention what is enshrined in the Code for the Enforcement of Penalties, which ensures that prisoners have the right to health and to have access to the National Health Service under the same conditions as those guaranteed to all citizens, whether they are detained or not. Here we see an attempt to pass on a concern about the transmission of diseases and chronic diseases, an attempt to even pass on a concern about the prevention and promotion of the health of prisoners. Still, ladies and gentlemen. Members understand the proponents that these inmates should remain for a longer period in these places and what they have to propose is the obligation of nursing teams in these places, instead of access to all integrated health responses in health institutions, for all, prisoners or non-prisoners. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Members, if human resources are a predominant factor in the sustainability and efficiency of the National Health Service and if we lack human resources—they are a determining and predominant factor in the quality of the service provided and in the organization of work—the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group considers that a policy for the valorization of human resources and professions in health focusing on equity in treatments and on the quality of health care, without exception, cannot and should not be led by harsh and inconsequential measures, such as those presented here. Finally, Mr President, we cannot confuse, as these initiatives seem to be, the areas of professional practice with the workplaces. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-24.u180	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-24.u181	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-24.u182	For an appeal to the Bureau, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-24.u183	You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-24.u184	Mr President, it is only to clarify that Bill No 527 / XV / 1. a ( CH) on prison services has been withdrawn and is not part of this agenda item.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-24.u185	Mr, the correction is made and the information remains. For an intervention, Mr Rui Tavares has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-24.u186	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This proposal from the Legislative Assembly of the Autonomous Region of Madeira is a good example of how democracy can work in our country, on several scales and with dialogue between the national Parliament and a regional Parliament. Given that the country is getting older and that we all have family, personal, liaison stories to people living in establishments for older people—I too, and precisely in the Autonomous Region of Madeira—to make the nursing career begin to contemplate the work in these establishments seems a step in the right direction, which the Book will support. As is said in the proposal of the Legislative Assembly of the Autonomous Region of Madeira, depending on study, this may also be extended to other areas where we need the permanent support of nurses—but, of course, it can be extended to this one. It will therefore be pleased that the Free will support this initiative and will then follow its course in the field of expertise. Let us hope that it deserves the support of other parties represented in this House.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-24.u187	To speak by the CFP Parliamentary Group, Mrs Paula Santos has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-24.u188	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : We are discussing today a bill tabled by the Legislative Assembly of Madeira which raises concerns about solutions to elderly people, in particular in residential structures for elderly people. I would like to begin by saying that we believe that there is a need for greater response and the creation of conditions to ensure an adequate response to the elderly. An investment which, of course, reinforces the public response to support for the elderly is needed — in fact, the CFP has already brought to this House the need for the creation of a public network of residential structures, of homes, for older people. It is necessary to ensure the working conditions for all workers in these residential structures and to combat precariousness. It is also necessary to ensure that families have conditions from the point of view of wages and working hours, which allow for more adequate follow-up to their elderly family members. And there is still a need for investment in primary health care that gives a specific response to elderly people. In particular, the assignment of doctors and family nurses takes priority here, as well as the extension and proximity of this response, so that everyone, including the elderly, has access to health care to which they are entitled. Today, elderly people who are in residential structures have multiple diseases, have greater needs for care and more differentiated care. In the context of strengthening the response of these structures—which we believe should have, as I said, an effective extension and public response— this requires that more professional equipment be assisted, nurses, cultural animators, psychologists, nutritionists, among others; and that working conditions and their careers are ensured, from the point of view of ensuring these same working conditions in career, remuneration and rights. When we talk about careers, this requires discussion and collective bargaining with their trade unions to find the most suitable solutions for each of these workers. We consider this to be something that must be assured and respected about the discussion on careers. On the particular initiative, I would like to say that we will not oppose it, but there are a number of shortcomings that need to be overcome, in particular this aspect of collective bargaining. Mr President, in conclusion, allow me just one last reference, because it is also under discussion about nurses in schools, in educational spaces. We would not only like to greet the subscribers of the petition under discussion, but stress the need to find the most appropriate solutions to strengthen school health and the articulation of schools with primary health care. It seems to us that the proposal brought here by the Arrival does not solve the problem and that it is not the necessary solution.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-24.u189	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-24.u190	What is needed is more investment, either at the level of school equipment or, above all, at the level of primary health care to give the necessary response. [[PCP applause.]] [[Meanwhile, President Augusto Santos Silva was re-elected.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-24.u191	To speak in the debate, Mrs Inês Barroso of the PSD Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-24.u192	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: PSD starts by welcoming Petitioners No 82 / XV / 1. a ( Marta Maria Dias dos Santos ) — By the right to a nurse in public schools attended by children with specific health needs, by giving us another opportunity to reflect on the inclusion in education, which, we believe, was based on the presentation of the Bill No. 528 / XV / 1. a, which we analyze today. Yes, we talk about inclusion in education, because inclusion is not done by decree. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-24.u193	Children and students with physical and / or mental health problems, marked limitations of any organ or system or other causes that condition the learning process are referred to with special health needs (NSE). It is these children and students—and their parents and family— that the government, in a socialist way, prefers to ignore rather than support. Let us remember that in the discussion of the State Budget for 2023, the PS bench led the PSD proposal for State participation in the hybrid system of continuous subcutaneous infusion of insulin. The government, as its panagio, prefers to postpone and create working groups, while the lives of these children and young people are still suspended. What we see are the parents, as happened at the beginning of the month, come to the street asking for support: more specialized technicians; the review of cooperation agreements, which have not been updated for years; and support for strengthening follow-up by school health teams, with more health professionals and greater stay in schools. What the PSD expects is for these parents to be heard, and it is so worried that, still this week, it has filed a request for a joint hearing by the Members. Ministers for Education and Labour, Solidarity and Social Security, for them to clarify: the gap between the government narrative and the application of Decree-Law No 54 / 2018 ; the lack of human resources for monitoring and therapy ; and the lack of attention for the recovery of learning of students with NSE. The school must be a real social elevator for all, for children and students who live with social, economic, cultural or family inequalities, but also physical or mental. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, what the government does is propaganda for inclusion and disability,... [[PSD applause.]] ... but what the PSD has verified is a clear disinvestment in inclusion in schools, inclusive education, with serious losses in the lives of these students and their families. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-24.u194	To speak on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Arrival, Mr Jorge Galveias has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-24.u195	Mr President, Mrs Susana Correia, the Government is to govern, but when it does not govern it belongs to the opposition itself. I think it's logical! If the honourable Member has not been informed or has not been informed about the amendment to the agenda, this is a problem of yours — or yours — responsibility, because it has been done and we have been here wasting time listening to a matter that was not a matter. As for the health policy of the Socialist Party, Mrs Deputy, we all know the misfortune in which you are, and the respect of the PS by nurses is well demonstrated, for example, in your salaries. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-24.u196	We are thus at the end of the debate and we are moving on to the voting period. I request the services which operate the quorum registration system. [[Pause.]] I would like to ask the honourable Members and the honourable Members. Members to register. [[Pause.]] I wonder if any Member or Member has not been able to register.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-24.u197	I couldn't register, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-24.u198	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. Mrs Susana Correia of the PS and Mr Jorge Galveias of the Czech Republic also signed the Bureau and was registered. I would therefore ask the services to close the quorum verification period and to publish their results. [[Pause.]] We have a quorum, we shall proceed to the vote. The first discussion is on the Voting Project No 270 / XV / 1. a ( submitted by PAR and subscribed by PS, PSD, CH, IL, BE, PAN and L ) — Solidarity with Ukraine, on the occasion of the first anniversary of the invasion of Ukrainian territory by the Russian Federation. With the permission of the gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, let me read this draft vote: « On 24 February 2022, the Russian Federation invaded Ukraine militarily. He did so in flagrant violation of the Charter of the United Nations and international law, triggering a war of aggression, not provoked, against a sovereign state. on that same day, meeting in the Permanent Commission, the Assembly of the Republic discussed and condemned the Russian aggression against the independence, sovereignty and territorial integrity of Ukraine. In Portugal, all the political bodies of sovereignty — President of the Republic, Parliament and Government — expressed themselves immediately and unequivocally, condemning the invader and solidarity with the invader. Since the first hour, Portugal has supported Ukraine in exercising its right to self-defence. Both bilaterally, within the framework of the United Nations, the European Union and the Atlantic Alliance, Portugal has provided political, military, financial and humanitarian assistance and participated in political and diplomatic initiatives aimed at demanding the withdrawal of invading troops, penalizing those responsible for the invasion, bringing to justice perpetrators of human rights violations and strengthening the legitimate defence capacity of the Ukrainian people. Portugal has also welcomed thousands of Ukrainians displaced by war, who find refuge and protection here. Today, a year ago about the start of Russia's war on Ukraine, the Assembly of the Republic reaffirms its solidarity with the people and the Ukrainian authorities; reiterates its condemnation of the aggression perpetrated by the Russian Federation and calls for the immediate cessation of hostilities and the withdrawal of Ukrainian territory, indispensable conditions for peace talks; deeply regrets the many thousands of victims of war — fatal victims, wounded or refugees — and the destruction of cities, infrastructure and goods; welcomes the Republic of Ukraine and President Volodymyr Zelenskyy, whose heroic action to defend freedom and sovereignty represents the defence of peace and security in Europe and European values. Thus, recalling the profound ties of friendship that unite the Portuguese people and the Ukrainian people, the Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary session, solemnly proclaims total solidarity with Ukraine and the Ukrainian people in defending their independence and territorial integrity and in defending the sacred right to freely decide their destiny, within the framework of Europe to which we all want to belong, the Europe of democracy and peace. Do not keep on seeking. ” Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall proceed to the vote on this draft vote. [[When put to the vote, the PS, PS, CH, IL, BE, PAN and L were voted in favour of the PS, and against the CFP.]] Following the Vote Project No 271 / XV / 1. a ( presented by the PCP ) — Condemning the escalation of confrontation and war, solidarity with its victims and the demand for peace. To read it, I give the floor to Mrs Maria da Luz Rosinha.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-24.u199	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the draft vote is as follows: « It is a matter of great concern to everyone who aspires to a world of peace to the escalation of war in Ukraine, a war that lasts nine years, which has experienced new developments, one year ago, with Russia's military intervention and which urgently needs to end. Presented as being between Russia and Ukraine, this war goes far beyond that. It is indeed an expression of a confrontation between the United States of America, NATO and the European Union with Russia, within the framework of the United States' hegemonic strategy, in which NATO enlargement and the installation of military means and contingents are increasingly close to the borders of that country and the use of Ukraine and the power installed there as an instrument of this belligerent action. A policy that translates into the recurrent use of interference, aggression, the imposition of sanctions and blockades aimed at countries that affirm their sovereignty and independence, and in which the growing confrontation with China is inserted. Thus, the situation in Ukraine cannot be dissociated from the 2014 coup d'état, led by fascist groups, which led to the imposition of a xenophobic and belligerent regime whose violent action is responsible for the escalation of fractures and divisions, by persecutions, the illegalization of political parties, the closure of social media bodies, the discrimination and denial of fundamental freedoms and rights — including citizenship — by the deflagration of war in this country nine years ago. The escalation of arms and the consequent prolongation and intensification of war involve increased and serious consequences and dangers for the Ukrainian and Russian peoples, as well as for the peoples of Europe and all over the world. It is increasingly evident that workers and people are paying for the costs of war, militarism, sanctions, visible in rising prices of goods of first need, in the attack on rights and living conditions, in the worsening of poverty and inequality, in the deterioration of the economic and social situation. It is increasingly ostensive that those who win the war are the large arms, energy, food, distribution or banking companies that accumulate billions of profits. It is urgent to stop the policy of instigating confrontation, which will only lead to the escalating conflict, the loss of more human lives, the greatest suffering and destruction. It is necessary to value appeals, initiatives and mediation proposals with a view to their urgent political solution. Portugal, instead of contributing to the escalation of conflict, militarism and war, should promote the peaceful settlement of international conflicts and the general disarmament, simultaneous and controlled, among other principles of international relations enshrined in the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic. In the current situation, in which the aspiration for peace is clearly expressed throughout the world, it is of great importance to affirm sovereignty and rights, including the right to development and the construction of a new international order of peace and social progress. Thus, meeting in plenary session, the Assembly of the Republic : expresses its solidarity with the victims of a nine-year war that lasts; condemns a whole path of interference, violence and confrontation, the 2014 coup d'état, promoted by the US in Ukraine, which has established a xenophobic and belligerent power, Russia's recent military intervention in Ukraine and the escalation of the US, NATO and the European Union ; calls for the US, NATO and the European Union to stop instigating and fueling the war in Ukraine and to open up negotiations with other actors, notably the Russian Federation, in order to achieve a political solution to the conflict, the response to collective security and disarmament problems in Europe, the fulfilment of the principles of the UN Charter and the Helsinki Final Act, and urges the Portuguese Government to take initiatives in this direction".
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-24.u200	We shall vote on the deliberative part of the draft vote that has just been read. [[Put to the vote was rejected, with votes against PS, PS, CH, IL, BE, PAN and L and with votes against the CFP.]] The general vote on the Proposal for a Law No 44 / XV / 1. a ( GOV ) — Strengthen the mechanisms for combating sport violence. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, votes against the CH, IL and the PCP, and abstentions against the PSD, BE, PAN and L.]] This bill goes down to 12. the Commission. We proceed with the general vote of Bill No 539 / XV / 1. a ( CH) — The fifth amendment is made to Law No 39 / 2009 of 30 July establishing the legal regime for security and combating racism, xenophobia and intolerance in sports shows. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, PSD, PCP and BE were rejected, votes against the CH and IL and abstentions against the PAN and L.]] We now vote, in general, the Bill No. 545 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ) — The fifth amendment is made to Law No 39 / 2009 of 30 June eliminating areas with special conditions for access and stay of followers. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and the PSD were rejected, votes against IL, the PCP and the L and abstentions against CH, BE and PAN.]] Mr Pedro Filipe Soares signaled the Bureau. Is it to inform you that you will present a written declaration of vote on behalf of the Left Block bench?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-24.u201	You read my thought, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-24.u202	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. We then generally vote for Bill No. 484 / XV / 1. a ( BE) — Change the maximum age of the adopter ( amendment to Law No 143 / 2015 of 8 September and Decree-Law No 47 344 / 66 of 25 November ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] This bill goes down to 1. the Commission. We will now vote, in general, on Bill No 507 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Review of the reception measures and programme for the empowerment of children and young people in danger ( fifth amendment to Law No 147 / 99 of 1 September approving the Child and Youth Protection Act in Danger ). [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the PS, the IL, the CFP, the BE, the NAP and the L and the abstention from the CH.]] This bill goes down to 1. the Commission. We proceed to the general vote on Bill No 508 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Extends the possibility of adoption of children up to 18 years ( first amendment to Law No 143 / 2015 of 8 September and Decree-Law No 47 344 / 66 of 25 November ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] The bill goes down to 1. the Commission. We will generally vote for Bill No. 529 / XV / 1. a ( CH) — Change the Civil Code, the Legal Regime of the Adoption Process and the Labour Code, in order to reduce the number of institutionalized children ensuring them a speedy and successful adoption process. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected, votes against the CH and IL and abstentions against the PSD, the CFP, the BE, the NAP and the L.]] The general vote of Bill No 534 / XV / 1 is hereby followed. a ( NAP) — Increases the maximum age of the adopted for 18 years by amending the Civil Code and the Legal Regime of the Adoption Process. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] This bill goes down to 1. the Commission. We proceed with the general vote of Bill No 537 / XV / 1. a (L) — Clarify the possibility of united couples being able to adopt, decrease the minimum age of adopters, increase the maximum age of adopters, decrease the age of consent of adopters, remove consent and hearing of neurodivergent people or with mental illness and introduce the possibility of integration of professionals in the area of gender equality in the adoption technical teams. [[Put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of PS, IL, BE, PAN and L, votes against the CH and abstentions of the PSD and the CFP.]] This initiative is down to 1. the Commission. We now vote, in general, the Bill No. 541 / XV / 1. a ( IL) — Amends the adoption process, extending the maximum age of the adopter to the age of 18 ( Alterres Decree-Law No 47 344 / 66 of 25 November, Law No 143 / 2015 of 8 September, and Law No 147 / 99 of 1 September ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] The bill goes down to 1. the Commission. Then we vote on draft resolution No 440 / XV / 1. a (PAN) — Recommends to the Government the adoption of integrated and speedy policies for the promotion of adoption. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We turn to the vote on draft resolution No 403 / XV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Recommends that the Government comply with the approved budget of the State and apply an effective discount of 50 % on the toll rates of the interior territories. There is a request from the PS for this vote to be made by points, which I believe has the consent of the House. Thus, we began by voting point 1 of the Resolution Project No 403 / XV / 1. the, submitted by the PSD. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of the PS, the CH, the CFP, the BE and the L and IL and the NAP abstentions.]] The vote on point 2 of that motion for a resolution follows. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PSD, the CH, the CFP, the BE and the L and the PS, the IL and the NAP.]] We are now voting on point 3 of the same motion for a resolution. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of the PS, the CH, the BE and the L and IL, the CFP and the NAP abstentions.]] We shall proceed to the general vote of Bill No 542 / XV / 1. a (CH) — Provides for the implementation of a gradual plan to exempt the payment of tolls. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and the L were rejected and abstentions against the CH, the IL, the CFP, the BE and the NAP.]] We then generally vote for Bill No. 548 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Remove the tolls on A25. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and the PSD were rejected, votes against the CFP, BE and L and abstentions against the CH, IL and the NAP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-24.u203	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-24.u204	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-24.u205	Mr President, it is to be announced that a number of Members of the PSD Parliamentary Group will present a declaration of vote on draft Law No 548 / XV / 1. a 557 / XV / 1. a
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-24.u206	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. They are statements of vote with a preventive component, which facilitates our work. Thank you very much, Mr. We proceed with the general vote of Bill No. 549 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Removes the tolls on the former North Coastal SCUT ( A28 ) between Angeras and Darque. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and the PSD were rejected, votes against the CFP, BE and L and abstentions against the CH, IL and the NAP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-24.u207	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-24.u208	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-24.u209	Mr President, as you said to facilitate the work, I inform you that I will present a statement of vote in writing concerning the votes of Bills Nos 548 / XV / 1. a 557 / XV / 1. the, presented by the PCP, which cover all on the same theme.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-24.u210	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. We proceed to the general vote of Bill No 550 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Remove the tolls in A29. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and the PSD were rejected, votes against the CFP, BE and L and abstentions against the CH, IL and the NAP.]] We now vote, in general, the Bill No. 551 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Remove the tolls in A41. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and the PSD were rejected, votes against the CFP, BE and L and abstentions against the CH, IL and the NAP.]] We shall proceed to the general vote on Bill No 552 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Remove the tolls in A42. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and the PSD were rejected, votes against the CFP, BE and L and abstentions against the CH, IL and the NAP.]] We then generally vote for Bill No. 553 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Delete tolls on A4. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and the PSD were rejected, votes against the CFP, BE and L and abstentions against the CH, IL and the NAP.]] We will generally vote for Bill No. 554 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Remove the tolls on A13. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and the PSD were rejected, votes against the CFP, BE and L and abstentions against the CH, IL and the NAP.]] We proceed with the general vote of Bill No 555 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Remove the tolls on A22. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and the PSD were rejected, votes against the CFP, BE and L and abstentions against the CH, IL and the NAP.]] We now vote, in general, the Bill No. 556 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Remove the tolls in A23. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and the PSD were rejected, votes against the CFP, BE and L and abstentions against the CH, IL and the NAP.]] The general vote of Bill No 557 / XV / 1 is hereby followed. a ( PCP ) — Remove the tolls on A24. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and the PSD were rejected, votes against the CFP, BE and L and abstentions against the CH, IL and the NAP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-24.u211	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-24.u212	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-24.u213	Mr President, it is to inform that the PS Parliamentary Group will make an oral vote on these votes.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-24.u214	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. This will take place at the end of the vote. However, the Bureau notes that there is a process of copying, imitation or emulation and, therefore, there will also be a declaration of oral vote of the Arrival. We shall proceed to the general vote on Bill No 65 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ) — confers the nature of the executive title on the final decisions of the Act and amends the procedural regime applicable to labour and social security counter-ordinations by amending Law No 107 / 2009 of 14 September 2009. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, PSD, CH and IL were rejected, votes against the CFP, BE and L and abstention from the NAP.]] We proceed to the general vote of Bill No 543/XV / 1. a ( BE ) — Gives executive strength to the sentencing decisions of the Labour Authority for suspension of dismissal and abusive sanctions and deepens the legal regime to combat harassment at work. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, PSD, CH and IL were rejected, votes against the CFP, BE and L and abstention from the NAP.]] The general vote on the Bill No 108 / XIV / 2. a ( ALRAM ) — Extension of the special nursing career to residential structures for elderly persons - amendment to Decree-Law No 248/2009 of 22 September 2009. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of the CH, the PCP, the PAN, the L and the Member of the PS Miguel Iglesias and abstentions from the PSD and the IL.]] We shall proceed to the general vote of Bill No 528 / XV / 1. a (CH) — Due to the mandatory existence of a nurse in pre-school schools and elementary and secondary schools. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and the CFP were rejected, votes against the CH and the NAP and abstentions from the PSD, IL, BE and L.]] We proceed with the vote on draft resolution No 388 / XV / 1. a (CH) — Recommends that the Government monitor the working conditions of the traders. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of the PS, the CH, the BE and the NAP and IL, the PCP and the L.]] We will vote for draft resolution No 389 / XV / 1. a (CH) — Recommends that the Government extend the national network of residential structures. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of the PS, the CH, the IL, the BE and the NAP, and abstentions of the CFP and the L.]] Next, we vote on draft resolution No 419 / XV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Recommends that the Government establish a health promotion and literacy project in schools in the Leiria district. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of the PS, the CH, the IL, the CCP, the BE and the NAP and the L abstention.]] We shall now vote, in a global final vote, on the final text, submitted by the Education and Science Committee, concerning Bills Nos. 809 / XIV / 2. a ( Citizens) — Values of national and international political education, 115 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Evaluation and recognition of polytechnic higher education, recognizing the possibility of conferring the degree of doctor and 125 / XV / 1. a ( BE ) — Creates the possibility of administration of doctors in the polytechnic higher education subsystem by amending the Basic Law of the Education System and the Legal Regime of Higher Education Institutions. [[Submitted to the vote, it was adopted with votes in favour of PS, PSD, CH, IL, PCP, BE, PAN and L and votes against 5 PS Members (Bruno Aragão, Cláudia Santos, Filipe Neto Brandão, Joana Sá Pereira, José Pedro Ferreira) and PSD Member António Topa Gomes.]] [[Congratulations from the PS and BE ( standing) and from the PSD and PCP Members.]] It has all the air from whom there will be statements of vote « floral». I suppose Mrs Emília is asking for the floor for this?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-24.u215	Exactly, Mr. President, you guessed my thought. The PSD shall submit an oral vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-24.u216	Mr Filipe Neto Brandão asks for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-24.u217	Mr President, it is to inform the Bureau that I have already made a written statement of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-24.u218	Mrs Paula Santos asks for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-24.u219	Mr President, I would like to announce an oral statement of vote on this last vote, but also for a previous vote on the drafts of the CFP, for the elimination of tolls in the ex-SCUTs, under Article 155 ( 4 ). the Rules of Procedure, resulting in a total of four minutes for both declarations.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-24.u220	All right, at the end of this voting period, we will turn to oral explanations of vote. I assume that Mr Topa Gomes will also make a statement of vote in writing?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-24.u221	Exactly, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-24.u222	The Bureau received the information that the same will happen to Mr Rui Tavares. We are now moving to the final overall vote of the final text, presented by the Committee on Education and Science, on draft resolution No 250 / XV / 1. a ( L) — Recommends that the Government take urgent measures to support the housing of displaced higher education students and the creation of sub-used state-owned university residences. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of PS, PS, CH, IL, PCP, BE and PAN and L abstention.]] Mr Rui Tavares asks for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-24.u223	Mr President, since the only honourable Members are not entitled to make oral explanations of vote, I would like to announce the presentation of a statement of vote in writing to explain the unusual situation of abstaining from a proposal from the Book, a proposal which other parties have asked to come down to the Commission without a vote, and which eventually have largely mutilated.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-24.u224	Now think! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-24.u225	At first they all fall!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-24.u226	Let us now present the oral explanations of vote. As far as I am concerned, there are two sequences of oral explanations of vote: one on projects that have to do with tolls, generally, and one on voting on the final text of the Committee on Education and Science on polytechnic higher education. Let us begin with the explanations of vote on tolls. To that end, Mr Eurico Brillante Dias has the floor on behalf of the PS. [[Pause.]] The honourable Member has two minutes or less.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-24.u227	Mr President, I would like to thank the warning from now on. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the populations of the interior of Portugal — Bragança, Vila Real, de Viseu, de Castelo Branco, da Guarda, but also of the Algarve, also passing through Coimbra, or even by the coast, via Viana do Castelo — know that if today they pay SCUT, which were planned road infrastructures to be instruments of development and territorial cohesion, they pay these tolls because a party — the PPD / PSD, the « port party» —... [[PSD protests.]] ... so demanded in the negotiation of the PEC 3. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]] Since 2015 the governments led by Prime Minister António Costa, supported by the Socialist Party, have been doing an incremental work on reducing tolls. [[CH's laughs.]] As it became clear, yesterday, in the debate, in the example case presented by Mr André Pinotes Batista,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-24.u228	Is he there? Where is he? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-24.u229	... when he said that today in the Algarve, for example, we pay less tolls than in 2011, as a result of the political action of the governments of the Socialist Party. [[PSD protests.]] But there is more: this path continues with the approval of Article 264 in this Parliament. the State Budget of 2023, in which the Government undertook to present an overall approach to tariff reduction by the end of June. Opposition parties do not want to wait for that moment, as they did not want to wait for the negotiation of PEC 3 to end the SCUTs. The PPD / PSD is the party of the tolls,... [[Protests by PSD Member Luís Gomes.]] ...and is known, from north to south of the country, as such. However, there is a party that continues to fight for territorial cohesion, for the reduction of tolls, and this party is the Socialist Party, with these 120 Members. [[Congrats from PS Members.]] [[PSD and CH protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-24.u230	You must conclude, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-24.u231	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we will still be here this year to show you, once again, that when they supported the troika program,... [[PSD and CH protests.]] ... when they ruled and wanted to penalize the interior with tolls,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-24.u232	Thank you very much, Mr.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-24.u233	...have always had our opposition. Here we are today, once again, to oppose political opportunism, particularly the PPD / PSD. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-24.u234	And I said everything without laughing!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-24.u235	Does Mr Joaquim Miranda Sarmento ask for the floor for an oral vote on this matter?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-24.u236	No, Mr President, it is to defend the honor of the bench and to restate the truth about what Mr Brillante Dias said. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-24.u237	Mr Joaquim Miranda Sarmento has the floor to defend the honor of the bench.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-24.u238	The facts must be put back, and the facts are as follows: who in 2010 introduced tolls and decided on the price and form of renegotiation was a Government of the Socialist Party. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-24.u239	All right, all right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-24.u240	That's fake!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-24.u241	By the way, it is important to remember that they are two former State Secretaries of the Socialist Party — Costa Pina and...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-24.u242	That's absolutely false! Political opportunism!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-24.u243	... Paulo Campos, former Secretary of State for Infrastructures – who are awaiting trial on these 2010 renegotiations! [[PSD applause.]] Those renegotiations that were brutally injured!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-24.u244	Absolutely false!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-24.u245	They are awaiting trial for these brutally damaging renegotiations of the public interest, as were all those PPP contracts (public-private partnerships), all contracts. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-24.u246	You're not ashamed! No shame!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-24.u247	See what the Court of Auditors says, what UTAP ( Technical Unit for Project Monitoring ) says, what the academy says,... [[PS Member Protests Eurico Brilliant Dias.]] ... what all the entities say about the PPP contracts you signed in the time of Antonio Guterres and José Socrates. I know that you no longer want to remember José Socrates, and that it is true that you want to forget those six years. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-24.u248	That is political opportunism!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-24.u249	It is also true that, two weeks before José Socrates was arrested, Dr. Ferro Rodrigues, who was the leader of a parliamentary bench, said that José Socrates was the hope of the Socialist Party! [[PSD Applause (Standard).]] And the current President of the Assembly of the Republic was outraged by President Cavaco Silva not to decorate José Socrates. You were responsible for those bad contracts, you were responsible for the introduction of tolls,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-24.u250	Political opportunism!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-24.u251	... by the value of the tolls, by the way they renegotiated, and there is a decision of this Parliament, of the 2020 State Budget, which continues to fulfill because VV. Ex. They don't want it. [[PSD Applause (Standard).]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-24.u252	That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-24.u253	To give satisfaction, if you wish, Mr Eurico Brillante Dias has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-24.u254	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we do not witness a defense of honour, but a manifest attempt to build an alternative narrative and to rewrite the story. [[P.S.'s applause.]] This is what the PPD / PSD... [[Protests of the PSD, having beaten with the hands on the sides of the benches.]] I understand nervousness, I understand. I understand nervousness, because you know what I'm going to do. Mr President, it was a manifest attempt — indeed, in the wake of what has happened in recent times — of the PPD/PSD Parliamentary Group and, in this case, Mr Joaquim Miranda Sarmento, to have an alternative narrative for the time of the PEC 3. [[PSD protests.]] The alternative narrative is this: the PPD / PSD required the populations of Castelo Branco, da Guarda, Vila Real, de Bragança, do Algarve, that they would pay tolls to be able to sign a fundamental instrument so that the country would not be, yes, rescued sooner! [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]] Mr President, you have delivered the country's head to a tray, to the troika, and you have begun to do so in PEC 3. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Protests of the PSD, having beaten with the hands on the sides of the benches.]] The gentlemen wanted... [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-24.u255	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen... [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-24.u256	The normalization of arriving is enough to achieve this behaviour! That's what's happening, that's what this is all about — the normalization of the Arrival is already coming to this behavior. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We're waiting. You are already acting like the far-right parliament and seem to walk there. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD and CH protests.]] Mr Joaquim Miranda Sarmento, the PEC 3 was an essential tool for the country to respond to a minority government at a time of great difficulty in the greatest financial crisis since 1929. [[PSD protests.]] You have decided to sign the PEC 3, voted to enable the PEC 3, and required the tolls inside as a fundamental instrument to sign it. Dr. Eduardo Catroga left you in the photograph! [[Protests by PSD Member Luís Gomes.]] The gentlemen wanted to go to power, went to power, but turned the country's head into a tray, and wanted to do so from PEC 3. That was the toll decision! [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests, with Pedro Melo Lopes standing.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-24.u257	I will now give the floor to Mr. Joaquim Miranda Sarmento, but the first thing to say is that there is a PSD Member who is in a state of nervousness incompatible with watching him attend a plenary session of the Assembly of the Republic. It is incompatibility, therefore, you are in favour of sitting in your place and listening and talking, because that is what happens here. We talk, then we hear, then we talk, and then we hear. Mr. Joaquim Miranda Sarmento asks for the floor. It's for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-24.u258	Mr President, I would first of all like to request that all the decrees of 2010 and the beginning of 2011 be distributed,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-24.u259	Mr. Deputies, these documents are public.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-24.u260	... as well as the Memorandum of Understanding,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-24.u261	It's public, too.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-24.u262	...all signed by the Socialist Party. I understand that Mr. Eurico Brilliant Days...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-24.u263	Sir, I'm so sorry...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-24.u264	No, no, Mr. President, I apologize to you.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-24.u265	Mr President, the debate period has already ended and the voting period has also been completed. There are oral explanations of vote which are being produced and there are Mr. Members who are registered to exercise their right to produce oral statements. The honourable Member felt that his bench was offended in his honour by Mr Eurico Brillante Dias' oral statement and therefore defended the honor of the bench. The honourable Member has given his satisfaction and therefore this case is closed. [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-24.u266	Mr. President...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-24.u267	Or the honourable Member makes an inquiry to the Bureau about the conduct of the work...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-24.u268	All right, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-24.u269	Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-24.u270	in this case, I wanted to make an inquiry to the Bureau to distribute both the 2010 and 2011 decrees of the Government of the Socialist Party, either the Memorandum of Understanding of the Troika, and now also some news about the judgment that awaits Paulo Campos and Costa Pina, and also José Socrates. [[PS protests.]] I understand Mr. Brillante Dias' nervousness. Today, it was noticed what was the management and it was also noticed that the honourable Member is quite nervous when talking about José Socrates. [[PSD applause.]] [[PS protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-24.u271	Mr Bruno Dias, who also voted on the drafts on the subject of tolls, is now included in the statement of vote of the CFP. Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-24.u272	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the Socialist Party accused the PSD of being the principal responsible for the imposition of tolls on SCUTs. The PSD responded, assigning to the Socialist Party the material and moral authorship of the introduction of tolls in the SCUT. For our part, we want to stress that you are both right. [[PCP applause.]] What we observed in the vote that recently happened was a total convergence, in which PS and PSD voted against the PCP proposals to eliminate this brutal penalty that populations in our country face today, with the payment of these tolls, and, in this sense, maintain the convergence of always those who impose the tolls on the highways of our country, from north to south, penalizing the populations. [[PS Member Protests Eurico Brilliant Dias.]] It is, moreover, particularly interesting that the PS has here remembered the infamous PEC 3 ( Stability and Growth Programme), where the tolls in the SCUTs were negotiated at the table between the PS and PSD,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-24.u273	Ah! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-24.u274	... according to the testimony brought by the protagonists themselves of this negotiation process in which these tolls were brought and imposed, at the back of the populations and at the expense of the populations. Mrs. Members, the PCP, at the time, voted against the PEC 3, when PS and PSD agreed, and voted against the PEC 4, when the PSD removed the carpet from the PCP.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-24.u275	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-24.u276	Then they called the troika and that's what they saw! [[PSD protests.]] And we want to remember, to conclude, Mr President, that the sad spectacle that we have witnessed recently, truly unworthy of the functioning of a sovereign body...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-24.u277	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-24.u278	...is, of course, a fun maneuver to divert people's attention from what is fundamental.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-24.u279	Mr. Deputies, you have to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-24.u280	I will finish, Mr. President. It is that when the time comes to defend the economic groups and penalize them, the people always understand themselves and vote against what the CFP proposes. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-24.u281	On these votes, I now have the floor to make an oral statement on behalf of the House, Mr Pedro Pinto. Mr. Deputy, you have less than 2 minutes, or 2 minutes.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-24.u282	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: Well, we are here to see the number of the pass-ins. [[PS Member Protests Eurico Brilliant Dias.]] But it is a number of pass-backs that already come from other years—2009, 2010, 2011, 2012, 2013, 2014, 2015. What the Portuguese need to know is: in 2023, what are we going to do with the tolls? They need to know if they will continue to pay fortunes on tolls, from north to south of the country. That's what the Portuguese want to know, and that's what you, both PS and PSD, don't have to tell the Portuguese. [[Congrats from the CH.]] In addition to this number, Mr Eurico Brillante Dias once again reiterated yesterday's statements by Mr André Pinotes Batista, saying that less is being paid on tolls at this time in Portugal. It's fake! It's fake! On January 1st, at 0 hours, the tolls increased, from north to south of the country! Tell the truth, because the Portuguese feel it in their pocket every day. [[It's true!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-24.u283	Regarding PCP bills, this is the traditional number that PCP likes to make. They write something in the title, but then, when we read, what the bill says is a completely different thing. They mean they're the only ones who are in favour of removing the tolls, but that's not the case, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, because the arrival is also in favour of removing the tolls.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-24.u284	They abstained!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-24.u285	We could not vote in favour of your project, and we could not do so for a very simple reason: besides wanting to delete the tolls, they say "reversion of the concession to the state". What you want is State, State, State! They are not in defense of the Portuguese, they just want to be state. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-24.u286	They want the PPPs! They want to keep the PPPs!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-24.u287	We thus conclude the oral statements on the subject of tolls. We went to the oral statements on the issue of political higher education, and to that end Mr Alfredo Maia of the CFP is inscribed. Mr. Deputies, you have two minutes, or less. It is to make a statement of vote—to explain why you voted, what the circumstances...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-24.u288	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the final text found at the centre of discussion on the speciality of a legislative initiative of citizens and draft laws of the PCP and the Bloc enshrines in letters the possibility of granting the degree of doctor in political schools that meet the conditions for this purpose. This is a decisive step forward in valuing the institutions which, by bringing together evidence of scientific knowledge, adequate technical and technological equipment and a teaching body capable of administering, in fact, doctoral programmes, have, however, lacked the chance of university schools to see the academic title legitimized for whose content are, in fact, responsible. It is also an incentive for such institutions to continue their development plans in terms of training supply in different cycles, as well as in their own capacity for research, plans that are indispensable to the valorization of these institutions, distributed in the territory, with advantages for the regions and for the economic, social, cultural and educational fabric and, in particular, for young people who want to access academic and scientific qualification without being forced to migrate to the major centres. On the other hand, it is stressed that the CFP advocates a unitary system for public higher education, a model of dignity, quality and equal funding for different missions between institutions and their organizational units. It is therefore to establish justice that, even in a binary system, equal rights are guaranteed to teachers of each subsystem and that at least this opportunity is taken to correct the serious precariousness that many teachers of the technical profession have. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-24.u289	To give an oral vote, on behalf of the PSD Parliamentary Group, you have the floor of Mrs Germana Rocha. It has two minutes, or less, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-24.u290	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the system of higher education will be, from today on, certainly different, taking concrete steps in valuing political higher education. in this process two issues are involved: the first, concerning the possibility of the doctoral award for political education, already approved in 2018, by the government, but that five years later it continues to carry out, which has motivated this legislative initiative of citizens, that the PSD welcomes and accompanies. In other words, the step being taken is only regularizing what was planned since 2018. However, this possibility will always be dependent on the fulfilment of the requirements required by the applicable legal regime and will be regulated by the competent authorities, having an increasingly demanding role which should correspond to the means necessary to carry out their mission. The second question concerns the change in the designation of political institutions, which cannot be understood as a confrontation between universities and politicians, but rather as an adaptation to reality, in which the PS proposal refers its effectiveness at the end of 2024, at the time of the revision of the RJIES (the legal regime of higher education institutions) — review that should have happened in 2012, but 11 years have passed without the same happened. The country's challenge to deal with the underfinancing of the higher education system is still evident in this process. Resources are needed to guarantee strong, crucial institutions in order to achieve the appropriate training offer to the reality of the country, through the production of new knowledge and related to the business fabric. This is a determining factor for the capture and retention of talent, an essential condition for a country that aims to be competitive and progress. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-24.u291	To give an oral vote on behalf of the PS Parliamentary Group, Mr Porfirio Silva has the floor for 2 minutes or less.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-24.u292	Two o'clock in the afternoon? Oh, my God! No one deserves it! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-24.u293	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we have just approved the elimination of legal impediments so that the higher political institutes can confer the degree of doctorate, to the extent that each institution meets the same requirements of requirement and quality defined throughout the system, thus allowing the full application of the legislation already approved by the Government of the Socialist Party, which was already going to that effect. We also agreed that, as part of its internationalisation strategy, polytechnic institutes, in addition to their Portuguese designation, could adopt the English-language designation of polytechnic university. These legal changes constitute new challenges and open up new opportunities for political higher education. We believe that this path will coincide productively with the provisions to be introduced in the RJIES as regards the definition of requirements for the creation and operation of political universities. The Socialist Party has long maintained a firm commitment to knowledge, to science, to the qualification of people, institutions and territories and, therefore, to higher education. In the evaluation of polytechnic higher education, the governmental and legislative action of the Socialist Party has always been decisive. This continuity matters, because real reforms are never instantaneous, they require persistence. this time, from a legislative initiative of citizens—which we welcome here—to which projects and proposals to amend various parliamentary groups, and supported in a plural and in-depth debate, have come to a result that we believe to be positive for the country. And, therefore, the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group is proud to have contributed, not only by its vote, but also by the exercise of deliberative democracy in which we committed ourselves to the months leading to this decision, a decision that, by valuing the polytechnics, values all higher education. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-24.u294	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we are thus finishing our work today. The next plenary meeting will be on Wednesday and the agenda include political statements and the assessment of Bill No 54 / XIV / 1. a ( ALRAM ) — Amends the voluntary social insurance scheme approved by Decree-Law No 40 / 89 of 1 February in the current wording as well as the Code of Contributory Schemes of the Preventive Social Security System, as annexed to Law No 110 / 2009 of 16 September 2009 in the current wording in order to allow the admission of Portuguese residents in the diaspora. Good weekend to all. The session is closed. [[It was 13 hours and 48 minutes.]]
