ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-01.u1	Good afternoon to all and to all. [[It was 15 hours and 6 minutes.]] I welcome the ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, the ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, the ladies and gentlemen. Officers of authority, to whom I ask you to open the galleries. Thank you very much. I ask Mrs. Maria da Luz Rosinha to read the file.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-01.u2	Madam President, I note that they have entered the Bureau, and were admitted by Mr President, Bills Nos 796 / XV / 1. a ( PAN ), which drops to 1. the Commission, and 805 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ), which drops to 1. the Commission, Proposal for a Resolution No 13 / XV / 1. a ( GOV ), which drops to 3. the Commission and draft resolution No 738 / XV / 1. a ( PAR). It's just, Madam President.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-01.u3	Let us begin our agenda, the first of which consists in the joint discussion of bills (generally) and the following draft resolutions: Bill No. 759 / XV / 1. a (IL) — Creates the child provider; Draft Resolution No 638 / XV / 1. a (IL) — Recommends that the Government allow families to choose the daycare and improve the Creche Felis programme ; Resolution No 660 / XV / 1. a (IL) — recommends to the Government the establishment of a awareness campaign for the adoption of children and young people of different ages; Resolution No. 661 / XV / 1. a (IL) — Recommends that the Government allow the conversion of kindergartens into day care; Bill No. 647 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Strengthening maternity and paternity rights; Bill No. 770 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Replacement of family allowance steps for children and young people with a view to their universality; Bill No. 771 / XV / 1. a (PAN) — foresees the creation of the provider of children and future generations; Bill No. 772 / XV / 1. a (PAN) — envisages changes in the composition and functioning of the Child and Youth Protection Committees; Bill No. 784 / XV / 1. a ( BE ) — Establish the child provider; Bill No. 786 / XV / 1. a (CH) — Creates the child provider; Resolution No. 723 / XV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Recommends that the Government entrust the Ombudsman with the task of coordinating and monitoring the implementation of the Convention on the Rights of the Child in Portugal. To submit Bill No. 759 / XV / 1. a ( IL) and Resolution Projects 638, 660 and 661 / XV / 1. a (IL), Mrs Patrícia Gilvaz has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-01.u4	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Today the Children's Day is celebrated, and the Liberal Initiative wanted to mark the date by bringing the debate alerts about the future and proposals for the present of our children.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-01.u5	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-01.u6	Portugal has a fragile and inverted population pyramid, which is reflected in a society that is aging at a faster rate when compared with the other European countries. These are the obvious problems of a society that cannot be rejuvenated, with a low birth rate and with a very high rate of emigration of young people. But, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, there is much more than this obvious data. There is fear that the voice of the younger ones is being suffocated by the interests of the majority of the population, which is getting older and away from public debate and public policy priorities, the interests of children and young people.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-01.u7	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-01.u8	In line with what is enshrined in the Convention on the Rights of the Child, it is important for the Liberal Initiative to bring to this Parliament the debate on the creation of the child provider.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-01.u9	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-01.u10	This is a measure contained in the Electoral Programme of the 2022 Liberal Initiative and which took particular importance after being proposed by the Independent Commission for the Study of Sexual Abuse of Children in the Catholic Church, in its report Give Voice to Silence.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-01.u11	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-01.u12	We therefore welcome the other parties for bringing to debate projects that aim to safeguard the rights of our children and we see no reason why our project is not approved and worked in the field of specialty.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-01.u13	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-01.u14	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, children are human beings, rights holders, who require special protection for their vulnerability because of age. The free and healthy development of children...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-01.u15	The Free hasn't arrived yet!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-01.u16	...it is essential to ensure the dignity of the human person in its multiple dimensions. The creation of an autonomous structure, recognised by the international bodies dedicated to this subject and inserted into the European context, is an essential step in the protection of children and contributes to further the current, insufficient mechanisms for the promotion of children's rights. When we talk about children and youth, we're not just talking about the present, we're mainly talking about the future. Today's children are the adults of tomorrow, and we want these adults to be the guarantee of the continuity of the democratic rule of law and the safeguarding of the values of liberal democracy. He referred to Gabriela Mistral, a Chilean poet and educator with the Nobel Prize in Literature in 1945 : « The future of children is always today. It'll be late tomorrow. Therefore, the Liberal Initiative will not leave for tomorrow the rights that need to be protected today. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-01.u17	Also on behalf of the Liberal Initiative, Mrs Carla Castro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-01.u18	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Today, Child Day, following the measures on the supply of children and the defense of their rights, we bring back the issue of day care. I would like to begin by referring to the Conference « A Policy for First Childhood », which we had a few days ago in the Assembly of the Republic, made by the Committee on Education and Science in collaboration with the various parties. In the first childhood, as has often been mentioned, the first 1000 days are of extraordinary importance for the development of the child and as a policy of social mobility. It is essential, even in context, to remember that 67% of children up to 3 years of age who live in poorer families do not go to bed. Therefore, we must be ambitious, effective, fierce on two issues: in supply, i.e. in more vacancies, and also in quality. After we've talked about childhood policy, then we'll talk about the vacancies. Yesterday, the Secretary of State spoke at a occupancy rate of 98 % for the Creche Felis programme. We also indicate that there are no more vacancies for the school year 2023 - 2024. At the same time, we are dealing with a demand problem, which already existed because of lack of territorial coverage, but which has increased for some reasons, of which I stress three: in times of economic crisis, there are more parents who have to work; there is some post-cavid effect and some fear that children overburden their grandparents; and, above all, there are the legitimate expectations created by people who do not have the economic capacity to put their children on the daycare centre and who, with the creation of the Creche Felis programme, have become ambitious, and well, have a way of achieving it — the problem is that freeness is not, as you see, general or global. We therefore present two initiatives. The first is so that parents and families can effectively choose the day care center where to place their children under the Creche Feliz program. We have made some recommendations, from now on to review the operationalization of the entry of private day care facilities. We argue that it is not necessary to wait for the exhaustion of vacancies in other types so that private day care can be accessed. There are parents who have, or would have, to travel 10 km or 20 km, with a potential gap on the street next door. These are cases that happen. Therefore, it is not time to have ideology as a barrier and, even more, to afford to waste quality vacancies already available. The second project is about the possibility of converting children's garden rooms into day care centers. Let us see: we have several rooms that are not being used, yet there is an interest in them. Some efforts have already been made to simplify and facilitate the licensing of day care facilities by the Government, even though there is still more to be done, but this effort has been oriented towards the construction or initial licensing, not for conversion. It is obvious that we will never neglect the issue of supervision and security measures, but in ATL (free time activities) and kindergartens there is will to do so. But what happens today? To make the conversion—you can imagine—, changes must be made throughout the building or investments and licensing with the cameras, which make no sense. In short, we have to take advantage of the capacity installed with capacity and will, and we cannot waste these vacancies due to non-operation or legislative complexity. I know that the government talks about the PRR ( Recovery and Resilience Plan) and the PCP talks about public day care centers, but we have to speed up, and these measures also allow to accelerate effective vacancies and make the difference. To end, what would I not like to hear today? Many things, of course, but for example « we are already doing », « there is already a working group », « it is being done ». What would I like to remember? Coherence. Yesterday, we heard the Minister say three sentences, which I quote: 'Thank you to all Members who can support simplification measures'; 'It is necessary to extend the offer'; and 'I am counting on the ideas of the honourable Members. Members, the children are waiting for our action." What would I like now? To continue and take these projects to specialty. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-01.u19	To submit Law Nos 647 and 770 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ), Mr Manuel Loff has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-01.u20	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: Today the World Day of the Child is celebrated, a day dedicated to all children and to the guarantee of their rights, so that they will grow healthy and happy. Signing this day is of particular importance with regard to the path which has been made by the Communist Party, and which will continue to be done, with the main objective of ensuring, in law and in life, the rights of children. As enshrined in the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic, it is the responsibility of the State and society to protect children, « with a view to their full development, especially against all forms of abandonment, discrimination and oppression ». All children should be guaranteed the right to special protection and care, to love and affection, to respect their own identity, to difference and to social dignity, to be desired, to physical integrity, to adequate food, to clothing, to housing, to health, to safety, to education and to education. Children in Portugal in 2023 are the segment of the population living at the highest risk of poverty and social exclusion, a situation that results in strong impacts on access to health, education, quality housing, a healthy diet, being able to have time to live with their parents, to have a healthy and happy development. This is a situation with a strong tendency today to increase, to worsen, with the brutal increase in the cost of living and the significant impact on access to essential goods and services, which gets worse every day. The poverty of children is the poverty of their families. The solution to this situation requires structural measures, which do not go through charity or assistance measures. over many years, the various governments have reduced the amount and the universe of beneficiaries of the family allowance. The right to family allowance is, for the PCP, a right of the child, whose payment must not be dependent on the income of the family member, because this is a duty of protection of the State to children and young people in the promotion of their most elementary rights. With this bill, one of the two that we present, what we want is to restore the steps of family allowance for children and young people, with a view to their universality. The PCP defends family allowance as a right of the child and understands that the conditions for its effective universalization should be created. On the other hand, having or not having children is a personal decision that integrates into a project of life, but the atropelo and denial of maternity and paternity rights result in the limitation and denial of rights to children and families, having a direct impact on the decision to have children. Employers exert direct and indirect pressures on women in employment interviews, questioning them about the existence of children and their age, with their conception of greater availability for work. There are still situations of young people who are discriminated against in access to the first job because they have decided to become pregnant, in addition to increasing economic and labor pressures for workers not to enjoy full maternity or paternity leave, nor to reduce the time for breastfeeding. In precariousness, there are very common situations where the right to maternity or paternity leave is not recognised. The World Health Organization recommends, on the other hand, that children be breast-feeding exclusively up to 6 months of age, taking into account the health benefits arising both for the child and for the mother. According to the analysis of national health surveys, 56 % of women breastfed exclusively up to 3 months, the value of 30 % to 6 months, values that are inseparable from the return to work by mothers. Labour activity is one of the reasons for early weaning, or even for the decision of non-breasting, even more if we remember the intensification of working rhythms, through the deregulation and increase of hours, making it difficult, or even preventing, the realization of the right of workers to be mothers and parents with rights. The extension of maternity leave up to 6 months will allow women who wish to breastfeed it exclusively until 6 months. This second legislative initiative which I am referring to prescribes: maternity and paternity leave, after the birth of the child, of 220 days — 7 months and 10 days —, which can be shared between both parents but paid at 100 %; for the mother, a maternity leave of 180 days, the possibility of 30 days before birth and the enjoyment of the period of 9 weeks compulsory leave after birth; for the father, a parental leave of 60 days, 30 of which are compulsory, enjoyed immediately after birth, special leave in cases of premature babies or newborns who are hospitalized and a daily allowance of one hour and a half for breastfeeding or breastfeeding up to 2 years, extended in case of siblings, twins or not, to enjoy by the mother, in case of breastfeeding, or by both, by choice of the couple, in case of breastfeeding. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-01.u21	To submit Bill Nos 771 / XV / 1. a and 772 / XV / 1. a ( PAN) has the floor to Mrs Inês de Sousa Real.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-01.u22	Madam President, I begin by congratulating the ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, and by giving a very special greeting to all children and young people, as well as to all organizations working for their defence, because this is your day. Today is a day of reflection, but it is also a day when we must seek to build a path to what is not yet done in the guarantee of their rights, whether the existence of a healthy planet, whether it is the eradication of violence, that scourge that marks our country and that continues to affect so many children and young people, whether their social rights and life expectancy, including that of being able to dream of being what they want and to live in a better world. All mechanisms within this Assembly of the Republic must therefore be put in place for children and young people. However, some measures need to be taken. In full 2021, what the data told us was that one in four Portuguese children lived in a situation of poverty or social exclusion. After two years, after a pandemic, of increased cost of living and inflation, we know that this reality tends to worsen, so when updated, the data will certainly not be more optimistic. We need to break this cycle, both social inequalities and exclusion, which continues to mark so many children and young people. For this reason, the NAP today brings a set of initiatives. First, we want to create the figure of the child's provider, but also of future generations, a figure of proximity, autonomous, which aims to ensure the protection of the legitimate rights and interests of children and young people, allowing their voices to be heard and their needs to be adequately and fairly met, whether in the present or in relation to future generations. Secondly, we want to change the composition of CPCJs (Children and Youth Protection Committees), an absolutely essential tool that lacks means and needs to have more training in its operation, which is not happening today. The NAP also has a proposal for a constitutional review that aims to include in the Constitution the right to eradicate violence, thus ensuring greater protection also in the Basic Law. In conclusion, we also need to look at how child pornography is portrayed today, changing precisely that expression, which is completely inadequate. They're sex crimes against minors, and that's how they should be called. I end with the commitment that we will always be giving a voice to children in this Assembly of the Republic, whether they are present or those of future generations. Well done for your day!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-01.u23	I ask the ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, to keep quiet, because it was difficult to hear the speaker. To submit Bill No. 784 / XV / 1. a ( BE) has the floor to Mrs Joana Mortágua.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-01.u24	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The UN ( United Nations ), the European Commission, the European Union and also the Independent Commission for the Study of Sexual Abuse of Children in the Catholic Church, all recommend that Portugal reconsider the creation of a child provider, someone who is focused and specializes in the rights of the child. This agenda is timely, and today is the Day of the Child. Say hello to him! The Left Block has heard these appeals and presents a proposal which is based not only on defending respect for the fundamental rights of children — a matter which is now framed in the role of the Ombudsman and the Ombudsman — but on the creation of a new figure, the supply, or the provider, of the child, which also aims to promote the rights of the child. It is a figure that does not have merely legal or legal rights protection functions, it has a proactive role to promote those rights. We believe that this proposal corresponds to a modern conception of the rights of children, which demands more than the mere human rights framework in general, since there are certain rights that apply exclusively to children. The European Union has been openly advocating that the promotion of children's rights should be treated as a matter which requires specific actions and whose protection should be integrated across all European and national policies. Children have long ceased to be mere objects of rights to become subjects of rights, in particular to have the right to be heard in their respective decisions and policies, to have the right to understand the processes they are involved in, the right to respect for private and family life, the right to integrity and dignity. It is in response to an approach that we believe to be specific and multidimensional, also modern, avant-garde — a word widely used in Parliament yesterday — that we present this proposal on the provider of the child, a figure that has been claimed by so many sectors of society. Against our proposal, it is argued that the functions would be redundant, because the role of the child's defender is already assigned to the Ombudsman, as well as to other institutional figures working in the area of childhood and youth, of which the Parliamentary Group of the Left Block disagrees. As I said recently, the main distinction between the figure proposed by the Left Block and the one proposed by other parties is that it is not about changing the functions or status of the Ombudsman, who will maintain its role, it is about adding an institution, a figure, which, in the Portuguese State, has as its sole priority, as a single function, to defend and promote the rights of children. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-01.u25	To submit Bill No. 786 / XV / 1. a ( CH ), Mr Jorge Galveias.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-01.u26	H.E. Mrs. President, Mrs. Ex-Ms and Mrs. ex-Ms. Members : Portugal is not a fair country for children, just as it is not for the elderly and for families. Unfortunately, it is a country with advantages only for some, provided they have a pink or orange card. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-01.u27	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, today is the International Day of the Child, as always, the day of repeating the same promises for everything after it is the same. In Portugal, unfortunately, little or nothing serves the commemoration of this date, as it does not last another day in the calendar. And this, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, it is not enough to say, but rather to reality itself. I am referring to some of these realities: one in four children is at risk of poverty and social exclusion; we have more than 120 000 children in extreme poverty—and it is not enough to say that it is Social Security; 4, 4 million Portuguese are poor, most of whom belong to families with minor children; 67% of the poorest children do not go to daycare; they close maternity leave due to lack of technical and human means; in 2022 the infant mortality rate increased compared to 2021;...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-01.u28	Shame!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-01.u29	... there is a lack of pediatricians and children's mental health beds in the National Health Service; increased anxiety and suicide attempts are increasing; we have thousands of children without a family doctor; there are women to be pushed against their will — I repeat, against their will — to abort, only because of economic difficulties; Portugal is one of the only countries in Europe that takes children away from their families to be adopted by economically richer adults, for the simple reason of the natural family being poor. And what do the left and the extreme left of this House do? They reject the arrival proposals for support for children, births and families. The only word to define this attitude is « shame». Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, a child born poor is a child condemned to live always fighting against his condition at birth. Contribute to the eradication of poverty in Portugal is the best way to celebrate Child Day. in this sense, defeating the socialist policies enemies of the family is a civic duty, because all children need a family.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-01.u30	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-01.u31	Today, the arrival proposes the creation of the child's provider, with effective skills to defend and protect all children and young people.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-01.u32	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-01.u33	We want a competent child provider, independent of political power and with adequate material and human resources, because that is the only way it can truly protect children. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-01.u34	A provider who helps to end child marriage. A provider who defends children from State abuse in education and who puts an end to gender ideology in schools. [[Congrats from the CH.]] A provider who is next to the families, especially the poorest, when confronted by social security technicians. A provider who obliges the State to provide the courts and CPCJs with means to reduce the losses of minors. A provider who cares about all children who are victims of sexual abuse because we cannot silence the more than 100,000 victims of abuse within the same period of time as that of the study conducted by the Independent Commission. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, if we really want to give our children a future, we must free Portugal from systemic corruption and put socialism in the trash can of history. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-01.u35	To present the Resolution Project No. 723 / XV / 1. a ( PSD ), Mrs Paula Cardoso has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-01.u36	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Today, on the World Day of Children, which is welcomed, it is important to remember them not only with beautiful words, pleasant words, but by acting in such a way that their protection and their rights are fully achieved. Therefore, the PSD presents this draft resolution, which aims to assign itself to the Ombudsman or to the Ombudsman the task of coordinating and monitoring the implementation of the Convention on the Rights of the Child in Portugal, not only on the role but by providing it with the necessary technical and human resources. This is because we consider this to be the most targeted institution for the purpose, as it is also the one that gives us more guarantees of exemption and independence for the thorough and rigorous performance of this function. We did not opt, like the Liberal Initiative, the PAN, the Left Block and the Arrival, for the creation of a child provider. It should be noted that all the concerns these political forces have and expose in these matters, basing them on their projects, are also concerns of the PSD. Perhaps driven by the recommendation of the Independent Commission for the Study of Sexual Abuse of Children in the Catholic Church, they moved forward with these projects to create a child provider. However, even this committee is clear when it proposes the creation of a child provider, because it adds « if constitutionally possible». This is in fact the question: the creation of sectoral providers is linked to Article 23. that of our Constitution, since there is already judgment of the Constitutional Court in this regard.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-01.u37	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-01.u38	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we agree that there is already an entity with constitutional consecration in Portugal whose competences are undoubtedly responsible for this allocation. [[PSD applause.]] The Ombudsman already has a core which integrates matters relating to the rights of the child. But it is important to leave this note here: we are fully aware of the need for a serious and extended debate on the institutional strengthening of the system of protection for children and young people, so that they fully fulfil the obligations which they impose on the Republic in relation to public policies for children and youth, obligations that arise not only from the rules of international law to which the Portuguese State is bound, but, before that, of our Constitution of the Republic, the PSD has asked for the creation of a committee itself to concentrate and focus on this discussion, in this reflection, on these issues, having the child in its centre, which has been plunged by this majority. [[PSD applause.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the Ombudsman has a constitutional and legal status characterized by a broad mandate in the defence and promotion of citizens' rights, freedoms, guarantees and legitimate interests. Moreover, since 1999 the Ombudsman is the Portuguese National Human Rights Institution, accredited by the Global Alliance of National Human Rights Institutions, in full compliance with the Paris Principles of the United Nations. in this quality, the Ombudsman has been regularly involved in the processes of periodic evaluation of the Portuguese State regarding the implementation of the Convention on the Rights of the Child, carried out by the Committee on the Rights of the Child. In addition, the Statute of the Ombudsman already provides for the possibility of delegation in one of the attached providers of child rights duties to be exercised in a specialized manner. In any event, any new amendment to this Statute, to be made, would always have to be reconciled with the solutions already specifically enshrined in it, which would imply an amendment to this legal provision in the context of a comprehensive and coherent review of the Statute, as well as a constitutional amendment. There was no proposal, in the various constitutional revision projects, on this matter, i.e., none of the parties that have proposals to create a child provider had the care to guard their constitutional conformity. Thus, it is understood that at the moment a legislative amendment in this area will lead to problems of constitutionality and is institutionally inappropriate, as it is at risk of causing useless and harmful disruptions within the framework of the ongoing internal reorganization. In addition, the creation of another institution to be a sectoral provider in Portugal, which is self-responsive to protect and promote the rights of children, is at risk of being a source of confusion, in the perception that citizens, especially the most vulnerable, have of the entity to which they should address themselves for the defence of their rights. For all these reasons, the PSD intended to strengthen the recommendation that the Ombudsman should be given the task of monitoring and coordinating the implementation of the Convention on the Rights of the Child, which should be accompanied — and I stress strongly this issue — of the human and technical means appropriate to the exercise of this noble function. Happy Child's Day! [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-01.u39	For an intervention, Mr Bruno Aragão of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-01.u40	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : I will focus my intervention on the projects on the child's provider, and today's World Child Day is celebrated, allow me to do so symbolically with the question that we would listen to any child on any topic – why?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-01.u41	Where's Galamba? [[The PSD MP João Moura's laughs.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-01.u42	Why create the child provider figure? For the Ombudsman to participate in the Portuguese State's periodic assessment of the implementation of the Convention on the Rights of the Child? No, no, no. Why? Because this has happened since 1999 because the Provider is, since then, the National Institute of Human Rights, accredited in the Global Alliance of National Human Rights Institutions. So is it to recognize the Ombudsman's legal competence to exercise the role of representing a national institution in monitoring the implementation of this Convention? Not either. Why? Because this recognition has existed since 2013, precisely by amending the Statute of the Ombudsman. So, is the Ombudsman's competence in the area of children's rights to be exercised in a specialized or sectoral manner? Not either. Why? Because this is also possible by delegation in the Deputy Providers, at least since 2013.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-01.u43	What about Galamba?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-01.u44	So why is this discussion taking place now? Why? Because international institutions repeatedly ask Portugal to design a mechanism that can do so with the Ombudsman.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-01.u45	What about Alexandra Reis? Have you paid yet?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-01.u46	But should that be the main reason why we discuss these projects? Not either. Why? Because what makes us discuss these projects today is, in fact, the complexity and diversity of questions that arise from 0 to 18 years. It is not that they cannot also be placed at other ages, but in this age group their impact is much more lasting, much more perennial. So why don't we answer that question and actually create a specific mechanism with the supply department? Why is the question there no longer "why? , is it "how? Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-01.u47	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-01.u48	How should we create this mechanism? And that's where we diverged, about "how? and not about "why? Do not keep on seeking. ” The projects we are discussing today materialize this very well, because there are some who defend an autonomous institution of the supplier and of the supply, there are others who argue that this mechanism, or provider, is autonomous of the supplier, but not of the supply, and there are others who argue that it is dependent on the supply. So the reason for this discussion is simple: how? What mechanism, within our institutional framework, can better answer this question of "why? We all recognize that there is, in fact, a mechanism which is under way and which better enables us to respond to this follow-up, that Portugal already does, but is not internationally recognised. We are available for this discussion, within the framework of what the Ombudsman is, thus seeking once and for all to conclude a discussion that, curiously—and, Madam President, so I finish—it began with the discussion of a bill on 1 June 1993, precisely 30 years ago. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-01.u49	Before speaking to the next speaker, I appeal again: if anyone wishes to speak without having been given the word, please do so outside the Chamber. Mr Rui Tavares has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-01.u50	Madam President, good afternoon to all and to all, and also to our fellow citizens who are in the galleries, in particular to the children who visit us today on their own day. I wanted to start by answering Mr Bruno Aragão's question and also the questions left to us by Mrs Paula Cardoso of the PSD. Why? For the simple reason that the institutions that address children should not be the same institutions as the Republic has for all other citizens, only to a small extent, or adapted to speak with children, should be their own institutions. in the same way, the United Nations would have asked itself, in 1959: why make a Declaration of the Rights of the Child, if there was already a Universal Declaration of Human Rights and there was already all the matter of human rights, which also included children? They would also have wondered: Why create UNICEF (United Nations International Children's Emergency Fund )? The answer is quite obvious: because children need specific institutions, which work specifically. That is why, in Portugal, we need to set up, as several parliamentary groups here propose, and the Book supports, in fact, at the beginning of this term, the Ombudsman asked about this — a provider for children in Portugal. I would also like to ask you one thing: they have already noticed that Article 23. the Constitution tells us that Portugal does not have a Ombudsman, does it have a Ombudsman, but the honourable Member and the honourable Member have repeatedly referred to the Ombudsman — which is not as it is in the Constitution — and is it, in fact, not updated?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-01.u51	You must conclude, Mr Rui Tavares.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-01.u52	I'll finish. Well, we're reviewing the Constitution. What a beautiful time to change Article 23. the and then, through normal law, we create a child's supply.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-01.u53	You've got five o'clock to talk! Keep talking until 5 o'clock!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-01.u54	For an intervention, Mrs Joana Mortágua of the Left Block Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-01.u55	Madam President, I find this concept of the rights of children who are said to be very advocates of children's rights to be interesting. It is then, in concrete terms, that the rights they defend are never those of children, that are eventually the rights of families, that are often mothers — and we absolutely agree. It is true that economic inequality, social inequality, lack of access to health in public hospitals, poverty, deregulation of working hours, the savagery of the labour market, all this, affect the rights of children. But we cannot say that the rights of children always depend on their family, because sometimes children have rights despite their family, and often need to be defended against their own families. It is clear that children have the right to be protected from homophobia, transphobia, machismo, even when such discrimination occurs within the family.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-01.u56	What about getting married when you were 12 years old? To be forced to marry?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-01.u57	Children have the right, for example, to contact sexual education, because this is one of the most effective mechanisms to combat sexual abuse, which mostly occur within the family. [[Protests by CH Member Rita Matias.]] Therefore, children are holders and subjects of rights, and they also have the right to participate in the construction of rights. That is why we understand that this is the proposal that serves the rights of children, not only those who exist accessoryly, or as an extension of families, but those who assist them as citizens, regardless of other conceptions, and that cannot always be represented by external entities. This idea that children and young people must always have someone who speaks for them is wrong, because children and young people have things to say — there are those who listen to them! What we want is for anyone to hear them. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-01.u58	That's what families do for hearing!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-01.u59	Mr Emília Cerqueira, from the PSD Parliamentary Group, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-01.u60	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Today, the Children's Day is signed, allow me to dare, because, being here so many young people, also from the School of Arcos de Valdevez, which is my land, it is for them that I want to speak, for children and young people, because it is for them that we have to speak. It is not just to say that children are the best in the world, that children are the future. What we really need is policies for children. [[PSD applause.]] It is said in my land that «phrases, take them the wind», and good intentions too. What we heard here today was very good intentions, many beautiful phrases and many phrases made. In fact, the Government and the Minister are constantly talking to us about concern for children and children. For the PSD it is even a concern, but we saw that it was not a concern, particularly for the majority, when they dropped a PSD proposal for the creation of a sub commission, precisely for a holistic vision, a concerted, multisectoral vision of childhood. Those who did not want to look at childhood from the front led the creation of the sub commission, losing a huge opportunity to think about the future of children and their various problems. [[PSD applause.]] Yes, because for us, what is really important is an integrated policy for children. We can't have children born in ambulances on the way to any maternity because health doesn't respond and the government has no solutions in the National Health Service for ideological issues, of course. Nor can we have a country where mothers have to go looking for maternity services, online, while waiting for the birth of a baby, because the future does not wait. This is not the country we want. We do not want a country in which public school, which should act as a social elevator as it must be, is completely blocked and students do not have quality in teaching, the result of lack of social peace between teachers and students, which harms all children, especially the most vulnerable. And what does the government do? Nothing! It's going to be late. We're at the end of the year and it's all the same. what we really need is a government that looks at childhood so that the numbers of children who are victims of violence are not the one who, even today, the APAV (Portuguese Victim Support Association) has told us and that, let me tell you, they are scary, seeing an increase of 32%, only in one year, with 2600 children who are victims of violence crimes. This is what we do not want for the future of children, we want integrated solutions. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-01.u61	We do not want children, after a lot of struggle by various parties—and the PSD has always been ahead of this struggle—who now have an extended creek network, have to walk 20 km, when there is a place in a private day at your side, for purely ideological matters. This is because the government understands, in a completely inconspicuous way, that they have to go to that, even if it is 20 km from the house or from the work of the parents, because there is no more vacancy and because the nearby daycare doesn't matter. That's what children don't need. [[PSD applause.]] And on the day they talk about children, they don't need to have to emigrate to have a future either. This is because we are a country that does not think about the future in an integrated way. Children also do not need this vision, always the trailer, to try to remedy the "problem" that appeared that day, never thinking that this country really has to grow up and evolve so that they are not forced to leave their land abroad where they do not return. We also need an integrated policy for maternity and paternity, which is really important, and this does not change Labour Codes every day, as it is intended — it has still changed a month ago. We also need a country that lives less and less of social support. We cannot have a country where four and a half million Portuguese depend on social support and public support, because that means poor children and young people, without opportunities and without access to education, the future and the success they also deserve. This is what children need. We understand, not only today, the day on which your day is celebrated, but every day of the year, that it is good to have a debate — and we thank you. Let's look at children without ideologies, no closed forms, strict to see this reality. Follow the PSD! We are still in time to re-create the commission so that children are really seen as a whole, with an integrated view, and not with any sentient vision of childhood. That's not what they want. Children really want to have a future. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-01.u62	For an intervention, you have the floor, Mrs Mara Lagriminha, of the PS Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-01.u63	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Today, we note the Day of the Child, which allows us to evaluate the present and work to build a better, more dignified and secure future. It is about this construction that we are facing the debate and all the initiatives. What future do we want? What a model of society we can build so that our country, as a community, will not be hostage to the lottery of birth. That's why, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, in recent years we have responded very clearly: yes, children are the same priority and, yes, we must continue to work to break the cycles of poverty that begin immediately in early childhood. That is why we have approved the daycare free programme, one of the central public policy measures to support children, giving the opportunity to those who would never have this possibility without this programme. And that is why we have a broad membership, because the measure has the same positive financial impact on the family budget. But let us clarify the debate, despite the initiatives sent, of the opposition in general, which are more concerned, in the recitals, about making proclamations against the government and which, during the debate, have tried to pass the idea that it is sailing in view, the truth is another, it is on the ground and it is quite different. Let's be clear, what's worried about the opposition is that we're actually surfing with a very well-orientated compass focused on the progressive implementation of the free of charge of day care centers, which has predictability, planning and transparency. That is why, in April this year, more than 58 000 children benefitted from free daycare facilities, representing a monthly investment of more than 9 million euros, with some 5000 children on the net or daycare network, without cooperation agreement and, indeed, in the territories where free vacancies are being offered in the social network and solidarity of daycare and love. [[P.S.'s applause.]] This is even an essential measure because it is reflected in improving conditions of support for birth, reconciliation and empowering the positive effects on reducing the burdens of families. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, at present we have 418 day care centers of the active profit network, with more than 5000 places available. But it is good to also say that not every day on the profit network has an interest in having free vacancies and this is where the difference is. « It is the market », I would say the Liberal Initiative, but we say that we cannot be conditioned or hostage to that market. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-01.u64	And what is your proposal?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-01.u65	And yes, predictability and planning of the measure make the rules clear. The scope will gradually evolve until September 2024, when all ages of daycare frequency will be covered by the measure of freeness. On the other hand, on the initiative of the PS, we have adopted here a resolution to reach the municipal network and day care facilities in public higher education institutions. But clearly, we want to go further. We're going further. And that is why we have strengthened the PARES ( Social Equipment Network Enlargement Programme) programme in 12 000 places and the PRR to 10 000 places of day care and have already launched warnings for the conversion of places of other responses, including kindergartens, with a simplified licensing regime. Today, we are pleased to say to the Liberal Initiative: let us be very welcome to this debate, until we all remember your vote against the proposal for gratuitousness, but now come to propose what the government is already doing in the field. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[IL protests.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Members, it is even with a strong social state that acts in the scourge of poverty and child poverty. That is why we have created an automatic provision that is already on the ground, the Guarantee for Children, which reaches 155 000 children, such as the creation of the Local Child Guarantee Centres that will allow a work of proximity and follow-up to these children. Yes, children and families, all families, are really a priority.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-01.u66	For the Liberals too!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-01.u67	And so we also remind the CFP that we strengthened the family allowance, which increased 18 % compared to 2022 and 78 % compared to 2015. We created the extraordinary complement for children and young people who receive the family allowance. We increased the single-parent increase of family allowance to 50% by 1. the step and 42, 5 % for the remaining steps, this up to the proposal of the Free. Today we have more than 1 million beneficiaries of family allowance. Finally, in relation to parenthood and conciliation, the Dignified Work Agenda came into force this month, which gives a more capable answer to promote conciliation and sharing. This is through the extension of parental leave for 28 days or the measure that allows parents to accompany their children during 1. the year, which is paid to 100 %— moreover, where parental leave is shared, the allowance is increased. And so, with work, with action rather than proclamation, that we reverse cycles of poverty, we fight inequalities of opportunity and social exclusion, so that all children—even all children! — may have a better future. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-01.u68	There is 17% poverty among children!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-01.u69	Mr Jorge Galveias, from the Parliamentary Group of the Arrival, has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-01.u70	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Portuguese know that in the last 27 years the Socialist Party has occupied the Government in 20, of which the last seven with the support of the so-called management, that is, the extreme left.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-01.u71	Oh, man, we've been elected!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-01.u72	So the poverty situation has a face and a guilty one.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-01.u73	Oliveira Salazar!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-01.u74	It's easy to guess it's the Socialist Party. [[Congrats from the CH.]] In order to solve the problem of children, it is not enough to present back-up proposals, a comprehensive family support programme is needed.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-01.u75	But this is a global program!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-01.u76	It is the only way for them to be able to build up as families and to develop their life projects.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-01.u77	Well, well!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-01.u78	On the basis of the solution to reduce poverty, it is necessary to provide conditions for the constitution of the family and, therefore, there are conditions for the increase in birth. How so? For this it is essential to put Portugal growing, because it is the increase in productivity that creates wealth and jobs, thus giving the possibility to the growth of families. Children, families and businesses do not need alms, they need a government that respects them and defends the interests of all.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-01.u79	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-01.u80	As for the theory of Mrs Joana Mortágua, that children do not need a family, this is not a criminal nonsense.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-01.u81	But who said that? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-01.u82	And see the difference between the number of left block voters to the number of conservatives who shout loudly: "Family!" [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-01.u83	Poor thing!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-01.u84	Mr Manuel Loff of the CFP Parliamentary Group spoke for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-01.u85	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: With regard to the various projects which are under discussion here concerning the creation of a child's provership, or the strengthening of the competences of the Ombudsman's Office, we follow the opinion of 31 May of the Ombudsman's Office, which begins to underline, of course, the full awareness that the establishment of the need for a serious and extended debate, as regards the institutional strengthening of the system of protection for children and young people, so that the obligations they impose on the Republic, in relation to public policies for children and youth are fully fulfilled. However, it understands the Provedoria, with regard to the various projects, namely the two that propose the creation of a child's supply, that the creation of a fully autonomous body with a mission specially dedicated to the protection and promotion of the rights of the child, is inappropriate since the institution of an organ with these characteristics would represent a duplication of what is already constitutional and legally assigned to the Ombudsman's Office. In the CFP we believe that there are many situations that require specific agencies by the State of production and management of public policies or management, possibly even of the individual rights of citizens, however, it is true that we do not fall into the institutional illusion that the specificity of a particular entity is a decisive step in solving the problems of that segment of citizens, for which this entity is created. What we think is absolutely decisive — there surely we agree with a part of the proposers — is, in the case of the concrete and material life of children, the universal right to day care, to the garden of childhood. It is to release the family aggregate in which each child grows from distress, from hardship, from deprivation, is to assure the mother or father of these children, from each of them, time and resources and rights to enjoy and to be able to exercise their paternity and motherhood. We understand that it is, in our view, an issue that must be open, but indeed we follow doubts about the creation of a specific entity of this nature, such as others to be created. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-01.u86	Mr Pedro Pinto, from the Parliamentary Group of the Arrival, has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-01.u87	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: At the end of this debate, I just wanted to touch on an issue that is also important to our children. I know that speaking on TAP (Portuguese Air Transport) is always difficult for the Socialist Party, particularly because they soon remember the ghosts of João Galamba and other ghosts of the past who still stopped there—and we can even go look for computers and the SIS (Security Information Service), which are a series of things that continue to explain to people. But let's talk about TAP's infantry.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-01.u88	Ah, the infantry!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-01.u89	Let's talk about the infantry where the children of TAP employees should be, but that, from the end of August 2023, will close. It's a shame what you're doing! The Socialist Party wants to go against TAP, wants to go against TAP workers, and now it is also attacking children, children of TAP workers. [[Congrats from the CH.]] [[PS laughter.]] It is a shame what is going on and it is a shame that the childcare closure of the children of TAP workers is at the end of August. It would be important for the Socialist Party to explain to the country what it will do, where these children go, how people can go to work and where they will leave their children. I said. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-01.u90	For an intervention, Mrs Joana Mortágua of the Left Block Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-01.u91	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr. Jorge Galveias, I respect the family so much that I try to fulfill what they taught me and one of the things they taught me was not to lie. [[CH's laughs.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-01.u92	Was it? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-01.u93	Unfortunately, I do not know if others do the same thing—I am sure that others do not. [[CH protests.]] Mr Bruno Aragão, we are aware of the constitutional functions of the Ombudsman and we are aware of the constitutional possibility of delegation of powers, competences and attached providers on issues relating to the rights of children. That was not the choice of the Ombudsman to date, and that would not prevent us from presenting our project here, because we have chosen another way. We choose a path that is not confused with that of the Ombudsman and does not replace the Ombudsman, rather complements his activity in defending the rights of children and, of course, collaborates with the Ombudsman in this field. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-01.u94	Let us turn to the end of this debate.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-01.u95	Madam President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-01.u96	Sir, would you like to speak for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-01.u97	Is it for the defense of honor? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-01.u98	For an appeal to the Bureau, Madam President.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-01.u99	Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-01.u100	Madam President, I would like to ask you to inform Mrs Joana Mortágua that no one here has lied and that they call indirectly or try to call a liar, it is not good for her. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-01.u101	Is it a defense of honor or is it not a defense of honor?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-01.u102	Thank you very much, Mr President. If the honourable Member felt offended, he could have used the honour defense figure. [[CH protests.]] If it is an appeal to the Bureau, the Bureau shall not have to take a decision on this matter. To then proceed to the conclusion of this debate by the Liberal Initiative, Mrs Patrícia Gil Vaz has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-01.u103	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Contrary to the message that some parties are interested in transmitting, the Liberal Initiative recognizes that the State can and should have an essential and even decisive role in intervention in society and social life.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-01.u104	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-01.u105	The existence of a safety net is, of course, an idea of liberal thought to protect the most fragile citizens from living conditions. There is no liberal incompatibility between, on the one hand, being the State to provide and organise this same safety network, especially for its weaker citizens and, on the other hand, the idea of a State that wants to be smaller and more effective.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-01.u106	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-01.u107	Ladies and gentlemen. Members, a state that tries to call upon itself to resolve all the problems of society is invariably doomed to failure, with consequences that are even more severe in those which must be their most essential and nuclear functions. And the most essential and nuclear functions of a State are precisely to ensure the protection of the rights, freedoms and guarantees of all citizens, but especially of children, who are, for the most various factors, the citizens most in need of protection on the part of society. [[Applause from the IL.]] Mrs. Members of the PS and PSD, if it is possible to defend these rights by the Ombudsman, why is there still a need to do so much? Why are international bodies constantly appealing to us for the creation of this entity? Why? Do you think what we have is enough? Are you happy? Not us. And, therefore, the Liberal Initiative will insist on the creation and guarantee of legal and social mechanisms, which guarantee the protection of our children, with the aim of safeguarding their futures. The Liberal Initiative will not impede any of the projects presented for the creation of the child's provider and therefore we appeal to the PS to let this proposal go to the specialty, because there is an excellent debate for the construction of a common proposal. [[Applause from the IL.]] The Liberal Initiative is grateful that various parties have enriched this debate with the presentation of various projects, but more than that, children are grateful that this Parliament today has met to discuss what will be the present and the future of the new generations. The Liberal Initiative is in the right place in history and the Members. Ladies and gentlemen? [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-01.u108	We now turn to item 2 of our agenda and to present draft resolution No 577 / XV / 1. a, from the PS, has the floor to Mrs Rosário Gambôa.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-01.u109	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Mirandese language is a name that designates a set of linguistic, secular, spoken varieties on Miranda's land. Its origin dates back to the ninth century, remained alive until today, estimated that there are currently about 3,000 speakers. The language is an identity pillar of a community, the unique expression of a culture, in a way of being and being, where memory is immortalized and prolonged in every new present. In 1992, the Council of Europe took a decisive step in strengthening the appreciation of the linguistic heritage of its Member States, recognizing that the protection of regional or minority languages, in particular those at risk, represents a decisive contribution to the maintenance and development of the wealth and cultural diversity of Europe, where it roots and signs the unshakable right to the use of regional and minority languages, in public life and in the private sphere.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-01.u110	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-01.u111	Shortly thereafter, Portugal also made clear steps towards defining a regime for the protection of its linguistic heritage, approving, in this House, by Law No. 7 / 99 of 29 January, the legal framework which recognizes the right to cultivate and promote the Miradense language as a cultural heritage. This was the corollary of decades of work, dedication and commitment of the people of Miranda, of its authors and scholars, such as the Association of Languages and Miranda Culture. [[P.S.'s applause.]] In December 2017, the European Meeting of Minority Languages was held in Miranda do Douro, meeting at the same table as representatives of the Council of Europe, the Government, the City Council of Miranda do Douro and experts and members of civil society to examine the recognition of the Miradense language in the European Charter of Regional and Minority Languages. Having obtained prior recognition by the experts, the work continued to meet all the material and formal conditions necessary for the signature of the Charter, where the Miradense registers itself. In 2021 Portugal took a new step: it acceded to the European Charter of Regional or Minority Languages of the Council of Europe, linking itself to the values of the treaty which defines good practice for the legal and institutional framework of these languages. The next step is now lacking, the ratification of the Charter, which will come to this House, with its various aspects, by the Portuguese Government, where the Mirades is recognized and which will enter into force only after the deposit of the instrument of ratification with the Council of Europe. Thus, taking into account the course already taken, the steps taken by the Government of Portugal and the municipal and associative bodies of the land of Miranda, it is important that the European Charter of Regional Languages be ratified by Portugal, empowering the Country and the Lands of Miranda with the crucial instrument for the realization of public policies necessary for the protection and promotion of a single national heritage for future generations and for humanity. This is the reason for this draft resolution. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-01.u112	To present draft resolution No 607 / XV / 1. a, of the NAP, has the floor to Mrs Inês de Sousa Real.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-01.u113	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Today we would like to start by talking about the history of Cristina Calderón, a Chilean woman and the last indigenous language speaker yaghan. He dedicated his life to the protection and sharing of his culture, which was losing relevance over the years. In 2022, Cristina died at 93 years of age, taking with her what remained of the yaghan language and culture. In Portugal, we fear that the same can happen to the Miradense language and that is why we should look at examples such as that of Cristina Calderon and make every effort at our disposal so that this does not happen in our country. The Miradense language is seen as the second non-official language of Portugal. We all recognize its importance and in recent decades there have been efforts to preserve it. In 1999 the linguistic rights of the Miradense community were recognized and in 2021 Portugal signed the European Charter of Regional or Minority Languages, which the Socialist Party wishes — and well — to be linked to the Portuguese Republic, with the proposal it brings us today. But despite these efforts, we understand that there is more way to go, especially to revitalize the Miradense language. The truth is that what has been done is insufficient and, therefore, we bring to the discussion a draft resolution, which aims to ensure that the protection of the Miradesa language also goes by the necessary recognition as an Immaterial Cultural Heritage of Humanity. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the diagnosis is very simple, even because it is estimated that 25 languages are missing per year and we currently have only about 3,500 people who know the Mirandese language. At this rate, we may, in the very near future, have this language joining extinct languages here. That is why we make this proposal, so that the Government will work hard for the Miradense language to appear in the Immaterial Cultural Heritage of Humanity, which needs urgent safeguard of UNESCO ( United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization ). This inclusion, we believe, will bring more visibility and support to what we believe is essential to reverse the context that lives today.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-01.u114	We move on to the period of intervention, with Mr Rui Tavares speaking for the purpose of the Free Trade Agreement.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-01.u115	Thank you, Major, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I'm talking about the short time I've got to get everyone to meet. And as soon as I do it, I will make it a ruinous gaze, but it is better ruinous gaze than any gaze. And that's what's at stake: a tongue that's been signed by a thousand years old, that I've only been “higuberta” I've been sent to 140 years old and recognized I've been sent to 25 years old, I've been at risk of squatting. We speak of it clearly: I look at Pertual's linguistic treasure and we don't have the right to let it be lost. We have an obligation to respect him. Now, the Mirandese Association of Languages and Culture has lived about 20,000 U.S.U.s. per year. They're here. L Livre, my party, had approved the dowry of 100,000 gold for a Mirandese Language Rescue Institute, and nothing was done. Finishing the ratification of the Ouropeian Charter of Regional or Minority Languages, which the PS proposes, costs zero. And yet not done. It is not a matter of cost to recognise constitutionally the protection and promotion of the knowledge of the mirror—and of the little rake—. It is this to realize that no one will do it for us. Or do we want a day to watch it just be guarded with artur-lhionese cumo? and Spanish? In a country where it is decided with a lot of better and better facets and called 'cases and cassettes', will there be no resource for the gazelle?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-01.u116	I would ask you to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-01.u117	I conclude, ma'am.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-01.u118	Time's up!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-01.u119	Amadeu Ferreira said: « úe langue que loi naide speaks i very few know / that you have, nor for it ceases to be a pedamigo / of the world, small is verdie, / but they are always small the gaps/ by where the big bars appear» We have proof in Camões, in Peçoa yen Sofia is time to have proof of our gazelles poets. [[Congratulations from the PS and PSD Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-01.u120	The proof that the acoustics in this Chamber is not a great thing is that the Bureau only realized that the honourable Member was talking about watching when we began to hear a lot of background noise. In fact, the Bureau is perhaps the place of this House where we hear less well, so let us say the interventions that are made in the rostrum. For an intervention, Mr. João Plata, of the PSD Parliamentary Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-01.u121	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : We are debating two draft resolutions today, the aim of which is to give our full consideration and commitment to the defence and preservation of the Miradense language. The Miradense language and culture constitute the pillars of material and essentially immaterial heritage of the Miradense plateau making this region, from the historical, linguistic and cultural point of view, also an opportunity for economic and tourist development. In addition to being an element of union and of social and cultural cohesion, it is also a unique and identity mark of the region. It can and should make a difference. The Miradense language is an official language of Portugal since 1999, the date on which the law that officially recognized the linguistic rights of the Miradense community was published, thanks to the efforts of several Miradenses, regional authorities and academics, who highlighted the scientific aspects of the language, building its importance and credibility. Law No. 7 / 99, approved in the Assembly of the Republic, known as the « Law of the Mirandês », is a very important and unmistakable milestone in the history of the Mirandese language and in the history of linguistic policy in Portugal. However, according to a study recently revealed by the University of Vigo, the Mirandese language is in a very critical situation due to the abandonment of this way of speaking by public and private entities. It refers to the study that it is possible that the mirror may disappear within 30 years. Some two years ago, as already mentioned, Portugal signed the European Charter of Regional or Minority Languages of the Council of Europe, an instrument which has been aimed, since 1992, at protecting and promoting the historical regional languages of Europe, maintaining and developing the European heritage and cultural traditions, and at respecting the inalienable and recognized right of the use of regional and minority languages in public and private life, as is the case with Mirandês, which was indeed the reason and motivation for our country's accession. The Municipal Chamber of Miranda do Douro, together with the Association de la Lhêngua i Cultura Mirandesa, has developed a list of commitments to be fulfilled following Portugal's accession to the Charter. It was supposed that the signing of the European Charter of Regional or Minority Languages would cover some gaps, in particular through the rebirth of its use, creating in Portugal the legal basis for the setting up of this language in different areas of State administration, such as courts, schools, financial allocations, local administration or press publications. Unfortunately, little has been achieved in these two years. It is therefore urgent for the Government to make an effective link of Portugal to the European Charter of Regional or Minority Languages. It should be noted that — as was also mentioned by the previous Member — the State Budget 2023 advocated a value for the establishment of an agency for the defence of the Miradense language, and the President of the Municipal Chamber of Miranda do Douro rightly calls for the creation of the Miradense Language Institute. We believe, as the President of the Miranda do Douro Chamber, that this is an essential step in overcoming inertia and little attention has been paid to this important issue of cultural charism. There is an urgent need for genuine and effective cooperation between the central power and the Miradense Authority, which is not only a delegation of tasks, as the autoarchs usually say, but also in a real willingness to materialize concrete policies in the defence of the Miradense. Let the Miradense die, even if it is a language spoken by a few people, it is to let another part of our culture, our identity, our difference and the opportunity to value this low-density territory. It therefore makes all the sense of the political and cultural opportunity entitled these two draft resolutions. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-01.u122	Mr Pedro do Carmo, from the PS Parliamentary Group, has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-01.u123	O Pedro, are you in a trance now? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-01.u124	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: When, in November 2021, we unanimously approved in this House the law that recognizes, promotes and protects the ravine, we take an important step for respect and cultural diversity, for the protection of immaterial heritage and, more than all, for the culture of a people who resist and insist on having pride in themselves, in their traditions and in their nations — thank you, the people of Barranco! — always fighting greatly the difficulties of isolation and interiority. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Therefore, today, with the presentation of this Resolution Project No 577 / XV / 1. we have come to remind the government that this effort to protect minority languages is not ending, on the contrary, there is much to be done and we must do so. while recognizing the baranque language as a minority language, we are not only maintaining a tradition, but, much more than that, preserving the culture of a people, we are respecting rurality and showing the difficulties of isolation. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Let us therefore make it clear that all languages are equal and we must do everything in order not to lose them, otherwise we will become poorer.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-01.u125	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-01.u126	Allow me even an analogy with biology. The ecosystem is poorer every time a species goes extinct, because it is good that there is biodiversity. The same is true of languages. All have the same importance, all enrich and all are relevant to linguistics. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Languages evolve, they are living heritage, adapt to the experience of time. It is therefore our duty to allow the storm to evolve by its people, in their time, to play a role in transformation and continuity. Whenever that happens, the result is great. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the ravine exists and makes a great contribution to our culture. Whenever the songs that gather generations are echoed, whether to celebrate Christmas or another celebration, it serves a great service to culture. Unfortunately, I will not be able to offer them with one of these songs in a ravine, which I very much wanted to do. I remember, for example, what it would be like to sing Linda sambombita here, because this would undoubtedly be torture for VV. Ex. And they'd all be trapped.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-01.u127	Sing, Pedro, sing!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-01.u128	But I conclude by saying that all the ravines wish that VV Ex.as had refused to defend minority languages. [[PPS, PCP and L applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-01.u129	Thank you very much, Mr President. We are waiting for someone to come today to defend the Goddess. Mr Gabriel Mithá Ribeiro, from the Parliamentary Group of the Arrival, has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-01.u130	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Party does not hesitate to defend the Miradense or the Baranquillo, but this does not justify validating, as is the case, the European Charter of Regional or Minority Languages. The Charter is exhausted from the globalist-progressive logic of only valuing the identity differences in what they can weaken, stabilize or destroy European national identities, their respective states and territorial borders. We are faced with a clear political ambition to deepen the linguistic fragmentation that attacks Europe of the Nations and undermines civicism. Gabriel Almond and Sidney Verba considered that civic culture exists only where and when modernity does not break with traditions, first respects them and incorporates them into new contexts. In Europe, civicism only develops with respect for the multi-century cultural heritages that are far from being exhausted in linguistic diversity and in what divides Europeans. What unites European identities par excellence is the Jewish-Christian matrix, in the religious field, and the Greek-Roman matrix, in the philosophical or intellectual field. by dissociating the language policy of these heritages, the Charter does not respect the multi-sectoral European consensus on self-responsibility. It requires that the individual subject and the collective subject be the first and principal responsible for their destiny. This should be taught from infancy in the family and, above all, in school. Centuries and centuries of history have never generated another possibility of developing individual consciousness, collective consciousness or civicism. It is at this level that our society, culture and democracy are breaking. The cause is the cultural hegemony of a globalist left on a permanent collision route with European identities. As if the crisis of social attitudes and behaviours, which martyrs teachers and police, or the burnout epidemic, is not enough, there is now another linguistic engineering of internal deregulation of European societies and states. Being on the left is conferring moral legitimacy on the subject who sends the responsibilities for his destiny out of himself. This subversion of social morality means the abandonment of the idea of Portugal, of the idea of Europe, of the idea of civicism. If I'm poor, it's the rich's fault. If I was colonized, the colonizer is the eternal culprit. If I'm black, it's white. If I'm from the third world, it's the West's fault. If I'm a minority, it's the majority's fault. If I die irresponsiblely in the Mediterranean, it's my fault that I'm not saved.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-01.u131	It's really a speech from Enough!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-01.u132	If I am a socialist, the blame will be forever for Salazar, Cavaco, Steps or Ventura and so on. [[Congrats from the CH.]] Such mental logic is destructive of individual consciousness and collective consciousness. Nothing is more favourable to social hatred, corruption, failure of institutions, failure of the economy. It remains the intransponible moral frontier that unites societies and the world: self-responsibility. This border only divides the right of the left. That is why the Arrival is the only proudly right political party in this Parliament and that is why the foundations of the European Charter of Regional or Minority Languages must be thoroughly revised. Saving the Mirandês and the ravine is also saving Portugal and Europe. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-01.u133	For an intervention on behalf of the Left Block Parliamentary Group, Mrs Isabel Pires has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-01.u134	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: After the creative exercise that we have seen, and that nothing has to do with the topic today in debate,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-01.u135	Less, less!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-01.u136	... we want to welcome, firstly, the initiatives proposed by the Socialist Party and the NAP, because we consider all measures that protect and encourage so-called minority languages and their use and promotion very important and necessary. Indeed, when we speak in democracy and look at the country as a whole, we have to look at everything that integrates your identity and that, in the case of language and languages, is very important, because unfortunately, too many times, we forget that there is more than one official language in Portugal. We therefore welcome and follow these initiatives. The appreciation of linguistic diversity is one of the richest parts of any democratic society. But there are, in fact, some facts—and this debate brings us to these matters—that are worrying, alarming; alerts, which have already been mentioned here, for a recent study of the University of Vigo, of Prof. Xosé Henrique Costas, that we note that, if something is not done, in 20 years, the Miradense may disappear. The truth is that a 50 % fall has been found in the number of Miradense speakers, which gives an idea of a kind of abandonment of public institutions in relation to this matter and a lack of institutional framework, i.e. an inadequate institutional framework, despite the law on Miradense already dated 1999. We must, of course, approve and move forward with all the mechanisms that help to overcome this issue. I would therefore like to ask a question, which I think is absolutely relevant in this debate, about the role of education and school in this matter. In 2019, the Miranda do Douro School Grouping pointed to some failures in the way in which the teaching of the Mirandese language was instituted. In 2022, however, there was already an increase in the number of students to study Miradês, but I believe that perhaps we should deepen the debate about whether or not we should keep the teaching of Miradês in that region optional, whether we need a different model, so that more students and even the community can reach out. Then, in 2023, we are presented with such a study by the University of Vigo which, despite everything, still points to some inefficiencies, some obstacles, particularly in the construction of teaching and teaching materials, which can help us, and the Assembly of the Republic has a role, I believe, in the help and assistance that obviously has to exist with local power in this matter. Therefore, in addition to the sense in which these proposals go, it seems to us that we must approve them, support them, we must go further, we must go to the practice of what is necessary so that the gaze, like the ravine, can grow in our society, I believe that this is what these minority languages bring, this cultural richness,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-01.u137	He never went to Barrancos!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-01.u138	... and, in the case of Miradês, we have a very rich, very interesting culture, which is not as valued as it should be. I believe that the only thing any democrat in Portugal can say, without any tibia and without inventing other lateral themes, is that we really need to support the Miradense language. From that point of view, we will support these measures and hope that these matters can be furthered from an educational point of view. [[Congratulations from BE and PS Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-01.u139	How many times did Barrancos go?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-01.u140	That's enough time!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-01.u141	You've missed inclusive language, Isabel! The "all" and "friends"!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-01.u142	Mr Rodrigo Saraiva, of the Liberal Initiative Parliamentary Group, spoke for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-01.u143	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The two draft resolutions under discussion today concern one of the most important factors of a nation, the language, which is what unites us all. A factor so dear to the Portuguese people that led Fernando Pessoa himself to declare: «My homeland is the Portuguese language. Do not keep on seeking. ” Normally, when you think of Portugal, you always think of a single nation state, with the same language. unlike our neighbouring country, which has more than a dozen languages and dialects identified and spoken by more than 10 million people, Portugal is not known for its linguistic diversity. However, this has not always been the case. A number of languages, dialects and calons were common in various parts of Portugal, but however some have been lost over time, such as the Portuguese-Jewish. Our language, our way of speaking and our expressions are one of the factors that makes us unique, to the Portuguese in their whole and to each one of us. Our individuality must be a cause for pride and the State must never punish or disregard citizens for being who they are. contrary to what is happening in totalitarian regimes, where there is a single official language and all the others are prohibited, where cultural differences are corrected in fields of reeducation, where not long ago there have been authorized hairstyles and official clothes approved by the State, in liberal democracies, fortunately — and yet, it is as it should be — that we have given priority to individuality as one of the most noble forms of freedom. It is therefore the responsibility of all of us to keep alive the languages, dialects and calons that still remain in Portugal. Let them die is also to let a part of the Portuguese homeland die. The defence of regional identities is a duty of the Portuguese State, this responsibility reinforced in depressed areas of low population density and which, for too long, have been forgotten by the central power. The recognition of language as a structural element of culture is fundamental in the preservation and development of these identities. The language has social and economic impact, values a region that has been forgotten and contributes to territorial cohesion. The populations that, for centuries, have preserved the Miradense as a linguistic and cultural espólio justify this initiative and deserve our encouragement and support, being worthy of our admiration. But the Liberal Initiative urges and encourages national and, above all, local authorities, as well as society as a whole, to go further and to extend the recognition due not only to the Mira and the Mira de Aire, but also to the minderic, originating in the area of Minde and Mira de Aire. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, these initiatives always deserve support when they add to national identity, when they enhance cultural, social, diplomatic and economic variables. They can never be a factor of subtraction or deviation from what is the national interest and everything that unites us. [[Congratulations from the IL and from the PS Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-01.u144	For an intervention, Mrs Paula Santos of the CFP Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-01.u145	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: To value and protect our linguistic heritage is also to safeguard our identity and culture. The language is communication, but it is also habits, customs of a people, traditions, memory; it is a meeting place, of reunion, of life; it is life. The Assembly of the Republic had the opportunity in 1999 to recognize the Miradense and, in 2021, the ravine in this case, including as a result of the intervention and initiative of the CFP. Recognizing and valuing this important linguistic heritage, the Mirandês and the Barranquillo, are important steps and we therefore follow the proposal made to conclude Portugal's accession to the European Charter of Regional or Minority Languages. But it takes a lot more. The language, in order to be protected, must be spoken, and, either in Miranda Land or in Barrancos, we are talking about regions of our country that are being whipped by depopulation, by the loss of population. There are villages, particularly in Miranda Land, in which the number of births of children is very small or no longer exists. They are regions that are isolated, with enormous economic and social difficulties, where jobs with rights are lacking, where public services are lacking. Therefore, associated with these aspects, there is a need for investment and to enhance the development of these regions, but I would also say that it is necessary to continue the study and research around the migraine and the ravine. There is a need to continue to invest in teaching, teacher training, in carrying out initiatives and activities that enhance the use of these languages. A little while ago, he said that the language, to be protected, has to be spoken, and there are, in fact, missing speakers. This is the central issue when we talk about this heritage, which is a heritage of our country, a heritage of all of us: and it is necessary to take measures to ensure that there is such protection. The questions of the education plan, of the economic plane, of the social plane are directly associated with this reality and we cannot spread them out of this debate.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-01.u146	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-01.u147	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-01.u148	Yes, it must be valued, it must be recognized, but political options are needed for development, and that has been lacking. And there has been a great lack of successive governments. It was also this aspect that in this debate we wanted to be signalled by the CFP: commitment and intervention for the development of our regions, for the protection of our heritage, and the languages are an integral part of this same heritage. [[Congratulations from the PCP and PS MP Eurico Brilliant Dias.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-01.u149	At the end of this interesting debate, we will move on to the closing phase. For an intervention, Mrs Berta Nunes of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-01.u150	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I wanted to begin by greeting the members of the Association of Languages and Miranda Culture here... [[PSP, PCP, BE and PSD Members applauded.]] ... and to say that, although this is not yet the day of ratification of the Charter, we hope that that day will be very soon. Only from the end of the 20th century has the Portuguese State officially recognized the rights of speakers of the Miradense language. For more than 1,000 years, the people of the Miradense Planalto — municipalities of Miranda do Douro, Mogadouro and Vimioso — were able to preserve the Miradense language and pass it from generation to generation. At the end of the 19th century, Leite de Vasconcelos identified and studied the Mirandese language, which led to a brief and limited rebirth of the language. However, social and demographic changes in the 20th century, in Miranda Land, led to a gradual abandonment of the transmission of the language in many families. With the recognition of the language, by the Portuguese State in 1999 we observed an appreciation of the language and the appearance of promoters and activists such as those present here. From the perspective of the speakers, speaking the language is no longer a cause for shame to become a cause for pride. There are currently several musical groups that sing in Miradês, such as Galandum Galundaina, who sing traditional songs and use instruments from Miranda Land, such as the Miradense leaf kit, the pastoral flute, the sanfona and others, the Picä Tumilho, a group of rural rock, the Trasga, the Pica & Trail, among others. Groups of pauliers rose up and strengthened and, more recently, female groups also emerged, when, traditionally, this was a dance of only men. The groups of pauliteiros and pauliteiras associate dance, music and the verses in Miradês. There are more and more original publications in Mirandês or translations of works for Mirandês, which makes Miranda do Douro the municipality where more books are published per capita. [[P.S.'s applause.]] From the publications of the immense work of Amadeu Ferreira, founder of the Association of Languages and Miranda Culture and the maximum exponent of this cultural increase, to the works of many other authors, such as Adelaide Monteiro, Antonio Bárbolo Alves, Carlos Ferreira, Alfredo Cameirão, Teresa Subtil, Duarte Martins, Alcides Meirinhos and many others, have not stopped growing the editions in Miradês. To conclude the Portuguese Republic's link to the European Charter of Regional or Minority Languages is an act of fundamental importance in order to enhance the development of the cultural wealth and traditions of Miranda Land, reinforcing the value of interculturalism and multilingualism, all agreeing that this should not be done to the detriment of official languages in the spirit of the Council of Europe. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-01.u151	We therefore conclude this item on our agenda. We move on to point 3, which is from the assessment of Petition No 85 / XV / 1. a ( APDP - Association for the Protection of Diabetics of Portugal and others) — For access to hybrid systems for continuous subcutaneous infusion of insulin (insulin pumps) and for the quality of life of people with type 1 diabetes in Portugal. I greet the representatives of the Protective Association of the Diabetics of Portugal, who are in the galleries and will attend this debate, some of them, certainly subscribers to this petition. Together with the petition, the Bill No. 741 / XV / 1 will be discussed in general. a ( BE ) — A system for the sharing of hybrid insulin continuous subcutaneous infusion systems in order to increase the quality of life of people with type 1 diabetes, together with the assessment of Resolution Projects No 582/XV/1. a ( L) — Recommends that the Government make available to the working group, consisting of Dispatch No 13339 / 2022, the recommendation of the National Institute of Excellence in Health and Care ( NICE) of the United Kingdom, which recommends access to « artificial pancreas » to people living with type 1, 608 / XV / 1 diabetes. a ( PAN) — By making insulin pumps available to all people with type 1 diabetes, 620 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Total sharing of the hybrid system or adjustment of automatic insulin administration based on continuous monitoring of glucose and 682 / XV / 1. a (PAN) — Recommends to the Government the inclusion of the hybrid system of continuous subcutaneous infusion of insulin in the system of medical devices sharing. To present the initiative of the Left Block, Mrs Isabel Pires has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-01.u152	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I should like to begin by welcoming, of course, the thousands of petitioners, health professionals, patient associations and, if I may in particular, mothers and parents of children and young people with type 1 diabetes who came to this Parliament to explain the importance of having free access to the latest generation insulin bombs. Today, we reaffirm the commitment of the Left Block to an SNS (National Health Service) that guarantees universal and free access to the most effective devices and therapies. That is why, several years ago, we brought to this Parliament the project for the free supply of insulin bombs. Until then, this free provision was incipient, only until 5 years of age and with very little reach, and it was with the Block's initiative that it extended its free availability until 18 years of age; and after that, we have insisted on universalizing access to all people with type 1 diabetes. At the time, it was a measure that brought many health gains and greatly improved the quality of life of many children, young people and also insulin-dependent adults. It is to know all this and the way we have made that we want to move forward and take new steps today. That is why, from the very first moment, we have supported this petition that brings us. There is a new technology that needs to be made accessible and universal, and this will only be possible with the participation of the SNS. This is why we are bringing today for discussion and vote a bill for the 100 % participation of automatic insulin pumps and to ensure a rapid mechanism for the acquisition and dispensation of these devices. The Socialist Party will say that the minister has already announced an order on the subject. We know this, and this demonstrates, first of all, the strength of the petition we are discussing today; yet, unfortunately, we know the history of the government, and even of this particular minister, from the time when he was a secretary of state — many announcements and little execution. So we prefer to play for insurance. The law is to comply and, therefore, we insist that access to these last generation devices be effectively enshrined in the law. But more: we want a fast and effective acquisition process in the law as well as a close and fast dispensation mechanism. We know that, in the past, centralized and bureaucratic acquisitions have brought problems — they have caused delays, they have caused inaccessibility — and we also know that the lack of availability in close proximity has made access difficult. Therefore, we do not want the repetition of these errors to happen, and that is what is in our bill, so that no one will be left behind or forgotten in the ads, which go and come according to the conveniences of the government, and so that we can today give a definitive answer to these users. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-01.u153	To present the Resolution Project No 582 / XV / 1. Mr Rui Tavares, who is not present, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-01.u154	Roll the stage!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-01.u155	Thus, to present Resolution Projects Nos. 608 and 682 / XV / 1. the NAP has the floor, Mrs Inês de Sousa Real.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-01.u156	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin by welcoming the Association for the Protection of Diabetics of Portugal and also by complimenting the more than 24 000 petitioners who have mobilized themselves and placed on the agenda of today's parliamentary debate the strengthening of the right to health of diabetics, making, as has already been mentioned, that the order finally saw the light of the day. on this day, which coincides with the International Day of Children, we cannot fail to speak in particular of the 5000 children and young people who, in Portugal, have type 1 diabetes and what is to be done in guaranteeing their right to health. Despite a series of advances that have been made in recent years, access to the hybrid system of continuous subcutaneous infusion of insulin is far from being a reality for most children and young diabetics in our country. In the interest of truth, this access is only guaranteed to families with more incomes, since we speak of a cost that can amount to about 2000 €. This system ensures greater efficiency in insulin administration and better quality of life, as it brings a reduction of 80 % in the number of finger bites and 95 % in the number of injections per year. However, in view of the social and regional discrepancies and asymmetries that persist in our country and the context of vulnerability and poverty, which we spoke about in the context of children's rights, it is clear that there is a path that this House must also take. And it is therefore aware of the benefits that may come to the health of diabetics in Portugal and the social discrepancies that persist, that the NAP proposes that, as is already the case in Germany, Belgium, Slovenia, Spain, France, Italy and the United Kingdom, ensure the participation of the hybrid system of continuous subcutaneous infusion of insulin and ensure that treatment centres integrated into the National Programme for Diabetes, the Directorate-General for Health have the appropriate number of insulin pumps, microbombs and devices for type 1 diabetes treatment. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, these are important proposals and the most basic humanity that we are discussing today. We therefore hope that they will meet the consensus of this Plenary and that there will be an opportunity to take them to the specialty.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-01.u157	To present the Resolution Project No 620 / XV / 1. a, from the PCP, has the floor Mr João Dias.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-01.u158	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Allow me, first of all, to greet the more than 24,000 petitioners, particularly the first petitioner, who is the Protective Association of Diabetics Portugal, in the person of Dr. José Manuel Boavida, here present in the gallery, who would like to greet and greet for work and commit to taking another step in what is to improve the quality of life for the person with diabetes. They come to ask this House to allow better access to insulin continuous subcutaneous infusion systems, but they also ask for something else, which is very relevant: that this system is assigned because it allows to improve the quality of life of people with type 1 diabetes. And this detail — precisely when it comes to the quality of life of people with diabetes — in what is requested by the petitioners, perhaps, goes very unnoticed to most of them. Ladies and gentlemen. It's not about diabetics we're talking about, ladies. Ladies and gentlemen, but people with diabetes. And this new system, more evolved, allows the person, despite having diabetes, to have quality of life, like other people without diabetes. Therefore, the PCP also presents a project aimed at the total participation of the hybrid system or of automatic insulin adjustment based on continuous monitoring of glucose. The form of insulin administration, Mrs. Members, it has evolved over the years, from the most elementary forms of injection, through insulin pens, to modern insulin pumps. These developments have brought improvements to various levels, providing more effective insulin administration techniques, which adds greater and better comfort, quality and safety for the patient, in this same administration. Aware that the importance is in access to these devices, the CFP, in 2019, presented a proposal for a change in the State budget for 2020 that allowed the extension of the participation to 100 % of the subcutaneous infusion system of insulin to be poured into it, ensuring access to all eligible users, regardless of their age. It was a difficulty that was created, because from the age of 19, there was no such participation. One of the greatest challenges of the person with diabetes and of the health professionals who accompany it is to stabilize blood glucose levels in order to improve their quality of life, as well as to achieve good clinical results in terms of preventing complications associated with the disease. We talk about acute complications, such as hypoglycaemia, but we also talk about late and chronic complications. Therefore, the Government has announced — and here I also welcome the decisive intervention of APDP to set up the working group and to push the political decision itself — access to these modern and more advanced systems, which we expect to be implemented. In Portugal we have the possibility of administering this technology to 15 000 people, and in the last 12 years only 4710 people have had access to the current, less evolved bombs. We are talking about a number of people who need that access, and we need to start implementing now — this is the issue! We agree and welcome their availability to families in the Community pharmacies, but we must not forget that it would also be important that, in primary health care and even in the 27 public centers and in the APDP, if they could make these systems available — with better results, certainly, with reduced complications, with improved quality of life. We need the process to be transparent and I would like to leave this important concern to you. The Government announces that in the next 120 days it will move forward to this system. We know that everything is not achieved one day at a time, but we need to move ahead to improve the quality of life of our children and of all those who meet the eligibility criteria, regardless of their age. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-01.u159	To present the Resolution Project No 582 / XV / 1. Mr Rui Tavares.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-01.u160	Are you there yet? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-01.u161	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : I would like to begin, like what has already been done by other parliamentary groups, by welcoming the Protecting Association of the Diabetics of Portugal,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-01.u162	You didn't hear, you weren't here!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-01.u163	... by their act of citizenship, because they have collected more than 24,000 signatures for the petition we are discussing, which well illustrates the importance that this issue has for the daily life of many people and the way it is crossed by social, financial differences among families in Portugal. According to data published by the petitioners themselves, there are about 30 000 people living with type 1 diabetes in Portugal, a number that has increased considerably in recent years, and among these people it is estimated that one third will have clinical indication, and that they can use a hybrid system of continuous subcutaneous infusion of insulin — which the Book defends, as other parliamentary groups, that the State should support. It is also important to highlight, in this discussion, what we learned yesterday: a department of the Ministry of Health has been published, creating a program for treatment with state-of-the-art insulin pumps for thousands of people with type 1 diabetes, indicating that these systems should start receiving the devices still this year. However, this programme, which we welcome, is also a direct result of the operation of a working group proposed by the Free in the State Budget which is running this year. Therefore, knowing what we have achieved—and certainly it was not, by chance, knowing that there was this debate today—we also brought up a draft resolution to recommend to the Government that the above-mentioned working group be made available the recommendation of the National Institute of Excellence in Health and Care of the United Kingdom so that people living with type 1 diabetes have free access to the latest technology, called 'artificial pancreas', which helps to control blood glucose levels and only needs minimal human intervention, eliminating finger-stamping tests. It also prioritizes access to this artificial pancreas technology to people who live with type 1 diabetes and who have difficulty stabilizing mean blood glucose levels. What we conquered yesterday, and what we will certainly come to conquer is a sign that it is worth fighting, it is worth having an act of citizenship like the one that brings you here today. It is worth it because it has the support of several parliamentary groups and the Free Party, also represented in this Parliament. Well done!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-01.u164	We have moved on to the intervention period and to this end I have the floor of Mr Inês Barroso of the PSD Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-01.u165	Mr. President, Mr. As and Mrs. Members: Of course, the PSD Parliamentary Group begins its intervention by welcoming the more than 24 000 petitioners who brought to this House the possibility that we will again examine the conditions for access to the appropriate treatments of those with type 1 diabetes and their quality of life, as is obvious. Therefore, we welcome the Protective Association of Diabetics of Portugal, not only because it is the oldest association in the world in these care, but also because of the remarkable work that it develops in the follow-up of more than 850,000 people with diabetes, having only in 2021 conducted more than 55 000 consultations. The subscribers of the petition in question appeal to this access of people with type 1 diabetes to hybrid insulin infusion systems and draw attention to the difficulties and constraints of this access in our country. So in our country, we have to do something to make these about 850,000 diabetics — including 5,000 children and young people — have better quality of life. The Social Democratic Party has never been indifferent to APDP's appeals. We recall that, during the discussion of the State budget, the PSD also presented a proposal for the approval of the system's participation, which, unfortunately, was rejected by the Socialist Party. The PS preferred that the Government set up a working group to update the strategy of access to treatment with insulin continuous subcutaneous infusion devices and therefore only now announced, finally, a programme for treatment with insulin pumps, which could have been created long ago. Thus time was lost and type 1 diabetics continued to lack quality of life. But, finally, it's worth more late than ever and we're going to give the benefit of the doubt. Moreover, the problem is that, here too, «the devil is in the details». The truth is, if what is now important is to ensure rapid universal access to people with diabetes, the government is preparing to launch a complicated, bureaucratic and time-consuming program,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-01.u166	On the contrary!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-01.u167	... thus delaying the granting of a right which should have long been granted to patients.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-01.u168	Where did you read that?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-01.u169	As Dr. José Manuel Boavida said, "the truth is that people can't wait anymore. We call for the Minister to reconsider the deadlines, making the whole process faster and faster.' As far as it is known, the Government will seek to universalize access to this programme by 2026, i.e. three years from now. What we mean is that it's too much time, let's not forget about the children. It is important to make this access faster and the PSD will therefore enable the initiatives under discussion today, not so much for the concrete proposals of each of them, but because we recognize that they care about improving the quality of life and the clinical safety of people with type 1 diabetes, which are also the causes of the PSD. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-01.u170	It needs a set of data!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-01.u171	For an intervention, Mrs Joana Cordeiro of the Parliamentary Group of the Liberal Initiative has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-01.u172	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin by congratulating the 24,088 subscribers of this petition, which again brings to the debate in this Parliament a matter of greater relevance for all people living with type 1 diabetes and their families, i.e. access to hybrid systems for continuous subcutaneous infusion of insulin. We are talking about access to the highest quality of life, access to more autonomy, access to more control and assurance of better management of the disease. And all this is even more important when it comes to children, who, at their age, need greater monitoring, stricter, more effective and more secure. On several occasions, the Liberal Initiative has had the opportunity to express its position regarding the participation of these insulin pumps, and what we say is that all that emerges and can contribute to the improvement of people's health status, to the improvement of their quality of life and their safety, and that it presents a proven value vis-à-vis what already exists, must be accessible and universal. Mrs. Members, when we talk about children and we are dealing with the sharing of devices that ensure them greater security in controlling their disease and that they prevent their parents and caregivers from always being « with the heart in their hands», the social sensitivity of the state should be even greater. Here, we all know that most schools do not have enough professionals or skills to help children with diabetes in the measurement of glucose or insulin administration, and we all agree that these children have the right to normal life. That's why, sirs. Members, if, with these new insulin pumps, this is possible, we cannot deny them that right. The Government and the Socialist Party — as always, in these matters — have claimed that more studies are needed, that the devices are very expensive, that prices need to be negotiated, and even we do not take them away from it, but what the Liberal Initiative does not accept is that the Government is permanently taking refuge in working groups that are only creating to « push with the belly». Because yes, sir. Ladies and gentlemen, this is exactly what the government has done once again. We had, yesterday, on the eve of this discussion, the news that the government has created a program for treatment with state-of-the-art insulin bombs. We welcome this decision and greet the petitioners, especially the APDP, for this victory they have achieved. However, we must not fail to point out that there has been a need for a petition, signed by more than 24 000 people, so that the government would decide to act.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-01.u173	Oh, yes!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-01.u174	And, yes— because this is no longer the first time that this happens, neither the second nor the third — the Socialist Party's government does not act, it reacts! And it only reacts when it is mediatedly pressed. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the Liberal Initiative must not fail to regret the need for people to come to the public to expose their diseases and difficulties, all their suffering, so that the Government is worthy of meeting their needs. This is purely disrespectful to patients and demonstrates total social insensitivity. The Socialist Party propagates the social state, but is denying solutions to whom it needs the most so far when social and media pressure becomes completely unsustainable—and this is not at least acceptable! On the side of the Liberal Initiative, we welcome the petitioners for the civic attitude they had and which, by the way, will have resulted, but on the contrary, we will be able to achieve all the initiatives presented today, because until we see the announcement which was made strategically by the government yesterday, we have every reason to doubt its rapid implementation. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-01.u175	Everyone, everybody!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-01.u176	For an intervention, Mrs Susana Correia of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-01.u177	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin by congratulating Dr. José Manuel Boavida, the first petitioner of the petition for access to hybrid systems for continuous subcutaneous infusion of insulin and for the quality of life of people with type 1 diabetes, and, in his person, more than 24,000 subscribers and APDP, for work, for mission, for this cause. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We agree with the petitioners when they classify this system as revolutionary and when they defend access to these hybrid insulin systems in Portugal. They point out that this is already a reality in our country, but because of the value it implies, it becomes impractical for most families. We are fully sensitive to the petitioners' appeal so that children and young people with type 1 diabetes...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-01.u178	All of them!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-01.u179	... have access to this new technology, under the prescription of a specialist, at all pumping centers in the country, contributing to a significant improvement in the quality of life of children, their families, citizens with type 1 diabetes.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-01.u180	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-01.u181	The initiatives presented by the Left Block, the CFP, the Free and the NAP, generally propose to the Government the creation of an exceptional system for the participation of hybrid systems for continuous infusion of insulin. On this subject, there are three points to be mentioned: first, the National Programme for Diabetes ; second, the approval of the State budget for 2023 ; and third, the creation of the programme for universal access to last generation insulin bombs, recently announced by the Minister of Health. [[P.S.'s applause.]] With regard to the first point, the National Diabetes Programme records that since 2015 have tripled people with access to treatment with insulin pumps. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-01.u182	It was easy to triple! [[CH's laughs.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-01.u183	More 4 100 people with type 1 diabetes in the treatment program, which has been working since 2019. The placement of the devices and clinical monitoring occur in specific treatment centers that exist throughout the regions of our country; and are monitored both in paediatric and adult age. Second, the State budget for 2023, in Article 154. the, provides for : « Extension of access to hybrid insulin continuous subcutaneous infusion systems ». The government has set up a working group... [[CH's laughs.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-01.u184	One more working group!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-01.u185	... to assess the participation and the conditions for extending access to these new automatic devices. of what we know, the team created, of which APDP and other health professionals and specialists are part,... [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-01.u186	... have already submitted the proposal and the report of this working group.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-01.u187	You know a month ago!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-01.u188	contrary to what many try to make happen, these working groups are often an important contribution to decision-making. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-01.u189	But the working group is not finished yet...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-01.u190	The third, and last point, relates to the program for universal access to state-of-the-art insulin pumps, created and announced by the government. In the words of the Minister of Health, this programme is the result of the proposal of the working group delivered. [[Sure!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-01.u191	It's a very ambitious program that makes us very happy... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ... by the investment involved in promoting access to a last generation system, in a treatment programme to a number, estimated and proposed by the working group, of 15 000 people with type 1 diabetes.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-01.u192	Now it's 5000, they're going to triple!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-01.u193	This program, which certainly prides us all—I am convinced that it prides us all! — represents a significant improvement in the quality of life of these people, greater security for families and caregivers, and gives continuity to the implementation of the Government's Programme which sets, as one of the priorities, continues to develop the policy of innovation for access to medicines and medical devices. Therefore, if we had already argued that the initiatives to be carried out in this area should take into account the outcome of this working group — in which we trust, taking into account its composition — we say that the creation by the Government of this programme for universal access to the latest generation insulin bombs was emptying the objective and object of these initiatives. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Protests by PCP MP João Dias and BE Member Catarina Martins.]] In conclusion, Madam President, I stress: it is a very ambitious programme, which is intended to be universal, equitable, which improves the outcome of the treatment of diabetes and the lives of children and citizens in Portugal. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-01.u194	Are you going to do it? Oh, my God! The easiest thing is to approve!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-01.u195	For an intervention, Mr Bruno Nunes, of the Parliamentary Group of the Arrival, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-01.u196	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: If there is anything that triggers diabetes levels, it is the nervous system. As a diabetic, right now, I'm sure I'm at quite high levels after what I just heard here. [[Protests from PCP MP João Dias.]] Let me say the following: being diabetic does not give me any more legitimacy before this House, but being a Member gives me legitimacy to say that you should be ashamed of your face for what you are doing. [[Congrats from the CH.]] Being a Member gives me the legitimacy to say that your speech and what you did yesterday, to try to empty out, does not solve absolutely anything about the role that you have been doing to families and patients for years and years.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-01.u197	Instead of adding problems, we solve problems.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-01.u198	It's not a year ago—because it's not a year since there's diabetes in Portugal! — that this problem exists. The gentlemen have never solved anything! Your government has been in power since 2015,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-01.u199	Well! Well!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-01.u200	...and you didn't solve anything at all. [[PS MP Joana Lima's protests.]] It is no use to say that they come here and that «they emptied on the eve». Mr Freeman is not here, but on 14 November, World Diabetes Day, after the government presented the creation of the working group - created so quickly and so populistly - it was necessary to come to the appendix of the PS to propose a heading in State Budget, because there was not even any money registered to do the working group that VV. Ex. presented.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-01.u201	Is he there, or isn't he?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-01.u202	It was a favor that the Free did to you, but the Free continued to do the favors after you presented the proposals yesterday. Let me say the following: when they created the working group, so that we all know what we are talking about, it was a recommendation for constitution, according to empty indications and full of nothing. During this whole time, you presented these programmes without being able to assume that the only proposal, in the State budget, which referred to total participation...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-01.u203	That's enough!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-01.u204	...it's enough! [[Ah!...]] [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-01.u205	VV. Ex.s voted against, the Socialist Party's appendix abstained and the left, i.e., the PCP and the Left Block, followed the proposal. You guys should be ashamed, so ashamed! You know, diabetes isn't left-hand or right-hand. I know other Members within this Chamber who also have the disease — from left to right. [[PS MP Joana Lima's laughs.]] The way you have managed this means that you delay without realizing that these late months are important. I will give you an example, in order to understand the importance of not often having regulation, and often having peaks during the day. I was always a controlled patient, until, at a certain time, on December 17, of three years ago, I had a peak and had a stroke (brain stroke). So you don't know what you're playing with. It's not just the kids. Be ashamed of the lack of responsibility, not understanding the importance of what is at stake here. The only thing they did was plumbar, for one reason: because what was at the top of the proposal was « Arrive» and the first subscriber was André Ventura. You guys take that right! There is one thing that diabetics are certain throughout life: when we are diagnosed with diabetes, we know perfectly well that, in principle, despite our hope, we will live our whole life with diabetes. We learn to shape our habits and get used to it, we correct mistakes that we have been practicing, over the years, and that we often do, already late, depending on the origin of our diabetes. We know how to deal with diabetes. However, there is one thing with which diabetics are sure that they do not need to deal with life all: with incompetence, irresponsibility and shamelessness in the face of the Socialist Party! [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-01.u206	You don't know what he's saying!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-01.u207	For an intervention, Mrs Fernanda Velez of the PSD Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-01.u208	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mrs Susana Correia: I will ask you two questions, for which I ask for very clear answers. The Government recently announced the approval of a programme for the treatment of people with type 1 diabetes with insulin pumps. It was an announcement made on the eve of this debate, you can see for what purpose. It is once again, and as always, the media agenda to mark the priorities of the government rather than being the real interests of the patients. Now, as far as you know, the availability of this system of automatic insulin administration will be slow and restrictive. It will be slow because access will only be universal in 2026, and will be restrictive because it will be possible only in the 28 currently recognized treatment centers, 27 of which in SNS hospitals and the other in the Protective Association of the Diabetics of Portugal. It happens that APDP — once again demonstrating its high concern about the rights and protection of the quality of life of patients — has called for rapid universal access of diabetics to these state-of-the-art insulin pumps. To this end, the APDP proposes — and the PSD agrees — that the programme be as unburocratized as possible, since it can only represent an effective and real benefit for thousands of patients, facilitating their access to these insulin pumps. This disburocratization is due to the use of the existing distribution system in the pharmacy, for this being, as Dr. José Manuel Boavida says, « definitely the most controlled, agile and easily accessible». So I ask you, Madam Member: do you follow this understanding? Do you think that the government should make it possible for these equipment to be made available also in the Community pharmacies—with the proper training of patients and their family members, of course—or do you think that those 28 centres are sufficient? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-01.u209	For an intervention, Mrs Isabel Pires of the Left Block Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-01.u210	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : At the end of this debate, the intervention of the Socialist Party was unfortunately what we were waiting for. I just wanted to reinforce the objective of the projects, particularly the left block bill.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-01.u211	We're waiting!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-01.u212	If I may, sir. What we want to ensure, with the presentation of this project, is to know, of the two, one: if people with type 1 diabetes expect, at least until 2026, or if we can speed up this process and, in addition, — as planned in our project –, solve the problems that happened before. So far, we do not know whether or not the government wants to solve these problems that have been encountered before. It is therefore a matter of speed in this case. It is a matter of speeding up and playing for insurance, as I said earlier, since — Mr President. Members of the Socialist Party — the Ministry of Health and the Minister of Health, in particular, have already made several announcements on various matters and will then be seen, and the people, users and places that need those equipment and what has been announced remain years and years waiting. Therefore, what we want to guarantee — that is why we think it is relevant and that it remains important to approve several of the projects that will be for vote tomorrow — is exactly the need for speed for people with type 1 diabetes in Portugal. We know what the solution is, everyone knows it, and it is capable of sowing for many people, and the government has indeed to comply with it as quickly as possible. That's what's at stake; it's not to know if we're gonna keep waiting, if we're gonna have deadlines that can reach 2026, that's to act as fast as possible, because we're talking about the quality of life of thousands of people in Portugal. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-01.u213	Mr Rui Tavares asks for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-01.u214	For an appeal to the Bureau on the conduct of the proceedings, Madam President.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-01.u215	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-01.u216	Mr President, I think there has been a reference recently to a proposal for a budget amendment to the Book, in terms that I believe — according to myself, because I was not in the Chamber at that time — were insulting, and the author of these statements is not in the Chamber now.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-01.u217	If you weren't in the hall, you don't know what you're talking about!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-01.u218	Mrs. Rita Matias, everyone has to leave the Chamber at a certain point. [[Protests by CH Member Rita Matias.]] But I am making an inquiry to the Bureau and therefore I want to speak to the Bureau, and I would like not to be interrupted. I will not ask for it to be distributed, because all Members have an obligation to know draft resolution No 582/XV/1. a, which is now being discussed,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-01.u219	You weren't here to present the project!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-01.u220	...but if I can finish my intervention,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-01.u221	Stop it, stop it!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-01.u222	... I would like to ask for the distribution of the draft budget amendment 1575 - C, which we have tabled, entitled « Availability of insulin pumps for people with type 1 diabetes ». This proposal has been implemented and helps thousands of our fellow citizens, but it has been referred to here as a mere appendix. I would like to know if helping our fellow citizens' lives is a mere appendix.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-01.u223	You're an appendix!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-01.u224	You're an appendix!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-01.u225	Mr Deputy, as you mentioned, is familiar with everyone. Having said this, we will move on to point 4 of our agenda, which consists in the assessment of Petition No 187 / XIV / 2. a (Cristina Maria Jorge Ferreira et al.) — Against hatred and free aggression on the Internet, together with, in general, the Bill No. 780 / XV / 1. a ( L) — Prevents the criminalization of cyberviolence and with Resolution Projects No. 683/XV/1. a (PAN) — Recommends to the Government the implementation of the law of digital services and the promotion of awareness-raising and training actions to combat online and cyberbullying hate speech and 693 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Measures to combat hate speech on the Internet. To submit Bill No. 780 / XV / 1. a (L) — It provides for the criminalization of cyberviolence, Mr Rui Tavares has the floor. [[Pause.]] Mr. Rui Tavares, shall we move forward?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-01.u226	Yes, please, Madam President.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-01.u227	in this case, to present the Resolution Project No 683 / XV / 1. a (PAN) — Recommends to the Government the implementation of the law of digital services and the promotion of awareness-raising and training actions to combat online hate speech and cyberbullying, has the floor to Mrs Inês de Sousa Real.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-01.u228	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin by greeting the petitioners, who have mobilized to have this topic discussed today, because the line that separates online and offline life is increasingly difficult to trace. This phenomenon mainly affects the younger ones, who spend the equivalent of two months a year glued to the screen. Living in the digital age can be exciting, but it is also very challenging and brings some dangers. Dependency is one of them, as well as negative impacts on mental health. We know for a long time that assaults are no longer alone in schools, nor are they so closely linked to physical violence. The Internet facilitates and social networks, mainly, provide a hostile environment for many children and young people. Let's remember cases like Megan's ones, only 13 years old, who put an end to her own life, after having been encouraged by suicide for hearing that the world would be better without her. This was said not only by a young colleague, but also by the mother of that same young colleague. Or the case of 15-year-old Amanda who committed suicide after posting a video in which she reported her history of bullying and the persecutions, after having been shared intimate photos of hers. The cases are too many: insults, unconsensual sharing of intimate photos, incitement to suicide, automation or harassment related to an entire exposure of toxic contents, with unreal images, which encourage restrictive behaviors or food disorder. They are content that encourages them not to accept themselves as they are and to hate themselves and their body, they are unwanted messages of sexual charity or messages such as « you should kill yourself», or « if they were like you, they had already killed me». It is even a hate that spreads and reaches this Parliament, with hate messages, often to public figures, political entities, among many others, in our community. We are also talking about the invasion of the Three Powers Square in Brazil, or the invasion of the Capitol in the United States, fueled by the hatred of social networks, and we can thus perceive the high dimension of these phenomena. We have not done enough, particularly for young people whose risks are still little known. That is why, today, the NAP brings forward a proposal aimed at creating a figure from the national coordinator of digital services for guarantees of rights, in particular with regard to hate speech or the dissemination of violence. We also want this figure to promote awareness-raising actions for online hate speech and its risks, and to promote the necessary literature in this area, with a view to empowering young people in the defence of human rights and respect for their neighbour and also for youth itself, so that young people like Amanda or Megan do not have to lose their lives.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-01.u229	Now, yes, Mr Rui Tavares has the floor to present Bill No. 780 / XV / 1. a (L) — Prevents the criminalization of cyberviolence.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-01.u230	Thank you very much, Madam President. I would also like to thank Mrs Inês de Sousa Real for being ready — when I was looking for my intervention — to present her initiative, as the CFP will do next. I would also like to greet the petitioners — the more than 50 000 people who have signed this petition. Given the early hour of the debate, there were some who were here in the Assembly of the Republic, but now they are no longer. I would like to tell everyone — who is here and who is outside our Parliament — that cyberviolence is already considered socially, by everyone, as a specific form of violence, certainly criminal, still above a very clear gender bias, since there is research that proves that this is a phenomenon that disproportionately affects women and girls. It is a crime—if I can express myself like this—of cowards, of those who try to motivate others to exercise violence for them, of those who also try to influence some, more vulnerable, so that they can practice the violence they want to see exercised on others. From this point of view, it is particularly serious and, in some cases, as already mentioned here, it leads some people, particularly adolescents, to suicide. As a community, we have an obligation to avoid and combat this crime. The Free House today brings a proposal for the criminalization of cyberviolence, and it is very clear and very restricted also in order to preserve and safeguard other rights online. Our initiative proposes the following: whoever adopts, repeatedly, behaviors of threat or coercion, through information and communication technologies, against persons or groups of people, by making them unwarrantedly afraid for their safety or those in charge, is criminalized; whoever practices these behaviors through online means, i.e. by disseminating their kind of message to influence others, is punished with imprisonment, and may go up to 5 years; that these conducts are aggravated when they are practiced against the minor victim, against the person or group of people because of their race, color, ethnic or national origin, descent, religion, sex, etc. We know that this is a concern that is common to several parliamentary groups in this House. We know that everyone realizes the importance of fighting these phenomena now, so that we do not repeat the worst that has happened in some other countries of the world. We therefore hope that we will be able to make this proposal viable, as the Free will also enable the proposal of other political parties, so that we can take another step forward in creating secure virtual spaces for all people.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-01.u231	To present the draft resolution of the CFP, Mr Duarte Alves has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-01.u232	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin by welcoming the more than 50 000 signatories of this petition, thanking the civic gesture of bringing this important matter to the Assembly of the Republic. The inclusion of hate speech in various types of communication, either orally or in writing, constituting offensive or using pejorative or discriminatory language against individuals or groups, for the most varied reasons, depending on their religious or political affiliation, nationality, ethnic or racial origin, skin color, descent, sex, identity and sexual orientation, or others, is an increasingly common element in our society. It is important not to forget that this phenomenon is not disconnected from the acuteization of social inequalities, as well as the promotion of violence, intolerance, individualism and a global agenda for the promotion of retrograde and antidemocratic ideologies. The hate speech is enhanced by social networks and the Internet, but it also happens outside the virtual world. In fact, hate speech has the legitimizing and driving effect of aggression and physical violence against targeted people.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-01.u233	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-01.u234	In order to insult, threaten, intimidate and dehumanize a person or group, distinguishing them from the rest of the population and stigmatizing them, these practices may have devastating consequences, with translation, in particular, on an individual level, in the reduction of the feeling of security and belonging, in manifestations of anxiety, in the quality of sleep, in appetite, in concentration, in mood and in general well-being and by promoting isolation, even leading to serious clinical situations and suicide.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-01.u235	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-01.u236	The CFP considers that it is necessary to work in the prevention, awareness of society and in the care of the protection of victims, so it is urgent to take incisive measures, such as those proposed by the CFP in the initiative leading to this debate. First, we propose strengthening measures to prevent and raise awareness of this problem, both online and in relation to different forms of discrimination. Secondly, we propose the development of actions with public and private entities, in order to adopt the principle of non-reference to potential elements generating discrimination, including racial and ethnic origin, nationality, descent, territory of origin, documental status or other, except in situations where such reference is indispensable to the news and this is explicitly stated in the content of the report. Thirdly, we propose a compromise of the averages with equality and non-discrimination, with voluntary membership, with a code of conduct and its own objectives, which can be voted on by users. Fourthly, we propose the integration in mental health measures of the early follow-up of the victims of the hate speech. With regard to other initiatives to be discussed, the CFP would like to take a decision on the draft of the Book, which once again comes into a recurring temptation to create new types of crime, when there is of course a framework in the Criminal Code for these threat or coercion crimes, in particular in Article 240. this Code, be practised offline or online.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-01.u237	It's obvious!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-01.u238	To specify in detail the characteristics of a new type of crime in crimes that are already being punished today means, almost always, allowing greater interpretative swings in court. In addition, we must ask ourselves whether this logic that faced a problem should always create a new type of crime, with a new, more aggravated criminal framework, corresponds to a progressive and left-wing response. The path to progress is not to have a State that does not make prevention, that does not control, that does not train in public services and private entities, that does not accompany the victims and only appears at the time of punishment and exercising its repressive action. Portugal has a legacy of a progressive view of criminal policy that must be preserved, even when it comes to matters which should mobilize the whole of society, as is the case with what is being discussed here today. All data show that there is the legal definition of more crimes and greater penalties does not mean less crime; in fact, it is usually the opposite. It is in countries with very high penalties, such as the United States of America, where there is greater crime. This is a more general discussion and is obviously also part of the initiative that the Free will brings to the discussion. On the other hand, the initiative that the CFP brings to the table puts on the table the measures that a State feels about the dignity of the human person and attentive must take on a growing problem and give adequate answers, such as those proposed in the draft resolution under consideration. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-01.u239	We move on to the intervention stage. To begin with, Mr Rui Paulo Sousa, from the Parliamentary Group of the Arrival, has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-01.u240	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: It is undeniable that phenomena of physical and psychological violence and odious language, previously observed in smaller circles, now gain a greater proportion and visibility through the Internet, with social networks spreading this type of violence at high speed and sometimes with great impact on visas.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-01.u241	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-01.u242	in this sense, it is without reservation that we join the petitioners, when they warn about the need to protect the honor, dignity and privacy of the privacy of victims of attacks and offenses on the internet. And we know very well what that is, particularly the Members, leaders and militants of the Arrival. [[Congrats from the CH.]] We are the target of constant threats and serious injuries on the Internet and feel good in the skin what it is to be persecuted and insulted in the world of social networks. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-01.u243	The legitimate and democratic representatives of a large part of the Portuguese people who voted in the Arrival, because they were very uncomfortable for opinion controllers, have already been victims of stones, physical threats and very serious accusations, without any basis against their honour and convictions. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-01.u244	But, for reasons of mere convenience of interests, the so-called "hate speech" today, as we well know, has very much to do with interpretations, serving to label policies and policies only because they do not defend the neo-Marxist and globalist agenda. [[Congrats from the CH.]] It is necessary to separate the wheat from the juicy and know how to distinguish what is truly hate speech, that, yes, condemned, from purely censorship to different political ideas, as today seem to want certain political forces of the left and extreme left. To silence opinions contrary to dominant thought can be very tempting, but it has nothing to do with democracy.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-01.u245	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-01.u246	Unfortunately, this unacceptable and unacceptable silence is an increasingly frequent reality in social networks, universities, cinema, television, even parliaments. I recall that we have already been silenced in this House, the House of Democracy, just by expressing different political opinions,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-01.u247	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-01.u248	... when we represent an already significant part of the Portuguese who voted just to be their voice, to the point of being, today, the third national party force in the current democracy. [[Congrats from the CH.]] Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, today there are, unfortunately, parties who say, from mouth to mouth, that have scrolls in the fight against a dictatorship and who are now fighting in a relentless manner for the control of opinion in social media bodies and social networks. Nothing so strange, since after the Revolution of 25 April there were party forces that are still in this Parliament for now and who have fought with weapons for a new dictatorship, more fierce than the previous one, with control over opinion and even without elections. [[Congrats from the CH.]] And even in a recent socialist government, chaired by José Socrates — who does not leave us with the memory, especially from our pocket — there are no lack of lamentable and deplorable maneuvers of control of social communication, social networks and other forms of expression of free thinking. in a single well-known phrase, "who fucks with the PS, leads".
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-01.u249	That's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-01.u250	To limit freedom of public and political expression only by the fact that we do not agree with a given idea has a name: it is called 'censorship'. And with this we cannot all agree, when just in democracy is the people and the freedom of the people who order the most. Therefore, we say loudly: not to the monopoly of "truth"! Not the replacement of truth by the monopoly of the official narrative! Censorship in democracy, never — will always have our firm opposition! [[Ch's applause, stand up.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-01.u251	For an intervention, Mrs Patrícia Gilvaz of the Liberal Initiative Parliamentary Group has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-01.u252	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The exercise of the right to petition is an act of citizenship and of bringing political power closer to society and, therefore, the Liberal Initiative congratulates the petitioners on the exercise of this democratic right, bringing to this Parliament a matter of unequivocal social relevance. However, although socially relevant, we are faced with a complex issue, which places on one of the scales the right to good name, reputation and honor and, on the other side of the scale, the right to freedom of expression, touchstone, basic foundation and fundamental right of our country and any state of democratic law. The position of the Liberal Initiative, with regard to freedom of expression, is public and clear and will not change or change, in particular as regards the intransigent defence of the right of all to express and freely disclose their thoughts by word, image or other means, ensuring that the exercise of these rights cannot be prevented or restricted by any type or form of censorship and must, of course, do so with the responsibility that the exercise of any freedom of expression entails. Of all the parties present in this debate, it is the Liberal Initiative that stands out, without fear or hesitation, in defending freedom of expression. We were the first to rise against Article 6. the Portuguese Charter of Human Rights in the Digital Age,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-01.u253	Liar! It was the seconds!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-01.u254	... that opened the door to the police mechanisms of the online discourse, controlled by the state, the battle we finally won, but only after much public struggle and parliament. Having said this, we are, of course, supportive of the concerns of society and we are concerned about the impact certain conduct taken in the digital space may have, especially in mental health. We understand that online platforms can often enhance some disinhibition of users who, the cover of anonymity, do not hesitate to offer offenses or even insults to others, in particular those especially exposed to media phenomena. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ensuring balance and proportionality is essential so that we do not get close to a security and permanent control society. We take advantage of it to stress that the Court of Justice of the European Union, in a recent judgment in which we review, alerts against the use of automatic recognition and filtering tools that condition the right to freedom of expression and information of users of content sharing services, setting clear lines in this area. I conclude by recalling George Bernard Shaw, who gave us the idea that progress is incompatible with censorship. We need to be free to adhere or not to good and bad ideas. We need to be free to say that some of these ideas don't work. We need to be free to use good ideas to challenge existing powers. We need to be free to unionize powers, to find mechanisms for none of these powers to crush others and, above all, not to create, formally or informally, figures of control and repression of freedom. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, who tries to control language, sooner or later will try to control thought. This drive can only be answered in a way, in defense of freedom. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-01.u255	For an intervention, Mrs Sofia Matos of the PSD Parliamentary Group has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-01.u256	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We have seen, for these days, the continued degradation of the rule of law, which we have used to sacralize, particularly the sovereign bodies in which we must even trust that democracy and freedom will continue to be an imperative in our lives. If, in recent times, we have become accustomed to a certain turmoil around the government, its existence and its already questionable authority, it is only to remember that for too long the citizens have lost confidence in justice. To live apathically with the idea that our rulers are not confident is as atrocious and pernicious to democracy as peacefully cohabiting with inoperative and inaccessible justice or with courts that are unable to apply the laws. That is why we are increasingly required to exercise with great responsibility the power conferred on us by the citizens and by the Constitution at the Assembly of the Republic. This responsibility is undoubtedly due to making laws, but also to ensuring a legal security framework, not transforming the legal order and, more specifically, criminal law into a mural of populist fires capable of fertilizing the best cases for newspapers. [[PSD applause.]] The 51 000 subscribers of the petition against hate and free aggression on the Internet call us for a debate which, as they suggest, must become undisturbed at political level. And the PSD greets them for that. Therefore, our challenge, as such important fractions of the system and of the order we want to protect, is not just creating laws. It is also in the maintenance and susceptibility of its application. The subject we are dealing with today is about defending people and their rights, regardless of where they are. Injuring, defaming, threatening or coercing a citizen is a crime, regardless of the crime being perpetrated on the street or in digital space. It's the same thing. As the Portuguese Charter of Human Rights states in the Digital Age, which has already been discussed, the rules that have been in force in the Portuguese legal order and which enshrine rights, freedoms and guarantees are fully applicable in the digital space. This same law, which we passed in 2021, is the responsibility of the State to ensure a digital environment that promotes and defends human rights and promotes the responsible use of the Internet. For the purpose of fulfilling this plan, for two days the victims of the crime of non-consensual dissemination of intimate content have seen their rights strengthened. Anyone who disseminates, by WhatsApp, sites, media or social media, photographs or intimate videos from others can from now on be punished with a prison sentence up to five years. Here, the Assembly acknowledged that it was necessary to act in the face of the legal vacuum that the mere invasion of private life no longer guarded. As for defamation or injury, threat or coercion, it will no longer be. Even though written and through means that facilitate its disclosure, as is already foreseen, are criminal offences that have always existed in criminal law and it will certainly not be through the empowerment of another type of crime, redundant, that we will bring order to the Internet. Obviously, we do not watch the way people are wildly attacked on the Internet and how anyone feels totally legitimate to do so with full sense of impunity. But it will also not be with propaganda numbers and political irresponsibilities that the Internet will no longer be the far west. The challenge is to know how we will do it without harming the other fundamental rights, such as freedom of expression, but by making the rule of law also apply to digital means. Of course, offenders must be held accountable. In order to hold offenders accountable, it is necessary to identify them, which is often in vain, given the use of false profiles. This gap, which we believe to be the one that contributes most to such a feeling of impunity, is the most difficult to resolve without operating at Community level and in global space. Therefore, we urge the major international platforms to rethink their policies of registration of users and control of hate in order to protect the most vulnerable: young people and children who are still forming their personalities. On the other hand, we must not comply with this state of affairs and realize that there are no laws enough. This calls on us to take a second step: on the one hand, to strengthen the means of the authorities and the courts, which are impoverished and that this Socialist Party Government has been a productor in neglect and, on the other hand, to act in prevention, training and awareness-raising. If a certain reality has not yet been absorbed by the community to which it is addressed, then it is necessary to go further in the dissemination of crime and its legal consequences. We have recently seen an example of this. In bottle letters, in newspaper jokes, in push-up notifications of our mobile phones or even in prime-time news, we saw and read: "Have you been a domestic employee? It becomes a crime not to declare social security. » We still have no data on how many people have declared domestic work today, but surely there will be very few who ignore this warning. In the field of dissemination and awareness-raising for this problem, there is a need to take immediate action. As the years pass, there are lives at stake, lives that can never be what they were again. philosopher Albert Camus wrote: "If man fails to reconcile justice and freedom, then he fails at all. Do not keep on seeking. ” [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-01.u257	For an intervention, Mrs Joana Mortágua of the Left Block Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-01.u258	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : I was preparing to tell myself clearly what the Left Block understands about this matter when I was confused with Mrs Patrícia Gilvaz's speech about whether we were discussing a petition for the right to insult on the Internet or a petition against impunity for those who insult on the Internet. [[Congratulations from BE, L and PS Members.]] It seems to me that we are not here discussing the freedom to be transphobic, homophobic, racist and to utter hate-based insults. That's not what we're discussing. We are discussing precisely the opposite. We are discussing how insults based on racist, homophobic, misogynistic, machist hatred, among others, do not pass impunity on the Internet, as they do not pass impunity in society. On this matter, I have to say that, in the assumptions I brought here, I almost entirely subscribe to what Mrs Sofia Matos said here. The Internet is a public space, it is a public space that is governed by the principle that what is illegal offline is illegal online. In certain matters belonging to the criminal field, this means that we must be able to apply already existing crimes to the Internet. The crime of injury, for example, and the crime of offense are crimes that already exist. There are other crimes that arise from the very irreality of the Internet: the crime of unconsensible disclosure of intimate or sexual images. It is a crime that, as a massified social phenomenon, is made possible by the Internet and is promoted by the Internet. Therefore, it is a crime very peculiar to the times we live in. There are other matters that are not criminal but that have criminal consequences. The main one has already been identified here, which is a person who is a victim of injury or offense on the Internet, to make a complaint, has to identify who offended her and who offended her. It is very difficult for people like me to block thousands of trolls every day on Twitter. Everyone knows how many accounts — most of the times of extreme right — that push Twitter to make offenses based on a culture of hate, a culture of discrimination.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-01.u259	Or extreme left! Or extreme left!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-01.u260	It's the left trolls!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-01.u261	at this point, I think that the petition promoted by Cristina Ferreira and subscribed by 50 000 subscribers is quite right. When there is a transposition of the so-called Digital Act — a directive on online rights, which seeks, precisely, the balance between security and transparency and the rule of law; and this matter is being regulated in the European context, it is inescapable — we must ensure that there are more effective user identification mechanisms, so that people do not hide behind anonymity by making insults on the Internet that would not face their face.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-01.u262	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-01.u263	I think that is one of the issues we have to address. [[Protests by CH Member Rita Matias.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the balance between freedom of expression and the protection of users' rights is not always easy to achieve, and in the digital world, due to the speed and scope of content dissemination, additional challenges arise. It is about these challenges that we want to have a serious debate in order to protect the rights of citizens and citizens, but without losing sight of the fundamental rights of the rule of law. [[Congratulations from BE, PS, L and PSD Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-01.u264	For an intervention, Mrs Isabel Moreira of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-01.u265	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : I began to greet the more than 50,000 petitioners in the person of the first subscriber, Cristina Ferreira. Thank you for another opportunity to reflect on hate in today's time. It was today that he introduced the Government's bill that complements the transposition of the directive already referred to above, ( EU ) 2011 / 93 of the European Parliament and of the Council, and it is worth stressing the strengthening of the crime of discrimination and incitement to hatred and violence, particularly when practised computerly. Sexism and misogynism have enormous economic value. The large international platforms, which we have not managed to regulate nationally, have withdrawn content to some extent, while at the same time profiting from misogyny. Moreover, there is specific social communication that benefits and lives substantially from the daily use of success that, unfortunately, sexism has. Racialized people and LGBTI people (Lesbians, Gays, Bissexuals, Transgender and Intersex) are also targets of hatred, and hate sells. Many of the situations of intimidation through information and communication technologies occur in school context. There are young people who, at school age, succumb to suicide because of online hatred. It can't be. Of course, there's no legal void. The crimes of threat, persecution, coercion, sexual fraud, sexual harassment, injury and defamation are crimes which, if practiced online, are also crimes, as has already been said, and have specific aggravatings in this context, in addition to almost all crimes against sexual self-determination. It also ends with the publication of Law No. 26 / 2023, which strengthens the protection of victims of crimes of non-consensual dissemination of intimate contents. But there is always room to do more in the law and certainly in the means of action and always in education, which begins at school, which transmits constitutional values—yes, of the Constitution, which happily does not allow the school to leave children in the false peace of hatred and discrimination. [[P.S. and L.'s applause.]] Quoting researcher Susana Salgado, « The Internet has amplified and normalized hate». This is a phenomenon that affects all society and politics is no exception. Never as today has so much false and trendy information circulated between such a large number of people and so easily.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-01.u266	It's the government's! It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-01.u267	Never as today have political content included so much antagonism and hatred, and this is not only in politics. It allows what is termed « cyberdesinhibition ». There is a disconnect between how our brains are prepared to connect with others in conversations and debates and the kind of interface that is used in online interactions. The fact that anonymous interactions are allowed makes the problem even more acute. In politics, these conditions reinforce the manifestations of populism. The populism lies in the resentment and hatred of the other and in a need to prevail over the other; it is based on this cowardice. This division between 'we' and 'they' often encourages explicit demonstration of hatred and favors polarization. Because there are fewer filters, the Internet has thus increased visibility, but also the forms of manifestation and propagation of all kinds of ideas and feelings — including hatred. Today, continuing to quote the author: "emotions, especially those that shock and provoke reactions, are more important than the facts. In addition, the Internet has also provided more spaces for the mobilization of strategies and propagation of hate messages. In other words, the production of hate messages, including for commercial and entertainment purposes, has been democratized by trivializing the exposure to hate and facilitating its intentional consumption. Do not keep on seeking. ” If adults are cowardly hate explorers and diffusers of alternative toxic discourses, what consequences can we expect for young people, for women unprotected by these same adults? Who spreads hatred, who trades hatred, who politicizes hate, knows that it threatens the concrete bodies of racialized people, immigrants, women,... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ... of homosexual, chacot target, dehumanized gypsy? You know, of course you do! We must fight against the normalization of hate and extremist rhetoric banalized on the Internet, on social networks and, indirectly, through subsequent journalistic coverage. The struggle is enormous, because the enemies of decency use democracy, namely freedom of expression, to spread hatred, i.e., victimize themselves. Here we are to work, in the specialty, all initiatives that have this very: authenticity. I've said it. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-01.u268	Thank you very much, Your Honor. We conclude our agenda item 4 and with it our agenda. I'm going to give the floor to Mrs Maria da Luz Rosinha who has some announcements to make. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-01.u269	Mr President, it is only to realize that Law No 13 / XV / 1 has been withdrawn by the proposer. a, which was scheduled for tomorrow.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-01.u270	Mrs. Members, tomorrow's session begins at 10 a.m. and our agenda at the first point has the joint assessment of draft resolution No 657 / XV / 1. a ( BE) — Creation of codes of conduct and an independent structure of support for the victim and complaint in the case of harassment in higher education institutions and the Law Projects No 743 / XV / 1. a ( BE ) — Creates the legal type of crime of sexual harassment and qualified sexual harassment, reinforcing the legal protection of victims, 36 / XV / 1. a (PAN) — Prevents the crime of sexual harassment by making the fifty-sixth amendment to the Penal Code and the twentieth amendment to the Labour Code, 778 / XV / 1. a ( CH) — Ensures compliance with the Istanbul Convention by strengthening the protection of victims in the event of sexual harassment and 781 / XV / 1. a (L) — Creates responses of psychological support for victims of sexual harassment and violence in higher education and extends the scope of the Codes of Good Conduct for Prevention and Combating Assedio to all members of the academic community, in general, and of the Resolution Project No 686 / XV / 1. a (IL) — Recommends that the Government create strategies to deduce situations of moral and sexual harassment in higher education. In point 2, the general debate on the Proposal for a Law No 16 / XV / 1. a ( ALRAA ) — Eighth amendment to Law No 19 / 2003 of 20 June, Law on the Financing of Political Parties and Election Campaigns, repealing the tax benefits allocated to political parties. Finally, in point 3 we shall have the vote on the Rules of Procedure. I inform those who want to associate themselves with the tasting and appreciation of the cultural heritage of Reg Duras de Monsaraz which is in the new building. See you tomorrow and thank you very much. [[It was 18 hours and 10 minutes.]]
