ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-26.u1	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. We have all the parliamentary groups represented and the working quorum, so we will start our work. [[It was 10 hours and 5 minutes.]] I would like to ask the honourable Members. Authorities please open the galleries to the public. Thank you very much. Our agenda begins with the joint assessment, in general, of the Bill No 63 / XV / 1. a ( GOV ) — Authorizes the Government to approve a new legal regime of the public passenger transport service in taxi and of the Bills No. 454 / XV / 1. a ( PSD ) — The first amendment is made to Decree-Law No 84 / 2021 of 18 October on consumer rights in the purchase and sale of goods, contents and digital services, 766 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Modernization of the activity regime of the taxi sector ( ninth amendment to Decree-Law No 251 / 98 of 11 August ) and 775 / XV / 1. a ( CH ) — Alter the legal regime establishing the individual and paid passenger transport activity in uncharacterised vehicles ( TVDE ). To present the bill, Mr. Minister for Environment and Climate Action, Duarte Cordeiro.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-26.u2	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : We are discussing today the bill authorizing the Government to approve a new legal regime of the public passenger transport service in taxi. This proposal is anchored in three structural aspects for this activity: the access and organization of the market; the digitization of services; and the revision and simplification of the tariff model. The importance of the taxi sector for the mobility improvement strategy imposes reforms that allow effective modernisation of the sector, responding, through public transport, to the needs of all users, both in cities and in low-density territories, as an essential element of public transport systems. And because we know that transporting people and goods represents 28 % of greenhouse gas emissions and that, therefore, mobility is a central point in combating climate change, it is also essential to promote progressive decarbonisation of the taxi sector and to increase the efficiency of travel. The regime we propose to approve replaces the current legislation, which dates back to 1998, and not the various amendments that have suffered have prevented it from becoming globally obsolete in the face of the great transformations that society has suffered. Taxi transport continues to be requested as a guarantor of public strategies and policies that promote more efficient, inclusive and sustainable mobility, and must benefit from technological and organizational developments that have opened up new perspectives and materialize varied options in the mobility sector. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In the context of the ongoing dialogue that the Government has maintained with taxi sector agents in 2020 the working group for the modernization of taxi was set up, integrating not only representatives of the government and administration services, but also of the Authority for Mobility and Transport (AMT ), of the National Association of Portuguese Municipalities, of the metropolitan areas and inter-municipal communities and, with particular relevance, the organizations representative of the taxi sector. This task force was to present a set of recommendations to the Government with a view to reviewing the current regulation of rental transport in light passenger vehicles, focused on the modernisation of the taxi sector. It was from this working group that made the proposal, consensually among the various actors in the taxi sector - these, I stress the representative associations of the sector, thanking the valuable contribution, which today the Government intends to approve under the authorization of the Assembly of the Republic. With regard to market access and its organisation, including the reflection on the flexibility of current territorial and quantitative restrictions, I would like to highlight a few proposals. We propose the reorganization and updating of the rules of access to the activity, clarifying the differentiation between the licensing of access to the activity, which is the alvará and whose issue is the responsibility of the IMT (Instituto de Mobility et Dos Transportes ), and the operating licence, known as a taxi licence, whose issue is the responsibility of the municipalities. We reform the rules on the access and organisation of the market of the public passenger service by taxi, setting out the possibility for inter-municipal authorities to define, in conjunction with their municipalities, the territories and the terms where there should be inter-municipal management. For this inter-municipal management, municipalities may delegate part or all of their competences to inter-municipal entities, similar to what has already happened to public passenger transport. I stress that, in cases where there is inter-municipal management, it is allowed to take up and release passengers throughout the territory covered by the agreement, eliminating empty return rates, and may be replaced by others, such as progressive rates. We also consider the conduct of biannual assessments of fixed quotas, which will enable transport authorities to decide on the necessary adjustments between supply and demand and redefine the rules for the allocation of taxi licences. We have included the specification of the principles and rules which must be underlying the invitation to tender for licences under the quotas. From the outset, we propose that it be considered the age of vehicles, the use of low-emission vehicles and the modernisation of payment systems. With regard to the digitisation of services provided, in a perspective of effective modernisation, the proposal considers new models for the provision and contractualization of taxi services through reservation, which can be done digitally. The current legislation restricts the possibility of taxis providing contract services in cases where they are drawn up for a period of not less than 30 days. thus, with the establishment of digital contracts without a minimum deadline, it will be possible to contract taxi services in a more agile way. Finally, with regard to the revision and simplification of the tariff model and its adaptation to the new institutional context of the mobility and transport sector, we propose the reformulation of the tariff model, considering the new institutional reality of the mobility and transport system, in which the TN as a regulator becomes central to the formulation of the rules and tariff principles applicable to public passenger transport. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, with this new regime, which, as we have said, comes from the proposal presented by the working group for the modernization of taxi, we reaffirm the transport of passengers by taxi as a public service, characterized by its universality and availability, with particular relevance to the completeness of the public transport service and as promoter of territorial cohesion in low density territories. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-26.u3	Mr Minister has a request for clarification from Mrs Inês de Sousa Real, Mrs PAN, who has the floor to do so.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-26.u4	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mr Minister, there is one aspect of this proposal that we would like to see in depth in the field of expertise and that it is in line with the goals of decarbonisation. Although we agree that targets are set by 2030, it does no longer make sense that they can then be changed by the transport authority. in the same way, the discrimination between taxis and TVDE also makes no sense to us. It is not clear why these targets of decarbonisation are also not applied to TVDE and why they are not implemented until something that goes to Fit for 55, such as the requirement for the introduction of 100 % electric vehicles, particularly on TVDE, so that we can be more ambitious from the point of view of decarbonisation. Therefore, we would like to see if it is available to, as a specialist, by proposing to amend the NAP, to work on this matter. Another concern is the fact that the fares fixed in the airport crown or in festivities can be eliminated, since we have been able to collect exorbitant values, which does not precaution the interests of the users. On the other hand, we follow the proposal, but there are two aspects to which we would like to understand which openness to be changed in the field of specialty.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-26.u5	To reply, Mr President, the Minister for the Environment and Climate Action has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-26.u6	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much for your questions. With regard to decarbonization goals, objectively, it does not make sense to put them in a law, until I imagine that it is also a claim of the NAP that the country anticipates its decarbonization target of 2050 for a shorter period. In fact, in the Basics of Climate Law it is written that the country should seek to anticipate the targets of decarbonization. If everything goes well, let's anticipate decarbonization goals, not the other way around. Therefore, there should be agility in the laws so that, in particular, decarbonization goals will be changed, possibly more ambitiously and not the other way around. We will have sectoral and regional decarbonisation goals, as the Climate Bases Act says. Therefore, the mobility sector has to set targets for taxis, and it is desirable that they be aligned with the goals of Fit for 55 and other targets that we have from the point of view of mobility, particularly with regard to transport. But this goal will have to be defined; it was not defined and it did not seem normal to put it in the law. As far as specific tariffs are concerned, what this sector really needs is more flexibility. This was the result of the working group, and that is what we seek to frame in law, allowing the mobility authority to define the rules in detail regarding these specific tariffs. I see nothing wrong with the existence of specific tariffs, which allow this sector to modernise itself, correspond and be competitive with others with whom it immediately shares the responsibility of public passenger transport. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-26.u7	For the presentation of the PSD initiative, Mrs Patrícia Dantas has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-26.u8	Mr President, Mr Minister, Mr Secretary of State, Mr and Mr. Members: The draft law submitted by the PSD aims to improve the existing consumer rights decree in the purchase and sale of goods. in this case, in the sale of cars used by physical stands or online. The motto for this initiative, as well as its priority, is consumer protection. It is the priority because the consumer is the weakest link in a complex trading circuit — it has less negotiating power and, often, it is difficult to impose itself by judicial means. In addition, account must be taken of the value of the property, its proportion in the family budget and the potential for conflicts that may exist. In 2022, about 105 000 second-hand car units were marketed in Portugal, corresponding to two in three cars sold. The PSD therefore challenges the parties in this House, despite the improvements that may be introduced in the specialty, to enable this initiative which, in accordance with the applicable Community directive, aims to defend the consumer in the purchase of a used car, clarify the rules and bring the Portuguese legal regime closer to other European countries. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-26.u9	To present the PCP project, Mr Bruno Dias has the floor,... [[Pause.]] ... as soon as the photocopier allows you to be equipped with the indispensable instruments. [[Laughing.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-26.u10	I'll be there sooner! The plenary starts at 10 o'clock!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-26.u11	After all, it was the printer. [[Laughing.]] You have the floor, Mr Bruno Dias.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-26.u12	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government : First of all, we want to address all the professionals in the taxi sector and their representatives here present — a word of greeting for their commitment, their persistence and even their patience in this real calvary which has been the process of discussion with successive governments on the modernization of the sector. The taxi regime already needed to be revised in order to modernize it, as has been proposed for many years by industry associations and the CFP. The CFP has alerted and compared successive governments with this constant postponement of the implementation of the measures that were necessary and agreed with the sector for years. After the second working group for the modernization of the taxi sector has reached the same conclusions as the first one, the Government is now making a request for legislative authorisation for another six months. For the PCP, it is necessary to stop with the delaying maneuvers and fulfill the commitments made with the taxi sector for many years. It is a sector that faced the illegal action of multinationals such as Uber, who settled with the convience and support of the government, who faced the impacts of the pandemic, of which it has not yet fully recovered. It is a sector that has experienced, in recent years, the effects of significant increases in fuel prices, on which it depends to operate, and which consists mostly of micro and small entrepreneurs, to whom the PS Government denies what it offers to economic groups and multinationals. We will not let it be ignored or forgotten that in Portugal there are two legal regimes for the transport of passengers by light car, that the rules are not equal for all and that there is a regime of privilege in accordance with multinationals since PS and PSD legalized this unfair competition. That is why we do not understand how the Government, by finally scheduling this matter for plenary, has allowed other proposals that do not affect the taxi sector, particularly those of the PSD and the Arrival.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-26.u13	He hasn't even spoken yet!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-26.u14	It is like scheduling a debate on local trade and dragging proposals on large distribution!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-26.u15	That's right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-26.u16	What is needed is to follow up a set of proposals widely consensualized in the taxi sector and which contribute to its modernization, but also correct what is wrong in the decree-law approved in 2019. That is the meaning of the CFP proposal. We propose that the local and regional authorities, together with the representative associations of the sector, be able to establish measures for better management and distribution of the activity, considering, inter alia, seasonal quotas without increasing the quotas fixed. We propose the repeal of the so-called hourly rate, as it is currently out of date and must be eliminated, and the definition of service rules on the way and simplification of the existing regime, introducing the digital contract. We propose that the municipal chambers may regulate, in accordance with clear rules and in dialogue with the representative associations of the sector, the possibility of voluntary suspension of the activity to be requested, in a motivated and substantiated manner, by taxi license holders. And we propose, among other measures of our draft law, the possibility of creating seasonal tariffs in certain territories, and the completion of the process of establishing the regulation of access and the provision of services, with their tariff, at airports and port terminals, which has been dragging for years. The PCP once again presents its contribution to a more modern taxi sector, in better conditions for the indispensable public service, which guarantees every day from north to south of the country. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-26.u17	To present the initiative of the Arrival, Mr Filipe Melo has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-26.u18	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members: We have in Portugal more than 12 000 TVDE operators licensed by IMT, almost 60 000 certified drivers, more than 100 000 trips per day. The IMT report points to the importance of the review of diplomas, to create the obligation to enter into employment contracts with TVDE operators and their drivers. The Commission therefore proposes that the operator be the guarantor of the management of the fleet and its administrative legality; that drivers should, have to dominate the Portuguese language; that there be a limitation on the age of vehicles up to 7 years, up to 9 years for those who comply with the emission of polluting gases determined by the euro area and up to 12 years for hybrid vehicles. We propose that advertising should finally be allowed inside and outside vehicles, and operators may charge a maximum rate of 20 % of intermediation of the services and that the seat and fixed address of the establishment of the company should be provided to the public and registered. In conclusion, we propose that sanctions be applied for offences committed with deliberation or negligence. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, what happens — and that the news proves — is serious. The speaker posted a newspaper. "TVDE drivers with fake cards for 200 €" — this is what is happening in our country.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-26.u19	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-26.u20	Licences are sold to citizens coming from Bangladesh, Nepal, Pakistan, India, Syria, Libya and all else, who do not speak a word in Portuguese and have angry attitudes with our women and our children who carry them daily. [[Congrats from the CH.]] We're not going to tolerate news like this! There's human trafficking in TVDE!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-26.u21	Shame!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-26.u22	That's because he's never been harassed on a TVDE!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-26.u23	We have Pakistanis, Libyans, Syrians who sleep in cars.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-26.u24	Shame!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-26.u25	Shame is what you didn't have the courage to do. Isn't this a shame, sir?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-26.u26	Shame! You can be racist in a taxi debate!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-26.u27	We have the testimony of a man who says that his daughter, in front of a Pakistani driver, panicked...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-26.u28	Shame!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-26.u29	...because he locked the car, closed the glass, closed the doors and he wouldn't let her out. This is a shame!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-26.u30	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-26.u31	Once and for all, there is the courage of this government to limit access.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-26.u32	Have a pejo!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-26.u33	We can't open the door to everyone who wants to come here illegally, who wants to work this way, sleep in cars and abuse people, all this without knowing how to master the language and culture of the country where they are. We won't tolerate it! [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-26.u34	You don't know what it's like to be harassed by a TVDE driver!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-26.u35	You know if I know or if I don't know!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-26.u36	If anyone has to be quiet, it's you!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-26.u37	For an intervention on behalf of the Liberal Initiative, Mr. Carlos Guimarães Pinto has the floor. I'm asking the ladies. Members who are interacting verbally to allow your colleague Carlos Guimarães Pinto to use the word. Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-26.u38	Mr. President: The entry of electronic platforms into the transport sector has revolutionized the way people move in cities. I brought predictability to rates, brought more supply and higher frequency, decreasing prices.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-26.u39	That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-26.u40	This higher frequency has made other public transport more attractive, in an intermodal perspective. Jobs have been created, businesses have been created and tourism growth has been supported. Even with subsequent legislative changes, which have introduced unnecessary rules, platforms have been imposed and few today can conceive of life in cities without them. The taxi sector itself, pressured by competition, has also evolved, has modernised itself, has improved its services and today is much better seen by the population than it was a few years ago. We have more work, better service, cheaper, we're all better. Today, not even the most committed opponents of the platforms have the courage to come and ask, as they did a few years ago, for them to be banned. Competition worked and needed the transport sector. For competition to be even more perfect, the time will come to legally equal what is already equal to people's eyes: a car that transports passengers from one side to the other, provides an equal service, whether it is called taxi, uber or Bolt. We must walk so that the rules are the same for all, instead of having these two parallel systems, where some have access to specific bus tracks and parking lots and others do not, where some can operate anywhere in the country and others do not. None of this makes sense. Some steps are taken in this proposal today, but much remains to be done. We also do not agree with this linguistic obligation that has been introduced by the Arrival.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-26.u41	You're the same as the other parties!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-26.u42	This possibility may be important for some customers, for others not, let consumers value this characteristic of drivers or not. There are people who expect a driver to drive, there will be others who might want a psychologist, someone to talk to, and can choose the drivers who understand.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-26.u43	The ones with the turbans are cool!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-26.u44	Freedom of choice—that is what we defend, not a hyper-regulation.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-26.u45	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-26.u46	With regard to the proposal from the CFP, we welcome the fact that we do not propose to nationalise the whole sector of the taxi,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-26.u47	Ignorant!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-26.u48	...and we welcome that in this sector, at least, they have some tolerance for private initiative, but obviously we will not agree with a proposal that regulates...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-26.u49	About things with wheels!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-26.u50	...excessively the sector.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-26.u51	Unbelievable!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-26.u52	We do not understand very well because the PSD proposal has come into play in this debate — perhaps, it also involves wheels and such — because it has nothing to do with taxi or TVDE, but we still agree with it and we will therefore approve it. Mrs. Members, TVDE was the best example of how to liberalize and introduce competition in a sector can improve, add jobs, improve tourism. It works and it needed a lot. I hope that this path will continue in the future. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-26.u53	For an intervention on behalf of the PS Parliamentary Group, Mr André Pinotes Batista has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-26.u54	It's not about TAP (Portuguese Air Transport) today!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-26.u55	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Minister, Secretary of State : Let me begin this intervention with a very common rhetorical appeal, the quote. It is not a literary resource and much less a discursive adornment, but which is washed up until the regime we are currently debating" allows us to improve and improve our activity, provide better service, create new services that have so far been closed under the current legislation. On this we have no doubt». These are the exact terms with which the Portuguese Taxi Federation and the National Association of Road Transport in Light Cars described the new legal regime of public taxi passenger transport. And it is not only important when a sector unequivocally applauds a reform dialogue with the government.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-26.u56	It's getting late, too late! The problem is hours!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-26.u57	The Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group begins by welcoming the contributions that the taxi sector has made to this debate and, at the same time, asking every taxi driver in this country, every businessman working in this sector, who never forgets what we hear here today. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The Party arrives on the day we decided on the future of an entire sector, talking about everything but the taxi. He made statements close to racism.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-26.u58	Racist is you!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-26.u59	He talked about foreign countries, he talked about crimes,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-26.u60	So what? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-26.u61	...showed newspapers, talked about TVDE.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-26.u62	What do you want? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-26.u63	But about the taxi, what did he say to the country? Absolutely nothing! And it's something taxi drivers can never be fooled. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr President, letting populism go away is not to imitate it, nor is it to be imprisoned by him. And let me focus on what is essential: this reform.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-26.u64	Give it to him, free yourself!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-26.u65	This is a legislative articulate that emanates from a cooperative work, which has joined the Government, the associations, the IMT, the National Association of Portuguese Municipalities, but also the metropolitan areas and the CIM(intermunicipal communities). And the PCP is responding to the caution that we have in common to involve local authorities, even as a way to be able to study more flexible methods of adjusting supply and demand, but also to involve those who, being closer, can make a contribution to improving the sector. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a reform that has opened up new horizons in a sector that plays a central role in the country's mobility. It is a reform aligned with the societal challenges of digital transition and sustainable mobility. It is a reform that proves the vitality of a sector that, unlike the malicious stigma fueled by some, is available to reinvent, is available to evolve, is available to provide quality service to Portuguese. It is not only important to defend the taxi sector, not only because of its historical role, but also because of the role it can have in the present and which it will certainly have in the future as well. Mrs. Members, a reform based on the technical effort of a working group, I stress, of a working group that has proposed to do and has done. And that also deserves our applause.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-26.u66	Look, they didn't hit palms!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-26.u67	At a time when the screens and the pages of the newspapers are filled with everything that is politically accessible, everything that comes here politically, let us stress that this is an exemplary legislative action.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-26.u68	Talk about taxis, the subject is taxis!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-26.u69	After 25 years, we will replace the taxi system with a more modern, more adapted and more suitable system. [[Protests by PCP MP Bruno Dias.]] We centre it on three main axes. It is taxi that we want to talk and, as it is taxi that we want to talk, we focus on the reorganization and updating of the rules of access to the activity and the service market, a matter so important to all these taxi drivers; on the smoothing of the legal framework of the challenges inherent in the sector's digitization; on the revision and simplification of the tariff model with the necessary adaptations to the new institutional reality of the mobility system, among others.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-26.u70	And about the taxis, nothing to say? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-26.u71	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, in view of the above, it is not to be emphasized that we will refuse all the proposals... [[Oh!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-26.u72	... that they are redundant with the proposal now put forward by the Government, proposing what is already proposed, that they create unnecessary conflicts within the regulatory and institutional framework of the sector or that they seek to impose prejudices on which the sector has not agreed.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-26.u73	What about taxis? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-26.u74	Besides, because not everything that has four wheels is taxi, provides taxi service or should be treated as taxi. Although it is questionable that the PSD proposal could be overturned today, the truth is that we will have openness to be able to assess it in the field of expertise, correcting some technical insufficiency and making it possible to discuss it. Mr. President, I end with the following idea.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-26.u75	Enjoy, you have time for that!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-26.u76	The taxi integrates the collective memory of the Portuguese, has passed, has been present and, with this diploma, it is also guaranteed that it will have a better future. in that which is the biggest regulatory change of the last 25 years, an important factor remains: whenever a dialogueal government finds an open sector to evolution, this progression is of course happening. Mrs. Members, the current regime is not a case, perhaps that is why you are not interested, nor was it done at random, perhaps it did not deserve your attention, but it will certainly be a serious case of legislative improvement and proof that Portuguese can count on PS for the essential — improving Portugal, improving their lives. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-26.u77	For an intervention on behalf of the Left Block Parliamentary Group, Mrs Mariana Mortágua has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-26.u78	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, Mr. Members: We welcome first of all the workers and organisations in the sector. The proposal presented by the Government aims to meet some of the objectives that we follow and that only fall late: the modernization and digitization of the taxi sector; the adaptation to new climate requirements with the decarbonization of the taxi fleet; the simplification of tariffs; and the flexibility of the rules of access to the activity, in particular with regard to current territorial restrictions, which have caused much problems in access to the activity and performance of the activity in the taxi sector. I believe that the issue is not just that of how this sector is regulated because, clearly, important steps are being taken. The basic question, which arises whenever we debate the taxi sector, is how this sector competes with another that, by providing the same service, is not regulated and is not subject to the same rules. It's about to explain how Uber enters Portugal, because we know how he entered other countries. We know of the dumping he did, of the way he influenced governments, of the way he influenced public policies, and did the same in Portugal. It is the power of the Uber that explains the changes that the government has given in order not to give contracts and not to require contracts to the workers of the Uber, who are workers, who have to have protection at work and whose employers have to comply with the same rules and duties applied to the taxi sector or to any other sector in Portugal. Competition is only an excuse, because there is no competition when some have an unlimited quota and can therefore make unlimited dumping in prices,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-26.u79	Competition is that!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-26.u80	... which also means unlimited exploitation.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-26.u81	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-26.u82	What encourages the liberals, which is to be able to cross the city from one point to the other for 2 €, has a consequence. How much is it paid to those drivers? What is the limit for exploration, when there are as many cars on the street as you want, to practice the prices that you well want to compete in the way you want? It is certainly not this kind of jungle and exploitation that we want in Portugal, in no sector. And if there's anything we're not supposed to do, we're just spreading this jungle to the cab sector. The answer is not to liberalize all sectors; it is to force others to comply with the same rules of decency, equality and dignity that we want and that we apply to the cab sector. We are certainly available to improve this proposal, in particular, and to debate it so that at the end of this process it will remain the best possible proposal. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-26.u83	For an intervention on behalf of the Free Party, Mr Rui Tavares has now given the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-26.u84	Good morning, Mr President, dear colleagues and fellow citizens in the Galleries, Mr Secretary of State, Minister : I would like to take this opportunity to adapt and modernise the taxi sector – which comes to us through the work of a working group whose conclusions, to a large extent, we follow, as we also follow the proposals of the CFP presented today to debate – to discuss mainly the future of transport and public transport modes in our country. I would also like to ask the Minister a question about a mode of public transport that is between the taxi, which generally transports four passengers, and it may be more—that is precisely what my question is going to ask—and another mode of transport with greater flexibility than the one with heavier public transport. In particular, we know that taxi is very important in relation to social cohesion, which often leads our citizens with a smaller mobility, within the country, to the health centre or to dealing with matters that need to be dealt with in the municipal chamber, in social security. There is a mode of transport in which Portugal is very poor compared to other congenerous countries, which is that of school transport. School transportation, both in the metropolitan areas and in the low-density areas, would allow many people not to take the car out of the house, because the truth is that many people go out with the car because they need to take their children to the nursery, school, out there. Is it not now time to take up another working group, perhaps within the Mission Unit for the New Green Pact, which is already operating in your Ministry, and finally provide support to the inter-municipal communities and metropolitan areas to create new public transport networks? We are talking about mini-buses or vans from 9 to 24 places, electric, which can make school transport and duplicate, at times when they are not necessary for school transport, to support our citizens with reduced mobility.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-26.u85	You've doubled in time!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-26.u86	This has very advantageous effects, such as removing cars from the streets of the cities and municipalities of the interior and, on the other hand, getting used to public transport from an early age.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-26.u87	Time! Shame! You don't have two minutes, you have one, you have to learn!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-26.u88	Joacine had forgiveness!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-26.u89	Proportionality is a little different!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-26.u90	You now have the floor to speak on behalf of the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mr António Proa.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-26.u91	Mr President, Minister for the Environment and Climate Action, Mr Secretary of State, Mrs and Mrs. Members : We are now examining the Government's proposal for a new legal regime for the public passenger transport service in light vehicles, as well as other legislative initiatives on the same subject. Taxis are a universal public transport service, an important component of the mobility of citizens, particularly relevant in low-density territories. The first note I want to leave is regrettably the fact that the Government intends to approve this legal regime by means of a legislative authorization, which is the same as saying that the Government intends to reduce the role of the Assembly of the Republic and its ability to intervene in the legislative process of the taxi sector.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-26.u92	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-26.u93	The second point that it is important to denounce is the fact that the Government has taken seven years to act and to propose a new legal regime for the taxi sector, which has long been long overdue, and still now a legislative authorisation is submitted within a period of more than six months, and then it will still have to wait for different regulations which are unknown. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-26.u94	In the end, it will be an excessive wait for the urgency of modernization in the taxi sector. [[PSD applause.]] Thirdly, in this legislative procedure, the Government expresses contempt for the Assembly of the Republic, failing to comply with the Rules of Procedure, since it does not present or refers to any studies, documents or opinions which have substantiated this bill, nor does it comply with the mandatory hearing of the Autonomous Regions. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-26.u95	It should be asked whether, irrespective of the parties and the support to the Government, the position of defence of Parliament's powers and respect for the Rules of Procedure and the Constitution will not be unanimous. Mr President, Mr Minister, Mr Secretary of State, Mr and Mr. Members, the need to adapt the taxi sector to the changes that have been seen for a long time is claimed and urgent. Mobility in general and the transport of passengers on light vehicles, in particular, have undergone major changes in recent years. Changes in the supply and demand of this mode of transport, technological developments, the need for flexibility in the service, the decarbonisation targets and the role of the authority of transport committed to the authorities require changes in the taxi transport regime, under which it becomes less competitive and unsustainable in the long term. in this context, the PSD considers it important to reform the regulation of taxi transport activity, in particular its modernization through the use of electronic platforms, as well as electronic payments, the geographical organization of the service according to municipal or supra-municipal policies, tariff adequacy, flexibility, protection of users and the adoption of measures with a view to decarbonization.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-26.u96	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-26.u97	At the same time, it is important to observe the activity of the other component of transport on light vehicles — TVDE — in the light of the assessment of the current legislation, in particular with regard to the intervention of authorities, the quality of service and the working conditions. The PSD will be attentive and will intervene in these matters, either through the possible discussion of the specialty, or through legislative proposals, or even through parliamentary assessment. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-26.u98	You now have the floor to speak on behalf of Mr Filipe Melo.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-26.u99	Mr President, the Socialist Party's Member did not understand the proposal. The arrival wanted to implement rules for TVDE, so that they are equal, so that they will be met, as the taxi drivers also do. I know the rules are hard to accept for the parties on the left, but they're going to have to take them. Mr. Carlos Guimarães Pinto, of course it matters whether they speak Portuguese or not. Of course it matters! There are children who use transport, there are people who don't have to know how to speak Arabic and can attend a TVDE.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-26.u100	To speak Arabic? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-26.u101	Therefore, Mr President, it is important to speak Portuguese and with us it will be compulsory to speak Portuguese! [[Congrats from the CH.]] Then, of course, there are always those who get very upset when talking in harassment. I understand why. But only last year, there were over 150 complaints of harassment to women on TVDE. This is also shameful and should be ashamed of this House, it should be ashamed of who laws on these matters. Finally, we have the sad show of seeing Mr Rui Tavares come here to talk about the taxi, which he doesn't understand.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-26.u102	I was a square driver!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-26.u103	Speak in Via Verde for bicycles or ViaCard, or I don't know what else, and in pollution, in green gas, in green hydrogen, and every day comes to the Assembly in a car that smokes more than a locomotive of the years 10. [[Congrats from the CH.]] Mr. Deputy, get judgment!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-26.u104	Mr President, I was trying to contain myself, but you do not allow me. You can't talk about colleagues like that.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-26.u105	Oh! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-26.u106	You can't fight politics on the basis of personal attack, you can't. This is an assembly. It is an assembly of free and equal men and women. Each defends his ideas, then the majority make the decisions, but we respect each other.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-26.u107	I call for an appeal to the Bureau, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-26.u108	Mr. Filipe Melo, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-26.u109	Mr President, I recognize your call for attention. I'm penalizing myself for that. He asked Mr President, however, that he also had an equal role with the honourable Members. Mr Pinotes Batista and Mr Eurico Brillante Dias, who, at the beginning of my first intervention, deliberately called me racist and xenophobic.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-26.u110	That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-26.u111	Mr. President, it was expensive and the cameras can prove it!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-26.u112	It's not a personal attack, it's a political attack!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-26.u113	I portray myself of what you said, but it was also good that the gentlemen. Members would do the same. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-26.u114	I didn't say that!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-26.u115	Don't! You're a saint!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-26.u116	Mr President, I can only speak about what I hear. I have not heard these expressions, I do not hear all the parts that are made in the House, but, of course, as far as I hear, I cannot stop intervening, whenever it is my obligation to do so. But I didn't hear those expressions. We continue to close the debate. First, however, I give the floor to Mr Bruno Dias, who still has 26 seconds to spend. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-26.u117	Mr President, even in the time when the CFP has to intervene, we wanted to draw attention to something. The use of technologies, electronic payments, etc. , already existed in the taxi sector before the PSD and PS gentlemen opened the door to multinationals for this unfair competition, which they then legalized! Therefore, what was important was that, in this debate on the taxi sector, if he really talked about the taxi sector and the measures that need to be approved and implemented, at the end of that time. This is because, if it is true, the government has been going seven years to lubricate the taxi sector and finally appears with measures that were more than agreed and consensualized. [[CH Member's protests Filipe Melo.]] The CFP has come forward with these same proposals, which it is now presenting, and we have called attention to the need to move forward with these measures, once and for all. [[CH Member's protests Filipe Melo.]] The CFP has come forward with these same proposals, which it is now presenting, and we have called attention to the need to move forward with these measures, once and for all. There are a number of errors that have been made by the government in the approved decree, which must be corrected, but whose corrections are not in sight. We must put it into practice, so that these unfair competitions will end, which are no competition, because the same rules for all is that there are transparent rates for all transport — something that is not there! — but the Government does not agree that there is any. Same rules for all... [[Protests by the Member of the IL Carlos Guimarães Pinto.]] ... is that there are contingents organized in the passenger transport sector, but the government does not agree that there is. That is why it is important that we finally move forward with the measures now mentioned, but there is a lot to walk and there is a lot to do to ensure that there is justice in the sector. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-26.u118	To close the debate, Mr President-in-Office of the Council.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-26.u119	Mr President, first of all, I would also like to greet the representatives of the taxi sector and thank you for the work that has been done by the working group. I would also like to note that the fact that part of the debate has not been on the taxi sector can only be interpreted as a consensus on much of the measures we are discussing here. Otherwise, we would be discussing alternatives to the proposals that are put forward. However, as on the part of some parliamentary groups, and I have not heard anything about the taxi, I admit that they either have no opinion, or then they accept the proposal put forward here. Let us see if there is correspondence in the final vote. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Secondly, I would like to say to Mr Bruno Dias that I recognize that the CFP, in many respects, in many of the proposals we have here, has already presented some of them. in these things, in democracy, we must recognize your owner. The Government is now presenting these proposals here and commits itself to the sector and the taxi working group that, as soon as this proposal for legislative authorisation is approved, it will immediately schedule it to the Council of Ministers. So I wanted to note this. Then I would like to point out that there is a consensus here, and this consensus objectively allows to resolve a set of blockades that existed for the development of the taxi sector. I also wanted to say that for the Government the taxi sector is crucial for modernisation and, at the same time, sustainability in the response of public transport to citizens, and that the taxi sector, already today, plays an irreplaceable role from the point of view of responses, especially in many low-density territories, but also in cities. I would also like to mention that the fact that we can modernise tariffs, technologies, systems and quotas will also enable the taxi sector to have greater competitiveness, and that is what we want. If that weren't, we weren't here proposing everything we're now proposing. Then I would like to note the following: with regard to the other debates, a debate is being held at European level on the regulation of TVDE, and we are waiting for this debate to take place. It would be absurd to be anticipating this debate. Amendments to the Labour Code legislation on TVDE have still been adopted in the Assembly of the Republic. I therefore not only believe that rules on labour law have recently been amended, but also that there is a debate at European level on TVDE. Therefore, it sends the prudence we wait for, to realize the development of both of these aspects, and that is what we are doing. On an issue which has emerged here, I would like to make the position of the Government clear. Mr Filipe Melo, we have very different values, but very different ones!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-26.u120	Good!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-26.u121	I will tell you the following, Mr President: I find it unacceptable — unacceptable or, using an expression that you are always saying, a shame! — the generalizations which Mr has made with regard to citizens. It's a shame! Mr President, you cannot generalize any perceptions you have!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-26.u122	I can, I can!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-26.u123	Mr President, it represents you and no one else! [[P.S.'s applause.]] Look, do you know what the country needs? The country needs drivers in the road sector and, on our side, you know what we're going to do? [[CH Member's protests Filipe Melo.]] We will continue to make agreements with other countries, to bring citizens who want to come here, who want to work here, who want to be happy here, who want to be a family here, who want to develop their lives here and help us develop the country. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-26.u124	You need to cut into the RSI (social income of insertion) and you will work!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-26.u125	That's what we need, Mr! What the honourable Member says is a shame, sir!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-26.u126	Shame is All Fruits! That's a shame!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-26.u127	Mr. Minister, you have to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-26.u128	I just wanted to say that we are divided, because they are very different values. [[CH protests.]] I have the right to say that it is a shame,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-26.u129	You must conclude, Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-26.u130	... because you are always saying it — shame, shame, shame! [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[CH protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-26.u131	Mr Filipe Melo asks for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-26.u132	It is for an appeal to the Bureau, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-26.u133	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-26.u134	Mr President, I do not think it is acceptable either — since, for a few moments now, Mr President has called me to the attention — to allow the Minister to address us with « you are a disgrace! , since we have our opinion, it must be respected. [[PS protests and CH counterprotests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-26.u135	I didn't say that. You said it was embarrassing the statement!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-26.u136	I would ask you to hear in silence the honourable Member's request, which is now addressed to the Bureau, and not to the Members. Ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-26.u137	As I was saying, Mr President, the Minister cannot address himself in this way, he cannot say that, in this case, I represent myself. The Parliamentary Group of the European Union represents almost 500 000 Portuguese, as much as it costs the Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-26.u138	Oh, good!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-26.u139	There's salad in the bar!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-26.u140	Mr President, I am not going to mention this, as I have already heard — 'what a shame it is, All Fruits' — and I am not going into these considerations, I just think that the Minister does not have the legitimacy to go to our bench...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-26.u141	There's salad in the bar, there's salad in the bar!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-26.u142	... and say « you are a shame! Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” Mr President, this is recorded: Mr Minister can't — it must not, can't! — go to a bench as you did. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-26.u143	Can't I? Oh, my God! It just makes me right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-26.u144	It's 400,000 here!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-26.u145	Mr President, I am the first to agree with you when you say that expressions like 'are a shame' should be avoided in Parliament, and I appeal to the bank of the Arrival to do so, so that it will contribute to this.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-26.u146	Starting with the government bench!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-26.u147	There is a distinction that must always be made between political characterizations and personal attacks. I intervene when I understand that there are personal attacks that are undesirable, unacceptable and do not take place in this Parliament. As for political characterizations, they are free by nature. They must be done with content, with cordiality, but are free. [[CH Member Protests Bruno Nunes.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-26.u148	No one called anyone racist! [[CH Member Protests Bruno Nunes.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-26.u149	Mr. André Pinotes Batista asks for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-26.u150	It is for an appeal to the Bureau, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-26.u151	Let's wait a minute. [[Pause.]] Apparently, a number of colleagues were waiting for me to finish this first item on the agenda and enter the plenary. [[Pause.]] Mr André Pinotes Batista, if you would like to make an appeal to the Bureau, please, but it is to the Bureau.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-26.u152	Mr President, I would like to make an inquiry to the Bureau on the conduct of the proceedings. I'm sorry why? Because we resisted the first, we resisted the second — not to create an incident — and we tried to resist the third, but we can not allow and fail to underline the following: I do not know whether Mr. We arrive is or is not racist,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-26.u153	Which one, sir?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-26.u154	...but I mean, clearly, that no one on this bench—no one on this bench! — used this expression to assess no Member of the United Kingdom.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-26.u155	You said racist, you called racist!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-26.u156	Moreover, Mr President, I would like to make a compromise with you: on our part, we will never individually adjective any Member of the Arrival. It was different for us to be limited by those who so often use the word 'disgusting' in relation to the political positions they take. Mr President, I apologize to you for creating this incident, but the third was impossible to let go of this lie. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-26.u157	You called it racist while we were talking!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-26.u158	Let us now move on to the second item on the agenda, which consists in the joint assessment, in general, of Bill No. 674 / XV / 1. a ( PSD ) — The fifth amendment of Decree-Law No 126 -A / 2017, of 6 October, which creates the social benefit for inclusion, extends the solidarity complement for the elderly to the holders of the disability pension and promotes the necessary adjustments in other social benefits, 768 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Improves the conditions of access of persons with disabilities to social benefits for inclusion and amends the time from which this benefit is due to beneficiaries ( fourth amendment to Decree-Law No 126 -A / 2017 of 6 October ), 769 / XV / 1. a ( PAN) — Establishs the obligation of the solidarity complement for the elderly to have a value never lower than the poverty threshold, amending Decree-Law No 232/2005 of 29 December, 774 / XV / 1. a (PAN) — Safeguards the right of access to social benefits for inclusion in cases of delay in notification of appearance in the medical board, amending Decree-Law No 126 -A / 2017 of 6 October, 776 / XV / 1. a ( BE ) — Extends the protection granted by the social benefit for inclusion ( fourth amendment to Decree-Law No 126 -A / 2017 of 6 October) and 779 / XV / 1. a (L) — Change the rules for the allocation of social benefits for inclusion in cases where it still depends on obtaining multi-purpose disability attestation and admits the accumulation of social benefits with the old age pension. To submit Bill No. 674 / XV / 1. the, has the floor of Mrs Carla Madureira of the PSD Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-26.u159	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: A full and supportive society is the one that includes all people. In fact, in recent decades, some progress has been made in the integration of people with disabilities, but we must recognize that we still have a long way to go: in their autonomy and social protection, in inclusive education, in the transition from school to the active life of young people with limitations of physical, motor or cognitive abilities, and, among other things, in the integration into the employment market. Recognition of the rights of persons with disabilities must be followed by a sincere commitment by all to create living conditions, support structures and legal protections capable of responding to the needs and growth dynamics of the most vulnerable. PSD knows the real country well. The PSD knows the real life of the most vulnerable people and therefore presents the bill we are discussing today. The guarantee of disabled people in access to all measures...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-26.u160	Mrs. Member, I'm sorry to interrupt you, but I want to hear Mrs. Member and I'm not getting it. Therefore, no one else may be interested, but I am interested in listening to Mrs. Deputy. The subject that you bring is a very important subject. The people you are talking about deserve all our respect and I apologize for interrupting and ask you to continue.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-26.u161	Thank you very much, Mr President. I said that the guarantee of disabled people in access to all the measures and benefits that contribute to their integration and inclusion depends on the issue of the multi-purpose disability medical certificate. The need to obtain this document is urgent and immediate, since only through the presentation of it is given the possibility of access to social benefits for inclusion. It happens that the deadline for access to a medical board is 60 days. However, it has now been found that waiting time is much higher and goes up to three years, to be evaluated. Three years is too long; three years is too long; three years puts the life of the most fragile and vulnerable people in suspense. [[PSD applause.]] Yes, contrary to what the Secretary of State for Inclusion said here in this House, this recognition of three or four years' right to benefit will help solve the problem that existed at the moment of zero. This is clear proof that we are before an incompetent, incapable and indifferent government. This delay in the performance of the medical board and consequent issuance of the multi-use medical certificate causes serious damage to all those who are in a position to obtain this important social support, even more than it is not even calculated the retroactive payment of the social benefit for inclusion. Indeed, it is urgent to ensure that disabled citizens have access to all the measures and benefits that contribute to their integration and inclusion and that they are not denied access to any right of delay in the establishment of a medical board, for reasons that are totally outside of them. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the PSD, as a humanist party that is, deepens reflections and points out solutions. For this reason, today's proposal is that the users to whom the medical certificate of multi-use disability is recognised will receive social benefits for inclusion from the date on which they requested it.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-26.u162	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-26.u163	In addition, this is already happening for tax purposes, so this initiative aims to introduce social justice and equality before all citizens. [[PSD applause.]] Thus, it is ensured that the user is not penalized for non-compliance and delays that are not imputable to them. The social state has failed the most vulnerable: it has failed the sick, has failed people with disabilities or disabilities, and it has failed again when it does not pay retroactively. It is a clear lack of social sensitivity and incompetence of this State. After all, what is the government waiting for to solve this issue? It's just propaganda doesn't solve the problem. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-26.u164	To present the PCP bill, Mr. Manuel Loff has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-26.u165	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: « The State is obliged to carry out a national policy on prevention and treatment, rehabilitation and integration of citizens with disabilities and support for their families », and must « take charge of the effective realization of their rights ». That's what the Constitution of the Republic says. in the same way, the Portuguese State is also linked to international diplomas, such as the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, which determines that States parties, like Portuguese, “recognize the right of persons with disabilities to social protection and to the enjoyment of that right without discrimination on the basis of disability and will take appropriate measures to safeguard and promote the exercise of this right”. The reality has shown, however, that people with disabilities and their families are, and remain, especially vulnerable to situations of poverty and social exclusion. In order to attest the disability situation and benefit from the social benefit for inclusion, it is necessary to obtain medical certificate of multi-use disability. The waiting time for medical joints has already been mentioned here, and for the issue of multi-purpose medical certificate of disability is very high, and in many cases it reaches two years. However, applicants cannot be dependent on delays and delays in obtaining them and only from then on receive the benefit. It cannot fall on the applicants the burden of waiting for their disability certification, to receive from there the social benefit for inclusion, and the payment must be due from the date on which the application for disability certification is made. It is in this sense that the proposal of the CFP aims to deepen and improve the social protection of people with disabilities by improving social benefits for inclusion. This is a path that needs to be traced to ensure better living conditions for people with disabilities. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-26.u166	Don't get too excited!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-26.u167	To present the bills of the NAP, you have the floor of Mrs Inês de Sousa Real.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-26.u168	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin by thanking the PSD for bringing this issue to debate, which is certainly of the greatest relevance, for more when a study published still this week tells us that in Portugal we have 1, 9 million people living in poverty and that this number would be much greater if there were no social support. Without social support or social benefits, they would live in poverty about 4, 4 million people, that is, almost half of the country would live in poverty or in situations of extreme vulnerability. Such data therefore reveal what is to be done in the fight against poverty in our country and how far we are to get no family to live below the poverty threshold. This is precisely the way we want to take today, fighting these vulnerabilities and, for that, we have brought two very concrete proposals. On the one hand, we propose to lay down the law that all the elderly with incomes below the poverty threshold have access to social complements for the elderly. The legal framework in force places the reference values for access to this social support to the mercy of governments in office, which, as we have seen in the case of the increase in pensions this year, is too risky. We recognize that the government has finally come to the meeting of demands from political forces such as the NAP, which has ensured in successive budgets what is now proposed. However, knowing that other majorities can be formed that even question social benefits, what we want is that good practice gains the form of law to assure the elderly in our country that, for the future, this right will always be guarded. Secondly, we want to stop the injustices that are occurring with regard to the payment of social benefits for inclusion, because of the delays of medical boards in renewing multi-purpose attestations. It has already been mentioned here the absolutely unacceptable time and length of time that these attestations have taken time to obtain and we do not accept that, just because the social state is failing, there are people especially vulnerable to being deprived of access to social benefits and additional social benefits, essential for having a minimum of living. For this reason, today we propose that access to social benefits for inclusion be always guaranteed with effect on the date of submission of the duly instructed application, thus avoiding that the delays of medical boards mean the loss of income of the beneficiaries.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-26.u169	To present the initiative of the Left Block, Mrs Isabel Pires has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-26.u170	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: It is not the first time in recent weeks that we have discussed matters relating to the rights of persons with disabilities. In fact, the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities in its Article 28. the, states that « the States Parties recognise the right of persons with disabilities to social protection and to the enjoyment of that right without discrimination on the basis of disability ». in this follow-up, the social benefit for inclusion, the PSI, which was created by Decree-Law No 126 -A / 2017, is effectively an important instrument to ensure the fulfilment of these same objectives. Social provision for inclusion is, in this measure, a policy that represents a paradigm change in the social protection of people with disabilities in view of what previously existed, because it is distanced from welfare policies, since it is based on the perspective of citizenship that allows accumulation with labour incomes and that will come, and will come, simplify the whole social protection system in this area. However, the measure still lacks improvement in order to achieve its objectives. In fact, that is what the National Mechanism for Monitoring the Implementation of the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities told us. at that time, the Mechanism has already proposed some recommendations to the Government. For example, when it comes to a benefit that has as one of the objectives to support people with disabilities or disabilities in poverty, it was important to establish a different value for the disabled population, considering the increased costs of this condition. Secondly, he told us that access restrictions should not be established to the new social benefit of inclusion on the basis of age or degree of disability attested, under the penalty of establishing added factors of inequality. Third, in the case of persons with 60 % to 79 % disability, it should be possible to accumulate the entire base component with the value of the guaranteed minimum monthly remuneration. For this reason, the bill that the Left Block today presents extends access to social inclusion benefits to people with disabilities less than 60 % who are in a situation of special disability or disability and to those who acquire disability after 55 years, without such decorating natural aging processes. Secondly, in the case of disability of 60 % or more, the same rules are applied for persons with a disability of 80 % or more, i.e. the existence of work income does not affect the value of the basic component. Finally, the supplement will only take into account the income of the holder of the benefit, without considering the reference income of the family aggregate. In short, these are matters that have been raised to the Assembly of the Republic itself and to the Government by several associations of people with disabilities who, considering their knowledge of this reality and how the PSI is currently working, ask us to improve these improvements so that inequalities do not accumulate and, on the contrary, may be diminished. This is about progressing in the fulfilment of rights which are internationally recognized and in the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic, but which in practice are not fully realized yet. That's what we're talking about today. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-26.u171	Mr Rui Tavares has the floor to present the initiative for the Book.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-26.u172	Mr President: I would like to begin by welcoming the PSD Parliamentary Group for the scheduling of this debate and the other parliamentary groups that have put forward initiatives which, in general, accompany the Free also. Indeed, the social provision of inclusion, which is an important measure of support — still insufficient, but important — and which we must make robust, and the umbilical link which has to the multi-purpose attestation which confirms disability or disability, has several problematic characteristics that we have tried, several parliamentary groups, in various situations, correct and improve and which are of the greatest importance. With delays in the allocation of multi-purpose attestations, already before the pandemic and after the pandemic, it happens that people arrive late at a performance that may be very important. When it comes to, for example, children with congenital disabilities, it is not understood that the benefit is attributed only from the moment it is determined. It is not even from the moment when people sent the papers to ask for the benefit, or until the moment of birth, because, from the moment of birth, if no additional expenses are incurred, those children will be limited to life. The initiative which the Free here today presents, within the framework of the various that are presented, intends to complement, on the other side of the age pyramid, that is, in our citizens who have a social pension of old age and who so far the law does not allow it to be accumulated with the social provision of inclusion. We do not understand why someone who has a double condition that limits his life and needs support cannot at the same time have both support. Someone who has a social pension of old age and who has, confirmed by a multi-purpose certificate, a reason that should also allow him to have the social benefit of inclusion, should be able to add the two support. We therefore call for broad support for this bill by the House when we vote on all bills. The Free will also support a number of the initiatives presented here, which are very worthy and which still do not solve the problem, which the Government continues to minimize, of the enormous delays in the multi-purpose certificates, giving in particular a follow-up to the working group which allows the multi-use to take out of the multi-purpose certificates a number of permanent conditions that do not always need to be going to the medical board. [[In the meantime, he took the presidency of Vice-President Adam Silva.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-26.u173	I welcome the ladies and gentlemen. Members and I would like to address Mrs Carla Castro of the Liberal Initiative Parliamentary Group for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-26.u174	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: At this point, we are talking about several issues related to social benefits and one of the recurring themes in general of bills concerns failures in the multi-purpose attestation. There is a government that is delaying the allocation of benefits and then does not pay retroactively, as it is well mirrored in particular in the PSD proposal. We are talking about the functioning or dysfunction of certain benefits, especially in the areas associated with disability. On the multi-use attestation, I would like to recall that the guarantee of disabled citizens for measures and benefits for inclusion depends on this certificate and that this document will take two years. Two years! To meet the needs of the disabled is not only to legislate, it is also to apply the laws. Respecting disabled people is not putting in the preambles, it is not proclaiming their rights by saying that letters and conventions are signed. It is not to say that people are not discriminated against on the basis of disability; it is to be able to take practice. It was far more important for this government to be able to respect and dignify than to do propaganda. in this case, in which there are now important proposals in the House, we ask: what will the Socialist Party do?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-26.u175	Nothing!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-26.u176	Then comes a second. It is that it is no longer bad enough to delay and operate, or 'disfunctioning', when, finally, the approval is not careful payment with retroactivity. Now, this has to change, and there is no reason not to change today. I would say until there is some difficulty in qualifying this situation. It's certainly not to be, let's wait, to save money. We cannot speak of a state of good, of course, when, on the one hand, it proclaims the law and then it does the opposite. It should be noted that it is not only to establish justice, because we are talking about reasons other than the person and for whom the State has already been cryingly failing in terms of allocation. I would also like to comment, by the way, on the NAP proposals, which focus on the topic of solidarity supplements for the elderly and propose to ensure that periodic updating should never be below the poverty threshold. I would like to recall that the Liberal Initiative proposes a social security reform in which it considers that benefits should never be below the worthy threshold and that there should also be a maximum threshold of pensions. Therefore, it was important to move on to the discussion in the specialty and to think as a whole. There is no objective time to go to the details of all the proposals. It is relevant, for example, in the proposal of the Left Block, which looks at the National Mechanism for Monitoring the Implementation of the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. There is plenty of material there to work and I remember that benefits have to make sense as a whole. I wanted to say, in conclusion, that the State cannot fail in its most basic essence. Liberals often say that the state should leave where it should not be and cannot fail where it is essential. This week we have seen this opposition for the worst reasons. On the one hand, the government pushes and dominates the business sector of the State or extends itself by the Public Administration and, on the other hand, hates the protection of the family, the unprotected, but in good truth, despite the pink portraits, it fails to protect the most disadvantaged. Don't rule, I disagree. Let these issues come to the Assembly of the Republic and not be resolved, it is already incomprehensible. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-26.u177	Mr Bruno Nunes has the floor for an intervention by the Parliamentary Group of the Arrival.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-26.u178	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Portuguese can count on the Socialist Party. This was one of the statements made by Mr André Pinotes Batista, and we will keep it as recorded on May 26, 2023. But today we're going to talk about delays, various delays. The first delay is this House, because on July 28, 2022, Bill No. 246 / XV / 1 entered. a, from arrive, which proposes exactly what the other benches today come here to propose. There are several, several months of delay. at that time, the Socialist Party, the one with whom the Portuguese can count, voted against. They abstained from the Liberal Initiative, the PCP and the Free Initiative and voted in favour of the PSD, the Arrival, the Left Block and the PAN. It was voted on 22 December 2022. With this delay, today they return to the proposal, concerned because there can be no further delay. Speaking late from the Socialist Party, I remembered what it is today 87 days ago that Alexandra Reis said she wanted to pay for TAP. Have you paid or haven't sent the NIB(bank identification number) yet? It is one of the delays that continues without justification.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-26.u179	What does Alexandra Reis have to do with this? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-26.u180	But also speaking late, it was more than 24 hours and Mr. Leader of the Socialist Party's parliamentary bench, to which we know, has not yet resigned. It's too late. We continue to treat badly — and focusing on the proposal — the most vulnerable. at the end of these months, we continue to solve this problem. Today, we discuss the delay in medical boards, which give access to certificates of multi-use disability. The solidarity complement for the elderly is another of the topics that comes here. But this is the government that has raised more than EUR 9 billion for tax benefits and that continues to give migales to all those who are indeed the most vulnerable. It is the old technique of the Socialist Party and of the Socialist Party over 50 years: one takes 100 of those who work, one gives 25 to four who do nothing. You lose one vote, you win four, you have an absolute majority. And this is the logic of socialism over the last few years. Yesterday, someone shouted here that it was the fence to democracy, and the others beat their hands. They said it was the siege and this was dangerous. Dangerous, ladies and gentlemen, it is, at the end of 50 years, we continue to deceive the Portuguese; dangerous is the most vulnerable, the disabled and the elderly are not even respected;... [[Protests by the L and the Member of the PS Porfirio Silva.]] ...dangerous is to continue with this logic that makes no sense. The Secretary of State for Inclusion said last year in this House that the problem was not the medical board, that it was not carried out, even if it was carried out late, that this would not be the problem, because in reality these people have only increased at a rate of 10 %. He also said in this logic of participation in Parliament that there is, in fact, a problem with the scheduling of medical boards, but argued that there is only one social benefit that is affecting all of this. It is this Secretary of State for Inclusion who came to defend this logic to Parliament, this logic of the delays of three and four years, which clearly contradicts the Ombudsman, who alerts the delays in the certificates of incapacity and the problems that arise for these people. André Ventura has alerted, since the pandemic period, and even before the elections, to all the problems that he has here to deal with. You ignored, because it is the siege to democracy, the return of fascism, Salazar comes there, and that is your concern, instead of worrying about the essence and the problem of people.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-26.u181	That doesn't matter!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-26.u182	Take it easy, Mr. Deputy, step forward and ask for the floor, because no one knows who you are. You know what? We could call Mrs. Marta Temido, who at the time, as a minister, admitted the delays coming from here. You know, ladies and gentlemen, the problem is, in fact, that in the last 50 years, as a result of socialist and social democratic policies, we have not respected the older ones. [[PS protests.]] By not respecting the oldest and most vulnerable, we are above all not honoring the scrolls of our history and nation.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-26.u183	Saudosism of fascism!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-26.u184	I say once again, despite the announcement by the President of the Assembly of the Republic: be ashamed. [[Congrats from the CH.]] [[PS protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-26.u185	Now, for an intervention, Mrs Cristina Sousa has the floor of the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-26.u186	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : We are debating today in this House a set of bills on Social Benefit for Inclusion and social complement for the elderly. It should be mentioned and recalled that both measures were created by Governments of the Socialist Party.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-26.u187	It's true, too!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-26.u188	In 2005 the Government of the Socialist Party set up a solidarity complement for the elderly, and in 2017 the Social Benefit for Inclusion is created. These are two fundamental measures to continue the work that has been carried out over the past few years in combating the poverty of the most vulnerable population, in particular the elderly and the disabled, fulfilling what is reflected in the Government's programme for this legislation. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the Government aims to ensure that, until the end of the legislature, the value of the solidarity complement for the elderly reaches a benchmark of subsistence equal or above the poverty threshold. In line with this objective, the Government updated the reference value of the solidarity supplement for the elderly with an increase of 600 € per year. We are talking about an estimated impact of EUR 53 million, covering a total of 170 000 elderly people. It also guaranteed the extraordinary package of measures, extraordinary support for pensioners with the solidarity supplement for the elderly in the total amount of 360 €. This is a very significant effort in the allocation of public resources, in which the solidarity complement for the elderly is recognized as a strong social measure in guaranteeing dignified living conditions for no one to stay behind. To pursue the real value of the income of pensioners at the lowest levels, in particular in order to strengthen the effectiveness of this measure, is the gradual and sustainable objective of this Government. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, also in the Social Benefit for Inclusion, the Government has implemented it, thus enabling support for people with disabilities and responding to disability charges.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-26.u189	Three years! Will you stay behind?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-26.u190	In October 2017, the first phase was implemented with the introduction of the basic component intended to compensate for the increased general burdens resulting from the disability situation in order to promote the autonomy and social inclusion of the disabled person. in this component, are currently covered about 186,600 people with disabilities, with an average monthly value of approximately 280 €. One year later, the second phase, with the introduction of the complement of the PSI, was implemented in order to combat the poverty of people with disabilities. Currently, this benefit supports about 30 000 people with disabilities living in poverty, with an average monthly value of € 280, which increases the average monthly value of the PSI of these beneficiaries to around €573. In situations of greater deficiency and resource severity, the PSI reaches the maximum value of 786 €, with currently about 7800 people with disabilities in this situation. In 2019, the Government implemented the third phase, with the extension of the PSI to childhood and youth, at a fixed monthly value of € 149, corresponding to 50 % of the baseline reference value and which is increased by 35 % for single-parent families. Currently, around 7070 children and young people already have access to the Social Benefit for Inclusion. In April 2023, with the Social Benefit for Inclusion, increased by 25 %, plus EUR 38 million compared to the same period and the number of beneficiaries increased by 12 %. This provision is essential for persons with disabilities or with a degree of disability equal to or greater than 60 % to have support for their condition, to respond to financial constraints resulting from disability and to achieve their autonomy and social inclusion. Social Benefit for Inclusion is a lever against inactivity, allowing it to reconcile with work activity, which previously was not possible, enabling the full participation of the disabled person in society, in accordance with their capabilities and without failing to protect the situations of deep disability. With regard to the proposals which are being examined today, it should be noted that it is important to reflect on the fact that we do not call into question our own benefits, overburdening them with amendments to the general conditions of allocation. [[PSD MP Nuno Carvalho's protests.]] The amendments should therefore be supported in a rigorous analysis of the cost estimate. That's the way the government is heading,
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-26.u191	You're late!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-26.u192	... by defining measures that ensure a more appropriate approach to safeguarding the rights of beneficiaries and ensuring the proper allocation of public resources, in fact, a socialist matrix that guides our governance. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-26.u193	You have a request for clarification. There is no time to answer, but the request for clarification will be made by the Member of the PSD Parliamentary Group Clara Marques Mendes.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-26.u194	I congratulate you, Mr President, and the Members. Ladies and gentlemen. Mrs Cristina Sousa, at the end of 5 minutes, we were unable to understand exactly the reason for the mis-managed explanations that Mrs Sousa gave. And why is that? Madam Member, what is at issue here is to restore an injustice situation, and it is an injustice situation that is caused by the State. [[PSD applause.]] Because what is at stake here is the delay in conducting medical boards for the award of the multi-purpose medical certificate, which in some cases is taking more than three years — I repeat, three years, Mrs Deputy — and this leads to people being penalized, because not only do they receive, as when they receive the benefit, they do not receive retroactively. Mrs. Member, I'm not talking about costs. This is what the State has an obligation to comply with. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-26.u195	The honourable Member, as I have said, has no time, and no one gives time to the Socialist Party's Member to respond and therefore we continue with the speeches. Now, for the Left Block, Mrs. Isabel Pires has the floor. You have the floor, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-26.u196	Mr President, very quickly we wanted to leave a note at the end of this debate, because I think there are few ways to describe the intervention the Socialist Party had here on this serious problem. We are talking about a Social Benefit for Inclusion, for which, it has long been recognized, since its implementation, there are serious problems to solve and injustices that have been created. We have people with disabilities or disabilities who have been waiting for years to receive what is theirs by law, by their disability or by their disability: As regards delays in medical boards, the Government does not respond, the Socialist Party does not respond. With regard to the necessary changes in the way PSI works, so that it can effectively serve for what has been created — which is a complement to what people with disabilities already receive — so that this idea of autonomy for people with disabilities can be a reality, and the Socialist Party here presents a report of numbers and data. It is not acceptable, Mrs. Member. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-26.u197	For an intervention by the CFP Parliamentary Group, Mr Manuel Loff has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-26.u198	Mr President, I would also like to refer to the last speech of the Member of the Socialist Party. We are already used to, we are all used to, so that in these debates, the Socialist Party will make an endless list of numbers on a permanent basis, of examples through which — I regret — they cannot even convince anyone, in particular those who require such help, to convince them at least that their problems are solved. For example, she is well aware that the social benefits supplements for inclusion did not remove anyone from poverty, which, with these supplements, could not at least solve an inclusion problem. Above all, Mrs Deputies knows well — the Socialist Party knows, the Government knows, or should know — that these are people whose increased expenditure, far above the average of the general population, with products and equipment which, in general, never come to them, require a set of structural measures that effectively solve the problem of people with disabilities. Now, this eternal discourse is not enough that they present to us permanently, with a kind of «the cup is almost full, or is half full, half empty». You know the glass is practically empty.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-26.u199	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-26.u200	And it is not worth continuing with a truly caregiving speech, trying to convince people to solve the problems when they actually do not solve them. This does not minimize the functioning of the democratic system, and even less social policies to support people with disabilities. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-26.u201	Therefore, we are now closing this debate, which will be done by the PSD Parliamentary Group. For this purpose, with two minutes, plus the 12 seconds coming from the debate, Mrs Carla Madureira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-26.u202	Mr President, at the end of this debate let me quote one of our greatest poets, Eugenio de Andrade, who once said: « the words are spent». In fact, we have already spent all our words on this matter.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-26.u203	All right! [[Protests by the PS Spouse Porfirio Silva.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-26.u204	We have repeatedly called attention, and today it is clear that there is a consensus of all the benches, for the urgency of solving this problem, which has only one responsible: it is called -António Costa, Prime Minister of this country, which is supported by this socialist majority. [[PSD applause.]] It is only for the government to solve this problem, which is putting the lives of people with even more vulnerable disabilities and which is calling into question the most vulnerable people. We need to figure it out. It is not enough for the Secretary of State for Inclusion to arrive at the United Nations (United Nations ) and to say that in Portugal these problems are being solved and that Portugal is being a great example in supporting people with disabilities. It is not enough to say that support for disability and people with disabilities is a national plan, indeed, we could have a debate here just to demonstrate the failure that these support is being made, and that it is not being solved.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-26.u205	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-26.u206	So now it is time to say that it is time to put an end to the difficulties. It's time to look at people not as numbers, but as real people,... [[Exactly!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-26.u207	... that are experiencing real problems, that need a real solution to be solved. [[PSD applause.]] We may be late, but for many, we are still in time to give them a life with dignity, which, after all, is so simple what they are entitled to. So here is the appeal, probably from this whole House, to the Socialist Party: look at people, in fact, to people who are real, and solve this problem. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-26.u208	We therefore close this second point of our agenda. We move on to the third point, which is relevant to the joint discussion, in general, of Bill Nos 311 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Review the scheme for repairing accidents at work and occupational diseases, making the second amendment to Law No 98 / 2009 of 4 September, 312 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Add the National Association of Workless Disabled Persons as a 1 % beneficiary of the amount of fines applied for breach of safety and health rules at work or resulting from non-compliance with occupational accident repair rules, 313 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Recalculation of supplementary benefits for assistance to third parties assigned to those injured in work under Law No 2127 / 65 of 3 August and 777 / XV / 1. a (PAN) — Prevention of occupational accidents and occupational diseases and adaptation of labour legislation to extreme climatic phenomena. Thus, in order to present these initiatives of the CFP, Mr Manuel Loff has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-26.u209	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members and Members of Parliament : Labour weakness is a central issue in the concerns of the Communist Party. As is the case in so many other dimensions of social and labour life, accidents at work, such as occupational diseases, are the result of the precarious conditions in which people are forced to work in the overwhelming majority of times. It was already on the proposal of the CFP that, in 2001, in resolution of the Assembly of the Republic, the institution of the National Day for Prevention and Safety at Work, signed on 28 April, through which all victims of occupational accidents and occupational diseases are remembered. it called for measures to create a dynamic of prevention, with the aim of combating inertia and insufficient supervision of companies and working conditions, ensuring the competent authorities the guidelines and the necessary means for effective intervention. Work accidents are a very serious problem in Portugal, one of many facing workers. In 2022 alone, 510 serious work accidents and 134 fatal work accidents occurred. Only until 3 April of this year, according to data from the ACT (Working Conditions Authority ), 31 serious accidents and 14 fatal accidents have already occurred in a proportion far higher than those recorded in previous years. It is true, on the other hand, that the legal obligation to insurance for the risk of accidents at work has long been recognised. However, despite the absence of insurance being punished by law, which may involve payment of a fine, there is a lack of regular and effective supervision, and, in the event of an accident with a worker on behalf of another, the employer shall be responsible for the payment of the benefits provided for in the law. However, the number of companies that do not transfer liability for occupational accident risks to insurers has increased. This, associated with closures of companies without regular insolvency proceedings, leads to an increasing number of workers in a situation of incapacity for work being seen without adequate protection. in these circumstances, the injured and their families, not few times, fall into situations of fragility and social vulnerability, of which they hardly come out. The legislation in force clearly benefits the insurers by disresponsing them to many of the cases of accidents at work. The PCP has always warned that compliance with and compliance with safety and health rules at work (STS), as well as repairing work accidents, would never be fair when done sacrificing workers and benefiting insurers. But today is the reality that still exists. Working disability has serious human and social impacts and consequences, and in many situations the accident at work is a factor in the destruction of the professional and family life of the victims, especially when the result is partial or total incapacity for work and/or a situation of irrecoverable disability of a high degree. It adds the reality of the emotional consequences felt by the injured, of the individual dimension of those who are faced with a disability, of those who feel diminished for the execution of a set of tasks, of those who feel even excluded from the working world, of those who feel strange in the family sphere, because the sin suffered has changed deeply, and, in many cases, permanently, the way of interacting and integrating in the various spheres of their lives. To this end, the PCP presents a first bill with the aim of, among others, the regime will begin to provide compensation for all damage produced, both capital and non-patrimonial, irrespective of the employer's fault. Secondly, we propose to amend the rules of choice of the assistant physician, in order to ensure the necessary independence in the assessment of the moment of discharge, by conferring their powers on the doctor who, at the moment, attends the injured, in particular the family doctor. In the case of the injured person being sent to work without being able to resume work and benefits being refused by the employer, the worker must be able to apply to any physician, being subject to an expert assessment designated by the court within five days, in order to clarify the actual situation of the injured person, maintaining the right to the provision of absolute temporary disability during the period of assessment. We propose the revision of the scheme of permanent support for third parties, including the extension of the scheme to the period of temporary disability, which is of the most fundamental justice and even indispensable so that the injured person and his family are not obliged to bear the costs inherent in the situation of permanent disability arising from the occupational accident. We propose the indexation of all benefits to the national minimum wage and not to the indexer of social support, given its character of substitute labour income. We propose the amendment of the standard which today imposes the compulsory remission of pensions due to permanent disability of less than 30 %, a remission which generally benefits insurance companies in large millions of euros, while it is a major injury to the injured. We propose that the permanent disability pension of more than 30 % may only be partially remitted if an absolute permanent disability has not been allocated for the usual work, ensuring that the remaining annual pension is not less than 14 times the value of the monthly minimum wage guaranteed at the date of the authorisation of the remission, thus ensuring that the injured person has a monthly value not less than the minimum wage. If the injury does not manifest immediately after the accident, it shall be for the employer to prove that the injury does not result from the accident and to assume all the costs and charges inherent, of course, at the moment from which the injury occurs. The reference remuneration to be considered in the calculation of compensation and pensions shall never be less than the monthly minimum wage guaranteed on the date of certification or death. in a second project, we also propose that, recognizing the work carried out by the National Association of Sinistered Work Deficiencies in support of these workers and their families, 1% of the amount of fines applied for violation or failure to comply with the safety and health rules at work and repair of accidents at work be addressed to this association. Finally, in a third project, considering the unconstitutionality declared by the Constitutional Court, by judgment of 17 February last year, concerning the article on the calculation of the supplementary benefit for assistance to the third person, carried out on the basis of the social support indexer, for the CFP it is essential that these pensions be recalculated and indexation should be made with reference to the national minimum wage.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-26.u210	You must conclude, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-26.u211	Of course, Mr. President. These are substitute labour income benefits, especially in view of the fact that there is an accident at work. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-26.u212	To submit Bill No. 777 / XV / 1. a ( PAN) has the floor to Mrs Inês de Sousa Real, of the PAN.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-26.u213	Mr President-in-Office, I begin by congratulating the CFP on bringing this issue to debate. In the proposal that the NAP brings here today, we focus on the impacts that climate change also has on the scale of workers' rights. Its effects are unquestionable and are happening right now, knowing that in the coming years they will lead to increases in average temperatures, changes in precipitation levels, extreme drought, heat waves, as well as an increase in the number of extreme climate events. In Portugal this is no exception, indeed, we are from the countries of Europe most susceptible to its effects, with enormous cost at all levels, environmental, social and economic. The world of work will be deeply affected by climate change, impacts on human health, working conditions or the loss of employment itself. The European Commission estimated that the economic, environmental and social costs of countries'non-adaptation to climate change may range from EUR 100 billion per year in 2020 to EUR 250 billion per year in 2050 throughout the European Union. In total, some 410 000 jobs may be lost if adaptation measures are not taken. For this reason, the NAP intends, with the initiative it presents today, something very simple: a small step to adapt our labour legislation to environmental challenges and to prevent the permanent subjection of workers to adverse working conditions, such as heat shocks, which are likely to cause work accidents or occupational diseases. In Portugal, only in July 2020, there was an increase in mortality between 7 and 13 July, corresponding to 238 deaths, the causes of which were attributed precisely to the heat wave that occurred. Recently, in Spain, changes have been announced to ban outdoor work when there is a red or orange alert for high-temperature episodes. In Portugal, although there are standards that oblige employers to safeguard the health and safety of their workers, there is no similar standard to protect mainly workers who develop their activity abroad, such as workers responsible for urban hygiene, civil construction or agriculture, and who are therefore more vulnerable to heat strikes, accidents at work or occupational diseases.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-26.u214	You must conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-26.u215	I shall indeed conclude, Mr President. For this reason, and as the neighbouring Spain did, the NAP intends to limit the provision of work involving the worker's exposure to temperatures equal to or greater than 35 °C for more than 2 hours, hoping that the other political forces will be available to accompany us in the specialty.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-26.u216	For an intervention, Mrs Deputy of the Parliamentary Group of the Liberal Initiative Carla Castro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-26.u217	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, when we see all the legislative initiatives we have here today, we often notice a tone of resentment and demonization. We sincerely believe that this is a counterproductive tone and, more importantly, that politically takes away decisions, because it makes us look at the issue in an almost radicalized way. This feeling is partly applied to the so-called interests of insurance companies against the interests of the injured, and there are interventions that even create distortions, where, for example, we see proposals for legal interventions where the reversal of the burden of proof occurs. These do not really seem to us to be good legislative techniques, nor even good discussion practices. In relation to accidents at work, in particular, they are quite unique and they are recognized as social function, curiously by private entities, who have managed well in general. I object to these expositions of reasons, I do not know what is the knowledge of the specific situation of accidents at work. But, for example, the branches that have a high sinequality are unique cases of branches intervened by the supervisory authority itself. I mean, what does that mean? That what they pay for the claims, in the face of what they receive from the customers, is highly unbalanced. I'm not saying that that's good or bad. Well, for now, it is good for regulatory entities to be alert, even in favor of social importance, but above all to demystify a little of this issue of the reality of usurping profits for workers. That said, prevention is essential, and must be done in various ways: it must be promoted in the law, it must be promoted by the Act — and I will talk about it — and, curiously, it is also one of the biggest interests of the insurers, of course, because more prevention means less accidents. This all to explain what? It is not a defence mandate, but it is precisely to explain that when there is radicalization, or when there is a lot of 'against each other', I do not honestly think that we can have a more fruitful discussion. I also think that there are important issues to improve the lives of the victims, and we are talking about the speed of certificates or agreements that are necessarily made in court, but that could perhaps be done outside the courts, which could even relieve the burden. With so many reforms that we need to make in justice, this is also a subject that we could address. But obviously we do not disagree with everything that is written in the proposals. It is worth addressing, for example, the additional benefits to support the third person, something that Mr CFP has already spoken about here today. This is a very interesting subject and which, as a modest opinion, even deserves to be seen in a global way, because I think it is very disregardful in the architecture of social benefits itself. We have seen this in discussions in the Assembly, for example, about caregivers, which is a topic that is not here today. But, by associating it with the care of third parties and how we deal with it, it is a subject that seems to me to be relatively disconnected and that deserved to be discussed. With regard to this proposal in particular, I think it is worth — let us see what the vote is going to be like — to work in detail, until the Constitutional Court has already had some views, in particular, on indexing these values. So it could be an interesting subject. Allow me a small part, with some humor: somewhere it is said, about doctors, that it was interesting to be able to change the rules of choice of the assistant doctor, and I do not resist saying that we agree not only with this, but with its application to the generality of the SNS (National Health Service). With regard to the NAP proposal, we also have some notes. It aims, for example, to limit work performance for longer than 2 hours when there are temperatures above 35 °C. I mean, I think we all understand the kindness, or the idea behind it.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-26.u218	In the summer it paralyzed half the country! [[Repeals of CH Deputies.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-26.u219	Many times, in the proposals, we are talking about tides of virtues. But then how does this work in practice? How could this be manageable, even? There is much more concern in an intervention, in a hyper-regulation, in a hyper-legislation, rather than working at the start in an effective collaborative work culture. By the way, I'm just making a note here: I don't know if you guys are. Members know, but probably Mrs Deputy, being within the themes of agriculture and its needs,... [[Mr Pedro Pinto's laughs.]] ... you will know that there are not even meteorological collaborative networks between private and public to measure temperature data. This would, for example, be quite an interesting subject for us to work on in this House. [[NAP protests.]] So to conclude, I leave a generic comment on today's proposals: we liberals do not share a vision of the demonized, shared, hyper-regulated world, which then in practice has a state that fails where it should be effectively, which is in social functions. We must decomplicate, simplify, have an effective right of work, have a regulatory state, yes, have a functional act, with means and resources, but also with a preventive and advisory perspective. In short, in our contribution, we want and continue to fight for a more liberal country, which includes a more positive, collaborative vision, social consultation, flexibility and not shared. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-26.u220	You will now use the floor by the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group, Mrs Marta Freitas.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-26.u221	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, on behalf of the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group, I would like to welcome initiatives on a fundamental subject for labour law, such as safety and health at work. I also want to make it clear that this is a matter that deserves all the attention of the Socialist Party, because it is aware, when listening to various entities, of alerts to the need for some adjustments in the current law. We really believe that the 2009 law needs to be consolidated, that it needs to respond to the problems raised by associations and unions, and that faster, more equitable responses are needed between the public and the private. As the gentlemen know. Members, because it is public, the Socialist Government intends to present solutions from the Green Paper on Safety and Health at Work. So today's proposals are shown to be timely and casuistic before accurate data can be obtained for solid changes. Now, the PS knows that this is a path that has to be done, and it is already being done, but we cannot begin by the end, without concrete data, without social dialogue, without listening to specialists.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-26.u222	Look, look!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-26.u223	Look, look, "no social dialogue"!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-26.u224	We cannot build a real change in safety and health at work starting with the construction of the roof. It seems to us, therefore, that it makes every sense to wait for the conclusion of this Green Paper on Safety and Health at Work before moving forward with any legislative initiative, so that there is a constructive process and social dialogue. It is also noted that the International Labour Organization adopted on 10 June 2022 a resolution for the inclusion of health and safety at work as a fundamental right for all workers in updating the declaration on the main labour rights, thus demonstrating the relevance, currentity and importance of the SST. in this sense, the Government has already started the review work of the Legal Regime of the Promotion of Safety and Health at Work, as well as the preparation of the Green Paper on Safety and Health at Work, in the same way as the Green Paper on the Future of Work, which gave rise to the Dignified Work Agenda, which entered into force on 1 May, with 70 measures that came to improve working conditions and the reconciliation between the personal, family and professional life of workers. Thus, the Government intends to develop work within this Green Paper by the end of this year, and a report is subsequently drawn up. During this year, the Government will review legislation, on the basis of recommendations and expert analysis, and launch campaigns to promote and raise awareness. In the context of this Green Paper, it is intended to launch a great discussion for the future of safety and health at the workplace, looking at new dimensions, such as concern with mental health, the right to shut down and new forms of work organization, and it is also important to look at phenomena such as burnout and sinocality in some sectors of activity. So, in more detail, the work is scheduled as follows: First of all, the Green PaperSecure and Health Work, with the beginning of work planned for June 2023, aims to promote reflection and discussion, mobilizing the scientific and practical knowledge of civil society for this debate, in a perspective of the future for the analysis and review of the Legal Regime of the Promotion of Safety and Health at Work; The second step is then the amendment of the Legal Scheme for the Promotion of Safety and Health at Work; Finally, it is also intended to launch a national campaign to promote the culture of safety and health at work and to raise the awareness of employers, workers and civil society for the essentiality of these matters, in order to contribute to the reduction of labour inequalities, occupational diseases and psychosocial risks, taking into account the link with similar initiatives at European level. As far as the occupational safety and health intervention plan is concerned, I can say that this plan emerges following the new framework for safety and health at the work of the European Commission for the period 2021 - 2027, which defines the major transversal objectives for the coming years, aiming at improving the health and safety of workers. At the same time, in response to an initiative promoted by the European Trade Union Confederation, where our trade union centres are affiliated, the UGT ( General Workers'Union ) and the CGTP ( General Confederation of Portuguese Workers ), a significant set of high-level representatives of European entities and bodies, including the Minister of Labour, Solidarity and Social Security, signed the Zero Deadhat Work Declaration calling for the mobilization of European institutions, the governments of the Member States and employers to ensure that the current European Health and Safety Strategy places the maximum on reducing work-related deaths. thus, as regards national statistical data, according to the latest report on employment and training, made available by the Office of Strategy and Planning of the Ministry of Labour, Solidarity and Social Security, in 2019, about 196,200 accidents occurred effectively. However, if we look at the evolution that has taken place in labour sinequality over the past five years, there is a tendency to decrease the number of accidents, particularly fatalities.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-26.u225	That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-26.u226	Nevertheless, accidents in all showed a slight decline between 2017 and 2019. Thus, in this period, there was a breakdown of 5, 9 % — less than 12 300 accidents — in the total number of labour accident participations, also observing a breakdown of 35, 4 % in the number of fatal accidents. Now we are not proud of the incidence of fatal work accidents recorded in Portugal. Therefore, it is a great priority for this Socialist Executive to place the Working Conditions Authority to bet on prevention and supervision, in a zero vision approach to work-related deaths. With all this, once again, the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group does not consider it appropriate to move forward now with amendments to the Legal Scheme for the Promotion of Safety and Health at Work, before the conclusion of this Green Paper on Safety and Health at Work, and also before the presentation by the Government of the proposal for a comprehensive review of the legal regime referred to, which will certainly be brought to Parliament shortly for approval. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-26.u227	The honourable Member has a request for clarification from the PSD Parliamentary Group, which will be made by Mr Nuno Carvalho. You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-26.u228	Mr. President, I begin by congratulating you. Madam President, first of all, there is a framework which I think is fundamental: this regime that we are talking about, presented by the CFP, is for repair, not for promotion. [[Exactly!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-26.u229	It is essential to clarify this with regard to the one who is the object of the contract. What the honourable Member mentioned there was a set of issues, which were announced by the Secretary of State, on the amendment of the law on accidents at work. Indeed, they have already been announced, it has already been said that they will order the Green Paper, and that is a matter on which, of course, we are waiting to know how the government will stand. Now, as this is not just a government that is supposed to produce laws and govern for people, since the honourable Member, even in the form of a misunderstanding, has mentioned this issue, and let me say absolutely wrong, let me ask you why the Socialist Party has led to the coming of Mr. State Secretary about sinlessness in Portugal, when he himself announced that there were worrying numbers and that Portugal is one of the countries leading in terms of sinlessness. [[PSD applause.]] We are speaking in a sinister manner — in the words of the Secretary of State, « a great scourge», « people who die» ; the Socialist Party's response : the hearing has led. If you say you want to involve all the partners, then Parliament is a partner in this matter.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-26.u230	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-26.u231	Mr. Secretary of State came here not to discuss the laws which Mrs. Deputy said there, but to speak of a scourge that is important to attack, and this was repeatedly plunged by the Socialist Party. So tell us, Mrs Member: what is the ACT doing to strengthen the means and tackle this problem? How is the ACT concerned about the sinequality, about the deaths that occur in terms of accidents at work? What are we doing in Portugal as regards this matter? Tell us now what the Green Paper will solve, or what legislation wants to solve. It is that this association that you make between laws and sinequalities, not responding to the reinforcement that the ACT has to have, is a great blunder, is equal to your intervention, I am sorry, let me tell you. Study the subjects or then, simply do your work. You don't rule to say that you announce laws, you rule to treat people. This is the subject, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Socialist Party, it is serious. You guys, so far, really have zero. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-26.u232	In reply, Mrs Marta Freitas has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-26.u233	Mr Nuno Carvalho, as you know, because you have been present in this debate in committee, this is an already temporary situation. In fact, this Green Paper on Safety and Health at Work has already been discussed in the committee. The honourable Member is being populist, he is trying to take advantage of it, because this has been discussed.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-26.u234	All right! All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-26.u235	What was discussed? Oh, my God! The PSD request has been discussed!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-26.u236	We will therefore now have to wait for this Green Paper on Safety and Health at Work to be discussed, as discussed in the Green Paper on the Future of Work, which gave rise to the dignified work agenda.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-26.u237	About work accidents, do you have anything to present?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-26.u238	That is what I have to say, and you have already heard me.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-26.u239	No palms? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-26.u240	The answer given by Mrs Marta Freitas, who the PS Parliamentary Group did not applaud, probably by forgetting. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD Members' laughs.]] That's better. I now give the floor to Mr Rui Afonso of the Parliamentary Group of the United States of America.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-26.u241	Mr President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Today we are before the discussion of four bills, all of them related to the crucial issue of occupational accidents and occupational diseases. Three of these bills come from the PCP and aim to implement measures to repair accidents at work. We believe that the proposals submitted contribute to mitigating the harmful effects of accidents and diseases related to professional activity, however, we cannot fail to note the lack of studies, or credible sources of information, which should bear the exposure of reasons. In addition, we could not fail to warn that the legislative amendments contained in Bill No. 311 / XV / 1. the lack of the contribution of the representative entities of the patronate, and it is critical to note that they only reflect the viewpoint of the representative associations of workers. Regarding the draft law submitted by the NAP, which aims to impose the prohibition of the provision of work under temperatures equal to or greater than 35 °C for more than 2 hours, although we recognize the importance of protecting workers under extreme weather conditions, we believe that this issue should deserve a more in-depth analysis, since statistically such climatic conditions are not frequent in Portugal, which is why this measure could generate a negative and disproportionate impact on the functioning of some industries. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-26.u242	We even consider it, in a way, irresponsible to propose legislation that part of fallacious assumptions, which do not actually agree with the reality of our country. [[Congrats from the CH.]] Mrs Inês de Sousa Real, we cannot be led by simple and uncontextualized ideas, which, instead of solving real problems, only create obstacles to employers and the development of our country's economy.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-26.u243	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-26.u244	Indeed, the draft law presented by the NAP, as it is, configures a real excess, a complete abuse. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-26.u245	Ladies and gentlemen. Members, all matters related to accidents at work and occupational diseases are of vital importance and must lack a careful, evidence-based analysis that takes into account the reality of our country. Only in this way can we create laws that really protect workers, without causing unnecessary damage to the productive fabric of our country. Therefore, before this House, it is still my duty, looking at all Portuguese workers, to launch a unequivocal criticism of the total inaction of the current government, which is totally blind and deaf to the anguish and suffering of our citizens who are victims of work accidents or occupational diseases. [[Congrats from the CH.]] It is that, indeed, in view of such important matter, the government does not say anything, the government does nothing. However, the reality of occupational diseases and accidents at work in our country is disturbing. Portugal is a sad leader in work accidents. According to Eurostat’s latest available statistics from 30 European countries, Portugal recorded the highest rate of work losses among people of active age. In 2020 there were more than 156 000 accidents at work in our country, and we cannot forget that behind a work accident there is a history of life transformed by pain, suffering and often loss of working capacity. And what do we see while this happens? A government obsessed by its self-preservation and by the political game, which completely abandoned those who dedicate themselves to body and soul, those who risk their health and sometimes their life at their jobs. Well, this, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it is unacceptable, it is unworthy, it is a true betrayal to the values that must guide political action in our country. [[Congrats from the CH.]] We have a government that is sinking into scandals, cases and homes and that has clearly failed to protect the health and safety of Portuguese workers, nor has it been able to guarantee decent working conditions or to ensure the necessary support for workers affected by work accidents and occupational patients. Ignoring the condition of those who have lost their mobility or their health to work is a scandal, it is a real attack on decency and the public spirit, which must revolt all those who occupy positions of political responsibility.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-26.u246	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-26.u247	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we cannot welcome this situation, nor can we continue to tolerate this indifference and inaction by the Government. We need to demand more, much more! [[Congrats from the CH.]] [[Meanwhile, President Augusto Santos Silva was re-elected.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-26.u248	To speak on behalf of the Left Block, you have the floor of Mrs Isabel Pires.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-26.u249	Mr President, I would like to congratulate the CFP on bringing this issue to the Assembly of the Republic. Several interventions have already been made, and what is happening and the data indicate to us is that Portugal has a problem with accidents at work and occupational diseases. That said, if everyone agrees that there is a problem, we need to move forward with solutions. The CFP presents us with some solutions, which relate more specifically to the question of the repair regime and the calculation of some additional benefits, which we believe to go towards what is needed to improve in response to these situations. When we talk about a work accident or a professional illness, we are often talking about a person who has spent several decades exercising his profession under conditions that already did not help and have led to that situation. This leads us to a previous question, which is how often the working conditions for certain functions are not guarded by many professionals. For example, relatively few weeks ago, we had a discussion here in the House about the night and shift work regime. We know that — there are already enough scientific data in several countries that tell us exactly the same thing — night and shift work has implications for long-term occupational diseases, implications that are not currently being guarded, because the Socialist Party does not want to guard them. We could have a regime in Portugal that, as far as these workers in particular are concerned, would protect them exactly from professional diseases that affect their lives, and not only their professional life, Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen. The question is this: they affect your professional life, but they also affect your family life, your personal life, your ability to do everything else but not work—and we are here to do much more than work, workers also have that right. Therefore, this is something that must be verified—and I believe that, on the left, there have been several proposals in this regard—but that, in fact, has not been guarded in terms of the conditions in which professionals work. A second point has to do with the supervision of these same conditions. It is true that there is still a large gap in supervision, particularly in the area of health, hygiene and safety at work, and that, from this point of view, the proposals on the need to strengthen the framework of the Labour Conditions Authority have also been plummeted in recent years. Therefore, we realize that there is no political will to effectively solve this problem. When the Socialist Party comes to this debate and speaks not of the concrete proposals that are put forward, but also of a green book on these issues, if it were not so serious, it would be to laugh, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. It is that we are again talking about very serious issues for the lives of thousands of workers, but the Socialist Party is again embracing this whole debate in another green book. The book is sometimes green, sometimes white, but it does not matter very well to color, and it is interesting that workers continue to see their working conditions assured year after year, especially how they will be repaired in the future by occupational diseases or accidents, which continues to leave much to be desired in our country. From that point of view, we want to leave the note that we will follow the CFP proposals. With regard to the proposal presented by the NAP, we are obviously open for it to be in-depth in the field of expertise. What leaves us with some fear, even, is that one can say in the Assembly of the Republic that what has already been done in other countries without any problem — in the Spanish State, for example — and that there is no sensitivity to the fact that we have workers who, for their function, are obliged to work outdoors and that, in a heat wave of 40 °C or 42 °C, they have not ensured their own life, their own health. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen — it was on the right hand that we heard these speeches — that is insensibility which makes no sense. We therefore hope that we will be able to deepen this debate in the field of expertise. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-26.u250	For an intervention on behalf of the Free Party, Mr Rui Tavares has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-26.u251	Mr President, I welcome and thank the CFP for the schedule of this debate and also for the presentation of its proposal. I think it is necessary to start by saying that Portugal is a country that has many accidents at work because it is a country that has for too long betted on a model of development based on the adversarial value of work, already by low wages, already by poor working conditions and also by wanting to compete with other economies more developed by the price factor. Therefore, this led to cutting down on working conditions and safety conditions and led to costs that have just been added to the state, to society and, above all, to workers themselves and their families, who have to live with the consequences of these accidents at work. [[CH Member Protests Bruno Nunes.]] If we want our economy to go towards greater development, which will result in fewer work accidents in the future, the truth is that we should start by trying to avoid accidents at work, forcing companies and employers—and also the state, when it is—to pay attention to the safety and health of its workers, because this is good for the country as a whole and leads us to a model of development that is, for all, healthier, more evolved and of greater added value. Having said this, we cannot let the reactions on the right — of the Liberal Initiative and of the Arrival — to the NAP project, basically defending that we are concerned about sun work, when climate conditions are getting worse, is that we are signaling virtue. No, it's not! It's just that we're signaling development.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-26.u252	You want to work for four days!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-26.u253	We must move away from the country we have already been in, in which many workers have seen, sometimes, with my eyes, perhaps, the ladies. Members did not see it as an insolation, by exhaustion, they had to stop working, because they no longer had any other remedy. [[CH protests.]] Perhaps, it is better to act in the cause and prevent that from happening.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-26.u254	To speak on behalf of the PS Parliamentary Group, Mr Fernando José has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-26.u255	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we welcome all the initiatives under discussion, but I will take a look at the initiative presented by the NAP. Safety and health at work is a permanent theme in the lives of States, societies, employers and workers. As such, there is no need for adaptations and updates to deal with and respond to changes and challenges that arise at every moment. In this regard, it is noted that the International Labour Organization, as already mentioned, adopted on 10 June 2022 a resolution for the inclusion of health and safety at work as a fundamental right for all workers in updating the declaration on labour principles and rights, thus showing the relevance, relevance and importance of the topic. in this framework, the government says and does. He began his work on reviewing the legal regime for the promotion of occupational safety and health, as well as on drawing up the Green Paper on Safety and Health at Work. It is therefore to be reaffirmed that during the years 2023 and 2024 the work is scheduled as follows: Green Paper on the Future of Work, with the start of the work scheduled for June 2023, which aims to promote public reflection and discussion ; amendment of the legal regime for the promotion of work safety and health in the middle of 2024 ; and launch of a national campaign to promote the culture of safety and health at work.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-26.u256	For the year is it?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-26.u257	As happened in the Dignified Work Agenda — whose important amendments and additions to labour legislation came into force on 1 May —...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-26.u258	For the year it will be!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-26.u259	... in this area too, all parliamentary groups will have the opportunity to participate in a broad and thorough discussion of a theme that calls on us all to make contributions in due course.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-26.u260	For the year it will be!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-26.u261	The Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group is of the opinion that it is not appropriate to adopt amendments to the legal regime for the promotion of safety and health at work before the conclusion of the Green Paper on Safety and Health at Work and the presentation by the Government of the proposal for a comprehensive review of the legal regime for the promotion of safety and health at work, which will be brought to this Parliament for discussion and vote. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-26.u262	For an intervention on behalf of the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mrs Helga Correia has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-26.u263	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Portuguese Communist Party brings the debate a set of bills to amend Law No 98 / 2009 of 4 September 2009 on the system of repair of accidents at work and occupational diseases. Before leaving for my intervention, let me say that we are not talking about the promotion regime, as the Socialist Party points out, finding that Mr Fernando José once again intends to introduce sand in this discussion. We are talking about the work accident and occupational disease repair scheme. They are completely different things and it is important to introduce seriousness in this debate, Mr President. [[PSD applause.]] One of the initiatives under discussion, which affects the scheme for repairing accidents at work, has introduced amendments to Article 566. that of the recently amended Labour Code — when it would have been possible to introduce the proposal now under discussion, but the CFP chose not to do so, now bringing this step back. I would once again like to reaffirm the importance of the stability of the Labour Code. We do not, of course, oppose the development of legislation. However, we cannot be constantly changing the Labour Code and we must do so without prior dialogue in the context of social dialogue. This is the only way that workers and employers are properly respected. We are surprised that the CFP did not present this proposal in the context of the discussion on the speciality of amendments to the Labour Code, until, Mr, the bills currently under discussion had already been presented in Parliament in September 2022. That is to say, there was time for the CFP, as a specialist, to present these proposals for amendments to the Labour Code and today we would have discussed them and would be, or would not, approved. Unless this is once again a political number of the CFP, as is usual, to say that you have this concern with the injured at work. It is worth mentioning, ladies and gentlemen. Members, that safety and health measures at work, as well as the system for repairing accidents at work and occupational diseases are very relevant subjects. Why are they relevant and important? Because they directly interfere in the lives of workers on behalf of others, in the lives of self-employed workers—who are simultaneously workers and employers—and in the activities of companies that are certainly focused on low sinlessness. [[PSD applause.]] Even because, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen, high sinality means loss of productivity and additional costs for companies. Therefore, it is important to look at this matter from the perspective of the worker, from the employer's perspective, from the perspective of the self-employed worker—who is both an employer and has obligations to contract compulsory occupational accident insurance—and, finally, from the perspective of the insurer, the PCP bug, which is the entity to whom the risk of compensation and pensions paid to the injured is transferred by paying the employer's premium. However, the CFP initiative does not have an extended view on this issue and is therefore unable to respond adequately, effectively and fairly to the problems that may exist. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the proposed measures, by their nature, in particular with regard to compensation and pensions, have an impact on the risk assessment and on the calculation of insurance premiums. I am talking about the impact of insurance premiums paid by companies and self-employed persons to insurers. in this respect, the CFP forgets that self-employed workers are also employers and suffer from the increase in premiums, the result of this change. [[PSD applause.]] In the context of the public assessment of the draft law, we were alerted by the Portuguese Insurance Association that the measures proposed by the CFP meant a significant increase in costs due to the change in the indexation of benefits to the minimum wage guaranteed by the replacement of the social support indexer, which, as referred to in that association, means an increase of 44, 6 %. This amendment represents a cost which will naturally be incorporated in the calculation of the premium value to be borne by the users, who are, as I said, employers and often self-employed. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the proposals submitted by the CFP are not accompanied by their financial impact. This enables us to conclude that there was no concern about the costs and the financial impact of the measures presented, which may seem beneficial to the workers, but which, in fact, are not. In addition, the CFP, in its proposal, speaks of labour tyrannicalness, and I quote : "Worklessness, because of its human and social impacts and consequences, is a reality with which we cannot live passively". However, in analyzing the proposals, we do not see any measure regarding the review of the legal regime of the promotion of safety and health at work nor of the safety and health at work itself, a determining and decisive factor in combating sinlessness. And here we are breaking up what the Socialist Party has just talked about here in this Parliament. We are, of course, sensitive to measures to improve safety and health conditions at work, as well as to those that allow for the fair and adequate repair of accidents at work and occupational diseases. We do not oppose the evolution of legislation, but this legislative evolution must be serious and preceded by dialogue in social dialogue and, as such, an effective assessment of the effectiveness of the measures. In conclusion, Mr President, it is important that this matter is dealt with in a comprehensive way and that there is serious talk about labour deficiency and the most effective means of combating it. Spotual legislative changes, without a strategic and structured vision, do not seem to us to be the proper ways to work on these matters. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-26.u264	Mr Pedro Pinto has the floor for an intervention on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-26.u265	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I am sorry that Mrs Inês de Sousa Real is not here because I am going to devote this minute to her proposal. Well, I think we're reaching the limit of extremism. Say that 35 C is an extreme climate phenomenon—for God's sake! — it is from whom you do not know the country where, from Alentejo to Trás-os-Montes, to several regions of the interior of the Mininho, 35 C in summer is a perfectly normal temperature. But now, 35 C, what do we do? It's not working! I mean, it's 35 C and people don't work. I don't know if you can go to the beach or not — we have to see, on the NAP proposal, whether you can go to the beach or not. This comes a bit as a result of the proposal for 4 days of weekly work of the Free. That is, we want to work fewer days a week and now we also want to work at a temperature that is less than 35 C. O Dear Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen of the Free and the PAN, tell people the truth: what you want is not to work, what you want is that people do not work! That's the only thing they want! [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-26.u266	You're going to work, you son of a bitch!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-26.u267	Therefore, we could never follow a proposal of these, to limit work when 35 C. That is to end agriculture and with a large majority of the professions in Portugal! [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-26.u268	Mr Rui Tavares asks for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-26.u269	For an appeal to the Bureau on the conduct of the proceedings, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-26.u270	This is too much!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-26.u271	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-26.u272	Mr President, I would like to inform the Bureau that I will send the European Commission's announcement on the agenda for the debate of the four-day proposal for the week at the European Union level — so that it can be distributed to the parliamentary groups — justified by the Commissioner for Protection that this would increase the productivity and competitiveness of the European economy and, therefore, would make it possible to work more and better.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-26.u273	To close the debate, on behalf of the CFP, Mr Manuel Loff has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-26.u274	Mr President, I will try to answer some of the questions that have been raised to me, starting with Members Carla Castro and Helga Correia, in particular as to whether there is a tone of resentment—it is not the first time that the Liberal Initiative speaks to us about this—a demonization of the private initiative and of the pet of the insurers as mentioned by Mrs Helga Correia. Mrs. Member, we don't call them a bug-pap or anything. Private companies which, in accordance with the law, have an obligation to cover the risk of labour injury, for us, are not bug-poppy, are companies that have to strictly comply with the law and in terms of solving the problems of the victims. [[PCP applause.]] So when Mrs Helga Correia tells us that there was no concern about the costs, I will tell her that, with the costs of the insurers, you should certainly not continue to worry.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-26.u275	It's not insurance, it's business! It's different things, don't confuse things!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-26.u276	We're worried about the costs...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-26.u277	From whom? State? Two taxpayers? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-26.u278	... of all the injured workers and their accompanying families in order to solve their problems and just not to be dependent, for example, on the discretionary diagnosis of the doctors indicated by the insurers. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-26.u279	Read the impressions!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-26.u280	In relation to this type of system, it's true, we have resentment. But that is an answer which, in other circumstances, I have already given. Mrs Carla Castro, on decomplicated, our proposal is to decomplicate the proceedings so that prompt compensation and the solution of the problems of many workers in Portugal can be made possible. With regard to the figures, Mr Fernando José — I do not know if he was wrong — practically repeated the speech of Mrs Marque Freitas, at which, at one point, he said that I had read the numbers badly.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-26.u281	Nobody said that!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-26.u282	I'm going to tell you what are the ACT numbers for the number of fatal accidents, to tell you there's no... [[Protests from PS MP Marta Freitas.]] Would you like to hear it? If you don't want to listen, it's not worth being here. But I'll tell them the same. In 2020 the number of fatal accidents due to work accidents was 137. In 2021, the number rose to 149, and in 2022, went down to 134. In other words, he stabilized. No, there's no consistent reduction in the number of these hits, and I'm just talking about those who die. [[PCP applause.]] Mrs Marta Freitas, regarding the Green Paper, good, what she referred to is the Green Paper of the future. I would like a Green Paper on the present, which solves the problems of serious victims. For the 134 dead — dead, Your Honor! — last year, what is the use of the Green Paper? [[PCP applause.]] We continue to say: sinality is also the result of poor working conditions, lack of guarantee of workers' rights, intensification of working rhythms, deregulation of hours, shifts and night work...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-26.u283	And the work on the Avante! Is that what you're talking about?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-26.u284	... that are issues that we have brought to breakfast, here, systematically.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-26.u285	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-26.u286	Mr. Deputies, you have to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-26.u287	These are the main risk factors that lead to the degradation of workers' physical, psychic and intellectual abilities. It is by solving these problems that we reduce and eradicate work losses. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-26.u288	Mrs. Marta Freitas asks for the word for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-26.u289	Mr President, it is for an appeal to the Bureau on the conduct of the proceedings.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-26.u290	Yeah, but isn't it about making a disguised intervention?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-26.u291	No, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-26.u292	Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-26.u293	Mr President, it is only to ask that the report on employment and training be distributed, made available by the Office of Strategy and Planning, where are the data I have mentioned. I therefore did not comment on the data submitted by the Member of the CFP, since I simply transcribed the data contained in the report, which I would ask is distributed.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-26.u294	All right! [[PCP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-26.u295	With regard to the two requests for the circulation of documents, the Bureau prefers that the respective e-mail address be indicated to save us paper. Mr. Manuel Loff also wishes to speak to the Bureau?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-26.u296	I do, Mr. President, and this is even the first time I do.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-26.u297	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-26.u298	Mr President, it was also to be said that the data I used are from the Working Conditions Authority. I thank the Bureau and I inform you that the access link to these same sources will be sent. It is an official entity of the Portuguese State. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-26.u299	We are thus finishing the debate on this point and we are going to start the voting period. I would like to ask the services to open up the quorum verification system and to ask the honourable Members to do so. Members to register. [[Pause.]] I wonder if any honourable Member or honourable Member has not been able to register?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-26.u300	Mr. President, I couldn't register.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-26.u301	Your presence, Mr Deputy, is registered by more traditional processes. Is there no other reference? [[Pause.]] All right, all of you. Ladies and gentlemen have listened to the questions that I have raised to them. We have a quorum and we shall then begin the voting period. We begin with the Vote Project No. 348 / XV / 1. a ( submitted by the PSD ) — I regret the victims of the fillings in the Italian region of Emilia-Romagna. To read the draft vote, you have the floor of Mrs. Maria da Luz Rosinha.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-26.u302	Mr. President and Mr. Members, the draft vote is as follows: « Last Wednesday, May 17, the region of Emilia-Romagna, in northern Italy, was affected by torrential rains that led to the Santerno river and several banks drifting its banks and causing the flood of vast areas, with 41 cities and villages affected by the rise of the waters. As a result of this disaster, 14 deaths have already been confirmed by the Italian authorities, some tens of missing persons and some 13,000 displaced persons. These are already considered the largest filled events in Italy in the last 100 years and occur in the same area that suffered a strong earthquake in 2012 which caused 28 deaths. The destruction scenario left by the waters will, as Stefano Bonaccini said, force the region to a huge reconstruction, and the Italian Government has already made money of EUR 30 million to repair the damage. This region was undergoing a drought and was now the victim of an extreme meteorological phenomenon that experts consider to be increasingly frequent due to the climate changes that the planet faces. Thus, the Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary, expresses its deepest sympathy for the victims of the floods in Italy, bringing their feelings to their families and expressing all their solidarity with the population affected by the rise of the waters and the Italian Government. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-26.u303	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall vote on the deliberative part of the draft vote that has just been read. [[The vote was taken unanimously.]] I ask everyone to follow me in a minute of silence. [[The House kept, standing, a minute's silence.]] I am sorry, but I am obliged to recall that during the voting period they cannot be in the Chamber but Members. I'm sorry, but that's it. We shall then vote on the draft vote No 353 / XV / 1. a ( submitted by PAR and subscribed by PS, CH, IL, BE and L ) — Greetings by the centenary of Eduardo Lourenço, which I read: « On May 23, 2023, the centenary of the birth of Eduardo Lourenço was celebrated. It is necessary to gain breath to summarize the height of a figure such as Eduardo Lourenço and the impact it has on Portuguese culture. Professor, philosopher, critic and essayist, contributed indeliblely, through his written work and word, to better understand Portugal, his identity and destiny. His nearly one hundred years of life (he died at 97 years of age) began in São Pedro do Rio Seco, in Guarda. He was trained in Historical-Philosophic Sciences in 1946, at the University of Coimbra, where he was assistant. From 1954 onwards, he taught in several foreign universities. First in Hamburg, then in Heidelberg, Montpellier, São Salvador da Baía, Grenoble and Nice, where he retired in 1988, still living in France, until finally returning to Portugal in 2013. Paying careful attention to the cultural and political life of his country, he never stole, since his first work, Heterodoxia I, of 1949, to think about the great questions of contemporary Portugal, leaving us, in dozens of other books and essays, articles, prefaces, criticisms and reviews, fundamental clues to his understanding. in this centenary year of its birth, Portugal can only be recognized for its prolific activity and legacy that leaves us, covering a wide variety of themes, from philosophy to politics, passing through religion, culture, literature or music. In all his work, the mark of his intellectual curiosity: the refusal of any dogmatics, questioning certainties, proposing new ways of seeing old things. His prestige and originality of his intervention in society were recognized in the most diverse plans, being distinguished with four Doctors Honoris Causa, national prizes (with emphasis on the Camões Prize and the Pessoa Prize) and international, as well as decorations of the Portuguese, French and Spanish State. From 2016 to 2020, the Council of State was incorporated by name of the President of the Republic. Eduardo Lourenço was possessing an immense knowledge, which shared generously with his contemporaries, and his voice will remain as an intellectual, cultural, ethical and civic reference of our time. The Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary session, recalls Eduardo Lourenço, welcoming, on the occasion of the centenary of his birth, his civic example as well as the greatness of his thought and the singularity of his work. Do not keep on seeking. ” Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall proceed to the vote on this draft vote. [[When put to the vote, it was adopted unanimously and applauded by the PS, PS, IL, BE, PAN, L, standing, CH and PCP.]] I welcome the presence, in the gallery, of your sister, Dr. Maria Alice Faria, to whom I thank, on behalf of Parliament, all the work you have done for the work and memory of Eduardo Lourenço. We now proceed to the vote on draft resolution No 724 / XV / 1. a ( PAR) — Move of the President of the Republic to London. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We shall now proceed to the general vote on the Proposal for a Law No 63 / XV / 1. a ( GOV ) — Authorizes the Government to adopt a new legal regime of the public taxi passenger transport service. [[When put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the CFP, the BE and the L and with abstentions from the PSD, the CH, the IL and the NAP.]] We then generally vote for Bill No. 454 / XV / 1. a ( PSD ) — The first amendment is made to Decree-Law No 84 / 2021 of 18 October on consumer rights in the purchase and sale of goods, contents and digital services. [[Put to the vote, it was adopted with votes in favour of PSD, CH, IL, PAN and L, votes against the PCP and BE and the PS abstention.]] The bill goes down to 6. the Commission. We continue with the general vote of Bill No. 766 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Modernization of the activity regime of the taxi sector ( ninth amendment to Decree-Law No 251 / 98 of 11 August ). [[When put to the vote, votes against the PS and the IL were rejected in favour of the CFP, BE and L and abstentions from the PSD, CH and the NAP.]] We then vote in general on Bill No. 775 / XV / 1. a ( CH ) — Alter the legal regime establishing the individual and paid passenger transport activity in uncharacterised vehicles ( TVDE ). [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, the IL, the CFP, the BE and the L were rejected, votes against the CH and abstentions against the PSD and the NAP.]] Mrs Inês de Sousa Real, of the NAP, informed the Bureau that she would present a statement of vote on this vote. We now proceed to the general vote on Bill No. 674 / XV / 1. a ( PSD ) — The fifth amendment of Decree-Law No 126 -A / 2017, of 6 October, which creates the social benefit for inclusion, extends the solidarity complement for the elderly to the holders of the disability pension and promotes the necessary adjustments in other social benefits. [[The vote was taken with votes against the PS and votes against the PS, the CH, the IL, the PCP, the BE, the PAN and the L.]] We proceed to the general vote on Bill No. 768 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Improves the conditions of access of persons with disabilities to social benefits for inclusion and amends the time from which this benefit is due to beneficiaries ( fourth amendment to Decree-Law No 126 -A / 2017 of 6 October ). [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of the CH, the CFP, the BE, the NAP and the L and abstentions of the PSD and the IL.]] The general vote of Bill No. 769 / XV / 1 is hereby followed. a ( PAN) — Establishs the obligation of the solidarity complement for the elderly to have a value never lower than the value of the poverty threshold, amending Decree-Law No 232/2005 of 29 December 2005. [[When put to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PS and the PS and votes against the CH, the IL, the PCP, the BE, the PAN and the L.]] We then vote in general on Bill No. 774 / XV / 1. a (PAN) — Safeguards the right of access to social benefits for inclusion in cases of delay in the notification of appearance in the medical board, amending Decree-Law No 126 -A / 2017, of 6 October 2017. [[The vote was taken with votes against the PS and votes against the PS, the CH, the IL, the PCP, the BE, the PAN and the L.]] The Bill No. 776 / XV / 1 is now being voted in general. a ( BE ) — Extends the protection granted by the social benefit for inclusion ( fourth amendment to Decree-Law No 126 -A / 2017 of 6 October ). [[When put to the vote, votes were cast against the PS and the PSD in favour of the CFP, BE, NAP and L and abstentions from the CH and IL.]] The general vote of Bill No. 779 / XV / 1 is hereby followed. a (L) — Change the rules for the allocation of social benefits for inclusion in cases where it still depends on obtaining multi-purpose disability attestation and admits the accumulation of social benefits with the old age pension. [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, in favour of the CFP, BE, NAP and L and with abstentions from the PSD, CH and IL.]] We now vote, in general, the Bill No. 311 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Review the scheme for repairing accidents at work and occupational diseases, making the second amendment to Law No 98 / 2009 of 4 September 2009. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, CH and IL and votes against the CFP, BE, PAN and L were rejected.]] Then, as a general rule, the Bill No. 312 / XV / 1 is voted. a ( PCP ) — Adds the National Association of Workless Disabled Persons as a 1 % beneficiary of the amount of fines applied for breach of the safety and health rules at work or resulting from non-compliance with the rules for repairing accidents at work. [[The vote was taken with votes against the PS, the PS and the IL and votes against the CH, the PCP, the BE, the PAN and the L.]] We now vote, in general, the Bill No. 313 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Recalculation of supplementary benefits for assistance to third parties assigned to those injured in work under Law No 2127 / 65 of 3 August. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and PSD were rejected, votes against the CH, the CFP, the BE, the NAP and the L and the IL abstention.]] The general vote of Bill No 777 / XV / 1 is hereby followed. a (PAN) — Prevention of occupational accidents and occupational diseases and adaptation of labour legislation to extreme climatic phenomena. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, CH and IL and votes against the CFP, BE, PAN and L were rejected.]] We now proceed to the overall final vote on the final text submitted by the Committee on Budgets and Finance on the Proposal for a Law No 73 / XV / 1. a ( GOV ) — Approves the Big Options for 2023 - 2026. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, votes against the PSD, CH, IL, CCP, BE and L and abstention from the NAP.]] If there is no objection, we shall jointly vote on the request by BE for a full vote in the speciality of Articles 53. o -A, 53. o-B is 53. o-D, and the request by the PSD for a vote by the plenary in the speciality of Article 54. the final text, submitted by the Health Committee, on the Proposal for a Law No 24 / XV / 1. a ( GOV ) — Approves the Mental Health Act and amends related legislation. [[After the vote, they were adopted unanimously.]] We will then move on to counsel, and interventions are planned and will be given 2 minutes for each parliamentary group. Member Sara Madruga of the Costa, of the PSD Parliamentary Group, is hereby inscribed. You have the floor, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-26.u304	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Azores, September 2022, 39-year-old man kills his former catanad companion in a wild way, being considered unimpedable dangerous, with bipolar disturbance, so the court sent him into an appropriate unit for a period of 3 to 16 years for the treatment and containment of his danger. Today, this man can only be released when he is no longer considered dangerous and if there is no danger of practicing new facts of the same species. in the case of Article 92 ( 3 ). that of the Criminal Code shall be repealed, as provided for in the text of the law adopted in the Commission, that man shall be released when he reaches the time limit of the security measure applied to him, even if he represents a danger to society and can be killed again. That's it, ladies and gentlemen. Members, who is at stake in this debate and who has led to our proposal's appeal. We did it not for any reason, spy or security, but because we do not comply with the mandatory and unconditional release of a dangerous impedable who has committed a serious murder or bodily offense, fails to reach the temporary limit of the security measure that was initially applied to him, even if his state of criminal danger remains and there is a danger of practicing new facts of the same species. This is a shocking and inhuman form of abandonment of a patient to his or her fate, to more than in a country that does not guarantee the most basic conditions of treatment for these people with severe mental illness. Those who say this are not only the PSD, it is also the Supreme Council of the Magistracy, which considered that this proposal by the Government, and I am quoting, « it should be worth more weighting and its effectiveness may cause more problems than those that aim to solve without any objective reason ». The President of the Supreme Court also considered that this proposal leaves society unprotected and that the Government should start by providing existing structures with sufficient physical and professional resources for a more effective response. We therefore call for the other parties to vote against unwisely, on the ground that they will be responsible for the tragic consequences that may arise from the unconditional release of dangerous impedables. We did it and we do it on a matter of humanity, social responsibility and protection of the weakest. Unfortunately, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the government has again chosen the easier way, the path of liberation, rather than providing the system with more means, as was its obligation. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-26.u305	Mrs Joana Cordeiro of the Liberal Initiative now has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-26.u306	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Liberal Initiative will abstain in the final vote on the proposal for a mental health bill, as we have already done in the vote in general. It is true that this proposal is of enormous importance in the defence of human rights and, in this case, of people in need of mental health care. We recognize the significant advances in combating stigma that still exist on these people today and recognize the concern about defending their rights, freedoms and guarantees. We highlight the option for involuntary outpatient treatments to the detriment of admissions and the end that is determined by the current regime that allows the permanent admission of impedable people. All these reasons are grounds for the Liberal Initiative, which intransigently defends the rights, freedoms and guarantees of all people, to be unable to oppose this law. However, as we have already had the opportunity to mention, the proposed law submitted by the Government needed improvements. in this sense, the Liberal Initiative participated in work in a special way committed and contributed with numerous proposed amendments that could have helped to achieve these improvements. of the 39 amendments we tabled, which were fully in line with the opinions reached by the various entities, only one was approved. The Socialist Party had its usual compressor roll behavior and used its absolute majority to reject practically all the proposed amendments. This is important to explain that, on the proposals which are now being voted on, the Liberal Initiative will maintain the vote it has already had in the indexary votes. In the case of the Left Block proposals, we agree with most of them. More than making good laws, it is important that there are ways in which these laws can be applied. On the PSD proposal, our vote is against. This bill aims to put an end to the life imprisonment of people suffering from mental illness, because it is not acceptable for an impedable person who has committed a crime to continue to be arrested far beyond the maximum penalties we have in our country. This situation is going against the human rights of these people and therefore we follow this bill in the one who is one of the main objectives of the proposal itself. Of course, at this point, this bill should be applied with the utmost rigour to ensure that these impedable people, before they are released, will have all the necessary follow-up and treatment in the future so that they will not again be a danger to others and themselves. But we cannot accept that, in fear of the State's inaction, if it continues to condemn whoever is in a perpetual prison, which ultimately is the result of the proposed amendment of the PSD. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-26.u307	It's a lie!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-26.u308	Our proposal is not like that!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-26.u309	You now have the floor to speak on behalf of the PS Parliamentary Group, Mrs Maria Antónia de Almeida Santos.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-26.u310	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: Compulsive hospitalization will end and that is what we are talking about. It is the right of the person in need of mental health care that is not subject to private or restrictive measures of the freedom of unlimited or indefinite duration that we speak. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, it should be a reason for relief and pride for the PSD, finally in compliance with international conventions that bind us, the recognition of the right of the person in need of mental health care is not subject to these measures.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-26.u311	That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-26.u312	It's not at all!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-26.u313	How can 30, 40 or 50 years later we continue to say that deprivation of liberty still occurs as a result of the judicial application of the security measure? Like, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen? The PSD wants to forget the possibility of refusing the medical treatment that is still necessary, and may always take place involuntary treatment in general terms, with the difference of ending, however, the deprivation of liberty of a criminal nature which is not comparable to the regime of involuntary treatment and of persons in need of mental health care having equal treatment to that given to those who are released at the end of the prison sentence. That's what we're talking about.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-26.u314	It's not, no! It's not, no!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-26.u315	So, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we are proud to enshrine this right. With regard to the means we have for the realization of this law, as testified psychiatrist Ana Matos Pires, who will certainly consider that he is an impartial person who knows the ground...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-26.u316	The Supreme Court of Justice, isn't it? Oh, my God! Okay!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-26.u317	... that told us that we are living a moment of investment in mental health never seen. The rest is catapulted by the approval of this law, ladies and gentlemen. Members are EUR 88 million from the PRR ( Recovery and Resilience Plan ), of which EUR 51 million are already running or in competition.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-26.u318	I'm glad you're talking at the PRR!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-26.u319	So it is a cause for pride for us to finally comply with the conventions.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-26.u320	You've got half an hour!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-26.u321	We lived in a situation, as I said, that it did not dignify us and, therefore, for us, all injustice is in time. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-26.u322	For an intervention on behalf of the NAP, Mrs Inês de Sousa Real has the floor. He's got one minute.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-26.u323	Mr President, we are going to follow the Left Block's advocacy, precisely because we believe that without means, whether they are human or financial, we will hardly be able to implement this law more appropriately, whose approval is, of course, to greet, but which lacks effective implementation. On the other hand, we cannot follow the PSD proposal, in particular because, by meeting what has already been brought up here, these concerns that we will be applying a criminal measure in an excessive and disproportionate way to those which are later the penalties provided for in the Criminal Code and also confusing proceedings... [[PSD protests.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I have one minute, which is already short and with the separate ones it becomes even rare that time. It confuses this with the processes that can effectively exist from involuntary treatment already at another location, at home. But we could not let it be mentioned here that we should go beyond this work that has been done here. The NAP does not sit in the Health Committee, but we recognize the work that has been done by the ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. We must go further, there must be a strengthening of means, especially at the level of prevention, especially among younger people, whose network is still insufficient, particularly in the support and social action available in schools and higher education. We hope that in the State budget we will be able to discuss these matters again, in particular their strengthening and financing.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-26.u324	To speak on behalf of the Left Block Parliamentary Group, Mrs Catarina Martins has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-26.u325	Mr President, I confess that I did not intend to intervene on this point. I do so because of the PSD's intervention to say the following: we had a special debate that was heated about this law, but I think it was also deep and good to have it. Even though you know what they say when you talk, as the Liberal Initiative says, for example, that an absolute majority compressor roll will lead the proposals, I would like to go back to the essentials of what is at stake here. We are changing the paradigm that makes Portugal justly condemned, internationally, by disrespecting human rights, because people with mental illness and those who commit a crime, but are impossible, have a penalty in Portugal that we refuse any other citizen, which is the perpetual penalty.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-26.u326	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-26.u327	That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-26.u328	It is with perpetual penalty—that our Constitution does not allow, but that it exists at this time for the impetuous — that this law ends, and that is very important! And that's why the Block thinks that this law is a paradigm shift, we greet. But I signed up to intervene because I am worried when I hear the PSD use an alarmist argument for society, saying that dangerous imputables can then come to commit more crimes.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-26.u329	That is not the opinion of the Supreme Council of Justice or the Supreme Court! I didn't read the impressions!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-26.u330	That's not true. I repeat, it's not true. What the law provides, and well, is that if someone has a mental illness that turns him into a danger, for himself or others, and refuses to treat, that person may be forced to treat involuntaryly. The law foresees that. What the law does is separate what must be separated: separate what is crime from what is disease; treat and protect people, both people who have the disease and society as a whole. That is how it should be and that is why this paradigm change is good. [[Protests by CH Member Pedro dos Santos Frazão.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-26.u331	That is not the opinion of the Supreme Council of the Magistracy.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-26.u332	But I take advantage, since I had to intervene, to speak also of the left block lawyers and to say that a progressive paradigm change is so important if it has the means to be achieved; that the increase of the means now spoken means that of the 10 mental health teams of the community we will reach 20,... [[40!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-26.u333	...or 40, but we need 100, Mrs. 100, just so the law can come into force. And the PRR, as you know, doesn't pay health professionals. You may even pay for equipment, works in rooms or cars, but the doctors we need, the health professionals we need are not there. And that's why we need means.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-26.u334	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-26.u335	Nothing does more for obscurantism and for conservatism than change a paradigm—and well—to respect human rights and then run badly.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-26.u336	You know it's gonna go wrong!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-26.u337	We want a lot that goes well, and that's why this law needs means. It is through the approval, or not, of means that we also measure our final vote, and it is true, as regards the change of paradigm, that of course we welcome it. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-26.u338	To speak by the Parliamentary Group of the CFP, Mr João Dias has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-26.u339	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The CFP sees as positive the many advances this law introduces. We would like to highlight one of them, which has to do with the possibility of involuntary treatment being done in outpatient care in the home context. However, these positive advances which the law has brought do not prevent us — indeed, we have a duty to do so — to identify some concerns, and we have been doing so throughout the legislative process, particularly in the field of expertise. One of the concerns we had, of course, was that we started to change the Mental Health Act without a concrete assessment of how the current law was fulfilled. It would be of all interest that if it had been known whether an assessment had been made over the more than two decades in force of this law.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-26.u340	And that was done?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-26.u341	Another aspect, which actually justifies the concerns of the Left Block, has to do with the issues relating to resources, whether they are human or material, to comply with the law. in this, the government walked in reverse order, i.e. in 2021, advanced with the general principles and rules of functioning of mental health services and now comes with the Mental Health Law. But if it is to finally implement the mental health plan, then come and move forward. But there are two concerns that we cannot ignore, and one of them has to do with the allocation of the competence of the decision or confirmation by the Criminal Court. It's important not to forget, ladies and gentlemen. Members, that the refusal of voluntary treatment for the absence of critical judgment of the sick person — which may have serious repercussions on the individual and third parties, both for personal and property goods — should be understood as being driven only to the limitation, for the patient, of the freedom not to be treated. That is, it should be understood as the coercion of being forced to treat medicinal products. Therefore, it is obvious that this procedure is part of the civil law forum and not of criminal law.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-26.u342	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-26.u343	We note that the use of the Criminal Court raises, not only stigmatizing issues for the person in need of mental health care, but also numerous practical issues, some of which are very difficult to solve, even causing damage to the person with mental illness. Finally, one last concern — which is, in fact, the reason for the PSD's appeal — is with the repeal of Article 92 (3). the Criminal Code. We are aware that at present the number of impedable citizens in situations of extension of the internal security measure is too high. It is true that, in the overwhelming majority of times, such an extension does not result from the inimputability with particular danger, but from the absence of family support and a disabled or non-existent follow-up of the citizen in the outpatient clinic; that is, above all, results from a complete lack of adequate social support that guarantees his reintegration. This is where we should intervene and, above all, invest to improve the conditions of the person with incompulsibility. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-26.u344	To speak by the Parliamentary Group of the Arrival, Mr Pedro Frazão has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-26.u345	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Arrival obviously votes against this Mental Health Act of the Government, which, among other incongruities, or automatically release the IPRs, i.e. the impossible dangerous patients. This, at the end of the declared security measure—and not at the end of the sentence, as said the Left Block, erroneously.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-26.u346	Because he didn't read!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-26.u347	It is a security measure, Mrs Deputy, because this law wants to repeal Article 92 (3) without further delay. the Criminal Code. That is whether or not there is a response from the system, whether or not it is considered dangerous the imputable, whether or not there are signs and symptoms which discourage the release, with this revocation, the honourable Members. Magistrates will even have to decree the release of impossible dangerous patients without any possibility of extension. This, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen, it is a threat to the irreputable patients themselves,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-26.u348	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-26.u349	...that they are safe, for their families and for the whole society, as well as for the goods in use. Mrs. Members, this, when we know that, in fact, residential measures to remove people with mental illness from institutions, without family support and who live badly—yes, they have been living badly, for years and years, in psychiatric hospitals! — they are all still, since they are implemented, ignoring, even, a resolution of this Assembly of the Republic which resulted in a petition of the FamilyMente Association. This law, Mr. President, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, it is another law of 'left-wingism', which does not care about the safety of patients or their families, nor even about the reality of the ground.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-26.u350	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-26.u351	It is a law made in a hurry, so that more State structures quickly access the RPP funds to satisfy the customers of the system's advances.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-26.u352	Truth! All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-26.u353	This Mental Health Act is only one more "legi-cartace" that will worsen the reality of health, which is already very hard for many Portuguese people. To know that, Mr. President, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, just look at your legacy of mental health. We had a National Mental Health Plan that should have been implemented between 2007 and 2016 and its main responsibility was the current Minister of Health, Manuel Pizarro, at the time Assistant Secretary and Health, between 2008 and 2018. Now, the plan of evaluation of this Plan was totally demolition: nothing was done. According to the report published in 2017, many measures have yet to be implemented. Is this the case, Minister of Health? Is it this, Prime Minister? No, it will not be this, because also the National Network of Continued Mental Health Care, whose implementation was expected to have advanced in 2011, was postponed until 2018 and remains unimplemented. We heard earlier in the Health Committee at a hearing the requirement of the Arrival, that more than 2100 people are waiting for a strike on the Integrated Continuous Care Network. The speaker posted a news about what he mentioned. So, ladies and gentlemen. Members, it is more serious than the current measures to support the informal caregiver, which are also not applicable to the family members of people with mental illness.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-26.u354	You must conclude, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-26.u355	I shall conclude, Mr President. For this reason, the Government and the Socialists approve more of this "cartage law" which, in the Royal Country, to the Portuguese, will do nothing, because the Portuguese continue to suffer. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-26.u356	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, before the vote, and since Mr Rui Tavares has to speak, let me alert myself to the fact that there are many absences. I will not hesitate to proceed with the further verification of the quorum if we understand that we are at risk of being without the quorum.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-26.u357	All right! It should have been before!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-26.u358	So today we are making the votes at a very normal time and we have this period of lawyers because the parliamentary groups have understood, everyone, to intervene, but we must have the number of Members needed to have the votes validated.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-26.u359	That's what it was! That's what it was!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-26.u360	Mr Rui Tavares, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-26.u361	Mr President, although I thank the environment of excellent cooperation which I have been able to verify in the Working Party on Mental Health — although the Free House does not sit in the Committee on Health as far as we are able to do so — I am afraid that it will not be able to vote in favour of this initiative unless, at the moment, the PS shuts down its compressor role in the turbo and approves, for example, the proposals advocated by the Left Block, providing this law with more means for its implementation. In fact, in the final votes of the Working Group, what we saw was that compressor roll working in full. In a previous debate, I presented the accounts here: more than 95% of the opposition proposals have been rejected. from the Free side, until the very official definition of mental health, of the World Health Organization, was rejected. Thus, we have a law that, in the case of people who have severe mental illness and who are subject to compulsive treatment, does something very important, which is that we can determine the conditions in which this can indeed happen, in a way that is much more consistent with Portugal's international obligations — this is positive and must be recognized — but that does not yet make the transition to a true law of mental health accessible to all citizens who, although they do not suffer from mental illness, need more permanent care, more structured to safeguard their mental health. We will vote against the proposal by the PSD, for the reasons that have already been invoked by other groups.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-26.u362	We shall then proceed to the vote, in particular, on the amendments to the Left Block, to the final text submitted by the Health Committee on the Proposal for a Law No 24 / XV / 1. a ( GOV ) — Approves the Mental Health Act and amends related legislation. Has Mr Pedro Filipe Soares asked for the floor to propose a block vote?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-26.u363	I would make this suggestion, for each of the articles: 53. o -A, 53. o-B is 53. o-C. According to the indications of various banks, in the Commission's votes, I believe that this could help our work.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-26.u364	All right. I wonder whether we can vote on the first two amendments to the Left Block, which relate to Article 53. o -A. [[Pause.]] They inform the Bureau that we can't. So, let's go on, and I'll do this quick. We shall vote in special cases Article 38 (2) and ( 11 ). the Decree-Law No 52 / 2022 of 4 August, contained in the proposal to add an article 53. o -A to that final text. [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, votes in favour of the CH, the CFP, the BE, the NAP and the L and abstentions of the PSD and the IL.]] They were the following: « 2 — Each ACS includes a USP and as many URAP as necessary to ensure full access of the population to the care services provided by them and each health centre includes at least one USF or UCSP and one UCC or service thereof. [...] 11 — The URAP organizes and makes available in all health centres oral health, mental health and visual health services, as well as nutrition and physiotherapy services, among others considered necessary taking into account the characteristics of the population and region. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-26.u365	We shall proceed to the vote on Article 38 ( 12 ). the Decree-Law No 52 / 2022 of 4 August, contained in the proposal to add an article 53. o -A to this final text. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of CH, IL, PCP, BE, PAN and L and abstention from the PSD.]] It was as follows: "12 — Health centres, in conjunction with local mental health services, develop mental health promotion and prevention programs and provide mental health care to the population. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-26.u366	We shall, in particular, vote on the proposal for an addendum to Article 53. o-B to this final text of the Commission. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of the PS, the CH, the CFP, the BE, the NAP and the L and the abstention from the IL.]] It was as follows: « Article 53. o-B Amendment to Decree-Law No 113 / 2021, of 14 December Article 18. the Decree-Law No 113 / 2021 of 14 December is replaced by the following: “Article 18 o [...] 1. [...] 2. [...] 3. (a)... (b)... (c)... (d)... (e)... (f)... (g)... (h)... (i)... 4. [...] 5. [...] 6. ... (a)... (b)... 7. [...] (a) Up to 2025, 40 community mental health teams are established through the Recovery and Resilience Plan ; Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-26.u367	The proposal for an addendum to Article 53 is followed. o-D to the Commission's final text. Let us begin by voting on paragraph 1 of this proposal in the specialty. [[The vote was taken with votes against the PS and votes against the PS, the CH, the IL, the PCP, the BE, the PAN and the L.]] It was as follows: « 1. Under the Health Bases Act, which defines that the funding of the National Health Service should allow the resources necessary for the fulfilment of its functions and objectives and that it obeys multiannual planning, it is ensured through this law the means for the realization of priority measures in the area of mental health. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-26.u368	We shall proceed to the vote on paragraph 2 (a) of the proposed addendum. [[When put to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PS and votes against the PS, the CH, the IL, the PCP, the BE, the PAN and the L.]] It was as follows: (a) the full implementation of the National Mental Health Plan and the development of a new National Plan;
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-26.u369	We are now voting on paragraph 2 (b) of this proposal for an addendum in the specialty. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of the PS, the CH, the CFP, the BE, the NAP and the L and the abstention from the IL.]] It was as follows: "(b) In order to ensure the full functioning of mental health programming and prevention programs, as well as the provision of mental health care to the population, the number of psychologists in primary health care is strengthened to double the currently existing one;"
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-26.u370	The vote on paragraph 2 (c) of this proposal for an addendum shall follow. [[Put to the vote was rejected, with votes against the PS, votes in favour of CH, IL, PCP, BE, PAN and L and abstention from the PSD.]] It was as follows: '(c) the hiring of professionals for the establishment of all Community mental health teams necessary for full population coverage, with reference to the ratio of 1 Community team to a population between 50 000 and 100 000 inhabitants as defined in Decree-Law No 113 / 2021 of 14 December with the amendments introduced by this law;'
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-26.u371	We shall continue with the vote in the speciality of paragraph 2 (d) of the proposal. [[When put to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PS and votes against the PS, the CH, the IL, the PCP, the BE, the PAN and the L.]] It was as follows: (d) strengthening hospital response in the area of mental health;
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-26.u372	We shall now proceed to the vote on paragraph 2 (e) of this proposal for an addendum. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of the CH, the CFP, the BE, the NAP and the L and abstentions of the PSD and the IL.]] It was as follows: « (e) The guarantee of continuous care responses integrated in its various types in all local health services, competing with the State, where these responses do not exist, the financing, construction, implementation and management. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-26.u373	We voted in favour of paragraph 3 of the proposal for an addendum to Article 53. o-D to the Commission's final text. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of the PS, the CH, the CFP, the BE, the NAP and the L and the abstention from the IL.]] It was as follows: « 3. The measures described above are implemented in the period 2023 - 2025, and the Government is obliged to make available the necessary financial, technical and human resources through specific appropriations in the laws approving the State budgets. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-26.u374	I'm asking the ladies. Members if we can vote together on paragraphs 4, 5 and 6 of this amendment. [[Pause.]] We can. All right, then, we vote on paragraphs 4, 5 and 6. [[Pause.]] Well, I give it up, and I'm going to read this law carefully, because this variable geometry is fascinating me. [[Laughing.]] We therefore voted in the specialty paragraph 4 of the proposal for an addendum to Article 53. o-D. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of the CH, the CFP, the BE, the NAP and the L and abstentions of the PSD and the IL.]] It was as follows: « 4. Specific funds are also available for projects and intervention programmes in social determinants and psychosocial rehabilitation, including social support, education, employment and housing. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-26.u375	The vote on paragraphs 5 and 6 of the same proposal follows. [[Subject to vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of CH, IL, PCP, BE, PAN and L and the abstention of the PSD.]] They were the following: « 5. The funds referred to in the previous paragraphs are added to those already provided for in the Recovery and Resilience Plan. 6. The measures and investments provided for in this Article shall not prejudice the implementation of other measures which are planned or under development, as well as those which are deemed necessary. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-26.u376	We continue with the special vote on the proposal submitted by the PSD to delete Article 54 ( e ). the final text of the Commission. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, IL, CFP, BE, PAN and L were rejected, votes against the PS and the abstention of the CH.]] We now turn to the overall final vote of the final text submitted by the Health Committee on the Proposal for a Law No 24 / XV / 1. a ( GOV ) — Approves the Mental Health Act and amends related legislation. [[Subject to the vote, the votes against the PS and the CFP and the CH and IL, BE, PAN and L abstained.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-26.u377	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-26.u378	Now we are going to vote in writing, I imagine.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-26.u379	No, Mr. President, oral.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-26.u380	Oral. I shall now give the floor to the honourable Member, of course, because it is a right. I would like to remind you that much of the statements of vote on the overall content of the law have already been produced, as interventions, in lawyers, even though the interventions in lawyers should be based on what is at stake in the proposals for lawyers.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-26.u381	And he's gone!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-26.u382	This little sermon was made, so let's move on to the pronunciation. The Bureau has the indication that, in writing, they present explanations of vote on the Arrival and the Liberal Initiative ; orally, the PSD. To that end, you have the floor of Mrs Helga Correia, up to 2 minutes.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-26.u383	Mr President, allow me to tell you that the PSD has done solely and exclusively by the article and that we are now going to make the vote on the entire bill. The PSD generally voted in favour of Law No 24 / XV / 1. a, believing that your text could be improved and that the bad solutions it contained could be corrected. Unfortunately, however, during the specialization phase, the Socialist Party voted against all the most relevant proposals to amend the Social Democratic Party. The PS insists on the repeal of Article 92 ( 3 ). that of the Criminal Code, thus imposing that a dangerous impedable, to which a security measure has been applied for the practice of murder or serious bodily offenses, be released in a definitive, compulsory and unconditional manner when it has reached the time limit of the security measure applied to it, even if this is unacceptable, by maintaining its state of criminal danger, and that there is a danger of practicing new facts of the same species. It should be noted that the Constitution expressly provides in Article 30 ( 2 ). the, which — I quote — « in case of danger based on severe mental anomaly and on the impossibility of treatment in the open environment, may be extended successively as long as such state remains, but always by judicial decision ». The current paragraph 3 of Article 92. the Penal Code has thus expressed constitutional consecration and shows well the concern of the constituent legislator with these matters, so sensitive. Moreover, as a constitutional review process is under way, it is found that no political party has submitted any proposal that would alter this norm.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-26.u384	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-26.u385	For us, the Social-Democrat Party, this final version of the Mental Health Act represents a very serious risk to society and also to the dangerous impedable itself, which is why we vote against such responsibility.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-26.u386	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-26.u387	The parties and the Members who have made this law available today will be responsible, before the country, for the consequences resulting from the abandonment to their fate of people with mental illness who continue to represent a serious danger to society, rather than making the State guarantee their treatment in a humanized way, in order to establish appropriate to their health condition. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-26.u388	We will now vote on an opinion from the Committee on Transparency and the Statute of Members, which I would like to ask Mrs Palmira Maciel to read.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-26.u389	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, let me read: « The Committee on Transparency and the Statute of Members decided to issue an opinion to authorize Mrs Ofélia Isabel Andrés of the Ramos Conceição to provide written testimony, as a witness, within the scope of the reference cars — Inquiry: 36 / 21.8JAFAR — Regional DIAP of Évora — 1. the Section - Évora. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-26.u390	Let's vote for him. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Paragraphs 41 to 61 of the Journal of the Republic's Assembly are under consideration for plenary meetings of 22, 23, 28, 29 and 30 September, 6, 7, 12, 13, 14, 19, 20, 21, 26 and 27 October and 21, 22, 23, 24, 25 and 30 November 2022. There are no objections, they are deemed to be approved. We have a file to read, so I ask Mrs Palmira Maciel to do so.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-26.u391	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-26.u392	Do you want to intervene in what capacity?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-26.u393	Mr President, it is about the conduct of the work, asking for an apology from now on, to make two corrections of vote, which has not been timely, for the dynamics of lawyers.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-26.u394	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-26.u395	Mr. President, in Draft Law No. 454 / XV / 1. the PSD, by extension, the vote should have been abstention and was against ; and abstention in the Bill No 73 / XV / 1. a, instead of voting against. On the other hand, in the first, abstention instead of a vote in favour and in the second, a abstention instead of a vote against. Two abstentions, therefore.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-26.u396	Thank you very much. I am obliged to say that this amendment does not change the meaning of the deliberations. Let us then read the file. Mrs. Palmira Maciel, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-26.u397	Mr. President and Mr. Members have entered the Bureau and have been admitted by Mr President the following legislative initiatives: draft resolution No 729 / XV / 1. a ( CH ), which goes down to 7. the Commission ; Draft Law No 792 / XV / 1. a ( IL ), which goes down to 6. the Commission ; Lein's proposals 85 / XV / 1. a ( GOV ) and 86 / XV / 1. a ( GOV ), which comes down to 1. the Commission, in connection with 6. the Commission, and also the Proposal for Law No 87 / XV / 1. a ( GOV ), which goes down to 8. The Commission, in connection with 13. the Commission. That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-26.u398	The next plenary session will be held on Wednesday at 3 p.m. and will be thematically very interesting. We will begin at the first point with a current debate required by the PSD on « Rural fires ». In the second point, we will consider the Bill No 58 / XV / 1. a ( GOV ) — Review the legal regime for explosives and dangerous substances. And then, at the third point, we will rest, with the joint debate of the draft resolution No 624 / XV / 1. a ( CH) — By the creation of the national water network and, in general, of the Bill No 773 / XV / 1. a ( PAN) — Ensures the legal framework and adequate funding of the National Action Programme for Combating Desertification, amending the Water Law, together with the assessment of Resolution Projects Nos 313 / XV / 1. a ( PSD ) — To complete the Special Public Water Albueira Programmes and 564 / XV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Agenda for Action for Water in Portugal. Good weekend to all. [[It was 13 hours and 29 minutes.]]
