ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u1	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. The session is open. [[It was 9 hours and 10 minutes.]] I am sorry to apologize to everyone, but apparently there was a communication problem with the government, which I was counting on the session to begin at 10 a.m. It is not worth looking at each other here and so the session will start at 9 a.m. and 30 minutes without delay. [[It was 9 hours and 11 minutes.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much for your understanding. We are in a position to resume the plenary session. The session is reopened. [[It was 9 hours and 31 minutes.]] I'm asking the ladies. Authorities please open the galleries to the public. I give the floor to Mrs. Maria da Luz Rosinha for reading the file.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u2	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members have entered the Bureau and were admitted by Mr President, Bill No. 460 / XV / 1. a ( PAN ), which falls to 6. the Commission, in connection with 5. the Commission, and draft resolutions Nos 355 / XV / 1. a ( CH) and 356 / XV / 1. a ( CH ), down to 6. the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u3	The first item on the agenda is the thematic debate required by the PSD on the record sector. To open the debate on behalf of the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mrs Marcia Passos has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u4	Mr President, Minister for Parliamentary Affairs, Secretary of State: The Minister of Justice, wherever she is, once again, demonstrates total disrespect for the workers and conservators of the register,... [[PSD applause.]] ... a genuine disrespect for the country, a genuine disrespect for this sector of society. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the registration sector is a structural sector of society and a pillar of preventive justice, the security of legal trade and the guarantee of fundamental rights, which is the responsibility of the State to ensure. This important sector is at the service of people, businesses and the economy and has specialized professionals, that the PSD here greets and sends a message of hope. They are professionals to whom, over the years, new skills have been assigned. Some, for example, divorces, were from the courts and today are from the conservatives. Today, conservatives liquidate taxes, issue passports, create the company at the time, make credentials of heirs and shares. They have competences for applications for nationality, residence permits — jurisdiction that was formerly the SEF ( Service of Foreigners and Borders ) — and transcriptions of marriages. over the years, Conservatives and registrar officers have received more competences, more work and more responsibility, all on behalf of the citizen, all on behalf of the people. It would be all right if it weren't for the various troupes to function the records, the function of presumption of truth. It would be all right, ladies. Members, if Portugal is not watching an obvious and worrying disinvestment in the register sector. It would be all right if, alongside the increased powers, always announced by the Government of the Socialist Party with high propaganda, it was a way of realising. The PSD understands that it is time to stop with so much fantasy and therefore has called all this debate. He also called the government, he also called the Minister of Justice, but he is not here. [[PSD applause.]] It has also presented today a draft resolution for it to be also, and again, debated this subject. It is that, in order to exercise more competence, people are needed to serve the citizen well. For more than 20 years, there has been no recruitment of new Conservatives and registrants — 20 years, Mrs. Members, it is the time that the PS has ruled in the last 27. The last external competitions for the recruitment of officers and Conservatives took place, Mr. Members in 1996 and 1999. In 20 years, professionals grow old, get sick and reform, and the PS governs, ignores them and assigns them more skills, believing in such a socialist maxim: "More work with less resources. Do not keep on seeking. ” Since 2019, on average, 160 professionals come out each year. From 2020 until today 130 Conservatives and 555 registrar officers have emerged. But the socialist maxim « More work with less resources» is a sign of disrespect for these professionals and is above all a sign of disrespect for 10 million Portuguese, those 10 million who, if they are today at the conservatory of Aveiro, cannot register their home, because there is no one who practices predicial registration acts; in Peso da Régua, there are no services of House Ready, because there are no human resources; Viseu has no conservative since 2009, 13 years ago; Portalegre has no conservative since November 2021; Sines, Santiago do Cacem, Odemira and Alcácer do Sal have no conservative, neither House Ready, nor balcony of inheritances, nor marriage service. I could go on, ladies and gentlemen. Members, from north to south, from the interior to the coast, from the continent to the islands: this is the sad portrait of Portugal. Unfortunately, we don't stay here. In 2018, the PS government changed the career and abolished acquired rights. The situation is serious and has already been warned by the Ombudsman. Finally, there are countless situations I could report. Now, if Mrs. Minister of Justice was here, I would tell her everything would be right, but everything is wrong and responsibility has a name, Socialist Party,... [[PSD applause.]] ...and has a face, which is not here, which is that of the Minister of Justice, to whom the PSD requires you to come to this House to say, after all, whatever you want for the record sector. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u5	Mr Miranda Sarmento is asking for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u6	It is for an appeal to the Bureau on the conduct of the proceedings, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u7	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u8	Mr President, I am obviously not referring to the delay of the sitting, because this can happen to anyone. We've changed the time, so it's perfectly natural. But you, Mr President, announced that you were the Minister of Justice who would be here and would like to know if you are aware of the reason why the Minister is not here today. It may be a perfectly thoughtful reason, but I would like to know whether you have been informed of the reasons for the absence of the Minister. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u9	Mr President, I do not remember announcing the presence of the Minister. The Government is represented in the debates as it understands, except in the discussions with the Prime Minister, in which the Government is required to represent the same. The Minister for Parliamentary Affairs has asked for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u10	Mr President, it is also about the conduct of the work.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u11	Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u12	Mr President, I just wanted to justify the absence and apologize to the House for the delay in the start of this session. As Mr President said, the government is represented by those who believe that it should be represented. In the case, the Minister of Justice had no agenda to come, but she is represented by the Secretary of State for Justice, who has, in fact, this Parliament. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Protests from PSD Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u13	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we have a very long agenda, so I would like to ask everyone for maximum restraint in time management. I myself will act a little more direct than usual. The Bureau records the registration of Mr. Paulo Araújo Correia to request clarification from Mrs. Marcia Passos...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u14	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen... [[Laughing.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u15	It was not over, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u16	I'm sorry, Mr. President. It was to agile.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u17	I will then give the floor to Mr. Paulo Araújo Correia. Mrs Marcia Passos, if you will answer, you have time for the debate to do so.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u18	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr Minister, Mr Secretary of State, the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group will not play the role of Alice who thinks she lives in the Wonderland, but will not wear the clothes of the prophet of misfortune, as the Parliamentary Group of the Democratic Social Party has just done here, which anticipates the seven plagues of Egypt. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The role of the Socialist Party in this debate is that of the seriousness and commitment for men and women of registration services. This seriousness implies recognizing that there is certainly a way to take stock of careers, recruitment, infrastructure, modernization and improvement of the working conditions of these men and women, but it is also necessary to recognise, in good faith, the work that has been done by the Government of the Republic. From then on, the government area of justice has been on the ground, dialogue, eyes in the eyes, with these professionals, in order to make the lifting of their needs and identify priorities for improvement. This dialogue, which was intensified throughout 2022, through the visit of government members to 25 conservatories, resulted in concrete actions on the ground. We are talking about decentralised training actions, such as those carried out in Coimbra, Tondela and Viseu, and we are talking about EUR 8.2 million invested in infrastructure requalification since 2018, with EUR 3.2 million of this investment being carried out during the year 2022. This investment has since allowed the opening of new facilities in Amadora, Marinha Grande, Porto and Mealhada services, the integration of services in the citizen store and interventions in numerous other facilities. A remarkable investment was also made in the modernization and rehabilitation of the computer park, the process for the acquisition of 1000 monitors, 2000 digitizers, 500 desktops and 2000 laptops. This means that during this year, the entire IRN computer park (Instituto de Registres y do Notariado) will have been replaced. This government bet on the renewal and modernisation of the computer park will also have EUR 42, EUR 5 million of the Recovery and Resilience Plan ( PRR ) for the implementation of digital platform reforms. As regards human resources, progress has also been made, with the entry in 2021 and 2022, through competitive procedures and mobility schemes, of 284 technical assistants and 51 superior technicians, while the recruitment of 25 jobs for senior technicians is still under way under the RPP. This bet and these increased investments of the Government of the Republic — it is good to say — of the commitment, dedication and commitment of men and women of the registration service, have allowed our people a green way to access registration and notarial services. Indeed, no Portuguese can remember waiting hours in a row to renew the citizen's card, with already about 4 million citizens benefiting from the automatic renewal of the citizen's card. [[P.S.'s applause.]] in the same way, young parents, to this day, from the comfort of their home, can obtain the birth registration of their children online. Therefore, the question I put to you, Mrs Deputies, is whether, in the image of this recognition, the Socialist Party makes the way in which it is still going, in terms of improving the conditions of registrar services professionals, it is capable of recognizing the steps taken by the Government of the Republic in this regard. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u19	To answer, with the acquiescence of the honourable Members. Ladies and gentlemen, you have the floor of Mrs Marcia Passos.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u20	Mr President, Mr. Paulo Araújo Correia, which country is the honourable Member talking about? [[PSD applause.]] Are you talking about a country and an investment in equipment and buildings? I will tell you, Mr. Member, that Seia's conservatory, which is within the court,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u21	He doesn't even know where he is!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u22	... each year he receives a team from the Ministry of Justice to see the water entering this conservatory. They're going to see and they're not doing anything!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u23	And the PSD did?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u24	He had the urgent intervention of the municipal chamber, which had to put gradients on the windows and on a balcony, because he is in danger of ruin. This is the investment the Socialist Party makes in the buildings of justice in Portugal. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u25	You speak of computers, of computer investment, but you need to have the courage to come here to say that. Computers have years and years, are obsolete, shut down in the middle of the services that are provided to the citizen. And you're talking about investing in people, when no competitions have been held for more than 20 years? [[PSD applause.]] Are you talking about investing in technicians? You don't know what you're saying. Mr President, senior technicians do not qualify for registration acts; we are talking about the lack of specialized human resources, conservatives, registrar officers. Go first and come here later.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u26	And the four years of the PSD? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u27	Mr. honourable Member, disrespect is shocking, and today there is more evidence of this disrespect. Do you know what May 16, 2022 means? It means another disrespect by the Minister of Justice. It was the day of a convention in Portugal that did not exist since 1996, which brings together the whole world, and in which 45 countries participated, for which the Minister was invited and, being here, sent a video message, as if we were in full pandemic.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u28	Shame!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u29	And do you know where the Minister was that day? Making another visit, because you chose Viseu's conservatory to visit, then, as you do in Seia, nothing to solve. This is the disrespect that the Government of the Socialist Party has for the Conservatives, for the record sector and for Portugal! [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u30	To speak on behalf of the Government, Mr. Secretary of State for Justice, Pedro Tavares.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u31	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, I should like to thank you for marking this debate, focusing on a topic as relevant to the country as is the registration. When we speak in registration services, we speak in services that provide more than 22,000 daily services, through a vast network of balconies, present in 297 municipalities of the mainland and also of the Azores. It is worth stressing the commitment and dedication of the 4703 employees, in which they integrate Conservatives, registrants, senior technicians and technical assistants of this Institute.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u32	Collaborators? I thought they were civil servants!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u33	IRN is made of people and for people. These figures well illustrate the crucial role of the registry sector, a sector that accompanies citizens and businesses throughout their lives, ensuring the security and authenticity of documents and acts essential to the proper functioning of society and the economy. IRN has been a pioneer in the digital transition since the beginning of the century. Many will no longer remember the numerous public services that it was necessary to travel to buy a house, to create a company or even to obtain a simple identification document. Modernization, by itself not being the answer to all the challenges of the public service, enables better management of human resources, by printing more efficiency to each other's tasks. I highlight, for example, the automatic renewal of the citizenship card, which has already allowed to renew more than 1, 7 million citizens' cards, eliminating the inherent costs of more than 4 million presence visits to carry out the request and lifting of this card. Less rows, less expectations, less costs and more resources to the IRN, allocated to tasks that add value. Alongside this road of transformation, we are working on a deeper planning, focused on people and built on information that we gather on the ground with the workers. Since the takeover, this government team has undertaken a roadmap for justice, with more than 25 visits from north to south and the Azores, to contact the registry service workers directly, to raise the main needs and identify opportunities for improvement and priorities for action. in this period, we heard union structures, contacted industry agents and heard citizens, observed their experience and difficulties in accessing services, to better plan the actions. And we are aware of the human resource difficulties with which the IRN is debating. Not everything is technology. It was this diagnostic work that resulted from the Horizon 2025 Action Plan of the IRN, which was designed to outline the evolution strategy of this Institute, focused on people, in digital transition and in the modernization of infrastructure and equipment. In the area of the building, the identification of priority works enabled an investment of more than EUR 3 million in 2022 to be made in a total of 650 interventions, and the hiring of 11 projects had already been initiated, amounting to EUR 1, 3 million. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u34	That's nothing!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u35	I stress that since 2018 the IRN has already invested EUR 8, 2 million in the re-qualification of its facilities. In the coming years, we will strengthen the intervention in the IRN building, including the rehabilitation of facilities, the improvement of accessibility and air conditioning. Currently performing interventions in Aljezur, Almada, Braga, Guarda, Leiria, Odivelas, Oliveira do Hospital and Porto. For the next two years, interventions are planned in 34 conservatories and in four shops of the citizen. [[P.S.'s applause.]] This is the largest ever intervention in the IRN building.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u36	It's nothing!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u37	It is an intervention that will improve the working conditions of employees, with more security, less noise and advanced technological equipment. [[Protests by PSD MP Jorge Paulo Oliveira.]] As regards staff, which is essential, during the last two years, 284 technical assistants and 55 senior technicians have joined the IRN through competitive and mobility procedures. As part of the Recovery and Resilience Plan, the recruitment of 55 technical assistants and 25 senior technicians is under way. To these, adding-CL- will be technical assistants handed in through agreements with the municipalities and is being evaluated, with the Finance and with the Public Administration, a multi-annual plan for hiring special career workers for conservatives and registrants, similar to what was done with the Judicial Police. [[P.S.'s applause.]] With regard to the special careers of registers, it should be noted that the review of 2019 allowed a single diploma to bring together the remuneration rules for workers who have joined those careers and those who have moved from previous careers. The new diploma respects the remuneration conditions applicable since 2001 to workers who have moved to this career. Any other legislative solution would disregard the rights acquired. In SIADAP ( Integrated Management and Performance Assessment System in Public Administration ), the process of 2019 / 2020 is being finalized. In December the value of EUR 3, 5 million was processed as a result of remunerations. Human resource valuation and investment in people are one of the strategic axes of the NRI. 28 partnerships were established in the area of mental health to facilitate the access of workers to these care. Together with training, motivational objectives and promotion of transparency and participation, the IRN launched, last year, the We Register initiative, for the sharing of good practices and for training related to the implementation of new services. Let me also highlight the participation of RNA project managers in the LAB Justice, a program developed with the New SBE ( School of Business and Economics) and the ISEG ( Higher Institute of Economics and Management ) to strengthen the ability of leaders and managers to respond to the demanding challenges that the implementation of the RPP poses. Also at this level, the IRN will move forward this year with a more ambitious training programme, which extends to all workers. In total, between 2019 and 2022, the registered workers had access to more than 700 training actions, and more than half of these had taken place in 2022. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the IRN is strongly committed to taking advantage of the PRR's funds to continue to invest in the modernisation of computer systems that serve as a basis for the processing of records, in order to improve the provision of service to citizens and businesses. of the 42, EUR 5 million planned for investment in the renewal of digital platforms to support the life cycles of citizens and businesses, have already been qualified as RRP expenditure close to EUR 32 million, including procedures in preparation, contractualized or in the process of contracting. Among the innovative projects already implemented, I highlight the Distance Care Platform, which allows the realization of authentic acts by videoconferencing — a service that reduces travel and increases cohesion, without jeopardizing the security of acts. [[P.S.'s applause.]] And it was through automation, through artificial intelligence, that we launched the firm stock exchange in September, releasing to other tasks resources that were exclusively affected by this manual work. Finally, it is worth stressing the enormous investment we are making in the renewal of the computer park. Between 2018 and 2021, 1050 computers were installed, to which 500 equipment was added only in the last nine months. In 2023, the entire IRN computer park will have been replaced. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we know that there is still a lot to do. We are aware of the difficulties with which IRN workers are discussed every day. We're on the ground and we'll continue to be. The advanced age of workers imposes an acceleration in renewal, so that knowledge is not lost and the quality of service is not affected. I would like to safeguard the work and effort of all workers to ensure that the doors of the services remain open and that the work is not delayed. But we also know that conditionalism exists, we cannot deny, and that is why this plan can, and should, be accelerated. It is a participated work that wants to be transparent and with measured impacts. The Government is committed to this realization. The IRN is, and will continue to be, an example of public service. With modernization, with innovation, with service, with quality and with people. This is the path we're going to take together. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u38	The Secretary of State has five requests for clarification, and the Bureau is informed that he will respond in blocks of three and two. The first request for clarification belongs to the PSD Parliamentary Group. To that end, I give the floor to Mrs Sofia Matos.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u39	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Secretary of State, I am delighted with your speech, which is truly ironic. [[PSD applause.]] [[Oh!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u40	As I listened to him very carefully, I was reminded of a President of the Republic who recently said about this government that it remains absolutely free of reality. [[PSD applause.]] The Secretary of State presents a country of wonders where, of course, those gentlemen do not live and where, of course, the Portuguese users and citizens do not live either. This morning, while the Minister of Justice was sleeping, instead of getting ready to be in this debate, dozens of Portuguese citizens were waiting to take a password from the Orange Citizen Store. This should be embarrassing you! [[PSD applause.]] [[PS protests.]] Does Mr. Secretary of State know the country where there is a mob of passwords? Do you live in this country, where people wake up in the morning to pick up passwords and can only take them out until 11 o'clock in the morning? Does the Secretary of State know that country? I should have taken this time to apologize, to explain what's going on and why I can't solve the problems of the citizen's shops and the conservatories of registration. [[PSD applause.]] [[PS Protests and PSD counter-protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u41	To make a request for clarification on behalf of the Left Block, Mr Pedro Filipe Soares has now given the floor. I ask for silence so that you may intervene.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u42	Mr President, Mrs Minister, Mrs and Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, Secretary of State, we would like to see the Minister of Justice there. It's not just a whim, because we think she's more beautiful than Mr. Secretary of State,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u43	Machist!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u44	... it is out of respect that these workers and these workers are due, by the service they provide to the country, and it is because of the lack of respect with which they have been treated — in fact, derailed — over the years by successive governments. We know that, among what Mr. Secretary of State said in that rostrum — in the speech which was probably enhanced by any copywriter of the government — and the reality goes a faraway world. If I could make any attention here, the first would be: Earth calls the Ministry of Justice ; [[We want to imitate Enough!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u45	Terra, Portugal, calls Mr. Secretary of State, because speaking of the computer miracles of these workers and of those workers who so often want to access the computer system and it does not work—or because their computers are obsolete or because the central system itself does not work—and then they and they have to face the people there and answer for responsibility that is not theirs, it is not theirs, but it is the Ministry of Justice, Mr. Secretary of State, it can only be enjoying them!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u46	Lack of respect for the PS!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u47	To talk about the facilities, when they and they know how obsolete they are, they can only be playing with them, with them and with the country! To talk about the concern about the generational renewal of workers, when no one has been in for years for the career? You can only be kidding the country, Mr. Secretary of State! It can only be playing with people who then despair and fall upon them and them—for responsibilities that are not theirs, but the government and the Ministry of Justice—because they cannot get simple things like renewing their passport, renewing their citizenship card, basic administrative acts that have to be resolved. When we talk about citizens' access to public services, one of the worst examples — on the responsibility of the government — is exactly what happens in the services dependent on the Institute of Registers and the Notary. So, Mr. Secretary of State, the questions are very obvious and direct: when is a serious review of career? For when is a fair assessment system? For when is the attack on wage inequalities, which are loud and completely incomprehensible? For when is a serious investment plan in installations and when is the solution of computer problems, which most appear from the Stone Age? [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u48	For the third request for clarification now on behalf of the PS, Mr Francisco Oliveira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u49	H.E. Mr. President, Minister for Parliamentary Affairs, Mr. Secretary of State, Mrs. Members, Ex.mos Sr. Conservatives and Justice Officers present here, the proper functioning of the register service assumes that investments are made, in particular, at the level of their modernisation. The modernisation of the services is, of course, linked to the updating of their computerized means, which allow for greater efficiency and speed, but also to the improvement of the buildings where these services are carried out. The recovery and construction of the new building is essential, not only to give better working conditions to about 5000 registered service workers, but also to ensure that about 22,000 presences are carried out daily in mainland Portugal and the Azores, and thus providing a faster and more effective service to users. To this end, we know that a previous study of the creation of a reference model for the new registration spaces, based on observation and interviews with users and employees, which guarantee different service spaces—for example, simple care for the citizen card; medium service; and specialized balconies, such as the House Ready—, which, according to its type, guarantee greater or less privacy and security and are adaptable to different configurations and dimensions of the space. This work served as a basis for the development of new spaces and the benefit of current spaces. Investment in this field has been very relevant in recent years, either in interventions necessary for the recovery, proper operation and modernization of buildings, or in the opening of new spaces. 595 small interventions were carried out in the building, up to €5,000, in a total of €886,000, 55 large interventions amounting to €834 000, and 11 contracts started — as already mentioned — amounting to €1 million and €295 thousand. A robust programme of intervention in the IRN building is designed,... [[Protests by PSD MP Jorge Paulo Oliveira.]] ... in two aspects: direct interventions and in collaboration with the authorities, including the rehabilitation of facilities in various areas, covering accessibility and air conditioning, already planning remodeling or relocation interventions for the following services: Albufeira, Arraiolos, Barreiro, Mafra, Portel, Portimão, Sesimbra, Lagos and Vila do Porto. In the context of the Recovery and Resilience Plan, considerable investments in the IRN building are also planned. The work done is, of course, to heighten, but, looking to the future, my questions are to know, on the one hand, which interventions and new facilities are designed under the PRR, and, on the other, what is the situation in the context of the implementation of that investment programme and what its relevance to improving services. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u50	To respond to these first three requests for clarification, Mr President-in-Office of the Council.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u51	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, thanks also to the questions that have been raised, I would divide these questions into three points. With regard to the issue raised by Mrs Sofia Matos, we are not free from reality and we know that there is indeed a lot of work to be done at the IRN.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u52	You know, but don't solve it!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u53	We need to do a human resources job... [[PSD protests.]] ...and we are committed, the government is committed to working on human resources, ensuring registration officers and conservatives. [[P.S.'s applause.]] That's a job we want to do.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u54	20 years ago! It's just excuses!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u55	And what we're doing is correct. [[PSD protests.]] Secondly, precisely to improve the work, we will modernize the services, ensuring the greatest technological investment ever, modernizing the services, improving the computer park. [[PSD protests.]] I'm not in the world of non-reality, this government team went to the conservatories. A short time ago, she referred to the question of the Minister's not knowing the reality.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u56	They need people!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u57	Mrs. Minister has been with me...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u58	Go, go, but don't solve it! What did you do? Zero!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u59	...and he was, in fact, the first minister of justice, in many years, going to the conservatories of Viseu, Braganza, Porto, the Azores. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]] And you know what we did? 42, EUR 5 million in technological renewal, EUR 8 million in building; 34 interventions in building. Madam Member, we are not in the world of non-reality, we know what the reality is. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mrs. Member, if you'd like to take your password off at the Laranjeiras Citizen's Shop right now,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u60	There's no more! At ten o'clock there are no more passwords!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u61	...has passwords. If you go to the Saldanha Citizen Shop, you have 11 people waiting to take out the citizen card.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u62	Mr Secretary of State, I request only one minute to remind the ladies and gentlemen. Members who bullying is not a regimental figure. So let the respondent answer and then draw the proper conclusions. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr. Secretary of State, please proceed.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u63	Thank you very much, Mr President. When we made the automatic renewal of the citizenship card, we removed the waiting lines. Therefore, this problem in the service of the citizen card was solved by this and by the previous governments. We want to continue to work in this process, so that this work is completed. In reply to Mr Pedro Filipe Soares' question, of course career issues are a matter of concern to us. The work that was done in 2019, in relation to wage asymmetries, came in fact to unify the components that came in the category maturity and also in the current maturity. What has been done is to unify, on the one hand, by ensuring that no one loses acquired rights — to guarantee this dimension — and on the other, to ensure that, in future recruitments, this will be a clear, transparent process, which also allows this progress. What is being done at SIADAP level also responds to this ability of progression, with the payment of the values being made and which, even last month, has totaled more than EUR 3 million. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u64	You now have the floor to make a request for clarification, Mrs Inês de Sousa Real, of the PAN.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u65	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Minister, Secretary of State, began recently to mention that the IRN is made by people and for people. So far we can all agree, of course, but precisely because it is made of and for people, there is a dimension, both human and professional valorization that cannot be overlooked. Yesterday we had the workers of the registers and notary to strike for the defence of their rights—in protest, either by wage asymmetries, or by the values that are not being paid—and, despite all that he said, he did not mention the timing, that is, when these workers can count on these changes. We also did not realize, in terms of discontent in the sector, how this integration of the restructuring of the SEF with the IRN will be done and what all these professionals can count on, including in terms of the effectiveness of care. Then, in relation to the size of people, not only with regard to waiting lists, while waiting time, but above all with presence care, what is being done to avoid the long lines?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u66	Mrs. Deputy, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u67	I really am concluding, Mr President. The reality that has been evidenced is that of long queues of waiting, including in the morning, when, as I said, the IRN is made for people and makes no sense that people have to wait for the rain, the cold, in manifestly inhuman conditions.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u68	In order to make a request for clarification, Mr Pedro Pinto, of the Arrival, now has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u69	Mr President, Mr Minister, Mr Secretary of State, today we do not have the Minister of inertia here, because, after all, justice in Portugal, particularly with this Minister, has been a total inertia. This is particularly reflected in this area of the Conservatives and in the sectors of the registers. I heard Mr. Secretary of State speak in 1 million and 300 thousand euros of investment in building, as if it were a big thing.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u70	It's EUR 8 million!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u71	We speak of 1 million and 300 thousand euros, when we have a paid compensation of 500 000 € to Alexandra Reis ; when we buy a painting of 400 000 € for a museum. What great work this government has done in building in Portugal. [[PS protests.]] I also heard him talking about modernization, technological modernization, of everything, but I did not hear him speaking in the health of workers, and the health of workers should be first of all. There is no work medicine for all professionals. Notice, Mr. Secretary of State, that only one fifth of the workers had their consultations; most workers are worn out, which physically and emotionally harms people. The state of health and the spirit of conservatives and registrar officers are being destroyed, and not a word from the government about it. I would like to know what this government is planning to help the health of these people who are worn out, because the rest of the conversation, what they have done, what they have built, is — I do not mean that it's all a lie — a lot of lies. Just go inside the country, as already mentioned here today, and see where the facilities of the services are. And it is also curious that Mr Pedro Filipe Soares' statement says that this government is playing. So what about those six budgets where the Left Block gave the PS? Didn't they play at that time? What did the Left Block do? Nothing. [[Congrats from the CH.]] That's the problem: they come here to talk, talk, talk, but at the time they could have done something, they didn't do anything either. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u72	To reply, Mr President-in-Office of the Council.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u73	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, on the first question raised, on valuation, the first point I have mentioned, and I would like to point out again, is that we are working on this recruitment plan. We also hope to present new developments in a very short time with regard to the number and multi-annual dimension — that is our concern — so that will be done. As regards the work and the other points — as I said — SIADAP's assessments and progress work have been paid, the IRN has done this work in order to pay all the points related to this action, and we want to continue and accelerate this process. I would, however, like to mention the question of waiting lines. Since the citizen card process has been automated, the waiting queues of the IRN are very small or even non-existent. Repeat: non-existent. Why do I mean this? It is sufficient to apply, in the management part of the queues, and it is found that more than 50 % of the IRN services are of spontaneous origin, i.e. only 50 % are made by schedule, and today there are no queue problems. Therefore, waiting time has been reduced and therefore something has been achieved. On the question of Mr Pedro Pinto, I would like to point out the figures again : EUR 8, EUR 2 million in investment since 2018. Only in 2022, it was EUR 3 million and in the next three years it will be EUR 6 million. So this is the investment in the building. We're intervening in 34 conservatories and we're going to continue in the next two years. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u74	What about health? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u75	Mr Rui Paulo Sousa has the floor now for an intervention on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the European People's Party.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u76	Mr President, Mrs Minister, Mr State Secretary, Mrs and Mrs Members: The degradation of the public services we are witnessing reaches several areas of the Public Administration, affecting particularly the most vulnerable Portuguese, and the area of the public register, which is what brings us today's debate, is not the exception. In order to be able to understand what we are talking about out there, this is the activity of the public record we can use to obtain such important documents as the citizen card, passport, driving licence, to register births, marriages, deaths or nationality processes, among others. That is, in this area of Public Administration, there is no alternative to public services, and therefore they either work well or create great difficulties for all Portuguese. With so many important functions, it would be expected that the registers would function in appropriate facilities and equipment; that they would provide a service with a quality which would be in keeping with the importance of that service; and that they would be served by employees in an appropriate number and with a professional and remuneration status that would be in line with the importance of the functions they perform. But that is not what the registrants report to us, as this is not the reality that users of these services are facing on a daily basis.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u77	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u78	Mr President, Mrs Minister, Mr State Secretary, Mrs and Mrs Members, let's start with the facilities of IRN dependent services. The IRN activity reports account for the execution rates of re-qualification of the facilities of the extraordinary registration services, but then we notice that they are accounted for as re-qualification works such as repairing a tear of a cane, a party tile and other interventions of the same caliber. If this wasn't so serious, it would be to laugh!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u79	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u80	On the other hand, we did not have a plan to re-qualify the building in 2020 and we did not know any plan in 2021 or 2022, which may have been due to the fact that the IRN budget lost EUR 12 million from EUR 2021 to 2022.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u81	Exactly! Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u82	The only thing that has not diminished was the structural problems of the registration services facilities. As far as equipment is concerned, the picture is no better. Computers are old—some are over 15 years old—which means they are constantly being restarted. In the routine of some processes, registries have to put the same data into three or four different applications, spending unnecessary working hours. When they have problems, they use the Institute of Financial Management and Justice Equipment, which ignores these requests and forces the services to use outsourcing. Only in the first half of the year ended, the State spent EUR 100 million on tasks such as printing or digitizing official documents. This is the image transmitted by the Portuguese State to the citizens. The quality of the services provided reflects, as is evident, all these conditions, especially with regard to response time. Since the presenceal attendance was ended to be scheduled in June 2021, requesting or renewing the citizen card became an adventure, with endless queues of waiting! In June of last year, who tried to make an online marking to renew the citizen's card, passport or driver's license only had a vacancy for three months. The explanation is obvious. Since 2001 this registration sector has suffered a decrease of 2183 professionals, between Conservatives and registrar officers, of whom 750 in the last six years have not been restored. at this time, it would be necessary to recruit nearly 2000 workers to restore the balance in the record sector, but it would be a measure that would allow for increased care to more than 50 000 people per day, fighting unacceptable delays and waiting lines.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u83	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u84	Portugal is experiencing a situation of a lack of officials from the absolutely unpublished registers. On the other hand, the registrar and notarial officers sector is the oldest in the state, with an average age of 59. Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, as regards the professional status and remuneration of registrar and notariary professionals, the problems and inequalities are serious, and the list is long, and deal with the lack of measures for the recovery of lost earnings and wage inequalities recorded in the last 20 years, but also with wage discrimination between the classes of conservatives and registrar officers, or with discretionary mobility to cover holes in conservatories at various points in the country. Since the arrival of this Parliament, we have always proposed budgetary measures to solve these difficulties.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u85	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u86	We proposed measures such as the promotion of the category of superior writer of all workers who were part of the category of writer or, in addition, proposals for repositioning remuneration in the transition to the new pay table for special careers of record keeper and registrar officer. All proposals were plunged by the Socialist Party. The record sector has hit the bottom and the only one responsible is the government,... [[Congrats from the CH.]] ... that, due to uncertainty and incapacity, has not solved the problems that exist and are well known of the successive holders of the justice folder. This is a government spent, full of suspicions and controversy involving its members, closed on itself and manifestly unable to solve the problems facing the country and the Portuguese!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u87	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u88	The only viable way to all these situations, to add to all the others that we have seen over the past few months, the last few weeks, not to mention the last 24 hours, is the dissolution of this government and the convening of early elections. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u89	For an intervention on behalf of the Liberal Initiative, Mrs Patrícia Gilvaz has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u90	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Yesterday, workers in the register sector were on strike in defence of their labour rights. Last night, we were in this plenary discussing the disembarkation of the Government in its essential functions. And here we are once again seeing this same government failure. We have a government and a Prime Minister who has been in power for seven years and cannot perceive the real needs of the country; a Prime Minister who has been in power circuits for decades, who has already had responsibilities in various areas, and whose trail left is stagnation and impoverishment; a stagnant country and a state that wants to reach everywhere, but fails in its more nuclear role. What is happening in the register sector is just another example of this. Mrs. Members, the record sector has a key and important role in consolidating developed societies. It is through the registries that we advertise our rights and it is through the records that we can prove who we are and what we have. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u91	But it is also through the records that we can prove and prove governmental incapacity. Invariably we return to the SEF theme and to the disrespect that is to pass months and months with successive delays in the restructuring of a service of this importance. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u92	The protocol establishing the model of cooperation between the security forces after the restructuring was signed only last month and on the respective clauses of the agreement this Parliament knows nothing about. But this was in the security forces. Months have passed and the registry sector does not know what competences it will remain and the only certainty it has is that it cannot count on this government.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u93	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u94	We are therefore obliged to ask: if the delay in proceedings in conservatories is currently what it is, with applicants who have been waiting for years for their nationality granting processes to be decided, what will be the result after the allocation of new competences to registers, following the restructuring of the SEF? Will these years of waiting be over decades? Won't the records be even more congested? I also ask: how is the extinction of an entity expected and the distribution of its powers to entities which are already saturated themselves? Saturated, because it was this same government that allowed the average age of registered workers to be over 57 years old. Saturated, because it was this government that allowed the deterioration of working conditions in the Public Administration, through a hypocritical policy of captivity. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u95	The Government needs to be clear in the direction it wants to define for the general public administration and for the sector of particular registers. Workers and Portuguese need to know the objectives of the Socialist Party and of this government. We are faced with an objective of the Socialist Party to reduce the number of registries and that is why there is no renewal of the tables? Does the government consider that the registry sector will need less human resources through digitization? No, Mr. Secretary of State, this government is not concerned about human resources. As far as digitisation is concerned, what digitisation does Mr. Secretary of State want? Oh, my God! The reports that arrive to us are from outdated platforms and of little or no training given to professionals. Even last week, the business sector saw itself armed by a computer system unable to process all applications related to the registration of effective beneficiary, requiring up to a communication and clarification by the Institute of Registers and the Notary. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u96	The government may even think that artificial intelligence will be the solution to all problems, but it will be worth nothing if it lacks human intelligence, boldness and determination to implement and make the best use of what technological progress offers. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u97	If you continue to disrespect the professionals in this sector, there is no artificial intelligence that is worth you. You know why? Because the human factor is essential. These professionals can never be replaced by machines, because of the particularities that this service has. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u98	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the state of degradation to which an area of the Public Administration has arrived so crucial for economic activity, for security, for legal certainty and for the full constitution and exercise of rights is revealing what the PS wants for Portugal. We are talking about one of the basic pillars of what constitutes a modern and democratic state and which the government resolves to ignore. What we can and should demand from the government is transparency as to the real intentions of what you want. They may try, but the Liberal Initiative will never shut down and will continue to denounce the incompetence and incapacity of this government and the Socialist Party. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u99	Mr Pedro Filipe Soares has the floor for an intervention on behalf of the Left Block.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u100	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, I would like to congratulate all the workers of the conservatories of the records here present and, in your people, all of your colleagues. Not by chance, Mr. Secretary of State began his initial intervention by speaking in collaborators. This is a mistake, because we are talking about workers and workers and rights that they and they have as a legal forecast. It is not by chance that it is not called a contract for collaboration in public functions. It's a public service contract. That is why we are here discussing working conditions, which are also linked to conditions of public service in service to populations. On this matter we realize that there is a discrepancy between the reality and the government's thinking. We know what comes from behind. For a long time it has been thought that technology can replace human beings and, therefore, it will protect the hiring of people, it will push forward the generational renewal, hoping that an artificial intelligence any replaces people in the Public Administration. They call it "Simple", they call it anything else, but the principle is always the same: people, some of them, will be indispensable, because there will be a computer, a machine, a website, to which people can go and solve their problems. But reality is very different from this: most of the time, the site or computer needs someone who helps to complete the processes and, often, it doesn't work, it works bad, it's outdated or obsolete and, indeed, it's people who solve the real problems, which are much richer and diverse than those that the machine can answer. That is not what the government is talking about. For example, Mr. Secretary of State tells us here: "Well, but we look at the statistics of waiting time and we see, on the platform, that they are very different from what is being reported to us" ; but, if it was on the ground, if it was on the concrete, we saw those little papers posted at the entrance, saying "for this type of service there are only x passwords" or "for that type of service there are only x passwords". So you realize that there is a parallel reality in which the government lives and that it is not the one in which the vast majority of people live, it is not the one in which you work. from the Left Block, unlike some parliamentary groups present here, they know that they have always counted on us.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u101	Uh! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u102	In all budgets, we have always proposed two essential measures:...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u103	Yes, yes! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u104	... the opening of invitations to tender for the hiring of persons and the equalization of remuneration supplements. And if these proposals did not happen, if these proposals are not a reality today, it was not because they missed the votes of the Left Block. That is why we can apologize for not having succeeded yet, but we cannot apologize for not having tried, because we have tried, with our proposal and with our votes, to answer your problems.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u105	Six Budgets!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u106	It is that your problems, yours, are of the working relationship with the state and, therefore, are also of this sovereignty body that controls the government, that executes the policies of the state, but they are of the population, because we know that ultimately you suffer in the skin...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u107	Six Budgets!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u108	... the responsibilities of the State or the Government, which does not meet their own responsibilities. So I finish, saying very simply: you can count on us, we don't give up fighting for you, we're also fighting for our country. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u109	They know who you are! [[Protests from BE Mariana Mortagua.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u110	To speak on behalf of the CFP, Mrs Alma Rivera has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u111	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: No doubt one of the marks of almost 50 years of right-wing policy, this continued alternation of PS and PSD governments, with or without CDS, is the degradation of public services. Justice and, in particular, records and notaries are a paradigmatic case of this wrong option,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u112	Six State budgets!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u113	... this option of degradation and closure of public services, which unfortunately has its consequences in view. There are missing workers, there are not guaranteed working conditions, there is no exploitation of careers and professions, there is no option to strengthen the hiring of workers, but rather, the promotion itself, by the Public Administration, the precariousness of work and the use of outsourcing of services. The government claims that it does not realize that there are no public services without workers. It is the workers of the services that make them work, but unfortunately for many years the philosophy followed has been exactly the opposite. Today, we are debating a sector that has reached a point of total rupture, of strangulation. Mrs. Members of the Government — those present here —, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, there has been no competition for more than 20 years. No one enters, no contests, no renewal of staff in the records. With the average age around 59 years, there will inevitably be many people reforming in the short term. And if today there are 234 Conservatives and 522 registries, tomorrow there will be many more, which inevitably means the closure of more conservatory and more services. in these 20 years, 2000 workers went out and didn't even enter one. And if we add to this that, consecutively, skills have been transferred without conferring capabilities and means—either at the level of human resources or physical and material resources—in particular if we talk about the dismantling of the SEF or work linked to the Single Building Balcony (BUPi) or to the changes that have been introduced into the Nationality Law, all this means that more work falls on existing workers. And the result is inevitably disaster. The image of the people, in the morning, in the queue, to take a password, says everything about this policy. How many years have they not reported and alerted the workers of the records to the situation? Oh, my God! How long has the CFP not been alerting us to this, presenting dozens of initiatives, particularly in the context of the State budget, how did this year happen? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u114	They approved the budgets!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u115	How many years have not all these proposals been rejected to solve the problems, particularly by whom is this debate being convened today? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u116	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u117	The Socialist Party did not have an absolute majority before; the votes of you were to allow the proposals not to be adopted. [[PCP applause.]] It is therefore important to assume responsibilities, but above all to do what needs to be done. It's not for when, it's for yesterday. And it is fair that a greeting to the strike is made here that was still held yesterday,... [[PCP applause.]] ... to the determination of those who, however, continue to fulfil their duty in an exemplary manner and to correspond, as far as possible and beyond what is possible to them, to the needs of people. It is a recognition that must be made. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, whenever we talk about this, the digital conversation inevitably appears. This is not to have a notion of what it is to try to make an online marking and understand the deadline for us to be put back and that the shorter wave is to many kilometers from where we are.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u118	That's right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u119	And then, after the trial, who is it? Is that the digital? The digital transition is, in fact, very necessary, yes, but it was necessary to start by ensuring the basic information technology for the operation of any public service, in decent facilities, because without it there is no digital support.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u120	It's digitizing the misfortune!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u121	And this idea of digital transition cannot be used to ignore the needs of those who work and the services themselves.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u122	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u123	It is not necessary to look for long-distance examples; in the capital of the country, in the center of Lisbon, in the Department of Civil Identification of the New Street of Almada, is chaos. Everyone can watch! And it's easy to see that none of the problems we mention here can be solved without dealing with the problems that affect workers. It's the Conservatives and the registrants that make it happen. It is not acceptable to continue without finding a solution for wage inequalities, something which has already been mentioned by the Ombudsman. It is necessary, once and for all — it is not with conversation, with understanding — to move forward in the career review, from the Single Remuneration Table, which is a cross-sectional problem to special careers and which the Ministry of Justice postpones.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u124	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u125	Failure allowance is provided for all those working with payments and they have this responsibility, but it has not been allocated, even though it is expressed, for example, in the State budget to 2021 that a transfer of balances should be made precisely for this purpose. The workers have never received. There's no time to waste. The degradation accelerates; every year of inertia will be worse. To deny problems is to make them worse.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u126	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u127	What prevents the government from doing what it has to do? It's just that these things depend solely on your will. What is the purpose of this? Is it closing? Is there no more public records and conservatories? Is it doing what the Liberal Initiative wants and its congeners to do?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u128	Which congeners? Oh, my God! Only if it's the Left Block! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u129	The problem in the field of justice is, essentially, human resources, that of suffocating workers. Neither judicial officials nor prison guards nor conservatories and registries... but, after all, what does the Ministry of Justice intend to do about all this? And more than thinking about doing and promising, and hearing, and talking, and making plans, and knowing the land, what do you do?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u130	Exactly! It's the part of "go away..."!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u131	What are you doing? And in this as in other matters it is not worth coming up with the list of contests and entries and increases up to 2026. It is that, in fact, no longer takes, we are all used to listening and, above all, it does not serve the workers in a limited position and the users of public services, who cannot deal with the simplest document. A government that breaks down revenue from the IRN itself, which is paid by all of us,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u132	That's right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u133	... to give benefits to all that is economic and financial group, which, at a time like this, which the country crosses, directly transfers billions of the Budget to energy, has no morals, Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, you cannot say that you are unable to solve these problems,... [[PCP applause.]] ...the problems of justice, a fundamental sector for democracy and for the country. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u134	For an intervention on behalf of the PSD, Mrs Ofélia Ramos has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u135	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen: Let me begin by greeting the Minister of Justice, who, unfortunately, has not honored us today with her presence. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u136	And I greet the Minister for the Christmas message she left us this year, with the motto « Commitment to Make It Happen». I greet the Minister because, more than political proclamations or promises, the Portuguese want and demand fulfillments. But, in fact, the year goes wrong. And it starts wrong, because it is with concern that we note the absence of the Minister... [[We got it!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u137	...in this debate so important and essential for the Portuguese. [[PSD applause.]] However, we are not actually surprised by this absence, because unfortunately the socialist governments are many promises and few achievements. And as a result of this fallacy, we witnessed the collapse of the IRN. The fault of this collapse is not for the workers—who I greet here for your resilience, but in particular for the struggle they have been fighting to ensure better working conditions and to ensure better public service—,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u138	What a great comrade! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u139	...the blame is, yes, on the government, that it persists in ignoring the very serious problems of the sector. The lack of human resources is exasperating; the services are in complete rupture; most conservatories are operating via gas, many even have to close doors due to lack of workers. There are many examples that I could bring here, but there is no time and then I am left for some. The Conservatory of Santa Maria da Feira, for eight days, did not register commercially and commercially. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u140	The Balcony of Inheritances and Shares of the Ovar Conservatory is not functioning, in fact, in this Conservatory there have been situations of physical aggression. This is regrettable! The Conservatory of the Olhão Register — which belongs to my electoral circle, of the Algarve — is only working with one worker. This is regrettable! The Miranda do Corvo Conservatory is closed. More than three dozen conservatories have no preservative. The workers'deficit is so alarming that in 2021 the IRN had less than 40 % of the workers it had in 2001. This is because workers come out every year, for reasons of retirement, and no new workers enter. For more than 20 years an external competition has not been opened for registrar officers and conservatives! In other words, the IRN is overburdened with new competences, such as those that will come, through the transfer of SEF competences to the IRN, and there is no concern of the government to strengthen services, to train services with human resources to meet needs. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u141	The revision of the Organic Law of the IRN has also been dragging for about six years and is yet to be completed.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u142	Stop yelling!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u143	But the IRN problems are not exhausted in the chronic human resource deficit. There are many other problems, too, they are very serious. I am referring to degraded facilities, with a lack of working conditions and service: installations with infiltrations and balloons, dangerous electrical installations,... [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u144	... decarnated electrical wires, cheap and rattan pests, archival boxes in exiguous spaces, noise levels above acceptable.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u145	That's your voice!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u146	Mr. Secretary of State, this is the reality of our country. And, Mr. Secretary of State, this is not mere rhetoric, here are the proofs of what we say: endless queues of waiting; facilities without working conditions; infiltrations and boloars; uncarnated electrical wires; boxes worn in exiguous spaces. The speaker showed illustrative photos of what she mentioned. This is the reality, Mr. Secretary of State! [[PSD applause.]] The lack of privacy in the service is also very serious, compromises the full compliance of the personal data protection regulation. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u147	And it is unacceptable that recently remodeled conservatories continue to fail to meet the requirements imposed by this regulation. It is unacceptable for the government to bet on computer platforms and services and not renew the computer park, which is completely obsolete: the system is constantly going below; the computers must be switched off and the information inserted again. It is unacceptable that only 1000 workers went to consult medicine at work. And this is particularly serious, because these workers are under pressure and have a high incidence of depression and burnout. For all this, I end my speech by asking a question: what is the government's strategy for the IRN? Is it watching the collapse of the IRN and washing your hands, like Pontius Pilates? Or does the government actually, once and for all, take action and avoid this collapse? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u148	To speak on behalf of the PS, you have the floor of Mrs Raquel Ferreira.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u149	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Conservatives, Officials of the Register, present here, who have been the engine of development of the register sector, in Portugal, very obliged. Mrs. Members, in recent years, a huge effort has been made by the Socialist Party to provide the registration services of means that enable them to perform their functions with dignity and quality, inherent in their status as agents of preventive justice and guaranteeing the justice and legal certainty of acts of identification and civil registration of legal persons and of movable and immovable property. In recent years, the Socialist Party has taken large and important steps for the deburocratization of the Public Administration, such as automatic renewal of the citizen card through the postal route, with the addition of the renewal by SMS (short message service), such as the birth registration and the request of the first online citizenship card,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u150	The first one! ...it was better too! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u151	... such as the Digital Mobile Key, such as the Ready House counters, such as obtaining permanent online certification or renewing the online driving license. Ladies and gentlemen. Members: This has avoided waiting lines for citizens, but most importantly it has also allowed the citizens to reduce costs, and this is what you are doing. Ladies and gentlemen can't deny it. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[CH Member Protests Bruno Nunes.]] All of this allowed a simpler and closer relationship between the Public Administration, the citizen and the companies. The simplification of the State is undeniable, Mr. Members, and in this field we are proud of this. However, this work in the IRN is only possible because we have had human resources that have contributed—yes, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, they have contributed — so that the processes have been faster, easier and more effective. It is worth noting that, in order to ensure closer communication, with all workers, both at central and local level, the IRN began in 2022, as the Secretary of State for Justice spoke recently, to promote the "We Are Register" initiative. This program consists of formative and decentralized events that take place at various points in the country and which aim to approach the external services of the IRN of its Governing Council and guardianship, having been held the first event on October 26, 2022, in Coimbra, with the BUPi. These initiatives have been very well received by IRN workers, as has also been mentioned here by the Secretary of State for Justice, and they will continue, as they allow for proximity between the services, demonstrating the importance of all in a joint project—yes, in a common project—which aims to create modern registration services,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u152	All right, Raquel!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u153	... effective, inclusive and closer to citizens. That's why, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen, you just don't see who doesn't want to see. The PSD does not want to admit that it was with the PS that improved the public administration's relationship with the citizens. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[All right!]] [[CH Member's protests Filipe Melo.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u154	For this to be possible, it has become necessary to re-qualify the heritage, and the IRN has continuously invested in rehabilitation programmes. Since 2018, the IRN has already invested — listen carefully, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, because, recently, they were confused! —...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u155	We didn't mess up, no! It was the Secretary of State who said it!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u156	... EUR 8, EUR 2 million in the re-qualification of its facilities.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u157	In eight years? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u158	It's eight times more!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u159	In 2022, we had an investment in building, between small and large interventions, which totaled more than EUR 3 million. [[CH protests.]] The IRN has invested—listen! — the IRN has invested heavily in the training of workers, particularly in specific areas.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u160	What about wages?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u161	Here we go, Mrs. Member.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u162	Yeah, it's always like that!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u163	As I said, the IRN has invested heavily in the training of workers, particularly in specific areas on registers and other legal matters related to its professional activity. Even during difficult times—even if we have forgotten that we have had difficult times, in the pandemic and during confinement—digital technologies have been used. To that end, the IRN has been making a huge investment in computer rehabilitation. It can be seen that, between 2018 and 2021, 1050 computers were installed in the services.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u164	You don't even believe it!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u165	In 2022, over a period of 9 months, 529 equipment was installed in the registration services in 85 municipalities.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u166	You've been talking for five minutes and you haven't said anything yet!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u167	So, ladies and gentlemen. Members, we cannot agree when the PSD comes to say that there is an investment in the IRN. If this isn't investing, then what is it? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u168	Sure!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u169	I still can't stop pointing out... [[PSD and CH protests.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, if you will let me continue, thank you. I can not fail to highlight the Horizon IRN Action Plan 2025, but also the visits that have been made in conservatories, visits, these, which have resulted in effective interventions on the ground, such as air conditioning and air conditioning, but, even more important than that, in the inter-administrative arrangements for strengthening human resources.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u170	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u171	Yes, to strengthen human resources, because there is a need for recruitment.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u172	Where is he? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u173	More: it was not to mention this issue, but since the PSD seems to have a short memory, I will not fail to say that, in 1996 and 1990 — it is true, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! — there was a recruitment,... [[PSD protests.]] ... but don't forget that this recruitment was made by the Socialist Party and years later, you were in the government and did nothing about it. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u174	They were there in 2015!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u175	You've been government and you've got registration!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u176	So, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it is true that not everything is done,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u177	Nothing's done!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u178	... but the important thing is to continue in this work of valuing public administration services, either in technical means or in human means, in order to be able to respond to the needs of our people. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u179	Mr Rui Tavares has the floor for an intervention on behalf of the Free House.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u180	Thank you very much, Mr President, and good morning to all. There is an appeal in the parliamentary debate which is this: 'where is your country in which you are? » ; the Member asks the Secretary of State in which country he is and the Secretary of State answers that he is in the Real Country. I confess that it is a parliamentary resource that I find a little bit beaten.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u181	It's about the records we're talking about!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u182	Today, however, it is worth asking which country you have been in. [[PSD protests.]] It is a good question for the PSD, because I hear here that there has been no renewal in records and conservatories for 20 years, but in a part of these 20 years, I was in this country and I remember who the government was, and I remember the speech of the state 'fats'. [[PSD protests.]] Then I hear the Liberal Initiative, above the rostrum, saying that it is going — to want the state to receive less taxes, minus 2 billion in taxes — to replace this with boldness and competence, because they have the mania that are always more competent than the others. Everyone knows the boss who thinks he's more competent than the previous boss and does more with less.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u183	O Rui, look at the time!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u184	The PSD also made the conversation of « more with less ». The PS says that investment corresponds to investment in new technologies, when it should actually be investment in people, because new technologies force us to have new professions in registers, notaries and conservatories.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u185	Mr. Deputies, you have to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u186	When people are in the galleries watching, you need to respect these people and say that they will lack nothing.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u187	You didn't say anything about records!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u188	We don't have to play games. There was still a motion of censure yesterday and they want to go to the government.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u189	Mr. Deputies, you have to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u190	However, when people come here, they never say what they want to cut.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u191	Mr. Deputies, you have to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u192	I want to conclude, Mr. President...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u193	Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u194	...but you need to let me finish. [[IL and CH protests.]] Advances in digitization force us to create new professions that support those who are excluded from digitisation and, on that point, we have not heard anything.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u195	It's always the same!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u196	The honourable Member has a request for clarification from Mrs Marcia Passos of the PSD. You do not have time to answer, but Mrs Marcia Passos wants to make the request for clarification. You have the floor, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u197	Mr President, Mr Rui Tavares, who has not been paying attention is the honourable Member, because I will remind you that, in the State budgets for 2021 and 2022 — and the honourable Member has now said that he has been here and has therefore been attentive — the Socialist Party has proposed and approved huge cuts in the record and notary sector. Compared to 2020, we are talking about less EUR 11, EUR 6 million.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u198	And in 2011, 2012, 2013...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u199	And, Mr. Member, do not talk about investing in platforms, nor in the BUPi,... [[PSD applause.]] ...because the BUPi, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, this is the biggest fraud the Socialist Party is doing to the Portuguese. [[PSD applause.]] Do you know what BUPi is for, Mr? I'm going to tell you: BUPi has served to take 55 million PRR. BUPi doesn't even serve to settle the tax. No one believes in this, but it's true! A system has been created that is not even reliable for finance. The BUPi is no use, it is a great fraud and you are committed to the fraud of the Socialist Party, which governs this country and which, over the last 27 years, has ruled 20 years. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u200	It's good to be serious! And what did they do in 2012, 2013, 2014? [[Mr Filipe Melo's protests and Mr Rui Tavares' counterprotests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u201	I ask for silence so that we can hear the next speaker. Even at this stage of debate, the last speech recorded by the Bureau is addressed to Mrs Sofia Matos of the PSD, and you have the floor, Mrs Matos.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u202	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, I was going to make an inquiry to the Bureau, but since I am speaking, I took advantage and, instead of the call to the Bureau, asked the services to distribute the State Budget Report for 2011, which mentions the courts that were made for the first time by the Socialist Party and by José Socrates. [[All right!]] [[PSD applause.]] [[PS protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u203	I can send you to see that in the 2011 State Budget it was the Socialist Party, by the hand of José Socrates, which reduced the salaries of public servants from 3 % to 10 %. PSD MP Joaquim Miranda Sarmento showed a copy of the newspaper Sol. [[PS Member Protests Eurico Brilliant Days and PSD Protests.]] Mr. Parliamentary Leader of the Socialist Party, oil, because it costs less. [[PSD applause.]] Mr President, the degradation of public resources is even an indelible mark of the last seven years of socialist governance, and it is particularly serious in the record sector. Mr Secretary of State for Justice, you say you have managed to finish the waiting lines, but you do not explain how in 2021 and 2022 there were more than 400 complaints against the Institute of Registers and the Notary, relating to these same queues, with which you say you have finished. The discontent, wear and demotiveness of these professionals stem not only from the review of the remuneration system of these careers, which was an ancient claim of the trade unions in the sector. Now, on the pretext of responding to this situation, the Government approved Decree-Law No 145 / 2019 of which we have already spoken, and managed to further sharpen the existing wage asymmetries in the sector. He has managed to get a worker who has now reached the Public Administration to win the same as the workers who have been in these careers for decades. But worse than this — and those you are witnesses — thanks to this schizophrenic and perverse remuneration system,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u204	Watch out for those words!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u205	... created by the Government of the Socialist Party, there are registries officers with 30 years of service who live side by side with you who have arrived now and who, with the same category, with the same functions and with the same time of service, earn more €1000 than they do. This is absolutely immoral! [[PSD applause.]] More: this diploma raises serious doubts about constitutionality. First, by breach of collective bargaining; second, by violation of the principle of equality (for equal work, equal pay); and then by violation of the principle of legal certainty, allowing the workers of the IRN to take enormously different salaries with the same category, professional class and performance of the same functions. Mr. Secretary of State, the President of the Republic himself had doubts about constitutional conformity when he promulgated this diploma. The Ombudsman has already called your attention over the past two years, consecutively, to repair these injustices. And what did you guys do? Zero! It is not the opposition that is government, it is this government that has to act! [[PSD applause.]] And Mr. Secretary of State omitted this reality in the speech he brought us here. But distortions are not only in unjustified wage differences. There is a lack of review of the organic law of registries and notarial services, which has been dragging for more than six years. There is a lack of approval for failures. Mr. Secretary of State, these gentlemen deal with your money, state money, and don't they get premiums for failures? Oh, my God! Are they from the few of the Public Administration who don't receive bonuses for failures? Oh, my God! But is everything okay? Oh, my God! [[PSD applause.]] There is a lack of implementation of work medicine for all and not just for some. It's 4700 IRN workers and only 1000 have consulted. What criteria have you chosen to define who goes to the medical consultations at work and who doesn't go? 260 writers need to be promoted to the superior writer, when another 250 writers, who were in exactly the same situation, were, without any reason or criterion to justify it. The payment of indexary salary revaluations since 1 January 2000 is missing, the absence of which pushes these workers to the courts to enforce their rights. And despite the numerous favourable decisions of the first instance, the IRN continues to constantly protect the resolution of these problems. There is a lack of admission tenders to the category of specialist registrar. After five years, no competition has ever been opened. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, this framework is nothing more than the mirror of the government that does not plan and manage the Public Administration, which allows its employees to be the sack of user dissatisfaction. The advertising government of « Company in Time », of « House Ready », but it takes more than a year to deal with someone's nationality. The government that lets the services and the quality of the response to the citizen be degraded, mainly harming the most vulnerable, the most unprotected, the older, those who have the greatest difficulty in accessing public services or who do not even have the resources to move there. And all this at such a difficult stage for the country. How many more will have to stay behind, so that the government will finally start solving the problems of the country, families and citizens? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u206	We will now move on to the closing stage of the debate. To close the debate on behalf of the Left Block, Mrs Joana Mortágua has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u207	Mr President, Mrs Minister, Mr State Secretary, Mrs and Mrs Members: First of all, as the first act of this closure, I want to greet all the workers and all the workers in the register sector, who have been struggling for so many years for their working conditions, which are also those of the citizens, of access to the essential public services they perform and of which they are guaranteed. I am not going to make a detailed historical journey, since 2011 when the PSD has enabled...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u208	It looks like a scratched disk!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u209	... the budget that began to cut in the salaries of public servants, nor the horrible period that followed him, with the cuts of the troika, with the attempt to go against the Constitution to fire public officials, with the completely unstoppable obsession that Portugal had more public officials, more public services and that citizens had more rights in this country. That period passed, but not so the PSD turned this page. [[PSD protests.]] In the last seven years, my comrade José Manuel Pureza has presented proposals in this Assembly of the Republic for the improvement of services, conditions and facilities... [[PSD and CH protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u210	Ladies and gentlemen, allow me to interrupt. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let us resume silence so that the honourable Member can speak, because at least I am interested in hearing it and I am not achieving it. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u211	It's that story between the apart and the bullying... [[Ah!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u212	Thank you, Mr President. In recent years, my comrade José Manuel Pureza has presented here, several times, in all budgets, proposals concerning these workers, their careers, their rights, their working conditions, and all of them have fallen. And I remember that with the PSD's favourable vote, any of them could have been approved. The PSD has never contributed so far to improve the working conditions, careers or pay conditions of these workers, and this is the historical record we have left here. But this conclusion must also refer to the present and to what our debate here has been. They are very fashionable virtual reality games, the Second Life, the Metavers, in which we can, with an avatar, dress up a character that is not real and enter into a world that is not real. And in a world that is not real, a citizen can access all the services that, today, are provided by the registers without needing to go to a counter where an official is or, even if that counter is virtual, that there is an official performing these functions. That artificial intelligence, in fact, does not exist. In fact, we all have the experience of going to a counter for these services. I have it, for example, in Almada, which is one of the places where the conditions of IRN workers are absolutely degrading, from a physical point of view, and also for the citizens who try to access those services. Apart from this virtual reality game, which Mr. Secretary of State here presented, the conditions are very different. And that is why, when Mr State Secretary says that there is EUR 40 million to invest in the computer park and EUR 80 million for real estate rehabilitation, what we ask is this: how many million is there to value the career and remuneration of these workers, for whom so many injustices have been committed over the years? Oh, my God! When are there going to be serious contests for entry in these careers? When will there be decent careers? When wage asymmetries will be corrected, that — attention! — there are not just here many others who were special careers and, in a hurry to reformulate and reorganize, many injustices have been created and, in this case, the situation of conservatives or conservatives with leadership functions that earn less than the registrar officers they are conducting has been created. Oh, my God! This is absolutely unthinkable in any organization, it disorganizes any organization! Therefore, in the Public Administration, it is not conceived that an organization that works well has these kinds of wage asymmetries. What happens is that we have a body of public servants essential for public services to function, which is tired, poorly paid, disabled and aged, in fact, like most civil servants. A body of public officials on which the impoverishment of Portuguese society is falling. And so when we come to a conclusion on this debate, that conclusion must be that these workers are not indispensable. There are EUR 40, EUR 100 million or EUR 150 million for computer development and innovation.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u213	Mrs. Deputy, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u214	I will finish, Mr. President. With all the computer developments that are made, these workers are not anachronism of services. They are essential, they are those who face the citizens every day, they are not indispensable, they have to be valued. That is the obligation of the government and that is what has not been done. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u215	To close the debate by the CFP, Mrs Alma Rivera has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u216	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In the interests of seriousness, it is good to assume responsibilities. And indeed, in matters of responsibility, they are blatantly shared. You can even trade galhardets and compete: who did cut more, who first began to speak in the state fats...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u217	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u218	...and saying that the civil servants received more. They can make this competition because, indeed, nobody has little curriculum in this matter of cutting and robbing rights. Now, in this Budget, it was the 120 PS Members who were to lead the CFP's proposal so that the necessary workers could be hired, as well as the review of their remuneration status, but first, when there was no absolute majority, who helped the PS to lead this proposal? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u219	Exactly! [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u220	In all previous budgets, who helped the PS bring this proposal down? Oh, my God! It was the PSD, it wasn't the PCP. The CFP has contributed and proposed the full payment of allowances, the replacement of 35 hours, the replacement of holidays stolen by you. See the case of school textbooks, passbooks, finally, there are a set of proposals that were, indeed, very important, but also did not count on the PSD for this. With the PSD it is only intended to harm workers and then take advantage of it. But it is also true that the PS has and continues to be able to take measures that solve the problems, and it does not do so because it does not want to.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u221	That's it!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u222	Using a more or less moderate discourse, more or less bloomed, does exactly what the PSD does. So, in fact, as we said yesterday, it is much more what unites you than what separates you, in actions, in concrete. What distinguishes PS, PSD, CDS, Liberal or Arrival Initiative on not opening competitions, not to advance with pay rights, careers, with the appropriate remuneration status, with the health, safety and hygiene system at work, with the resolution of wage asymmetries? Oh, my God! in that, you are blatantly on the side. [[PSD protests.]] What stands out today is the question of defending the public service that is provided, which is an essential public service to democracy,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u223	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u224	... because it is about justice and justice is, in fact, an essential sector. And now, even though the Minister of Justice is not present, we take advantage of this debate to say that justice is strangled. There's this sector, as are others! There are absolutely gross injustices which, if not resolved, will have dramatic consequences.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u225	For democracy!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u226	In fact, they are already having them for the workers, for the users, for democracy and for the functioning of our country. It's unacceptable! This also has economic impacts! What happens in the registers and in the notariat also has economic impacts—we have no doubt of that!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u227	Sure!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u228	So what we need to do today is not compare who cut more, who escaped more to their responsibilities, who remembered first that there were more public servants, who remembered first that they were privileged. Today, what matters here is to make a concrete commitment and it is not to talk, because talking to the workers is already full. What is needed is to make a commitment to competitions, career review, remuneration status and to end this situation by effectively defending a public service that is essential to legal certainty and preventive justice. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u229	To close the debate on behalf of the Liberal Initiative, Mrs Patrícia Gilvaz has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u230	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, in order to begin the closure of this debate, let me remind you of something I have already said, but it is never too much to repeat: the state of degradation to which the record sector has arrived, an area of public administration so crucial to economic activity, security, legal certainty and the full constitution and exercise of rights, is unacceptable and not worthy of a state of democratic law.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u231	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u232	Therefore, the conclusion of this debate is obvious and predictable: the record sector is, alongside the other Public Administration, stagnant and abandoned, in what is also a portrait of the country left by the leadership of António Costa. Right at the beginning of the debate, Mr. Paulo Araújo Correia said he would not speak of a country of wonders, but, in all his speech, the only thing he did was speak of a country of wonders, in the usual position of the Socialist Party, of not taking responsibility. Then Mr. Secretary of State came here to advertise. It listed a set of measures that are being carried out because the agreement to receive RPP funds thus requires. He promoted these measures as if they were yours, but these measures are targets that are bound to meet to receive the RPP funds.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u233	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u234	Tell the Portuguese the truth once and for all! [[Applause from the IL.]] What, then, is the conclusion of these interventions? It is obvious that the Government leads the Portuguese people, but in addition the Socialist Party, the Government, makes visits to the places and these visits we do not see any results that serve the purpose that they should have, i.e. the identification and resolution of the problems, because the problems continue and those who have to deal with these adversities are those professionals who continue, every day, to serve the Portuguese population with the few means they have. The government is not sure about recruitment. It speaks to us in a recruitment plan for a short time, but we have no confidence in the appearance and implementation of that plan. We only have one certainty, then: the government has no answers to the breakdown in the register sector. This means not only disrespect by professionals, but also disrespect by all citizens who need this record sector to work to ensure security in the constitution and exercise of rights, fluidity of legal trade and combating economic impacts. It is not possible to increase and increase bureaucracy and, at the same time, to prevent more and more citizens' access to services. Slowness in justice does not exist only in the courts, it is transversal to the entire Public Administration. This Public Administration does not serve citizens. As long as we continue with the Socialist Party under the leadership of the Government, we will continue to watch the deterioration of public services continuously. The Portuguese deserve more. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u235	To close the debate, on behalf of the House, Mr Pedro Pinto has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u236	Mr President, Mrs Minister, Mr State Secretary, Mrs and Mrs Members: At the end of this debate, I come to the conclusion that we live in a completely different country. We had the pink country, painted by members of the Socialist Party, where, in this sector essential to the population, everything is fine—we felt that in several interventions. All that has been said here, all the criticisms that the opposition has made — that today was, indeed, opposition — all this is wrong, that is, we are wrong. But no, if we go to the essential sectors, if we go to the places, we see that they are the wrong gentlemen: they are queues of wait, lack of working conditions, buildings where it rains. This is the reality! You cannot hide that fact! And they're doing a bad job here in the country, they're hiding facts that are true, that all of the Portuguese people at home know what happens, and you come here to paint a pink country. I don't know if it's "Alice in Wonderland" or something like that, what I know is that only you believe what they said. This is a cruel government for those people who are up there, in the galleries, those men and women who give face every day. Not a word! You have not had a word for those people who have to face citizens every day, who have to hear a debate every day, who have to hear criticism every day. Not a word this government has had! [[Congrats from the CH.]] from the far left side, we had another theme or other attempt to face this debate, which was: « PS is the culprit, PSD and CDS were the culprit, we have nothing to do with it». They approved six State budgets of the Socialist Party. I remember that in 2015, it was not the PS who won the elections, it was the PSD, associated with the CDS, who won them, but it was you, PCP and Left Block, who gave their hand to this Socialist Party government and that is why there was a left government.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u237	The PSD has a great bodyguard here!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u238	You're accomplices! [[Congrats from the CH.]] The MP of PCP Alma Rivera made a gesture with her hands, simulating a heart. The heart that Mrs. Alma Rivera is doing to me, can do it to the Socialist Party, to whom they have given their hands in management. You're accomplices and you're trying to wash your hands, like Pilate! Don't wash your hands, they're as responsible as the Socialist Party! The Left Block, the PCP and the Socialist Party are the same! Where are the rights to career progression, Mr Secretary of State? They don't exist! The Ombudsman himself told the Minister, and I quote: "It is necessary to promote the necessary measures in order to meet the wage differences between those performing the same functions. Do not keep on seeking. ” Mr. Secretary of State, it is important to tell those people who are up there in the galleries what they will do about it. Then came the procedures of the SEF, which also passed to the IRN, i.e., they had little time, had more service, with the same order and with much more work. There is something that has already been said here today, but it is important to repeat, so that this debate is marked: there is the sale of passwords, the traffic of passwords. Just don't see who doesn't want it, just go to a service and see what's going on. These sales are made by foreigners, by those who, by withdrawing procedures to the SEF, have moved to the IRN. This exists, you see, you control this, because it is extremely important to do this control. [[Congrats from the CH.]] We have seen many problems in the IRN: degradation of buildings, lack of employees, lack of means, lack of working conditions. That socialist slogan, which was « People First» — then became « Families First», particularly socialist families –,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u239	That's the one!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u240	...you've never been so wrong, I repeat, you've never been so wrong. The Socialist Party forgets people, forgets workers, forgets those who face the Portuguese people. And here's an example: recently, the arrival spoke about health, about the health of the workers of the IRN. And Mr. Secretary of State, what did you say about that? Zero! Nothing! Not a word! That is the problem, there is the big difference: we are here to defend people and you are there to defend ideologies. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u241	To close the debate by the PSD, Mrs Paula Cardoso has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u242	Mr President, Mrs Minister, Mr State Secretary, Mrs and Mrs Ladies and gentlemen, today we have learned why the government does not govern: it is in line, it needs the password to start ruling. [[PSD applause.]] What was discussed here today made it clear that the record sector, in fact, like all others concerned with justice, is a chaos, a real chaos. They persist, insist on coming to announce and proclaim huge feats and wonders that socialist management brought to the lives of Portuguese and Portuguese. Or they announce, as today Mr. Secretary of State has done, investment in equipment, new technologies, more human resources, more work. But, Mr. Secretary of State, it is still time to get out of fiction, get down to the ground and take the last opportunity to explain what you did or intend to do your Ministry and when, yes, when. Explain to Portuguese and Portuguese people why there are conservatories closed throughout the country and dozens of them are without a conservative and no registrar officers. Explain why they work in conservatories without minimum conditions for operation, degraded facilities and obsolete equipment. Explain why, at the end of seven years of socialist government, we have numerous conservatories that do not divorce, do not make « inheritance counter », do not make « ready house» or marriages. Tell the professionals why there is no opening of external competitions for Conservatives and registrar officers. Tell me what strategy you will implement to counter the degradation of registration services, to end the lack of staff and to ensure the rejuvenation of the tables. Here and today, before the Conservatives—who are there in the galleries, and who comply, as well as with the judicial officers, who are listening to us—say what commitment it takes and what measures it will take to minimize and end the wage asymmetries that resulted from the transition regime to the new pay table, one of the pearls of socialist governance, enshrined in Decree-Law No 145 / 2019. Mr. Secretary of State, the PSD invites you and the Minister to live in Portugal, to rule for Portugal. [[PSD applause.]] The country and these gentlemen who are in the galleries are tired of hearing promises, are tired of hearing announcements, of hearing, Budget after Budget, announce that it is now, of hearing the Minister say that it will make happen. But you know what happens? At the end of the year, it happens that the budgeted measures, which, at the end of the year, are not implemented, have neither done nor happened. What's at stake here is not just Mr. and Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen. The records are the pillars of preventive justice, they are essential services to citizens, they are the guarantee and protection of the legal personality, of the name, they guarantee protection to the family, property, commercial societies. The records issue passports, liquidate taxes, regulate parental responsibilities, transcrive marriages, make sex and name processes, replace the courts. Mr Secretary of State, the few Conservatives and registrar officers who exist assure all these services, and do so at the expense of their professionalism, do so at the expense of their undeniable effort, do so in respect of the citizens and on behalf of the public interest, with the sacrifice of their personal and family life, compromising their health, even without the right, even to basic medicine of work. And they do so, even if they are victims of wage inequalities, victims of deinvestment, inaction, injustice, irresponsibility and incompetence of their ministry. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, this sector is collapseing, but this is the sector that generates the revenue for the functioning of the Ministry of Justice and these professionals, Portuguese and Portuguese, deserve to be governed by the Ministry of Justice, but unfortunately we are being governed by the ministry of injustice. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u243	To close the debate by the Socialist Party, Mr Pedro Delgado Alves has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u244	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Having come to the conclusion of this debate, the first note, the first word, the first concern of the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group - those who are in the front line daily and who accumulate many years of resistance, difficulties, problems at their workplaces, whether they are physical installations or in terms of access to mechanisms to perform their functions and who, also with regard to the plan of their own professional valorization, recognizeably have reasons for complaints that must be addressed. To them, the first note is that we will do everything and continue to do so that, in the short term, it will be possible to respond to the difficulties they face. Therefore, the first note of appreciation for what they do every day to ensure a fundamental service. [[P.S.'s applause.]] They often do the hard, the impossible, and often have to answer before the citizens, who legitimately make complaints, but truly, the main ones are not those who have to face up there. And therefore, in the name of those who represent the Portuguese, and to us too, this first word is fundamental. A second word in this debate — in order also to try some synthesis that can be productive — is what we think is a certain lack of balance in some of the interventions we have heard today. No one, in the perspective of the Socialist Party, sought to point out the system as being perfect, as being ideal, as being problem-free, as having no difficulties. Far from that, in all interventions we note that we know that there is a lot of work to be done, there is much to modernize and improve in public services, which, a little across the country, face these difficulties. It's not about any virtual reality or presenting any truth that goes away from the real. This is, however, a lack of balance here — to recognise that the country is diversified, that there are places where it has been possible to make substantial progress in the requalifications of the computer park or installations,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u245	Where? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u246	... that some digitisation measures, effectively, produce effects.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u247	Where? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u248	Therefore, in order for there to be balance and the role that all — government and oppositions — have to play, too, can be recognized as valid, balanced and with adherence to reality, there must be a double exercise to criticise what is wrong and propose alternatives, but also to recognize that there have been steps taken with strategy. It is a strategy from which they can legitimately disagree, but they cannot, with the same legitimacy, say that they are completely absent from measures. This is the point where we will not actually be able to follow. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u249	Illustrate! Tell me where? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u250	Where do I say, Mr. Deputies? Oh, my God! It was sufficient to pay attention to the debate; it was sufficient to pay attention to the intervention of the Secretary of State; it was sufficient to check the investments made in the last year, only — nor to delay the previous decade —; it was sufficient to look at the implementation reports of the programmes, either the Simplex, or digitisation; it was sufficient to check the increase in the number of areas of the citizen, created throughout the country, which alleviate the workload of the workers of the Institute of Registers and the Notariado — who, for those who do not know, work in the local authorities. [[Protests by PCP MP Bruno Dias.]] Since its implementation that the Citizen Space has allowed the opening of 800 places—I repeat, 800 places! — throughout the country, in which many services of lesser complexity can be provided, where the request can be made in a parish board or in a municipal chamber; at the level of the citizenship card, for example, many of these spaces have contributed to the reduction of the number of complaints and complaints. [[It's true!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u251	No one hides, on the side of the Socialist Party, that there is a significant number of complaints made by the citizens, a number that has increased during the pandemic, but intends to take into account that these complaints have not diminished in relation to those services in which speed and speed measures have been adopted, that is to say, to flee to reality. instead of painting a country of wonders, this is trying to paint a country of darkness, which is not exactly what we have in front of us. [[Protests by PCP MP Bruno Dias.]] As I noted, the subject is complex, because it unfolds in various difficulties that we face. As I said earlier on the balance, the work of the opposition must also seek to raise a problem and, in this sense, allow us to welcome the Social Democratic Party, because it puts on the agenda a matter that we recognize as important. When we then arrive at the diagnosis and what to do, the question that is posed to the Democratic Social Party, and which is imposed on some other parties that have intervened in this debate, it is in the sense of knowing, truly, what they propose, then, to overcome these difficulties. Because the time has come for the presentation of accounts and proposals for the future, the PSD or the Liberal Initiative have entered into their respective electoral programmes, precisely aspects which today came to devalue, diminish, putting in the second line, as it is not important. Let me quote the PSD electoral programme — it is not very common, take advantage of — where it stated that « modernisation of justice and its greatest speed will only occur with a strong commitment to management and technological means, supported by a strong use of digitalisation and new technologies». [[PSD protests.]] Listening to Mrs. Sofia Matos, a few moments ago, it seems that this is just a panacea, to pretend that something is done, when, in fact, some of the problems go through here. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Going to the electoral programme of the Liberal Initiative, once again, specifically in the area of justice, recognize that this area "must take advantage of the efficiency gains brought by the digital solutions available, adequately mitigating the inherent risks. The digital transition cannot go to the side of the State. Do not keep on seeking. ” Well, it went along with the Liberal Initiative during this debate, precisely because they do not want to recognise that some of the measures are directly important for the citizens, who have to wait less in the waiting lines. In fact, there is a problem with queues, we do not deny it, but we also do not deny that they have decreased in many of these areas, specifically in those in which it was affixed in digitisation, for example, in which it is possible to make the request of the citizen card from home, in which it is possible that the collection of the codes can be done by postal means, in which it is possible that the birth register may be made remotely, in which it is possible to consult a predidal certificate, a civil certificate, through online consultation. Therefore, the amount of services that can be done through this way increases the quality of services for citizens and reduces waiting times. However, and back to that point which seems to be fundamental in this debate, the workers of the Institute of Registers and the Notaries are not dishonored by the fact that there is more digitisation, because the acts must be practiced. Someone has to ensure transmission and someone has to be in the back office to do the work, which may not be provided directly, through a contact with the citizen, but which has to be provided, and this is the aspect that we want to emphasize as the most important in this debate. of the various things said throughout this morning, the note that Mr. Secretary of State shared with us, and that we hope that it will be possible in 2023, that it will finally be possible to open competitions in these areas—in which we have not a significant movement for more than three decades—is that it is fundamental. But, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me to share with the House in this final line, which, in fact, I will try to use a proper expression, Parliamentaryly, it is also necessary for greater adherence to reality to come to talk about what was not done when we had the opportunity. I know that it is no great excuse, and surely none of the workers present will be very pleased that the Socialist Party was the last one who, when he was in government, opened tenders in this area in the 1990s. I think this does not satisfy anyone, but perhaps, for this reason, the Socialist Party has a little more moral authority to be able to note it, in relation to the PSD or other parties, which, for years, not only when they ruled, but also when amendments were proposed to this measure, voted against them. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We are not devaluing the nature of the debate, we only point out that perhaps they should be a little more committed in the way they formulate their criticisms.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u252	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u253	Finally, knowing that in 2023, we will have a critical and decisive year on PRR, we must recognize that this matter is there. Once again, don't devalue!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u254	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u255	It is there to make the rehabilitation of physical spaces where care takes place, where citizens have to be welcomed and where these workers have to perform their work daily; to modernize the technological park, and to note again that, as the Secretary of State has already underlined, one of the objectives is to completely replace the technological park so that problems of computer equipment failure, which in some places still exist, disappear; but also to open a new generation of policies that are not devalued, are important to the citizens.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u256	Mr. Deputies, you have to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u257	I shall conclude, Mr President. We do not talk about matters such as the Company in Time, which has very disbursed and has been recognized internationally as relevant, and we do not devalue the House Ready, which allows, at a single point of contact, to make all the consultations necessary for the conclusion of a purchase and sale.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u258	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u259	We do not underestimate this in this debate. Obviously, they do not solve everything, but comparatively at the international level, either with regard to the past in Portugal, there is a clear strategy and the only thing that we can indeed complain about is that we have not yet been executed with the speed we wish. We hope that the Government will finally be able to mobilise resources in 2023 and open competitions that are very lacking for Conservatives, registrants and other registries and notaries— whom we once again welcome for their struggle and for their persistence. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u260	To close the debate on behalf of the Government, Mr Pedro Tavares has the floor again.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u261	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : I conclude my speech with a thanks to all the workers of the IRN who are here and those who are in the 450 conservatories of this country, and also in the central services, serving the citizen, serving the companies. I'm done, noting that 20 years ago I've been working in the public service. I have been proud, for example, of working on the citizen's card for 20 years. At the time, I helped schedule the citizen card website and, as a public official, it was something I was proud of. I was proud to modernize the Public Administration. Of course, technology is not everything. The citizen card was made with people! It was with the employees of the IRN that we did modernization, it was with the employees of the IRN that we made the Online Company, it was with the employees of the IRN that we did so many innovation projects. So it is with pride, too, that I save all the work that was done with the IRN. Now, this point leads me to the point where we started. Why did we start by going to the field? Because it was important to know the reality, but not Lisbon, because it was not Lisbon that we got these numbers. I was in Bragança, where there was no air conditioning, and the following week the air conditioning was put; I was in Serpa, where computers were needed, and computers were placed; I was in Monchique, where there were no equipment, and there were equipment; I was in the National Park, where there was a file where people had difficulty working, and we removed the file to ensure that they had more conditions. [[P.S.'s applause.]] This intervention takes place on the ground, takes place with people, makes itself listening to people, makes itself aware of what their problems are, makes itself acting on the ground. That is why we did this work in a logic of renewing equipment — of renewing, as I said, 5000 computers until next year — and investing more than EUR 8 million in building.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u262	What about the contests? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u263	Last year alone, I repeat, we invested EUR 3 million, followed by EUR 6 million, over the next three years, in 34 conservatories. Sometimes this happens by replacing air conditioning, for example, or by opening a new space, by renewing a space, by working in conjunction with the area of the court building, renewing it. It is in this commitment that this government team is, in fact, committed. Now, this work also has modernization. We do not do all the work without including our own modernization and we have to work and fight for it. Why? For it to be possible to respond with more quality. Obviously, what the PRR offers us is not only financial investment, it is also able to realize and measure the impact; it is to realize if people have a better service, if companies are more efficient, if we attract more investment to Portugal and if, exactly because of this, employees also have better working conditions. The essential dimension is that of people and we need to strengthen work with people in the IRN. Of course, we know, as we said, that 22 years have not entered workers for special careers. This government has a commitment to ensure that this happens in a multi-annual way and we will fight to finally have entries — which has not happened 22 years ago. This government will implement it! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u264	Finally!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u265	Finally, I would also like to take note of the work we are doing in the size of training. Work is done with new resources, but it is also done with the resources that exist, with the investment in their training. The training programmes in the technological field, which we have already launched, will continue for all workers. More than that, in terms of transparency, this work should be known in Lisbon, Bragança, Serpa or the Azores. We have to get to know what we are doing, how we are doing it, integrate people's suggestions into our work and then observe what citizens have to say as well. It's something important. We have done, in the field, interviews, observations, field work, to understand what we can and should improve. Finally, Mrs Deputy, I would like to give you the BUPi, an opportunity that had not been resolved 100 years ago. [[Protests from PSD MP Paula Cardoso.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u266	Not even in the next 100 years will be solved!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u267	BUPi has 160 000 owners who have already made the identification. Fortunately, Mrs Deputy, we have 143 municipalities that believe in what Mrs Deputy does not believe in. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u268	It's a lie!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u269	Fortunately, we have 1 million IDs. It is with the people that we make this change in knowledge management and it is with the IRN that we guarantee the ownership of each and that their rights are safeguarded. Therefore, and in conclusion, it is important to thank the workers of the IRN. It is important to strengthen the commitment that we will continue to fight for the quality of the IRN service, for the dignity of people, for ensuring that the IRN remains a public service of excellence in the future. In fact, it is not by chance that, even in December, the IRN won the ISCTE Public Policy Award ( Higher Institute of Labour and Enterprise Sciences) and the main modernisation prize. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Ah!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u270	It's an ISCTE! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u271	Those who make these prizes are people. It was the employees of the IRN who originated the conquest of these prizes and are they who are of congratulations. That is why this government will continue to fight for this to happen. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[At the moment, he took the presidency of Vice President Editi Estrela.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u272	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, whom I welcome, as well as the Minister and the ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. Having concluded this item on our agenda, we are moving to the second item, which is part of the joint discussion, in general, of the Bill No 30 / XV / 1. a ( GOV ) — Completes the transposition of Directive ( EU ) 2019 / 2161 on consumer protection and draft Law No 382 / XV / 1. a ( PAN) — Ensures the environmental labelling of food products by amending Decree-Law No 138 / 90 of 26 April and 438 / XV / 1. a (CH) — Recognizes the right to environmental protection and ecologically responsible consumption in the Consumer Protection Act. Let's give some time for the people who are watching, in the galleries, to be able to leave and create the conditions to continue the meeting. [[Pause.]] To present the bill of government, Mr. Secretary of State for Tourism, Trade and Services, Nuno Fazenda, has the floor to whom I welcome and wish the greatest happiness. Please, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u273	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: It is with great sense of duty and gratitude that I address to the plenary of the Assembly of the Republic, House of Democracy, House where I have had the honour and privilege to exercise the duties of a Member, either in the previous Parliament, or in the current Parliament and therefore I am also grateful to this House for the experience I have gained in recent years, as a Member. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The scope, now, is another one, to be held accountable to the supervisory body of the action of the Government, the Assembly of the Republic, and to submit to the debate and to the approval of any bill, and that is what we are doing. Today, the Government is presenting to this House a proposal for a Law to conclude the transposition of a European consumer protection directive, which covers four major areas: unfair clauses, price indication, unfair trade practices and consumer rights. These four areas have already been transposed into national law within the time limit for the entry into force of the Directive. in this transposition, the Portuguese state was even more in the protection of the consumer, by establishing the prohibition of the adoption of techniques of deliberate reduction of the useful life of consumer goods. This is an important step not only for consumers but also to combat waste and promote the circular economy. It is with this background that it is now important, through this bill, to conclude the transposition of the European directive, creating the indispensable penalty framework. Concretely, this transposition aims to ensure the harmonisation of the penal framework in all Member States, in particular with regard to generalised infringements in the European Union. In other words, this transposition applies to infringements affecting consumers more than two Member States or, in more serious cases, affecting more than two thirds of the population of the European Union. in this legislative process, more than a dozen entities were consulted, including the National Consumption Council, and, in general, very positive assessments and contributions were received. in this context, I take this opportunity to welcome the work done by the Directorate-General for Consumer Affairs, throughout its team, in the entire process of negotiating and transposing this directive. I conclude by quoting the opinion of the Supreme Council of the Public Prosecutor's Office, one of the entities who also made a statement: « This project is considered to be another step forward in the protection of consumer rights. Do not keep on seeking. ” That is the point, this is the objective of this bill. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u274	To submit Bill No. 382 / XV / 1. a, of the NAP, has the floor to Mrs Inês de Sousa Real.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u275	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government: I welcome in particular the Secretary of State, our former colleague in this House, whom we addressed for the first time. With regard to the proposal that the NAP brings, we began by recalling that the IPCC (Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change) report of April last year launched to world leaders, especially developed countries, the challenge of adopting measures that encourage people to reduce the carbonic weight of their diet, opting for healthier and sustainable diets. Meeting this challenge is more than essential, since it is known that the food system is responsible for more than one third of carbon emissions in the world and that current consumption habits are bringing unbearable changes to natural ecosystems, reducing biodiversity and reducing ecological resilience. With this initiative, the NAP gives legislative body to the IPCC challenge and proposes the creation of an environmental label that allows consumers, starting in 2024 — thus creating a moratorium — to know the environmental impact of the food they consume, from the moment of their production until they reach the dish. We therefore want to provide more information to consumers and open the way for them to make more responsible and environmentally sustainable choices. Giving more information to the consumer has already proved to be a way to induce healthier eating habits, as we saw in Portugal, when, 20 years ago, nutritional information was included on the food label. But even with regard to the food label, a recent clinical trial of Johns Hopkins and Harvard universities has shown that the environmental labelling of food is an effective method to make consumer choices more sustainable. The model of environmental labelling proposed by the NAP is also quite close to that recently approved in France in the year 2021. Countries such as Denmark have already allocated more than $1 million to implement this labelling model, which, it is said, has been welcomed by numerous British and even American companies. Combating climate emergency, defending the environment and protecting the consumer is what we are urged by the international bodies that we have so often mentioned. It remains to be known what the various countries are doing and what we liked was that this Parliament would approve, also for Portugal, this step of environmental sustainability.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u276	To submit Bill No. 438 / XV / 1. Mrs Rita Matias has the floor of the meeting of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u277	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members : Of course, those who listen to us at home have already found themselves, when moving to a commercial area, with packaging that packs goods or foods and are absolutely disproportionate to their contents, such as fruits and vegetables packaged in industrial plastic doses; and also noticed, in relation to the purchase of products, that they will fall early and that after that they cannot be repaired or reused, adding up mobile phones, tablets and household appliances in Portuguese homes. For all this, on the day when the transposition of a directive from the European Union is debated in Parliament, the Commission will go further and submit a proposal in which the consumer protection law gives the right to environmental protection and environmentally responsible consumption.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u278	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u279	at a time when asserting itself in the market as a business or a product friendly of the environment is in fashion, it has become absolutely trivial and, above all, a marketing strategy that deceives the consumer, it is important to appeal for goods and services to have, indeed, less impact on the environment and preserve biodiversity and natural resources, except, it is clear, when this calls into question the public interest or for technical reasons justifying it. It is also important for consumers to have access to the ecological profile of goods and services in the market, to know the environmental aspects of the design of goods throughout the life cycle and to know the environmental performance of what they acquire. when acquiring a property, the consumer must be entitled to know its durability and the ability, or not, of such equipment to be repaired, reused or recycled, because the information — the true information — is essential for consumers to make their choices without feeling deceived or disappointed in their expectations and, above all, so that they can choose to reduce waste and protect the environment.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u280	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u281	This is a proposal for more basic justice and wisdom, a proposal for truth and information. Anyone who now listens to us at home realized that this proposal was submitted without the need to demonize farmers, producers or consumers. [[Congrats from the CH.]] It was not necessary to demonize profit, it was not necessary to harm companies and, above all, there was no need for climate alarmism in which, unfortunately, all the political forces in this House, except for the Arrival.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u282	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u283	Alarmism that has nothing to do with science and that in no way improves the lives of the Portuguese. This is a proposal that really seeks to protect consumers, on the one hand, and protect the environment, on the other, because it is possible to be conservative and right-wing, to love our country, to want good management of resources and to want to preserve the environment in its beauty and its wealth. [[Congrats from the CH.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, what it is not possible to say is that if you want Portugal and Portuguese and let us see ourselves constantly in the interests of ecomarxist and globalist,... [[Rice from Members of the CFP and BE.]] ... to European centralism or the 2030 Agenda, which is an attack on the sovereignty of nations and on the dignity of citizens. [[Congrats from the CH.]] [[Protests from PCP MP João Dias.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I conclude by saying that the Portuguese are already alarmed enough, particularly with the increase of 13 cents per litre in gasoline or 9 cents per litre in gasoline. The Portuguese are already alarmed enough with the increase in essential goods, such as milk and bread. Please excuse us for your manipulation and do not try to create more anxiety and difficulty in the lives of Portuguese people. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u284	Mr Rodrigo Saraiva, from the IL Parliamentary Group, spoke for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u285	Mr President, Mrs Minister, Mr State Secretary, Mrs and Mrs Members: We are called upon to pronounce ourselves on one more proposal for transposition of a European directive and two projects, dragged by two parties. This is a consumer rights directive, with a transposition focused on the sanctioning regime, and two projects, and one of them, let me consider, is dragged a little « the hammer». Let us see, therefore, the example of the project that brings us to the NAP, which once again insists on this subject after having tried in the last State Budget, which was not so long ago. The draft law submitted by the NAP provides for the obligation of food products intended for retail sale to display, on their label, the cost of the environmental impact associated with their production, so that consumers can make more conscious and informed choices — an objective we share. Like what the Liberal Initiative considered in relation to the proposed amendment that was tabled by the NAP in the State Budget Act for 2023, on this same subject, we will maintain our position and our sense of vote. Without prejudice to these underlying good intentions, the Liberal Initiative decides to abstain, precisely because it is understood that this issue must be regulated at European level, as it has also been practice in the labelling of food products and, more recently, in the framework of the existing European legislative initiatives on the labelling of energy efficiency of equipment. In fact, it is the directive we are talking about that in its Article 4. it refers to — and I quote — that 'Member States shall not maintain or introduce in their national legislation provisions diverging from the provisions provided for in this Directive, in particular more or less strict provisions aimed at ensuring a different level of consumer protection, unless otherwise provided for in this Directive'. In addition, recital ( 11 ) of the Directive also states that « this Directive should not prejudice the provisions of the Union relating to specific sectors », such as the labelling of foodstuffs. Therefore, without prejudice to sharing, in part, the environmental concerns expressed by the NAP in this proposal, then, we do not always agree with the approach, as is the case, especially when it is extemporaneous. Food labelling, as a rule, is about guaranteeing food safety and the protection of human health, which does not mean that other complementary purposes are not defined at European Union level. However, this measure aims to impose the obligation on food goods to contain environmental labels as a requirement for their free movement and marketing on the market, which, of course, is likely to introduce more bureaucracy and more associated costs, and may also create restrictions and obstacles to free market competition. For this reason, the Liberal Initiative considers it more prudent that, like the already listed labelling legislative procedures, the European Union will first take a decision on the subject and properly place the various interests in the presence. This is because it is desirable that the rules governing the functioning of a specific market segment should be as harmonised as possible at Member State level, precisely in order to prevent the costs of the movement of food goods from being significantly more expensive in Portugal compared to other countries of the European Union, thus jeopardizing the competitiveness of the Portuguese agri-food sector.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u286	What about the government proposal? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u287	For the Liberal Initiative, this is easily understandable in the face of the food crisis that afflicts Europe, with direct repercussions on the costs borne by the entire food chain. We live in a common area, in a common market, an area for the free movement of people, goods, services and opportunities. That is to say, we live in a common space of opportunity, therefore, of common responsibilities and, among the various responsibilities for which we must fight and guard, this type of environmental responsibility must be fought at European level in its institutions, which are the appropriate forums. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u288	What about the government proposal? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u289	Mr José Rui Cruz of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u290	Madam President, Madam Minister : I leave a special compliment to Mr. Secretary of State, Nuno Fazenda, to whom I, in his first coming to Parliament, allow me to make a special compliment. The Proposal for Law No 30 / XV / 1. a, with a view to complementing the transposition of Directive ( EU ) 2019 / 2161 of the European Parliament on consumer rights, has already amended four other directives, namely: the directive on unfair clauses, the directive on price indication, the directive on unfair trade practices and also the directive on consumer rights in online contracts. Portugal partially transposed the directive through Decree-Law No 109 - G / 2021 of 10 December, whose entry into force took place on 28 May 2022.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u291	Partially transposed and evil! [[PSD Members' laughs.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u292	The matter of a sanctioning nature provided for in the Directive has been transposed because all the conditions necessary for its transposition into the frameworks and deadlines have not been met, and the situation has been aggravated by the dissolution of the Assembly of the Republic, by presidential decree on 5 November 2021, for the reasons we all know. This partial transposition led to the amendment of six national diplomas, which went on to highlight: Decree-Law No. 446 / 85 of 25 October which led to an innovative sanctioning regime for the use of unfair clauses; Decree-Law No. 138 / 90 of 26 April and Decree-Law No. 70 / 2007 of 26 March on price-fixing schemes and reduced-priced business practices; Decree-Law No. 57 / 2008 of 26 March on unfair business practices; Decree-Law No. 24 / 2014 of 14 February regulating distance contracts; and Law No. 24 / 96 of 31 July, Consumer Protection Law. In summary, the directive was transposed into the section on new rights and obligations. In order to comply fully with the commitments made, it is now necessary to ensure the transposition of the Directive with regard to the sanctions regime to be followed by the competent consumer rights authorities, in particular the criteria for determining the measure of the fines and their fixing, including cases of counter-ordinations corresponding to generalised infringements or generalised infringements at the level of the European Union, as provided for in Regulation ( EU ) 2017 / 2394 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 12 December 2017, concerning cooperation between the national authorities responsible for the application of consumer protection legislation. Thus, the transposition of this Community instrument into the Portuguese regulatory framework will be fully completed. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u293	For an intervention, Mrs Fernanda Velez of the PSD Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u294	Mr President, Mrs Minister, Mr Secretary of State, Mrs. Members: Today we are discussing a proposal for a government law that complements the transposition of a European consumer protection directive, as well as a draft NAP law and a draft laws of the Arrival. Notwithstanding Decree-Law No 109 - G / 2021 partially transposed the said Directive, the rules with a sanctioning character remained to be transposed, considering the relative reservation of legislative competence of the Assembly of the Republic, as set out in Article 165 ( 1 ( d ). the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic. With this legislative initiative, the Government intends to transpose into the internal legal order the European standards which remain lacking, in particular those which define the criteria for determining the measure of fines and their fixing, in particular as regards contracts concluded at a distance and contracts concluded outside the commercial establishment. Similarly, the Government intends to take advantage of the opportunity to improve drafting and to make timely changes to other provisions of various diplomas. Strangely, but in the good manner of the NAP, in the midst of the discussion of this proposal for a law on the transposition of a consumer protection directive, the debate on an initiative without direct connection to the topic is introduced, as is the case with the proposal for the environmental labelling of food products. The NAP proposes to amend Article 1 ( 1 ). that of Decree-Law No 138 / 90, by passing its wording to be, and I quote: « All goods intended for retail sale shall display the respective price of sale to the consumer and the cost of the environmental impact associated with its production. More: introduces the definition of "environmental impact" by not specifying what is the "cost of the environmental impact associated with its production", which is, in fact, not defined in any European legislation and for which not even the OECD ( Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development) has a form of calculation. In our view, this attempt to approach the subject of debate, in addition to being harmful to the consumer and his defence — contrary to what is intended for the directive — aims to confuse concepts and introduce prejudices concerning one area of production, the agricultural area. Let's see: motivation is, according to the NAP, to bridge the lack of information on the environmental impacts of food goods. In fact, Madam President, Mrs. Members, what is proposed is that only food goods contain on their label, on their packaging, the environmental impact that their production represents. Does the NAP not recognise that there is a sector that has been concerned about and working on promoting environmental sustainability is precisely that of food production, particularly of agricultural and livestock origin? [[PSD applause.]] We are therefore faced with a false and wrong motive. This is, in good manner, the sole representative of the Inês Sousa Real Party,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u295	Where is she? He's not here!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u296	...a distortion of fair and certain consumer concerns.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u297	Shame! Madam President, your mark is missing!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u298	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Given that currently there is no definition of environmental impact for food alone; that the recommendation on the use of environmental footprint methods for measuring and reporting environmental performance throughout the life cycle of products and organizations refers to a weighting of the various indicators that make up the assessment of the environmental footprint of the product, not a 'cost'; that an initiative is under discussion at European level to substantiate ecological claims aimed at reviewing the consumer legislation of the European Union, in order to enable these consumers to actively participate in the transition; and that the food industry is committed to transmitting to the consumer environmental information based on duly validated and harmonised criteria at European level, safeguarding the single market and correct information to consumers — for this reason, the NAP initiative is disproportionate, unjustified, technical and politically wrong, and environmentally disastrous. [[PSD applause.]] To be approved, it would bring enormous financial and competitive impacts, very negative to the national food sector, which would, of course, lead to an increase in prices for the consumer. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The PSD is, and will always be, alongside the consumer and against unjustified prejudices. [[PSD applause.]] The PSD is, and will always be, against contemporary, discriminatory legislative initiatives which are out of line with the current technical framework which is being discussed at European level, initiatives which have harmed the national economy and, of course, Portuguese consumers. The PSD is, and will always be, for consumer protection, never for demagogy! [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u299	So what about the government proposal?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u300	Mr João Castro, from the PS Parliamentary Group, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u301	Mr President, Mrs Minister, Mr State Secretary, Mrs and Mrs Members: Draft Law No 382 / XV / 1. the NAP, aims at the environmental labelling of food products, replicating previous initiatives, including those presented by the NAP itself, already appreciated and voted by this Assembly. In summary, it proposes that all goods intended for retail sale show the cost of the environmental impact associated with their production, giving the Government responsibility for its regulation and application. It is important to consider the existence of European and national legislation on the provision of information to consumers on food. This information should not mislead and cannot be ambiguous or confusing, and should be supported by relevant scientific data and validated and harmonised criteria, safeguarding the single market for those who work and benefit from it. At European level, methods for measuring and communicating the environmental footprint of products and organizations are considered to be difficult to define the environmental impact for food only. That is, while, in a preliminary assessment, the apparent initiative is worthy of the prospect of better environmental information, a more careful analysis leads to an objective discrepancy in its implementation when it ignores existing regulations, negatively discriminates against the national food sector against the European context, accentuates inequalities in the productive sector — disregarding the capacity of producers, which is aggravated by those of smaller size — and does not protect the consumer, through the technical inability to correspond to the intended information face, ambiguity and confusion. thus, it is notorious the inefficiencies of the proposal, making it impossible to achieve the objective that it aims to achieve,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u302	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u303	... so that, by defending national production and by correct and adequate information to the consumer, this proposal cannot merit the favourable appreciation of the Socialist Party. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u304	For an intervention, Mrs Rita Matias of the Parliamentary Group of the Arrival has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u305	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members : I confess that today I was with some expectation, and even some enthusiasm, in relation to what would be the intervention of the Socialist Party's bench on this matter. It was, in fact, touching to see that they could comment all the less on the proposal put forward by the third political force in this House, a proposal that called for goods and services to take into account a lower environmental impact, that their life cycle should aim at better environmental performance, that consumers' right to correct information should be protected. But about that, they didn't say a word.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u306	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u307	I would like to know with what justification this proposal will be, which, in fact, not only follows the directive of the European Union, but also proposed in a manifesto in 2021 by DECO ( Portuguese Consumer Defense Association ), by Zero, by ANP ( Association Nature Portugal ), by WWF ( World Wildlife Fund ) and by LinkedIn.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u308	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u309	I'd like to know with what justification it is that you're going to suck up this proposal of Arrival,... [[They don't even know!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u310	... since, as you know, they are the compressor roll that does not approve any proposal from this bench. More: they even claim that the arrival has no proposals, especially in the environmental area. But I would like to take advantage of the time I have to tell those who listen to us at home, who, as far as the environmental area is concerned, over almost a year of legislation, the Socialist Party's bench has presented us with just one proposal. Just a proposal!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u311	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u312	Not in contempt, this proposal was only for the creation of the National Day of the Gardens, which is not a minor issue and we even follow it, but that is, in fact, little, is scarce. Therefore, the conclusion we have drawn is that the ideas of the Socialist Party — which spends their lives demonizing and making a great deal of noise on the climate agenda — are exhausted in the person of Minister Duarte Cordeiro. More than that, we're not surprised! [[Congrats from the CH.]] This was the only note he wanted to leave. Here we will continue to bring forward proposals that defend consumers and that do not demonize who produces and generates wealth for Portugal. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u313	For an intervention, Mr Bruno Dias of the CFP Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u314	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government : At yesterday's plenary session, the Assembly of the Republic discussed the motion of censure to the Government presented by the IL and, in this debate, the CFP pointed to a very objective issue. It is that in matters of content, in specific policy options, between the IL and the PS government much more is what unites them than what separates them. The Prime Minister was very surprised and even asked how it was possible, in a motion of censure to the Government presented by the IL, to point out similarities or proximity between the IL and the Government. The answer is very simple and was readily given by the CFP: when the Government places the absolute majority at the service of the interests of economic power, this convergence is evident. Now, this proposed law that the Government is presenting is a perfect illustration of this sad reality. In the transposition of the Community directive on consumer rights, which has been referred to as 'the Omnibus Directive' — and in particular in the framework of sanctions for infringements by economic operators, the Government has chosen to take sides with economic groups. It had the political option to open the way for these economic groups and abuse and disrespect practices in relation to consumers and their rights. The Government has chosen to carry out a general reduction in the value of the fines in view of what was previously the case in the Legal Regime of Economic Contra-ordinations. The Government chose to adopt as a maximum limit the value corresponding to 4 % of the offender's turnover, which was presented in the Directive as a minimum option, without even providing for a graduation of the maximum amounts depending on the seriousness of the infringement. That is, he applied as much as possible the directive allows. Next week the Assembly will discuss, in the midst of a cry of IL legislative proposals, a bill entitled « Reduction of the value of fines by economic counter-ordination and creation of the step of very slight counter-ordinations ». The government has read the IL project and it must have thought: "Now, there is an idea. How come we didn't remember this? Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” In order to open the way to impunity for economic groups, the government says 'kill' and the IL says'sfola' — says IL, the PSD, says the whole right. It is, moreover, particularly significant that in this debate, that corridor to the side there, no one has spoken of the Government's proposal.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u315	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u316	They just talked about the other proposals, which had nothing to do with this schedule! So there is nothing to be said about the proposed law that the Government is introducing on the right hand side.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u317	I spoke! I wasn't paying attention!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u318	So this is what we're talking about when we notice that it's more what unites you than what separates you. We are not sure whether the right itself would be reminded of restricting the application of sanctions solely to situations in which the use of absolutely prohibited clauses in contracts is concerned. In other words, on the basis of the Government's option, the authorities are prevented from punishing companies providing goods or services which impose abusive clauses on accession contracts in violation of the general principle of good faith or clauses which are relatively prohibited such as the imposition of a forum to resolve conflicts in an unfavourable way for the consumer. Mr. Secretary of State quoted an opinion in favour of the bill. Then go read the others, the regulators! You will read the opinion of ANACOM ( National Communications Authority ), the opinion of ANAC ( National Civil Aviation Authority ), the opinion of ERSE ( Regulatory Energy Services Entity ), because before the options put by the Government in this bill the insurers are grateful to EDP ( Energys of Portugal ), Altice, Sonae, but do not thank consumers for sure. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Government members : in this proposal for a government law, or the expression « consumer protection » is more or is a joke of bad taste, and if the supervision of the labelling would look at this diploma the inconformity of the product could still fine the government. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u319	For an intervention, Mrs Mariana Mortágua, of the Parliamentary Group of the Left Block, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u320	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government : By this time, it is clear that the proposed law we are discussing determines the transposition of a consumer protection directive, in particular with regard to the sanctions regime.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u321	Where was Mariana yesterday?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u322	On this proposal, I think there is a question that must be mentioned: the Government has the habit of sending extensive bills of law to the Assembly of the Republic, usually transpositions of directives, often with very short deadlines for its discussion—this is not the case—with exposures of half-page reasons, and I think this habit has to end. If we want an informed debate, if we want a debate on political choices, then the Government has a duty to send the reasons for its choices to the Assembly of the Republic. However, when we look at this proposal, we do not understand the reasons why the Government should depart from the directive's determinations, to choose maximum or minimum penalties. The lack of justification, the densification of the explanatory statement weakens the political debate. Perhaps that is why most parliamentary groups preferred to debate the bills that were dragged away rather than the bill. The other justification, put forward by Mr Bruno Dias, is that it is not just that it is not a matter of not understanding what the government's choices are, it is a question of understanding them and of agreeing with them. What is at stake — and the DECO alerts for this, in its opinion — is a choice of fines and penalties that put these fines and penalties beyond what is necessary, calling into question the effectiveness of consumer rights policy. In fact, they are in favour of the large economic groups that use their positions of power to impose conditions that harm consumers. If we want examples of this we will see the telecommunications sector, the energy sector, the insurance sector or the banking sector. In any one of these sectors, complaints about abuse of power are accumulated in front of consumers. Knowing this, the Government chooses a minimum penalty regime and does not explain why in its explanatory statement, which, as far as we are concerned, is already sufficient reason not to follow this bill. On the other hand, we will follow the NAP proposal, which we believe is correct. With regard to the proposal of the Arrival, there is a factor charged in these discussions, because the Arrival wants to go further and further. We discussed the labelling, the environment, and the arrival goes further and presents a proposal on the labelling,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u323	But have you read the proposal?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u324	...but if we're discussing oil, arrive goes further and proposes the drilling of the Algarve coast and the Alentejo coast for new oil explorations. So, I'd say nothing is scientific, only profit is sanctified. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u325	And what is your proposal? Zero! You don't have a proposal!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u326	Mrs. Members, let us turn to the end of the debate, with the intervention of the Secretary of State for Tourism, Trade and Services, Nuno Fazenda. Please, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u327	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Portugal has been on the front line with regard to consumer protection legislation and today we take another step in consumer protection, we take another step forward in consumer protection. In fact, the Portuguese State is taking another step in this direction today. Moreover, no one has heard here saying that what is proposed does not meet or responds to what the Member States are obliged to do, which is to comply with a European directive.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u328	They're the minimums!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u329	The Portuguese state is fulfilling and this is another step forward in protecting consumer protection.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u330	It's no less because it can't!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u331	But more than legislation, in which it has been on the front line, Portugal has a network of very important entities in the protection and protection of consumers and also in the resolution of conflicts. This is the case with the Directorate-General for Consumer Affairs, consumer associations, conflict resolution arbitration centres or consumer information centres, and we already have more than 80 throughout the national territory. It also adds the fundamental role of regulatory and supervisory entities, as is the case with ASAE ( Food and Economic Security Authority ), which also plays a very important role in consumer protection. The role of these entities must be valued and we must also promote cooperation between them. in this case, we should also appreciate the role that the Directorate-General for Consumers has played in negotiating this Community directive, this European Directive. In addition to the legislation and the entities involved in consumer protection, there is still a very important line of action that we must pursue, which is to have more and better information for consumers. In this regard, within the framework of the Consumer Fund, applications were opened precisely to support information and support projects for consumers, applications being under examination, either by the Consumer Directorate-General or by the Technical Committee for Management of this Fund. In short, the Government is working on several fronts in order to ensure consumer protection, whether in the legislative plan, that this directive is transposed, or in the information field to consumers. That is why, Mr President, we have chosen consumer protection and that is the step we are taking today to protect and defend consumers, because that is an absolute priority of the Portuguese Government. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u332	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, at the end of the second item on the agenda, we move on to the third item, which is generally assessed by the Proposal for a Law No 32 / XV / 1. a ( GOV ) — Authorizes the Government to establish certification rules for the qualifications of persons involved in the operation of inland waterway vessels for transposition of Directives ( EU ) 2017 / 2397, 2020 / 12 and 2021 / 1233. I ask the honourable Members and the honourable Members. Members who create the conditions for continuing and thanking those who may not be interested in accompanying the debate outside the Chamber. To present the bill of government, Mr. Secretary of State of the Sea, José Maria Costa, to whom I comply, has the floor. Please, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u333	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The proposed law is intended to authorize the Government to establish the conditions and procedures for certification and recognition of the qualifications of persons involved in the operation of inland waterway vessels, and applies to deck crews, liquefied natural gas experts and passenger transport experts. This legislative authorization will allow the Government to transpose three directives, highlighting the directive on the recognition of professional qualifications in inland navigation. With regard to the scope of the proposal, I shall summarize the terms of the intended authorisation: deck crews, liquefied natural gas experts and passenger transport experts shall be integrated into the professional categories provided for in the Maritime Occupational Activity Legal Scheme; seafarers with certificates issued or recognised under the Maritime Occupational Activity Legal Scheme shall be exempted from obtaining compulsory qualification certificates; Documents issued in accordance with the Staff Regulations for Navigation on the Rhine or by third countries shall also be recognised; It shall also be authorised to lay down the conditions for assessing the competences, knowledge and skills necessary to access certification; crew members with certificates issued or recognised in other Member States may use them for up to 10 years; The performance of any alcohol function may be prohibited and examinations may be submitted for its detection; Activity may be prevented if there is evidence that certificates holding do not meet the conditions required; National flag vessels covered may be operated by third-country nationals up to 40 % of their crew on board, with equality between Portuguese and Portuguese-speaking nationals; the submission of applications and their processing shall be carried out exclusively in a dematerialised manner through the Electronic Balcony of the Sea; It is also allowed that data relating to the conditions and procedures for certification of qualifications shall consist of the National Boat and Maritime System and may be transmitted to the European Commission. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The promotion of maritime transport is central to the development of a sustainable sea economy, which, by generating opportunities for creating value and employment, also contributes to the climate transition. Inland navigation is a safe mode of transport that contributes to the decarbonisation and exploitation of local and regional economies, especially within, which is why the Government has encouraged the development of inland waterways in the Douro, Tejo and Guadiana rivers. The bet on maritime transport, in particular on inland navigation, presupposes the dynamisation of maritime professions with the promotion of the professional freedom of seafarers through their professional qualification and the facilitation of their mobility. In view of this, even in the 1990s, the European Union made progress towards the harmonisation and recognition of the professional qualifications of crew members in inland navigation, yet having recorded limitations to their mobility — limitations to which the directives intended to be transposed aim at removing them. This proposal continues to modernize the maritime activity, initiated in 2019 with the approval of the Legal Regime of the Professional Activities of the Maritime, promoting the mobility of workers, deepening mobility between categories and maintaining the modularity of training. Therefore, professionals with inland navigation certificates are integrated into one of the categories of seafarers, which enables them to perform functions both on ships to which the Maritime Occupational Activity Legal Regime applies, or on inland navigation vessels. Similarly and with equal relevance, with the issue of electronic certificates associated with the Single Maritime Document, the path of simplification and dematerialization of the procedures relating to maritime activities continues, a path that began with the creation of the National Maritime and Maritime System and the Electronic Balcony of the Sea. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, we believe that the legal regime that is intended to be approved is another instrument of the policy of promoting a sustainable sea economy. Therefore, thanking the various opinions that have come to this House, I would like to convey our readiness for the improvements that, as a result of this debate, are relevant. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u334	Mr. Secretary of State has a request for clarification. Mr Rui Tavares, from the Free, has the floor to make it.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u335	Mr President, Mr Minister, Mr Secretary of State, it is not a lot of my habit to ask questions that are more of a form, but on this issue I have a doubt. It may be that you are not seeing the reason or not understanding exactly why we are being asked for a law of legislative authorization in a matter the matter of which is not reserved for the Assembly of the Republic. If I understand correctly, the Government's proposal is based on Article 197. the Constitution, which sets out the political competence of the Government. I do not understand how the Assembly of the Republic will authorize the Government to legislate on a matter in which the Government can already legislate. I wanted to see if there's any logic that's escaping me and some strategy that has to do with this. I am not talking about political strategy, but a strategy within the very object of the legislative initiative, therefore, of the development of navigation, tourism, on river roads. Is there anything here that justifies this procedure?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u336	To reply, Mr. Secretary of State of the Sea, José Maria Costa, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u337	Mr President, thank you very much, Member, for this matter. The question is relevant. The reason has to do with the government's interest in the involvement of this House of Parliament, given what is relevant and what has to do with the qualification and certification of seafarers. It is also important for us to hear what the House has to say and to involve it in this debate, in the construction and improvement of the bill. We believe very much in a collaborative process of implementing legislation. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u338	Is that the answer? Oh, my God! Really? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u339	Mr António Topa Gomes of the PSD Parliamentary Group spoke for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u340	Madam President, Mr Secretary of State, Mrs Minister, Dear colleagues : We are discussing Bill No 32 / XV / 1. a ( GOV ), which deals with the transposition of three Community Directives which aim at the certification rules for the qualifications of persons involved in the operation of inland waterway vessels. There are three directives we are implementing today : Directives ( EU ) 2017 / 2397, 2020 / 12 and 2021 / 1233. I begin by saying that the PSD will vote in favour of this proposal, because, aiming at navigation, it will be the only area that the PS government has not yet turned into turbulent navigation... [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u341	...and, therefore, this would already be a reason. [[PSD laughter and applause.]] But, in fact, when you hear the various entities, in fact, there seems to be a clear agreement of the sector with regard to the directives — there is only one opposition from the Federation of Workers' Trade Unions of the Sea — that is, in substance, the real reason that leads us to vote in favour of the Government's proposal. In any case, there are three points which I think deserve to be mentioned and which result from the evaluation we have made of the bill. The first one of them is this: just sticking to the first directive, which is 2017, the question that must be asked is why it is being transposed only today, since it has passed about six years. It seems clear that there is a delay in the transposition of these directives which is, of course, detrimental to economic competitiveness and to the harmonisation of legislation between States, and that is an important aspect. I would dare to say that if the PS government transposed directives as quickly as it fires State Secretaries, the country was working much better! [[PSD applause.]] The second point, with which we also agree, has to do with the preambular note referred to, let us say, the aspect of the country's cohesion. I read, because it is long: « In recent years, the Government has encouraged the development of inland waterways in the Douro, Tejo and Guadiana rivers, paying attention to the potential for the shipping of goods, which, as mentioned, has great economic and environmental advantages, as well as for tourist and commercial navigation and for sports. Do not keep on seeking. ” This statement of principle is something we agree on, but the practice of the government has indeed not been of any fairness in the treatment of the interior. There is a big issue about this. If we are now going to sail in smaller means, it is important that we can distinguish what is the size of large ports and the size of inland ports. I would say that there should be at least some fairness, so that there is no positive discrimination. Just look at the tolls of the interior, whose price per kilometer is much higher than the tolls of the coast,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u342	Well remembered! All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u343	...to see that the formulation of principles and practice of this government is going to be very different and it was important that this should not be repeated in this bill. This is the second aspect. A third and final note relates to one of the comments made, notably by the Portuguese Association of Logistics Operators, regarding computer bureaucracy. They complain, and very well, that when digitizing we can also introduce bureaucracy, that is, it is possible to introduce digital bureaucracy.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u344	It's the Simplex!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u345	Unfortunately, that has been something we have seen a lot in recent times. It is the obligation of paid platforms, to which small operators often have much difficulty in competing because they do not even have money. It is the obligation of the people to do work that should be done by the public administrations, which, out of so poor that they are, due to the policy of this government, cannot respond, and therefore require operators to do so. Therefore, it was very important that, later on, in the legislation, this computer path was validated and actually supported by the State Secretariat for Innovation and Administrative Modernization, whose work we have not seen, and which would serve to modernize, simplify, disprove. That was very important. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u346	Mr Carlos Guimarães Pinto of the Parliamentary Group of the IL.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u347	Madam President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin by saying that we will not make this transposition impossible. It's interesting that we're talking about navigation, at a time when the government is sailing in sight,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u348	It's drifting!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u349	... but anyway, this is an important enough matter for us to be here discussing it today. We will not make it impossible, because we believe that the transposition of this kind of directive is quite important for a part of the economy relevant to the country. However, in the field of specialty, some questions should be changed, which were, in fact, raised in the opinions presented. I would say that all these issues relate to what adds more bureaucracy to the performance of some of these functions, in particular the fact that Article 7(4)(a) and (c). it refers to grumpet certificates and kimonier certificates, when these references, today, do not even exist, as well as for obtaining certificates. Then, at some point, there is a 40 % limit of the crew on board which may be of foreign nationality, which seems artificial to us. We do not understand the nature of this limit, nor does it even appear justified why there can be no more than 40 % foreign crew. This is certainly something that will be agreed with, but it is difficult to understand why the government would present something like this. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u350	Mr Filipe Melo, from the Parliamentary Group of the Arrival, has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u351	Mr President, Mrs Minister, Mr Secretary of State, Mrs. Members: In some ways, it is strange that the government is trying to implement a European directive almost seven years after the first one. If Mr. Secretary of State takes the Official Journal of the European Union, he sees the directives and can easily see that the first is 2017, the second is 2020 and the third is 2022. And the government, almost at the end of the deadline, as has been your grasp in November, sends for discussion and approval a proposal that should have been settled for six years. I recall that six years ago it was your government that was here. Therefore, in order to vary, in a socialist way, you, over the deadline or, better, almost beyond the deadline, try to pass these laws quickly for discussion, as has already happened with the transposition of the European Directive into electronic communications, which was approved on the knee on the last day of the deadline, and we all have to be enjoying and voting in extremes, because you do not, in time, have the ability to manage the timings of European transpositions.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u352	It's true! All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u353	This is not to say that Mr. Secretary of State was up there in the rostrum in a very discreet way, to see whether it was going to happen and if no one spoke of a subject that would be labeled to him until the end of the term of office: the shipyards of Viana do Castelo. You are the only one responsible for the misfortune that happened on the shipyards of Viana do Castelo!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u354	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u355	Hundreds of families were unemployed and the economic activity that originated in the country was seriously damaged by your action, and you have now come to say, from the rostrum, that this transposition is so, is shaken. Speak to the 11 million, I repeat, 11 million euros of damage that that closure has caused and that is the public record you are bearing!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u356	Send a crown of flowers!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u357	But in relation to this directive, we speak in the certification of people, which we find very well, because navigation requires care, requires criteria, and, in the rivers, ships must be equipped with people who are perfectly certified. But I hope that certification is not made in the way many others have been done, in which they deliver the process and the cost of certification to companies that are from customers... The Secretary of State of the Sea answered a call. I will hope that the Secretary of State will finish his call, because the questions are addressed to him. [[Pause.]] It's over. So what I hope is that you will not give your customers the certification of these people, of these boats, who will charge a cost out of the ordinary, to make sure what any country of the European Union can do. They admit — it is something that is omitted in your office — they admit that certification is approved and taken away in any country of the European Union. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u358	The Bureau does not register any more entries, so we will proceed to the closing phase.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u359	Madam President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u360	Please, Mr Bruno Dias, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u361	Madam President, I would like to speak, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u362	Please, Mr. Deputy. You have the floor, for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u363	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members : I would say that this discussion lacks clarification from the Government. This clarification, which is even indispensable, has to do with the scope, even from the point of view of the territory, of the diploma to be approved. These directives in Central European countries are particularly important when we remind ourselves of inland navigation in rivers such as the Danube involving huge operations by large international shipping companies in the context of the European Union. When we talk about sailing in inland waters, in the context of our country, we talk about a totally different reality. Until now, normally, when we talk about inland waterway navigation, we are talking mostly about tourist navigation by small boats in water masses as dams—in the case of Alqueva, Castle of Bode, etc. Even tourist navigation in the Douro River is mainly made by vessels that are founded and registered and have their base, essentially, at the Foz do Douro and as such the regime that applies to their crew members is the maritime regime and its certification is the so-called STCW ( Code of Training, Certificates and Room Service for Maritimes ). therefore it is necessary and indispensable for the Government to clarify whether this will continue or, on the contrary, whether we are talking about a qualification regime for a certain type of navigation, which is very restricted and very localized today, but that tomorrow, in any degree of amendment or updating of the concept of inland waterways, it will suddenly expand and become much more comprehensive. It is important that the Government clarify this and so far it has not done so. That is the fundamental question for us as to the reservations this diploma places us. This legislative authorization—and a few years ago someone asked why—is only because the government cannot decree this on its own.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u364	Sure!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u365	This has to come to the House for the House to authorize, because we are talking about professional qualifications and, as such, an authorization is needed. Yeah, but what is it to do, Secretary of State? We have noted that there are several opinions—and have already been mentioned several—which have pointed out the need to rectify concrete aspects of the decree-law, to clarify concepts in relation to the norms of the decree-law which is in advance, to clarify concrete situations of crew members, professional categories, potential confusions or distinctions between deck crew members and other crew members, etc. All of this has to be well dealt with at the time of the specific work of drafting the decree-law. In fact, we have noted the amendment which was submitted earlier by the Government, ensuring that it is not only in timely cases, but in general situations, that seafarers with STCW certification have the capacity to intervene and to work in this area—all right—but on the application of this legislation in relation to crew members, the basic question is: what is the government referring to when it speaks on inland waterways? [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u366	Mr José Soeiro, from the Parliamentary Group of the Left Block, has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u367	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ministers, ladies and gentlemen. Members: It is not the first time, and it will probably not be the last time that the Government is asking this Parliament for a legislative authorization that works, in practice, as a stamp to very extensive diplomas — in this case, three directives — with more than 300 pages, with an exposition of reasons which basically summarizes two rather generic pages. On the principles set out, of course, it is possible to agree: to enhance inland navigation, to develop inland waterways, to ensure navigation safety, to establish certification of qualifications. No one will be against this, nor will they implement administrative simplification measures and improve public service in this sector. No one will be against it. Well, we are not experts in this matter, and having many questions of detail and detail that, of course, we have not entirely dominated, we have read the various opinions and I do not know whether they will be right in every detail, but, for example, the opinion of the Federation of Sea Workers Trade Unions (FESMAR) is basically root in relation to the diploma presented by the Government here. This opinion states that the concepts are not clear, that it is not clear to whom some of the principles apply — in fact, the question has already been put here by Mr deputies of the CFP — that there are contradictory definitions in the diploma itself or in the transposition of the directives proposed by the Government here, that new categories are created that are not consistent with existing categories, that more bureaucracy is required, more costs added to the sea by the duplication of certificates, particularly in the context of medical fitness, authorizations that are unnecessary, definition of competences that would allegedly exclude masters, forecasting of rescue skills that point to swimming operations than the union federation considers completely absurd, etc. Finally, the question, Mr Secretary of State, is, in essence, whether the legislative authorization, which is requested from Parliament, is also to correct these and other aspects which have been pointed out to the version of the diploma under discussion. We are not against the transposition of directives — these directives, in particular! — but, in fact, it seems that the way they were transposed raises numerous doubts, which would have to be corrected. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u368	For an intervention, Mr Hugo Oliveira of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u369	Madam President, Mrs. Minister, Dear Members, Mr. Secretary of State, I would like to congratulate you on the content and the form of this bill. I am referring not only to the way you presented it, but also to the way you brought it to this House with the possibility that we can debate and with the openness of we can change and improve. These were some of the issues of some parties and of some benches, but they are obviously undoubted. In fact, some of the arguments used here, of course, could be improved with contributions in the field of specialty and thus the way in which the Government brings this proposal to this House is worthwhile. As for the content, and not only because of the presentation that Mr. Secretary of State made, but also because of the interventions we have heard from the opposition, we already realize that the PSD or for navigation has some proposal, which is already normal, because it has been for aviation, for rail. In fact, for navigation, it only takes a few short steps, because what I held back, as regards substance, was that the opposition agrees with the proposal. Well, right now, having no alternative, the PSD will do what we also think is right that it is going to agree with the government, agreeing with the Socialist Party,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u370	Agreed? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u371	Are they friends? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u372	... because, in this way, they contribute to the improvement of the country. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u373	It even seems like it's the first time!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u374	It is not the first time, Mr, but whenever the country does it improve and the Portuguese move forward.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u375	It's the first time he comes up here!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u376	Yeah, say so well!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u377	With regard to the speech of Mr Filipe Melo from the Czech Republic, it is another intervention that gives a total support to the content, so it was the need to come up with matters that have nothing to do with the proposal that we are discussing here. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u378	It's just the truth! That's the truth!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u379	Mr President, we may have a lot to discuss on the subject you have brought here, but you must realize that this is not the debate, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u380	It's just the truth! That's the truth!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u381	The honourable Member had to concentrate on this proposal and if he had any alternatives, if he had any concrete proposals, he would have put them here.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u382	It's just the truth!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u383	But the honourable Member preferred the exercise in which he is a specialist, which is to deviate...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u384	That's old enough...!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u385	Mr President, we know that this is a very technical, very dense proposal and it is not with soundbits that will be able to improve it. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u386	With this lack of people you're still going to minister!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u387	This bill, as has been mentioned, is the transposition of three directives which, of course, as Mr José Soeiro of the Left Block said, is a rather dense proposal, with many pages, with many opinions. I recognize the difficulty in reading everything, Mr President, but I could not have chosen the only opinion which is not in favour of this proposal — indeed, it seems that it was the only one that Mr was looking for to be able to read and present here.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u388	By chance, it's the opinion of the workers!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u389	Mr President, it must be noted that all other opinions are in favour of this proposal. At least I could have read one of those, it was enough one, Mr! That's enough!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u390	You have not read the opinions carefully!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u391	This is just one more of the work in this area where the government has come to legislate.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u392	Say one!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u393	This is an important work that will make these areas more competitive, more sustainable and also dynamize some areas of the interior. So this is another matter on which we feel that, not yet everything is done, we are moving forward with the rigour that this matter needs and the needs that this area has. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u394	Mr António Topa Gomes, from the PSD Parliamentary Group, has the floor for a four-second speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u395	Madam President, I don't need that much. I would just like to tell Mr Hugo Oliveira that this is the transposition of a directive and that it is therefore not worth making too many fables.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u396	He didn't get it!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u397	In addition, if you were careful, you noticed that for example in my speech and in the other parties, we talked about specific issues of the directives, unlike Mr Hugo Oliveira who spoke about the style of opposition of the PSD. I therefore take advantage of asking Mr. Secretary of State whether the PSD style of opposition is set out in the directive. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u398	For a 15-second speech, Mr José Soeiro, of the Left Block Parliamentary Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u399	Mr President, Mr Hugo Oliveira, we read the various opinions, in fact, there are several opinions in which entities say only that nothing has to be noted from a technical point of view regarding the proposed law. We also read these, but these are not a great contribution.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u400	Those were the only ones they read!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u401	In fact, we greatly appreciate the opinion of the union federation, because we also look at this problem from the point of view of the workers, which, for us, is absolutely central. The Socialist Party and the Government should take into account that they should also look at this from the workers' point of view. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u402	For a 10-second speech, Mr Filipe Melo, of the Parliamentary Group of the Arrival, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u403	Madam President, it was only to remind the honourable Member that it is not the transposition of three directives, this is the third directive and that it is the first directive to be transposed. Therefore, your government has simply been delaying the transposition of this directive, which is 2017! Mr President, I recommend to you that before you come to defend a proposal, do your homework and study so that you do not run the risk of getting here and going through the shame that has passed. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u404	For a 22-second speech, Mr Hugo Oliveira of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u405	Madam President, I would just like to point out that it was the Socialist Party that asked for this bill to be brought down to the committee for discussion on the subject, so that we can debate it and improve it, in particular by taking into account some opinions, or perhaps some less positive opinion.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u406	But this is a transposition of a directive!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u407	That's what we did, and that's what we work on.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u408	But this is a transposition of a directive! You know what a directive is?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u409	Mr. Filipe Melo, you must realize that the work we do is not compatible with soundbits.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u410	You know what a directive is? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u411	It's mandatory!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u412	There's a very big difference between this bench and that one. What the Socialist Party and the Government of the Socialist Party have demonstrated was responsibility and openness to dialogue in order to improve a sector that is essential to our economy. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[CH protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u413	Mrs. Members, when conditions are in place, we are going to end the debate and, to this end, Mr. Secretary of State for the Sea, Mr. José Maria Costa.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u414	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I am grateful for the interventions that have been made and I would like to say, with regard to the transposition of the directives, that, as you understand, is a matter of some complexity. The Government has already made a set of national legislation of which I would like to refer to Decree-Law No 166/ 2019, which has to do with the legal regime of the seafarers, and the ports that have already followed in this effort to move forward also with this transposition process. We are talking about what is, in fact, inland navigation, qualification and certification. There are, in fact, some concerns here and therefore also our openness to this enrichment and improvement. It seems to us, however, that there is some confusion with regard to the opinion of FESMAR, because this decree-law, which seeks to see the approval of the legislative authorization, does not create new maritime categories. It only provides for the creation of certification, so that there are better conditions for safety and inland waterway navigation.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u415	So what are the inner ways?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u416	This is our concern. Of course, we have every opportunity to clarify some of the issues raised here and, therefore, in the committee, they can be developed. As regards the question which the PCP Member has raised, it is for national vessels and seafarers. It's just that. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u417	Oh, hell! But that's even worse!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u418	We thus conclude the third item on the agenda. We will move on to the fourth point, with the discussion, in general, of Bill Nos 380 / XV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Revision of the SIFIDE II scheme for the elimination of abuse and encouragement of real investment for research, development, technological innovation and energy transition, 422 / XV / 1. a ( BE ) — eliminates the tax benefits allocated under SIFIDE to investment funds and contributions to investment funds and venture capital, or to the acquisition of social equity, 424 / XV / 1. a ( PAN) — It creates incentives for business investment in environmental sustainability by amending the Fiscal Code for Investment and Decree-Law No 8 / 2007 of 17 January, 431 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Extends SIFIDE and allocates its financial resources to research and development policies ( R & D ), making the seventh amendment to Decree-Law No 162 / 2014 of 31 October 2014 and 439 / XV / 1. a (CH) — Amends the Investment Tax Code by revising the system of tax incentives for research and business development. To present the PSD bill, Mr. Hugo Carneiro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u419	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: PSD has taken the initiative to bring forward a proposal to review the Tax Incentives System for Research and Entrepreneurship Development ( SIFIDE ). The PSD takes the lead in the debate, after government promises that have been dragged at least since the end of the summer of 2022, without any concrete proposal from the Executive to date being discussed in this Chamber. In the State Budget, the PS, without presenting any alternative proposals, rejected the ideas presented by the PSD. But while the government and the PS are hesitant and promising, the PSD implements. SIFIDE is an essential tool to help diversify our economy into highly qualified sectors, thereby promoting economic growth. Postponing the reform of SIFIDE is to postpone an opportunity, which is what the government and the PS, which supports it, have come to do. Moreover, delaying is to continue to allow the misuse of SIFIDE. The PS, by deferring a reform of SIFIDE using its reprobative majority, continues to allow tax planning practices by some large companies that are not interested in innovation but only in reducing their IRC turnover ( corporate income tax ). We can't wait anymore! The PSD therefore proposes the following: we want to extend the system of tax incentives to investments in climate change and technological innovation, in addition to what is already happening today in research and development. Secondly, we intend to end these indirect investments through investment funds, which have distorted the merit of SIFIDE and allowed abusive practices. More: we introduced measures to simplify the scheme, ending with the incremental rate, we increased the deduction of expenditure with the hiring of doctors, absolutely essential in this type of sector and introduced transparency measures in SIFIDE with the allocation of very specific responsibilities to the National Innovation Agency. Behind the PSD came other parties, with their bills. We do not agree with everything these parties presented, but we praise that they have had the opportunity to come to the debate. Otherwise, the PS didn't bring anything and just expects the government to do the housework and give it work. to which we have arrived: a parliamentary majority without initiative! Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I have tabled proposals for the NAP, the PCP, the Left Block and the Arrival and I will refer to some of them in particular. I would like to begin with the NAP, which in its proposal announces measures that we consider absolutely disproportionate, requirements imposed on additional reporting companies that do not add anything to the climate transition, and that is the pretext for the proposal. On the proposal of the CFP, we are left with a fundamental question. The PCP wants to end the entire SIFIDE, not only in cases where there are abuses, but also in applications through investment funds for tax planning. As for the Left Block proposal, we welcome the concern, shared with the PSD, to end the abuses I mentioned. But as the proposal remains only there, we challenge the Left Block to follow the other amendments proposed by the PSD. The proposal of the Arrival has some aspects that are similar to the proposal of the PSD, such as transparency or a single deduction. But at the same time, it contains ideas that we consider technically wrong or unfounded enough, such as limiting, for example, in the case of investment funds, to certain amounts that we do not realize where they arise. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to comment on the proposals made by the Government or the PS. But unfortunately I can't, because they don't exist. A government so engrossed in controversy, resignation and the disbandment of political authority did not have time to present a single idea that could be here, now and today. I don't think anyone in this country understands this disorientation of the majority. The PSD is available to seek as much consensus as possible in order to help our economy, our innovative companies and our country and lead the reform agenda in this Parliament. [[PSD applause.]] [[Meanwhile, President Augusto Santos Silva was re-elected.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u420	To submit Bill No. 422 / XV / 1. a ( BE ) — eliminates the tax benefits allocated under SIFIDE to investment funds and contributions to investment and venture capital funds, or in the acquisition of social equity, now has the floor to Mrs Mariana Mortágua.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u421	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: SIFIDE is in practice a scheme that allows a tax benefit within IRC up to 83 % by deduction of alleged research and development expenditure. From 2011 onwards, this scheme was amended: not only could companies deduct expenditure on research and development — hiring doctors, fixed material, etc. — but they were also able to deduct the costs with the purchase of units of participation in venture capital funds. It is this small legal amendment that justifies spending on SIFIDE from 170 million in 2011 to nearly 500 million per year by 2020. What happened was a "sickness, Villainage". Risk capital funds that did not have investors, often because they were incompetent, began to specialize in selling SIFIDE. Risk capital funds do not sell jurisdiction or investment, sell tax benefits guaranteed by the State. And the tax benefit is such — 83 % in IRC — that even if the risk capital fund has a bad result, even if the risk capital fund damages, the companies that invested in it continue to gain through the tax benefit in IRC. Many of these companies and risk capital funds have never invested a penny in research and development.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u422	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u423	Some have never invested a penny in anything! Many of these risk capital funds were used only for circular or cross-funding schemes. In other words, an economic group receives an advantage in IRC by purchasing units of participation from a venture capital fund that then invests in an enterprise from the economic group itself that received the discount from IRC. All of this happened without supervision. In Portugal, a mana for venture capital funds was created, a parasite of public money that has no explanation. While spending on this scheme increased to EUR 500 million per year — EUR 2879 million between 2010 and 2020 — public investment in research and development has fallen. In 2020, public investment in research and development was €71 per person less than in 2010 compared with €443 per person in Germany. Then one wonders why Portugal has a underdeveloped productive system. Compare public investment in research and development in Portugal with that in Germany. The percentage of GDP (gross domestic product) in public investment in research and development in Portugal is below half the European average. It is a bad public policy, it is a public policy that the Liberal Initiative would love. It spent 500 million a year to invest in venture capital funds, to promote research and development, while leaving public investment aside, and this has harmed the country and left us to the leagues of other European countries in this area. Over the past few years, the Block has raised this issue. We have presented dozens of questions to the government and often have done so alone; we have asked questions; we demand results of investigations which the government has promoted without ever having any results; and we have brought this matter to the State budget. In the face of abuse, the Government did the only thing it could do and recognized, in this House, when the Minister of Economy, sitting there, told the Left Block that it would end with the risk capital funds in SIFIDE. The Minister of Economy gave his word that he would end the risk capital funds in SIFIDE.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u424	But she's not worth much!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u425	But the words of the Government are worth very little and the words of the Minister for Economic Affairs are worth even less, because, a few months, a few days, a few weeks, indeed, a proposal appears in which the Government maintains everything as it was. The government gave in to the lobby of investment funds, venture capital funds.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u426	Mrs. Deputy, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u427	I will finish, Mr. President. The proposal presented by the Bloc today is only one thing: to ensure that the government fulfills its promise. I believe that the Socialist Party has no other option but to vote in accordance with the promise made here by the Minister for Economic Affairs. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u428	To submit Bill No. 424 / XV / 1. a ( PAN) — It creates incentives for business investment in environmental sustainability by amending the Fiscal Code for Investment and Decree-Law No 8/2007 of 17 January 2007, addressed Mrs Inês de Sousa Real.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u429	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: in this debate, the NAP obviously accompanies concerns about improving certain gaps and shortcomings in the tax code which, in some cases, end up setting up a real invitation and opportunity for unethical tax practices. But we understand that we should go further and that it is time to create incentives for business investment in its size and environmental sustainability...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u430	There's already!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u431	...as the climate crisis we face is undoubtedly one of the great challenges of our times. That is why the NAP today presents to Parliament the challenge of introducing environmentalism for the positive, i.e. creating incentives for private sector companies and investors to channel their resources to environmental sustainability through the commitment to improving environmental and climate performance levels of their infrastructures, reducing polluting emissions, transition from fossil to renewable energy and energy and water efficiency. Basically, we want a serious bet on the transition to a green economy — the economy of the future. The commitment in the green economy, in addition to tackling the challenges of climate emergency, to increase the economic competitiveness of our country and bring a significant increase in our GDP, has the potential to create more than 46 000 new jobs, increase wages and improve the quality and working conditions that we cannot and should not degrade especially in a context of social crisis such as the one we live in. With this proposal, what we bring is the possibility of spending on environmental sustainability thus benefit from an increase in deductions to IRC collection and that this increase is greater when a small and medium-sized company is involved. We also want, as a counterpart, to give greater relevance and transparency to environmental sustainability reports, which are increasingly a reality in business. However, our proposal, although not incompatible, is different and wants to improve and greener the system that exists. We know, without fear, that we should take this debate to the specialty, also listen to the different sectors, namely the business sector, about the improvements that may exist and that can be introduced even in the NAP proposal and at the same time give the market a green signal that it is even worth investing in environmental sustainability and thus investing in the future generations.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u432	To submit Bill No. 431 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Extends SIFIDE and allocates its financial resources to research and development policies ( R & D ), making the seventh amendment to Decree-Law No 162 / 2014 of 31 October, Mr Duarte Alves has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u433	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Research and development is essential for the strengthening of the productive apparatus, for the increase of technological integration and for innovation in the national economy. A policy that sets out in the country's sovereignty and economic development requires a strong investment in this area. The State has a key role to play in defining priorities, strategic sectors and developing, for a true industrial policy that enables greater value creation, with greater technological integration and with its exploitation of wages and workers' rights. SIFIDE is a tax incentive created in 1997 and subsequently renewed and extended with the alleged purpose of contributing to the increase in research and development. All these years, in view of the results of SIFIDE and its abuse, not to invest in research and development, but to assign one of the biggest tax bubbles only to the reach of the economic groups, it is time to question whether or not it makes sense to continue with this scheme. This is a scheme which, according to the Tax Expenditure Report of 2021, published by the Tax and Customs Authority ( AT ), allows those benefiting from it to stop paying EUR 382 million per year — estimate for 2021 — and between 2006 and 2019, the tax expenditure associated with this incentive system was more than EUR 3100 million. It is also known that the Tributary Authority's investigation of how fund managers have used a scheme to duplicate the tax bond associated with SIFIDE. In the face of the obvious failure of a policy of research and development based on the logic of tax incentive, in the context in which the area of investment funds stems business strategies in rapid profit logics, dividend distribution and not in medium- and long-term investment logics, and in the face of the tax injustice that SIFIDE has represented, we wonder whether these EUR 380 million annually, whether these EUR 3100 million over the last few years would be better applied to a public policy for the promotion of research and development. And we have come to the conclusion that, yes, it is the State, within the framework of a mixed economy, as defined in the Constitution, which must play a dominant role in this area. Of course, the national scientific and technological system, state laboratories, universities and policy makers, research institutes and centres should be involved in this process and, of course, private business tissue should also be involved in these decisions, particularly in the productive sectors where investment and development is so important, giving priority to micro, small and medium-sized enterprises.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u434	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u435	This is what the CFP proposes: to repeal SIFIDE, not to end the incentive for research and development, but rather to promote a true research and development policy involving the private business fabric rather than giving tax stamps. We have no doubt that the country needs not false investment, so that some funds do not pay IRC, but rather a policy that bets on research to reduce external dependence, which affirms the Portuguese economy in the international context, by innovation and technology and not by low wages, which guarantees the value of work and workers, development and national sovereignty. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u436	The honourable Member has a request for clarification from Mr Hugo Carneiro of the PSD, who has the floor for this purpose.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u437	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, my questions are very simple. I would like to see whether Mr Duarte Alves believes that what we are going to attack is really the abuse of investment funds. If so - and I understood this of your intervention - because they propose the revocation of the entire SIFIDE regime, even when we are not talking about investment funds. That's because I think if we were to take care of this, we would solve the problem. However, they seem to find a new programme, a new way of addressing these types of incentives that eventually generate more bureaucracy for companies. That's the question I'd like to ask. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u438	To reply, Mr Duarte Alves has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u439	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Carneiro, I think my speech was clear. What we consider is that, after all these years, in which SIFIDE has shown itself to be a total failure in the research and development policies, the best way to apply those EUR 3100 million of tax expenditure, which has so far cost this incentive system, would be to put this money into a real research and development policy — a policy that was not at the heart of this or that company's option or which, most likely, will stop a tax broker who does not have any kind of correspondence with a real investment in this area — instead of, as the PSD wants, in its own initiative, to extend to other areas and allow this tax bill even more. The basic question, then, is whether or not these resources should be channelled into a real State policy of research and development, involving the private sector!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u440	You must conclude, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u441	I conclude, Mr. President. We want the private sector also to be involved, as well as the national scientific and technological system because, in fact, having only a truly public policy of research and development, the country can meet this challenge which is to increase the technological integration of our economy. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u442	To present the bill of arrival, Mr. Rui Afonso has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u443	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: According to the latest data known and made available by the National Innovation Agency over the past 16 years, the system of tax incentives for research and business development has allocated more than EUR 3000 million of tax credits to more than 5000 companies. It was thus set up as one of the most important and popular tax incentive schemes in IRC and was recognised as one of the best systems in Europe.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u444	Better for whom?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u445	In September 2022, we again reached a record of applications for SIFIDE, with more than 3000 new processes, representing an investment in research and development of approximately EUR 1.5 billion. Previously, this incentive was applied exclusively to R & D projects carried out internally in companies, but the current scheme provides that the values applied in venture capital investment funds which, in turn, finance innovative and recognized companies by the National Innovation Agency. By analyzing the size of the beneficiaries, we have found that it is the large companies that have made the most use of this support instrument and that represent the largest amount of incentives granted. As has already been said, what is on the table, and what is listed by most of the proposals presented, is to reform the current system in order to end the indirect investment component, thus no longer being eligible the values applied in investment funds or venture capital companies that, in turn, finance investment in R & D. However, if, on the one hand, we understand that this will be a way of avoiding abuses already detected and, in fact, confirmed by the occurrence of such a double deduction, which happens, for example, when a large company creates its fund to then invest in itself or in a company of the same group by another, small and medium-sized enterprises with promising projects should not be harmed. We therefore believe that the control mesh should be tightened, rather than that possibility being repealed. This is because we understand that if direct investment is no longer possible, only large companies — which are also the ones with the greatest capacity to finance themselves — can continue to invest in research and development, and that is not what is intended. If there is a problem in the law, the law must be improved in order to solve situations that allow abuse, but it must not end with a programme that now begins to bear fruit and that is important for the leverage of small businesses, which is important for the dynamisation of the economic fabric within the country and which may be vital for the viability and maintenance of many small family businesses that do not have the capital or the knowledge needed to advance alone. [[Congrats from the CH.]] At a time when thousands of companies are financially suffocating, the towing of an inflationary framework that remains, ending this possibility is a gross mistake. What we are proposing here is that indirect investment through funds continue to be considered eligible if it is directed at the acceleration of small and medium-sized enterprises, because we recognize the importance of this tax instrument to ensure the competitiveness of our companies and to boost their position in the economy. In addition, it should be noted that, in addition to proposing a simplification of its application and also extending the scope of investments linked to benefactories aimed at efficiency in the use of energy and water resources, it is of the greatest importance to increase the benefits granted to companies investing in human resources of level 8, doctors, given that the country is investing more and more in qualified training for young people and that it is unfortunately not assisted by due return to development, because the rates of qualified emigration are increasing. We understand that this increase will also be an important incentive for the retention of talent and the establishment of qualified young people in the country. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u446	The honourable Member has a request for clarification. To make this request, I give the floor to Mr. Hugo Carneiro of the PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u447	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, my question is very simple. The arrival — and that is a significant difference with regard to our proposal — does not want to stop indirect investments and proposes that they be possible in companies with an annual turnover of less than EUR 50 million, or with a total annual balance sheet of less than EUR 43 million. So my question is this: why these values and not others? Why not 49, why not 62? What was the technical study that was at your base to find this cut line? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u448	To reply, Mr Rui Afonso has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u449	Mr President, Mr. Hugo Carneiro, I would like to thank you for this. According to Recommendation 2003 / 361 / EC ( European Commission ), a micro, small or medium-sized company is defined on the basis of the following criteria: an average enterprise employs between 51 and 250 people, the annual turnover does not exceed EUR 50 million or the total annual balance sheet does not exceed EUR 43 million. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u450	For an intervention on behalf of the Liberal Initiative, Mrs Carla Castro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u451	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Portugal has no capital, no risk or risk, and that is why this discussion, which inevitably becomes about tax collection, should be about innovation, research, development, investment and, yes, creating wealth. We have accepted the European challenge of reaching 2030 with 3 % of GDP invested annually in research and development, and we are currently investing only 1, 69 %. It's time, yes, to be more ambitious. In the collection of extraordinary taxes, the government is, yes, ambitious and has hurried to go beyond Europe, creating another contribution. But as far as innovation is concerned, we are at least able to reach it. Why not 5 %, 10 %? Let's be, once and for all, ambitious. Why not make Portugal, yes, an international reference in the production of knowledge? Why not promote the transfer of knowledge to companies in an effective way? Why not facilitate investment in projects at risk by definition, but that otherwise would not be done? We always come back to the same subject invariably: lack of policy, lack of incentive, lack of ambition, lack of solutions. As for the bills we are voting today, we agree that it is important to correct what SIFIDE has wrong, the abuses that distort the allocation of capital and feed customers. What is certain is that innovation is not done by decree, innovation happens, yes, when companies know that they can benefit from this innovation. That is why we are not tired of repeating that a fiscally and cross-sectionally inferior burden is that it would be truly encouraging, not only for those who achieve subterfuges. For that, they can count on the Liberal Initiative. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u452	To speak on behalf of the Socialist Party, Mr. Miguel Costa Matos has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u453	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Today we are discussing SIFIDE, the Tax Incentives System for Research and Business Development, and this is a good opportunity for us to talk about the context that this has in our tax system. One year ago, the PSD defended in the legislative elections that it was better to reduce IRC by four points than to lower the IRS (tax on income of natural people) than to feed these tax benefits, and today you fall the mask, by being against this SIFIDE as it exists. What would it be for the country, companies, save 40 € in every 1000 € of profit? The country has, with SIFIDE, more effective means of lowering taxes on businesses, and that is what we have done. According to AT, the effective rate paid by companies at present increased from 20, 9 % in 2015 to 18, 4 % in 2020, and according to the European Commission, Portugal was even the country of the European Union which lowered corporate taxes between 2015 and 2021. Yes, this is fiscal competitiveness. [[P.S.'s applause.]] But, Mr. President, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, this is not tax competitiveness with free lunches. There are no free lunches here. The country grows more if companies invest in innovation, inside, if they pay good wages. [[Protests by CH Member Rita Matias.]] And that is why, for many false positives that may have been, as long as the double benefit is limited, we cannot ignore the role of SIFIDE, of venture capital funds. As much as the Left Block does not like venture capital funds, the role they have played was to double the spending of companies with research and development and to ensure more economic growth, because since 2016 the country is growing 10 times more than it has grown in the previous 15 years. That is why, instead of amputating, instead of eliminating, as the PCP defends, we need to strengthen SIFIDE,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u454	More tax bills!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u455	... in particular in the fight against climate emergencies. This is a concern we see in the PSD and PAN projects. It is recalled that SIFIDE already has an increase in ecological design. It is a 10 % increase which is not used and the government here presented an initiative, which unfortunately could not be dragged, to double that increase by 20 %. But that's not what the PSD and PAN propose. They are proposing a kind of scope enlargement and will then be seen, they will study the definitions and realize that, in fact, it does not extend any scope. It is exactly what is already planned, the same deduction, without any greater effect. [[P.S.'s applause.]] In fact, the NAP presents an innovation: in the IES (Simplified Business Information) all companies have to provide tax and accounting information and include an environmental sustainability report. Now, this is a relevant concern, it is in the Basics of Climate Act, we have to realize with European advances in the ESG (environmental, social and governance), but it is not as an appendix to an amendment to SIFIDE, it is not as an appendix to the accounts of the company that we will be able to make a process of these. We will not be able to decarbonize companies by decree, with legal obligations placed on the ground. It is facing eyes, it is with SIFIDE, it is with innovation that we will overcome the challenge of climate transition and overcome the challenge of economic growth. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u456	To speak on behalf of the Free House, Mr Rui Tavares has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u457	Mr President: The innovation and development that SIFIDE intends to promote should be innovation and development in scientific matters, not innovation in optimizing tax practices or development in ways to pay less to the tax. It's when the first-intention, original, thing goes down for the other thing that needs to be reformed and corrected. Therefore, I fully agree with eliminating indirect investments, because most of the time they do not serve anything to increase research and development and we should not want to meet investment criteria in research and development that then do not have practical correspondence. It is also now necessary to look again at public policies to support research and development and innovation. The Liberal Initiative says « does not innovate by decree». History says otherwise: it does not only innovate by decree. When states decide to go to the moon or when President Joe Biden decides to invest more in semiconductors, he decrees many things and innovation also happens by decree. And in these instruments that we use every day there are many decrees and lots of legislation here. The speaker posted a cell phone. Therefore, what Portugal needs to do is to have a strategic fund to support research and development, partly with resources coming from IRC; to have some tax benefits, yes, for those who truly invest in doctors and other things that are quantifiable and documentable; and to create what would be equivalent to an Economic and Social Council for research and development, with COTEC (Business Association for Innovation), with the CRUP (Council of Directors of Portuguese Universities) with some companies and also with the presence of inter-municipal communities.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u458	Mr Carlos Pereira, from the PS, has the floor to speak.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u459	Mr President, I would like to use the last minutes of the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group on this issue to highlight some important things. First, I would like to point out that, according to the data we have in 2021, Portugal had a new historical peak in terms of research and development, reaching 1, 69 % of GDP, which is said to be in favour of truth, contrasts with that extraordinary tomb we had at the time of the governance of the PSD / CDS, in which we were the country of Europe where research and development fell the most. You have obviously prevented this expenditure from being spent on research and development. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]] I would like to say to Mr Carneiro that there have already been interventions on this matter of SIFIDE, for example in the State budget for 2021, with anti-abuse measures that have been mentioned there. We have already expressed in this Chamber many times the availability — and we commit ourselves to this availability — for an amendment by SIFIDE, in particular with regard to the issue of double tax benefit, which is obviously something that needs to be corrected and which must pay particular attention. We do not fully agree with the way the PSD raises questions, we do not fully agree with the proposal of the CFP, but we believe that there is a need to do something more about transparency, and Mr Carneiro, there is a proposal from the Government. The honourable Member said he did not see it, but it has been in this House since 23 December, it has not been possible to drag it away, but there is a government initiative with concrete proposals. But there is more, Mr President — and this is what really needs to be emphasized, especially from a political point of view — because the PS Parliamentary Group has made an effort with all the banks to request the discharge of this diploma, without a vote, precisely to ensure that it is possible to discuss and try to integrate in a single diploma proposals submitted by the PSD and all the other parties. Obviously I cannot say here what the proposals were, but there was this intention, that opening up and even evaluating some proposals that were positive, in particular what the PSD presented with regard to transparency to disseminate the reports of the ANI ( National Innovation Agency ). Well, come on! What was the response of the vast majority of the parties, particularly the PSD, to the one who rises up in this House every day saying that « the PS is a true compressor roll, does not approve anything, does not want anything, does not accept anything of the opposition, does not do anything»? [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]] We have opened up the possibility for this to happen and you have refused. [[PSD protests.]] I end by saying something that seems very important to me: you are truly a compressor of your own proposals, because you have not accepted what we have proposed here. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u460	To close the debate, Mr. Hugo Carneiro has the floor of the PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u461	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I find the two interventions of the Socialist Party shocking.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u462	It's under the compressor roll! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u463	What the Socialist Party wanted was for the parties who did the housework and had the initiative to renounce their own initiative power to do the will of the PS. [[PSD applause.]] But more: to do the will of the PS, which did not do the housework, because the proposal that you have just mentioned now is not even from the PS, it is from the government. [[PS protests.]] The government has been promising since the end of the summer of 2022 that it would present a proposal to review the SIFIDE in this House and was unable to do so. [[PS protests.]] And we insist on the State budget and the State budget, neither did they. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u464	And now they have come running and have not even been able to comply with the rules of procedure to schedule your point in this debate, which was what they should have done, as have all the parties that had initiatives in this House. [[PSD applause.]] Because they have no arguments, they need to go look for the far past, go for the whole tax regime, the IRS... [[PS protests.]] Mr. Miguel Matos, is it true or not that indirect taxes have increased for the Portuguese? That was because the PS decided and approved in this House. [[PSD applause.]] [[PS protests.]] But I must say more: I like your noise and I see your embarrassment because you have nothing here to discuss. You don't have any proposals to discuss! [[PS protests.]] You don't have any proposals to discuss. It's awful! And they're dependent only on the government doing your job. [[PS protests.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, use your power of initiative. The PS has the power of initiative, use it. Don't wait until the government does your homework. Finally, I would like to say that what I understand from the proposal of the Arrival in respect of investment funds is that it is not a measure to end tax abuse, it is only to limit some companies by discriminating between Type A and Type B companies. Now, what the PSD wants is that there is no tax planning with Portuguese money. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u465	So we conclude the fourth item on our agenda. We will move to the fifth point, which consists of the assessment of the Resolution Project No 102 / XV / 1a(CH) — By conducting an updated study on the characterization of Roma communities living in Portugal and, in general, of the Law Project No 430 / XV / 1. a (PAN) — Approves measures to combat discrimination against foreign citizens by amending various diplomas. To present the project of the Arrival, Mr André Ventura has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u466	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The project we present today has as clear and unequivocal objective, without any second intentions, the knowledge and deepening of who are the Roma in Portugal. Until today, and especially when the issue began to be raised by the political class, we have several studies that indicate to us less problematic and problematic aspects, not only of the state in relation to the Gypsy community, but also of the Gypsy community with the state and the Gypsy community among themselves. These are important issues that have marked a climate of permanent social conflict and that I think a whole country, and above all the political class, have an interest in resolving. However, the few studies we have on this subject of several entities show some unquestionable realities: an in-depth climate of subsidiarity, discriminatory and abusive practices on the part of the State itself, a climate of permanent destruction or limitation of the rights of Roma women and girls, a degraded economic climate, the result of internal and external conditions. Parliament itself spoke about the Roma community in the Parliamentary Committee on Ethics, Society and Culture. Mr President, it would be important for the Portuguese to know some of the conclusions produced in a report by that Commission. Parliament itself has made it clear in the studies it has presented, which I shall now mention in just three notes. « It is therefore common for girls from 10 years of age to leave school, preventing contact with the other society. The virginity must be protected, the girls must be with the mothers and they must prepare for marriage at that age," said Parliament in 2013. « Throughout these five centuries, it is known that the Portuguese State has committed injustice, discriminatory laws and abusive behaviour. However, the Gypsy community developed a culture of resistance, closed itself with fear of ancestral aggression and self-excluded itself from participation in the public space,’ also said Parliament. « It is common practice of the Gypsy community the destruction of houses, the vandalization of common spaces, the non-compliance of payments of income and consumption of water, gas and electricity, the problems of the contrary and conflict with the neighbours». This is in a parliamentary report, it is not a report of the Arrival, nor of any other entity. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, it is time to put an end to this conflict in Portugal. The conflict that the whole country knows and only the parties do not want to see, between the Roma community and a part of the communities surrounding the Roma communities and their housing areas, has to be resolved. Not with conflict, but with integration. However, what is not known is not integrated. Today, what we propose to Parliament and the country is that, once and for all, we know who, where and how the Gypsy community works in Portugal. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u467	To present the draft law of the NAP, you have the floor of Mrs Inês de Sousa Real.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u468	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, there are two ways of dealing with the policies of inclusion and immigration in Portugal: one is to give in to the discourse of fear, prejudice, hatred, a path that we do not want to pursue; another is to contemplate the facts, and the facts show us well that immigrants in certain communities give much more to the state than they receive.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u469	The gypsies are foreigners? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u470	We are talking about immigrants who have secured a positive balance in social security accounts, with more than EUR 1 billion in contributions. In fact, in addition to social security itself, there are several sectors of activity, such as tourism or restoration, which would collapse without immigrants. So when we hear the rhetoric that immigrants only increase the competitiveness of social benefits or that the Roma community only lives from the RSI (social income of insertion), we have to respond factually and seriously and understand how immigrants contribute to the sustainability of the system for all.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u471	Are there immigrant gypsies? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u472	Even if we did not have the dimension of the facts or we were talking only about human rights, this would lead us - on the path of inclusion and not discrimination policies - to which we do not really want to go. The initiative that the NAP brings to the debate does not want to leave foreign citizens, who do not have their regularized situation, in situations of great vulnerability in which they see difficulties, for example, in their access to health, education, housing, even when they are already working in Portugal.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u473	What does that have to do with the gypsies? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u474	This is also an initiative which aims to ensure that public responses are not different according to the place of origin of people, in particular immigrants or refugees. It is also an initiative that aims to simplify the processes, through the deburocratization of the processes that suffer a chronic delay of years, so that this situation is overcome. There are many questions to the path of inclusion that we have to trace in our country, including in detention spaces, such as the one where a Ukrainian citizen was killed. Now, the initiative that the NAP brings today aims to address injustice and to demonstrate that our society has only to gain with cultural diversity, as well as with humanity in welcoming. Portugal has been, and is, a country of immigrants. We cannot be shocked by the xenophobia that we suffer in countries where we move and do not parallel those who, for the same reasons or worse, choose Portugal to receive them or who historically have been living here for many years.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u475	Mrs. Deputy, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u476	I really am concluding, Mr President. With regard to the initiative of the European Union, I would like to point out that the road to inclusion and mediation policies must indeed be a path of inclusion and not an exclusion, because that is not the path that a democratic country and which respects all diversity must take. Mr President, with regard to the time of debate, I cannot but make an appeal to the Bureau. The NAP, throughout its various interventions, has barely exceeded its available time, and I note that there is no equal treatment between all political forces.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u477	In relation to the Free! It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u478	Even today, Mr President, he has shown a tolerance of more than one minute — in fact, almost two minutes — with several political forces, when I repeat, the NAP rarely exceeds its intervention time. [[CH protests.]] So, all of the Members are... [[CH protests.]] I'm sorry, but I'd like to end my appeal to the Bureau, because Mr. Members, like the NAP, also have that right.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u479	It's not in the rostrum that an appeal is made to the Bureau!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u480	That's where it's understood that they should be done. It's not the ladies. Ladies and gentlemen, it is Mr President who determines. When I can conclude, Mr President, I will do it.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u481	The honourable Member concluded her speech and began an appeal to the Bureau on the conduct of the proceedings. You have the right to do. He does it both from his place and from his pulpit.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u482	Tribune! Pulpit is in church!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u483	Please refer to the Bureau on the conduct of the proceedings, Mrs Inês de Sousa Real.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u484	Thank you very much, Mr President. The NAP has sought to respect its intervention times, trying, in a proportionate way and always in the logic of conclusion of its reasoning, not to exceed the time given to it. However, intervention after intervention, what we found is that the NAP is immediately alerted whenever it exceeds its time, when, even today, in the debate, there were political forces to have a tolerance of almost 2 minutes, with different treatment in relation to Members and Members. [[The Book!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u485	Parliament has its proportionality, but each of us has its own rights and must be respected regardless of that proportionality. I therefore thank the Bureau for having the same tolerance with the NAP as with the other political forces.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u486	Mrs Deputy has a request for clarification from Mr André Ventura of the Arrival. You have no time to answer, so I ask the honourable Member if he would like to make the request for clarification in that regard.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u487	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u488	So please, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u489	Thank you, Mr. President. You don't have time for an answer, but it's just to leave a note. As far as social income is concerned, it is clear — and our project says so — that no one here has said that all immigrants are coming here to have social benefits. Mrs. Deputy didn't see that in our project or in any project. The honourable Member cannot also deny what the studies show in relation to the dependence of subsidies on the Roma community.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u490	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u491	This is evident and is in the studies that have been done on this subject, namely the financial autonomy that Roma families have when they work. That is, a very small percentage has income coming from work. The question is, therefore, where do the remaining incomes come from, which is a legitimate question.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u492	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u493	As for the mediators, we need to pay attention to one thing. It is that this year we had a case in which a family refused to hand over to the police a criminal — someone who had murdered a police officer — and wanted to put mediators negotiating between the police and the families.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u494	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u495	That, for us, is the limit of the rule of law, Mrs Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u496	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u497	One thing is mediation, another is that there are those who, more than others, have rights to the law and to the state. And we'll never accept that! [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u498	To speak on behalf of the Liberal Initiative, you have the floor of Mrs Patrícia Gilvaz.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u499	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Today, we are discussing two initiatives which, despite being part of the same issue, are quite different. As for the draft law submitted by the NAP, we do not understand the fact that they have advanced to so many topics, so different from one another, in the same diploma. They were separated by several proposals and we could vote them separately, because we have different positions for each of them. However, we must not fail to mention that freedom of movement is a fundamental freedom for the Liberal Initiative, because people must be able to move and seek opportunities for work and life in other countries and, therefore, Portugal must be exemplary with a position of dignity in welcoming the people who decide here to seek new opportunities. I will repeat: Portugal must be an example in the reception and treatment of human rights of those who choose to come to work here.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u500	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u501	On the other hand, we have once again reached the gypsy community, as is its habit. After proposing the confinement of the Roma community, it is now proposed that a study be carried out for the characterization of this community. We ask, then, what is the obsession of arriving with this community? Why this persecution? [[CH protests.]] We're not wrong, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen. To propose a study to characterize this community is not aimed at finding answers on which is the best way to promote its integration. [[CH protests.]] No, sir. Ladies and gentlemen! Your only goal in looking for the culprits of integration or lack of integration is to create divisions. That's exactly what he wants! He wants divisions and wants to feed even more the differences. [[CH protests.]] There is, in fact, a popular saying that says « divide to reign». That's what he wants! He wants to divide the Portuguese by putting them against each other to do so, forcefully, gain media space! So, arriving doesn't want to solve problems. [[CH protests.]] Is the lack of integration of the community, particularly the Roma community, the result of its practices? To raise such questions may have quite worrying and serious consequences, since it requires a community to be judged by its practices, exacerbating its differences, basically seeking to justify ways to exclude them. Mrs. Members, the Liberal Initiative is intransigently defending the rights, freedoms and guarantees of all citizens in their personality. Therefore, it does not accept and combat any kind of discrimination and undoubtedly discrimination on the basis of ethnicity.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u502	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u503	This interest in characterizing a particular community, always a perspective of « us against them», is a way of discriminating. [[CH protests.]] Why not ask for characterization of other communities that live in Portugal and why is it in particular? The answer is clear. Your only target is the Gypsy community and they don't even care about disguise.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u504	That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u505	At a time when the country is experiencing a political crisis of absolute disbelief in the suitability of political office holders, with a decriblified government, in full inflationary crisis and at the beginning of a year that is not easy for the Portuguese, the honourable Members. Members choose to attack this community instead of worrying about solving the country's problems. Shame on you, ladies. Ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations from the IL and from the PS Members.]] [[CH protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u506	To speak on behalf of the Left Block — so the Assembly will allow it — you have the floor of Mrs Joana Mortagua.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u507	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: « Throughout its history, Portugal has always assumed itself as a territory capable of welcoming everyone who, for good, wishes to enter national territory. » Thus begins the project of the Arrival, and then continues with a series of considerations about immigration, taken from where, and about the need to force certain communities to integrate themselves, perhaps until they go to Mass,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u508	Look, it didn't hurt them!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u509	... things that could never be approved by this Parliament, simply because they are not constitutional. This is the first problem of this project. The second problem—and this is not exclusive of the Arrival, but it is particularly serious in the Arrival—is that none of this applies to the Roma community, which is not an immigrant community. Historically, the gypsies are more... [[CH protests.]] May I? I said that, historically, the gypsies have been in Portugal longer than the Portuguese in Brazil. The presence of this community is older than that of many Portuguese families. For example, some families descended from German or French immigrants, friendly and financing families from arrive, such as the Mello or Champalimaud.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u510	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u511	The problem is therefore not immigration, the problem is racism. [[CH protests.]] Let's see: The arrival says that there is no data to allow an assessment of the integration of this community and that, contrary to what many say, the defense of the need to collect these data does not present any xenophobic, discriminatory or consubstantiation of racial hatred. But as the children say, « only not». [[Ah!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u512	I remember that André Ventura admitted to have proposed the confinement of an ethnic group and defended that there is a problem with the Gypsy ethnicity, because they live from state subsidies. I remember that in 2020 André Ventura was fined by the Commission for Equality and Against Racial Discrimination for discriminating Roma. I recall that in 2021 the Commission for Equality and Against Racial Discrimination condemned André Ventura to pay a fine of almost €3500 for offending and humiliating the people of Gypsy ethnicity, enhancing stigmatization and prejudice against the community, two weeks after being convicted by racial offenses to residents of Jamaican neighborhood. What did André Ventura do? He tried to end the Commission on Equality and against Racial Discrimination. We all know that the best way for a criminal to stop being a criminal is to try to end the courts. It is called justice to André Ventura. One day the thing opens up, you can always spend some time in the United States, like your friend Bolsonaro, who's running away from there. [[CH protests.]] Mr. President, there are 35,000 people, thousands of children. These are the people who arrive to pursue rather than solve the problems of the country. [[Congratulations from BE, L and PS Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u513	To speak on behalf of the Free, Mr Rui Tavares has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u514	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The only merit this debate has is to provide us with a better definition than any dictionary for shame and discharge. Only once will it be overcome when an incendiary comes here to propose a study on the parts of the forest that it is better to come to burn. Note one thing: the advocate of the permanent conflict with the Roma community, the insulting insultr of Portuguese gypsies, comes to say, "It is necessary to study the gypsies". Suddenly, it presents itself angelically, the one who, in debate, when the President of the Republic presented himself, said: "It is true! I want to segregate and confine the Portuguese to ethnicity. Now, he wants to know how many they are and where they are.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u515	Have shame on your face!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u516	That's a lie!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u517	We've all heard! We heard everyone in the presidential debate! [[CH protests.]] Mr. President, if I can finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u518	I ask silence to all.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u519	I know why you're so upset, but you still have to listen to the rest to get more angry! [[CH protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u520	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we are still 60 minutes away from work and will be missing-CL as we prevent the normal course of the session. Mr Rui Tavares, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u521	In conclusion, I do not know whether in the 1920s and 1930s any of those anti-Semitic parties has ever been to a Parliament saying « we not only say of the Jews that they are guilty of everything and something else as we want to know who they are, where they are and where they live». [[Congrats from PS Members.]] But I know something. If any of these parties arrived in Portugal in 2022 and saw this, I would say: "Yes, sir! Great disciples! Let us not forget to do what these gentlemen are doing here now! Do not keep on seeking. ” [[P.S. and BE's applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u522	Shame on you! Go talk to Joacine!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u523	To speak on behalf of the PCP, you have the floor of Mrs Alma Rivera.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u524	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Beginning with the principle, the government wants to promote a study on the gypsies. Why the gypsies?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u525	Because there's a parliament!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u526	It is that all communities are, as they should be, studied and studied by sociology in relation to the most diverse aspects, in fact. Sociology studies the Gypsies, as it studies the populations of the metropolitan areas, the populations of the rural world, the workers on behalf of others, the sports practitioners, the people who do not practice sports, the entrepreneurs, the immigrants, the emigrants, finally. Gypsies are, in fact, object of study, as they could not cease to be, and of course these studies will continue to be done,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u527	Sure!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u528	So what's the drama?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u529	... because this is important to equalize and promote measures that facilitate their integration and to solve problems affecting these communities. This is how it is with the Roma communities as it is with all other communities. When you arrive here you propose to conduct a study especially about the Roma communities, you only have one goal, which is to discriminate and stigmatize,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u530	Sure!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u531	... to point the finger, to blame themselves for the social problems that affect them and isolate them from the national community, as if the gypsies, like us, were not part of the national community to which we all belong.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u532	Yeah, you're doing great!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u533	Anyway, they don't count on the PCP for that. The NAP has proposed legislative amendments aimed at mitigating the great vulnerability to which foreign citizens in Portugal are often subject. Problems ranging from lack of access to language learning — which is a fundamental element of integration — or problems that immigrant citizens who do not have their regularized situation face, in particular because of the delay in this situation and difficulties in the process of regularization, and what then influences access to work, health, education, housing, finally. This NAP initiative is an initiative with « garlic and lies», has good things, has bad things and has things like this. It is, above all, a mis-employment project in the schedule of the Arrival, which has purposes that are not exactly the most generous.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u534	It's true.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u535	Sure!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u536	But indeed, the draft NAP law presents considerations which, in large part, we follow and which are related to strengthening the support and framework of those who seek our country, and most of the proposed measures do not do either good or bad and there are questionable and inexhaustible aspects, particularly with the solutions they point to in terms of employment contracts, which need to discuss and deepen. In any case, by rejecting any use of this discussion, we understand that the NAP initiative can be worked out and that there are important contributions that have not yet been brought together by those who actually want to solve the problems of the country. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u537	To speak on behalf of the PS, you now have the floor of Mrs Alexandra Leitão.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u538	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Portugal has, fortunately, a tradition of integration both of immigrants and of national citizens of all ethnic groups, and does so in terms of equality, dignity and respect, creating the conditions for full and fair integration. This means — and many measures have been taken in this regard — to simplify administrative procedures for the granting of visas, to guarantee equal conditions for access to public services and to work, to guarantee conditions of respect and equality. This proves that by looking at the 2021 Censuses, if we compare the number of foreign population living in Portugal between 2011 and 2021, we observed that it grew 40%. However, there is more and more to be done in this area and hence the position of the PS bench in order to study and analyze the proposals put forward, in particular by the NAP. Totally different thing — totally different! — that is what we want. The arrival aims to identify an ethnic and community in particular: who are, where they are, where they live what they do. This has nothing to do with knowing, it has nothing to do with studying, it smells of persecution and it smells of discrimination. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u539	Ah! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u540	Of course we must know all Portuguese citizens—because that is what we are talking about, it is about Portuguese citizens—and all communities, whatever their ethnicity or circumstances,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u541	So what's the drama?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u542	...without highlighting one or another community. But serious studies serve to know, include and treat with dignity, not to exclude, discriminate and anathematize.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u543	Nobody's doing that!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u544	Therefore, do not count on PS to enable this project. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u545	We weren't counting on the PS!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u546	Good!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u547	To speak on behalf of the PSD, you have the floor of Mrs Emília Cerqueira.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u548	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Today, we have two initiatives that are quite different. With regard to the draft law of the NAP, it raises some questions on which, in fact, the PSD has been drawing attention over time: delays in the functioning of legalization processes, lack of the SEF means to ensure that the processes have the necessary diligence, the necessary speed, the humanity that is necessary so that no new situations such as those that have embarrassed our country, which is internationally referred to as torture. But the question here is another. At the same time, the NAP proposes to amend three legal regimes — the Labour Code, the legal regime of entry, stay, departure and removal of citizens and the legal regime of social protection of the possibility of unemployment of workers on behalf of others — without listening to anything or anyone else. Amendments to these schemes cannot be made lightly.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u549	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u550	So it seems to us that this is not the way to alter regimes without hearing anything or anyone. It is understood that the NAP has no responsibility, as the PSD has, to make legislation with account, weight and measure and thought of the best interest for the country, but the PSD cannot of course accept that law is made, that it is legislate and touches people's lives in this way.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u551	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u552	On the other hand, we must remember that there is a new European directive, which was revised in 2014, which has already allowed foreign citizens from third countries to have a period to seek employment and which applies throughout the European Union. It has already come to a large extent to play on these matters, which is not excused by endless delays due to the degradation of public services. A citizen cannot wait three years to be legalized and see his process finished. That's what can't go on. [[PSD applause.]] Then we have the draft resolution of the Arrival. And the arrive, in fact, as we have been used to, takes up an instrument that exists, the National Strategy for the Integration of the Gypsy Communities 2013 - 2022, and says « it has to be studied again». Allow me to express myself, but this is like the fox in the henhouse wanting to study the chickens. This is the problem. [[PSD, PS and BE applause.]] [[CH protests.]] It's just that this comes from the party that makes your agenda by blaming the gypsies for everything and something else. In fact, I have listened carefully to Mr Andre Ventura say that there is a great lack of social rest here, there is a great fear here. Social communication, insecurity, everything always associated with the Roma community. The problem is that I only see him feeding this fear and this segregation to a Portuguese community. [[Protests by CH Member Rita Matias.]] The big problem is that the arrive is that party that makes the gypsies their agenda, as if there were Portuguese in many classes—first, second, third—and the gypsies are Portuguese like the other Portuguese.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u553	The PAN says they're immigrants!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u554	Nevertheless, the PSD does not forget that there is indeed a need for special attention to the Roma community. We must remember the forced marriages of minors,... [[Ah!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u555	... we must remember the social integration of the Roma community, the special approaches that this community needs, but never in the sense that it comes, which is the pursuit of this community. We have to have policies to integrate this community and make these situations that are still going on, and that have been fighting with special strategies, diminish. Yes, they exist and we have to face the problems ahead, but without prejudice. That's how the PSD views it. Not with the expression « without prejudice» of the Arrival, because « without prejudice» for the Arrival is « to persecute »,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u556	It's nothing!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u557	...and the PSD does not pursue any community. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u558	I have gypsy friends!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u559	To close the debate, Mr Ventura has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u560	Mr President, are there no more interventions before the debate is closed?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u561	That's right.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u562	So I wanted to sign up for Mrs. Joana Mortagua, if I may.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u563	Is that so? Parliament has rules!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u564	And you know them? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u565	For an intervention, Mrs. Joana Mortágua has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u566	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The conclusion of this debate is that it does not have its own programme. [[CH's laughs.]] from a programmatic point of view, it is a kind of parasite: it will look for tax proposals to IL, some economic proposals to the PSD, some are copied from the Block, sometimes without even changing the form,... [[CH protests.]] ...and, therefore, remains this for you. It remains to be seen that this is an exercise of hypocrisy, in which it does not even show its true purposes. It is that she gives a worker who wants to be popular and, at the same time, defends rich friends and bankers friends. Give me a worker! [[CH protests.]] But I could not let this debate end without making a reference to the NAP proposal. It is that the NAP excused having given for this petition with a proposal on immigration in the coming agenda on gypsies. And I was sorry to have supported in the Azores the right-wing government, also supported by the Chega, the shift from withdrawing social support to the poorest, and this especially aimed at withdrawing support from the Roma community. [[Congratulations from BE and PS Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u567	There's no defense!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u568	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u569	To what effect, Mrs. Deputy?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u570	It is to make an inquiry on the conduct of the work and to clarify the statement that the Left Block has just done, if admitted.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u571	Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u572	The NAP, as it is known to this House, has no right to own agendas, only has two agendas per year, and has every right to, politically, and disagreeing with the content of the proposal of the Arrival, to present its opposite, which is an inclusive proposal and of social responsibility.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u573	To close the debate on this point, Mr Ventura has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u574	Mr. President and Mr. Members: When we arrive at the end of this debate, it is clear that this Parliament is coming. I speak of the unequivocal protection,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u575	From the Constitution!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u576	... systematic and continuous of them, always against those who, out there, know what we are saying here and know well how they feel in so many countries of the country. Today, if you heard the PCP talking, you'd be ashamed of the old Alentejo,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u577	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u578	...that he would be a communist. [[Congrats from the CH.]] But there is our Alentejo, the one in which we defend the true people who want a better Alentejo. [[Congrats from the CH.]] No, Mrs. Joana Mortagua, our rich friends are not called Robles or Mortagua, nor have any other names.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u579	Mello and Champalimaud!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u580	Our rich friends are not the speculators who walked around the Left Block. Crime, crime, on the contrary, is receiving subsidies from this Parliament and working. That's a crime.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u581	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u582	To talk about the families that were in Portugal 500 years ago and to forget those who are part of your party's heritage, that is, to forget what we all know: you are the worst that this democratic system has ever produced. [[Congrats from the CH.]] Mr. President and Mr. Members, "Why the gypsies? This Parliament is asking itself. « Why the Gypsies? », a question that echoes in all the villages of this country. « Why the Gypsies? ', millions of Portuguese are asked. Why the gypsies? Why do we want to know who they are? Because the Parliament already wanted to know, because the State already wanted to know, because they already wanted to know several national institutions, in studies they did, paid with public money. [[Protests by PCP MP Alma Rivera.]] Why? Because they know that there are problems and they do not hide them, unlike this political class, that they prefer to hide that there is a huge problem in Portugal with the Roma community. [[Congrats from the CH.]] This is not democracy, it is hiding the problems, that is to say to the Portuguese that they are not right, that they are not right for families, businesses, thousands of people every day — as happens in Alentejo — they face problems of insecurity, precariousness, permanent struggle and with a huge sense of revolt because they see so many people around them receiving subsidies and they without a serious pension to give to their grandparents who have worked their lives. [[Congrats from the CH.]] This feeling of a profound revolt is what should make us want to know more about a community. It's not to pursue,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u583	Don't you? Oh, my
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u584	...it's not to discriminate, it's to want to know, because wanting to know is the first step.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u585	That's racism! Characterizing the behaviour of an ethnic group is racism!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u586	Wanting to know is the first step to be able to integrate. I repeat, wanting to know is the first step to be able to integrate. No, sir. Ladies and gentlemen, hiding the problem, saying that there is no, as we have done over the past 40 years, pretending that nothing happens to the Gypsy community and saying that the best thing is to do nothing is to ignore the suffering of so many Portuguese people. The Arrival will never accept to ignore this and will fight for these Portuguese until the last second, while in this Plenary. [[Congrats from the CH.]] Mr. President and Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, I will end this speech with a question that would bother anyone. Today, our opponents were asked to the right: Why the Gypsy community? Why, at a time of crisis, bring this issue to debate? Why when so many go wrong? These opponents are the same ones that have been talking about bide and sanitas in Parliament for weeks and that they think that no other problem can be discussed now.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u587	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u588	We will never be afraid to face the politically correct one. on our part, we'll always know what we have to put first. Our scale of values is our...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u589	You have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u590	...and certainly is not the same as any other party in this House. Of course it's different, and yet it's different.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u591	Good!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u592	That is why we are third parties and that is why we continue to rise, every day, in surveys conducted with the Portuguese. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u593	Because only we represent them and only we say what they, out there, know it's true! [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u594	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u595	And the Communist Party should be ashamed—in Alentejo, Algarve and so many lands in this country—to forget those who, for decades, have trusted you! [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u596	We have thus reached the voting period. I would ask the services which operate the quorum verification system and the Members. Members who register as soon as possible. [[Pause.]] I wonder if any Member or Member has not been able to proceed to the electronic register. [[Pause.]] Mrs Mariana Mortágua, from BE, and Mr André Ventura from CH, informed the Bureau that they could not register. I would therefore ask the services to publish the result of the quorum verification. [[Pause.]] We have a quorum and we are going to start the votes. We begin with the Vote Project No. 221 / XV / 1. a ( submitted by the PS ) — regretting the death of Linda de Suza. I ask Mrs Maria da Luz Rosinha to proceed to her reading.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u597	Mr President, the draft vote is as follows: « He died last December 28 at the Gisors Hospital in Normandy, Linda de Suza, Joaquina Teolinda de Sousa Lança, an artist who became a powerful icon of Portuguese emigration, particularly in France, who saw in his journey a mirror of his goals of a better life, of affirmation and recognition. Linda de Suza was born in Beringel, in the district of Beja, and emigrated to France when she was 22 years old, where she arrived in 1970, passing the border to “step”. He had a life like that of so many thousands of emigrants, who came out looking for opportunities they did not have in Portugal, with the determination to work hard, but never cease dreaming of a better life, beginning in the cleaning and finishing applause on stage. This recognition came not long after he arrived in France when he started singing, stepping on stage, going to television and recording records. He was at the Chez Loisette restaurant, in the vicinity of Paris, where he was discovered by the composer André Pascal. By the hand of producer Claude Carrère, he went to the program Rendez-Vous du Dimanche, where he sang Le Portuguese, Valise en Carton, which would be a great success and would be the driving line of his career, with sales that reached the disc of platinum, in 1979. in a fair recognition, the President of the French Republic, Emannuel Macron, considered Linda de Suza a “ queen of the 1980s” and claimed that the Portuguese singer“ found himself in the crossing of two cultures and two languages”, affirming himself as “an icon of the cross destinations of our two peoples.” Songs like J' ai deux Pays pourun sole heart, La Symphonie du Portugal or evenThe foreign, among many others of his vast discography, are emblematic songs in which the Portuguese in France easily reverted by the open and uncomplexed form as stated his condition as emigrant, his struggle, his dreams and, always, his connection to the country, with longing. Singing in French was a form of statement before the host country and the public voice of all Portuguese. He told his life in the autobiographical book that had a great success, La Valise en Carton, 1984, which would later be adapted to television in a miniseries entitled Mala de Cardão, where Irene Papas participated and a wide range of Portuguese and French actors, broadcast on RTP and Antenne 2. He collaborated with Charles Aznavour and exhausted several times the Paris Olympia, won gold and platinum records. Linda de Suza is a great symbol of Portuguese emigration and deserves to be remembered as such. The Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary, expresses its regret over the death of the artist Linda de Suza, recognizing the importance it had for so many generations of Portuguese in France and beyond its borders, as a powerful icon of Portuguese emigration, sending to his family and friends the most felt condolences. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u598	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall vote on the deliberative part of the draft vote that has just been read. [[The vote was taken unanimously.]] Following the Vote Project 222 / XV / 1. a ( submitted by the PS ) — regretting the death of Francesc Vendrell. I ask Mrs Palmira Maciel to read.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u599	Mr President, the draft vote is as follows: « He died in London at 82 years ago on 27 November, Francesc Vendrell, a recognized diplomat who served much of the career at the service of the United Nations ( United Nations ), in particular as representative of the United Nations Secretary-General for Timor-Leste. Born in Barcelona, in 1940, Francesc Vendrell studied Law, eventually exiled as a result of his active militia against the Franco regime. He later studied at the King's College in London and graduated in History, Cambridge. It was in 1968 that he entered the United Nations diplomatic corps in New York and joined the Commission on Human Rights. during his 40-year career at the service of the United Nations and other international organizations, he performed important functions as a mediator of conflict, highlighting his role in countries such as Armenia, Nicaragua, El Salvador, Guatemala, Haiti, Cambodia, Myanmar or Timor-Leste. in the service of the United Nations, he has also served in Afghanistan, and has also served as the European Union's Special Representative between 2002 and 2008 in Afghanistan. of its long, productive and valuable career, stands out its invaluable work during the independence process of Timor-Leste, a situation that has always followed, since the invasion of 1975. It played a decisive role in the production of the eight resolutions of the United Nations General Assembly on Timor-Leste, adopted between 1976 and 1982, with the attention of the international community on this issue being maintained and later assumed the position of Special Representative of the United Nations Secretary-General for Timor-Leste. Francesc Vendrell devoted his whole life to diplomacy, the pursuit of peace between peoples and nations and the defense of human rights, acting decisively at various and important moments in world history. He was also a great friend of Timor-Leste and an ally of Portugal, having been decorated with the degree of Commander of the Order of Freedom in August 2019, at a ceremony held at the Embassy of Portugal in Díli, when 20 years on the Referendum that would recognize the independence of East Timor. Thus, meeting in plenary session, the Assembly of the Republic expresses its regret at the death of Francesc Vendrell, recalling its work in the name of peace and human rights and expressing its heartfelt condolences to family and friends. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u600	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall vote on the deliberative part of the draft vote that has just been read. [[The vote was taken unanimously.]] Then we moved on to the Vote Project No. 223 / XV / 1. a ( submitted by PS ) — Regret for the death of Antonio Feliciano Inácio. I ask Secretary Duarte Pacheco to proceed with his reading.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u601	Mr President, the draft vote is as follows: « He died last December 20, at the age of 83, Antonio Feliciano Inácio. Natural of Sabóia, Odemira municipality, may have been this Alentejana experience in the interior of the country, where access is a challenge of day-to-day, which aroused his passion for the magic of cinema and which has led him from the very beginning to filming films with the local communities, moving to the most recondited villages, so that no one would cease to have access to the so-called 7. Art. António Feliciano, the last walking projectionist, was moved by a motto: “The culture is for all and must reach all. ” It was based on this maxim and with great effort that built in Vila Nova de Milfontes the first cinema room of the municipality of Odemira, the Cinematrium GiraSol, and that for more than half a century designed land films on earth. His life story has been counted with the right to great reports, documentaries such as Dogs without Colleira, Rosa Coutinho Cabral ( 1997 ), or Cinema con Gente Intro, Rui Lamy and Diogo Vilhena ( 2007 ), and even a song of the band Azeitonas Cinegirasol, with video of animation stop motion. In 2006 the Municipality of Odemira awarded him the Municipal Medal of Merito in recognition of the extraordinary action in behalf of the community as a cultural agent, particularly in cinema, with the population of Odeirense, Alentejo and even the Country. Thus, meeting in plenary session, the Assembly of the Republic expresses its regret at the death of Antonio Feliciano Inácio, lamenting his loss and exalting the valuable example and contribution he has made to access to culture in our country and presents his deepest condolences to his family and friends. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u602	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall vote on the deliberative part of the draft vote that has just been read. [[The vote was taken unanimously.]] I welcome the presence of relatives of the citizen now honoured and express condolences on behalf of the Assembly of the Republic. We continue with the Vote Project No. 224 / XV / 1. a ( submitted by PAR and subscribed by PS, PSD, CH and IL ) — I regret the death of Pope Emeritus Benedict XVI. I ask Secretary Helga Correia to proceed with its reading.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u603	Mr President, the draft vote is as follows: « On the last day of 2022, Joseph Ratzinger died at the age of 95, who, with the pontifical name Benedict XVI, succeeded John Paul II in 2005 in the leadership of the Catholic Church. Born from Bavaria, in Germany, where he was ordained priest in 1951, Ratzinger was an eminent theologian. He highlighted himself as a thinker and intellectual, producing strong reflection, particularly around the union of faith and reason, and launched important bridges of dialogue with non-believers. He had a role to play in the Second Vatican Council, where the young man — although already well-known — theology teacher participated as a theological consultant. He then assumed for a long time the important responsibility of the Congregation's mayor for the Doctrine of the Faith. He was elected Pope in 2005, playing the post until 2013, at which time he renounced, invoking not to have the strength and age necessary to the demands of his exercise, in what was the first time in modern history that a Pope voluntarily abdicated to the head of the Catholic Church. Following this historic gesture, he became “Pope Emeritus, ” in an unprecedented cohabitation with his successor, but scrupulously fulfilling his vote of collection and discretion. His legacy will certainly reflect the importance of this foundational gesture, as well as the commitment and dedication that Benedict XVI revealed in his teaching, in difficult times for the Catholic Church. The Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary session, expresses its deep regret at the death of Pope Emeritus Benedict XVI, addressing the Catholic Church and its entire community with the most heartfelt condolences. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u604	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall vote on the deliberative part of the draft vote that has just been read. [[Having put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the PS, the CH, the IL, the PCP, the PAN and the L and the abstention from BE.]] We now have the Vote Project No. 225 / XV / 1. a ( submitted by the PS ) — regretting the death of António Mega Ferreira. I ask Mrs Maria da Luz Rosinha to proceed to her reading.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u605	Mr President, the draft vote is as follows: « He died last December 26, at 73 years old, António Mega Ferreira, writer, press and television journalist, editor, fictionist, essayist, chronicist, poet, translator and cultural manager. Its action will forever be linked to Expo 98, which transformed the eastern part of Lisbon, then chaired the Expo Park, the Lisbon Oceanário and the Atlantic Pavilion, equipment that remained as a legacy of that exhibition and that entered Mega Ferreira in history as an undisturbed reference to Portuguese culture and thinking in the post-25th April, in particular as regards the projection of young Portuguese democracy in the European space. It will also be known as an innovative cultural manager. Between 2006 and 2012, he chaired the Fondação Centro Cultural de Belém, where, among other things, he expanded cultural use to world references in live arts. Between 2013 and 2019, he was also director of AMEC - Metropolitana, managing entity of three orchestras (Losboa Metropolitan Orchestra, Metropolitan Academic Orchestra and Metropolitan Symphony Orchestra ) and of three teaching establishments ( Superior National Academy of Orchestra, Conservatoire of Metropolitan Music and Metropolitan Professional School ). Trained in Law, by the University of Lisbon, and in Social Communication, by the University of Manchester, Mega Ferreira began by being a journalist and editor, having started, even before 1974, in the opposition newspaper Trade in Funchal, later coming to integrate the editorials of the New Journal, the Express Week, DO Journal and the Portuguese News Agency ( ANOP ). He was also the editor of the RTP2 and Jornal de Letras information service and founded the Ler and Oceans magazines. In addition to its projection as a cultural manager, writing was always assumed as a profession of heart, having published, as a poet and writer, more than 40 works ranging from fiction, to essay, poetry and chronic. Thus, meeting in plenary session, the Assembly of the Republic expresses its deep regret at the death of António Mega Ferreira and regrets the loss of a unique figure of contemporary Portuguese cultural creation and management, endowed with remarkable creativity and performance capacity and which have marked, among other things, the physionomy and projection of the city of Lisbon, directing to the family and friends their most heartfelt condolences. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u606	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall vote on the deliberative part of the draft vote that has just been read. [[The vote was taken unanimously.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, following the votes that we have just voted on, we will keep a minute's silence. [[The House kept, standing, a minute's silence.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Members, we shall continue with the general vote of Bill No 186 / XV / 1. a (CH) — Equalization is made between nurses linked to an individual employment contract (ITC) and nurses linked to a public service contract (FPC) for the purposes of remuneration and remuneration positions. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of CH, BE and PAN and abstentions from PS, IL, PCP and L.]] We proceed to the general vote on Bill No. 378 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Integration of workers with individual employment contracts into their Public Administration careers. [[The vote was taken with votes against the PS, the PS and the IL and votes against the CH, the PCP, the BE, the PAN and the L.]] We proceed with the general vote of Bill No. 448 / XV / 1. a ( BE ) — Equality between workers with individual employment contracts and with employment contracts in public functions in the field of health. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of the CH, the CFP, the BE, the NAP and the L and abstentions of the PSD and the IL.]] We now proceed to the general vote on draft resolution No 94 / XV / 1. a (BE) — For the preservation and defense of the Tapada das Necessities as a public space. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, the PS and the IL were rejected, votes against the CH, the CFP, the BE and the NAP and the L abstention.]] We will generally vote for Resolution No 105 / XV / 1. a ( CH) — Maintenance of the Tapada das Necessities garden. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, PSD and IL were rejected, votes against the CH, BE and PAN and abstentions from the CFP and L.]] We continue with the general vote on draft resolution No 131 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ) — The rehabilitation and safeguarding of the public interest and enjoyment of the Tapada das Necessities. [[The vote was taken with votes against the PS, the PS and the IL and votes against the CH, the PCP, the BE, the PAN and the L.]] We will now vote, in general, on Resolution Project No. 151 / XV / 1. a ( PAN) — By preserving the historical and natural values of the Tapada das Necessities. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of the CH, the CFP, the BE, the NAP and the L and abstentions of the PSD and the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u607	Mr President, I beg your pardon, will you allow me to speak?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u608	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u609	Mr President, it is to be announced that the PS Parliamentary Group will present a written declaration of vote on this draft resolution.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u610	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, we shall proceed with the vote on draft resolution No 161 / XV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Regenerate the Capada das Necessities and open the Royal Palace to the public as new by the museum after exiting the MNE. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of the PS, the CH, the IL, the CCP and the NAP and the Abstaining from BE and L.]] We shall generally vote for Law No 105 / XIV / 2. a ( ALRAM ) — By increasing the funding of the University of Madeira and the University of Azores - Sixth amendment to Law No 37 / 2003 of 22 August, which establishes the basis for the financing of higher education. [[When put to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PS and votes against the PS, the CH, the IL, the PCP, the BE, the PAN and the L.]] We continue with the general vote of Bill No. 428 / XV / 1. a ( CH) — Alter to Law No 37 / 2003 of 22 August, ensuring the introduction of an insularity supplement applicable to the financing of higher education establishments in the Autonomous Regions of Madeira and the Azores. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of the PS, the CH, the BE and the NAP and IL, the PCP and the L.]] We will move on to the general vote of Bill No 231 / XV / 1. a ( PS ) — Approves the framework law on the allocation of the population category. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Mrs. Members, this bill goes down to 13. the Commission. Let us now, in general, vote on Law No 30 / XV / 1. a ( GOV ) — Completes the transposition of Directive ( EU ) 2019 / 2161 on consumer protection. [[When put to the vote, votes against the CFP and BE and abstentions against the CH, IL, the NAP and the L were adopted with votes in favour of the PS and the PSD.]] This bill goes down to 6. the Commission. We proceed to the general vote on Bill No 382 / XV / 1. a (NAP) — Ensures the environmental labelling of food products by amending Decree-Law No 138/90 of 26 April. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, the PSD and the CFP were rejected, votes against the BE, the NAP and the L and abstentions against the CH and the IL.]] We will now vote, in general, on Bill No. 438 / XV / 1. a (CH) — Recognizes the right to environmental protection and ecologically responsible consumption in the Consumer Protection Act. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of the PS, the CH, the IL and the NAP and abstentions of the CFP, the BE and the L.]] We proceed with the general vote on the Proposal for a Law No 32 / XV / 1. a ( GOV ) — Authorizes the Government to establish certification rules for the qualifications of persons involved in the operation of inland waterway vessels for transposition of Directives ( EU ) 2017 / 2397, 2020 / 12 and 2021 / 1233. [[Having put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS and the PSD and with abstentions from the CH, the IL, the CFP, the BE, the NAP and the L.]] The bill goes down to 6. the Commission. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, we continue with the vote on Bill No 380 / XV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Revision of the SIFIDE II scheme for the elimination of abuse and encouragement of real investment for research, development, technological innovation and energy transition. [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, the PCP, the BE and the L and votes against the PSD, the CH, the IL and the NAP.]] We will now proceed to the vote on Bill No. 422 / XV / 1. a ( BE ) — eliminates the tax benefits allocated under SIFIDE to investment funds and contributions to investment and venture capital funds, or to the acquisition of social equity. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and the CH were rejected in favour of the PSD, the CFP, the BE, the NAP and the L and the abstention from the IL.]] We are now going to vote on a request by the NAP, on a bass basis to the Committee on Budget and Finance, without a vote, generally for 60 days of the Bill No. 424 / XV / 1. a ( PAN) — It creates incentives for business investment in environmental sustainability by amending the Fiscal Code for Investment and Decree-Law No 8/2007 of 17 January 2007. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We proceed to the vote on Bill No. 431 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Extends SIFIDE and allocates its financial resources to research and development policies ( R & D ), making the seventh amendment to Decree-Law No 162 / 2014 of 31 October 2014. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, CH, IL and PAN were rejected, votes against the CFP and BE and L abstention.]] Let us now vote on a request submitted by the CH, requesting the discharge of the Committee on Budgets and Finance, without a vote, generally for 60 days of the Bill No 439 / XV / 1. a (CH) — Amends the Investment Tax Code by revising the system of tax incentives for research and business development. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We proceed with the vote on draft resolution No 102 / XV / 1. a ( CH) — By conducting an updated study on the characterization of Roma communities living in Portugal. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, the IL, the CFP, the BE, the NAP and the L were rejected, votes against the CH and abstention from the PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u611	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u612	Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u613	Mr President, it is in order to announce that, with regard to this vote, I will present a declaration of vote in writing.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u614	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. We proceed to the vote on a request by the NAP for a discharge to the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees, without a vote, generally for 60 days of Bill No. 430 / XV / 1. a (PAN) — Approves measures to combat discrimination against foreign citizens by amending various diplomas. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We continue with the vote on draft resolution No 21 / XV / 1. a (PAN) — Recommends that the Government ensure greater disclosure of the social tariff for the provision of broadband Internet access services and the elimination of additional costs for accession to this tariff. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of the PS, the IL, the CFP, the BE, the NAP and the L and the abstention from the CH.]] We shall proceed to the general vote on draft resolution No 333 / XV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Recommends that the Government act on the Municipal Emergency Fund and ensure the necessary support for the repair of the damage caused to municipalities and inter-municipal communities due to the full situations in December 2022. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PSD, the CH, the IL, the PCP, the BE, the PAN and the L and the PS abstention.]] Mrs. Members, this draft resolution is down to 13. the Commission. We shall now vote on opinions from the Committee on Transparency and the Statute of the Members of the European Parliament. I would ask Mrs Maria da Luz Rosinha to read her final part.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u615	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the request of the Court of Justice of the Comarca de Lisboa — Justice 5, Inquiry No 1054 / 20.9PBCSC, the Committee on Transparency and the Statute of Deputies decided to issue an opinion to authorize Mr Pedro Pessanha ( CH ) to present statements as an assistant within the framework of the said cases.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u616	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let's vote for the opinion. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] You may proceed, Mrs.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u617	Mr. President and Mr. Members, in accordance with the request of the Central Court of Criminal Instruction of Lisbon — TCIC — Judge 1, Inquiry No 3829 / 22.5T9LSB, the Committee on Transparency and the Statute of Deputies decided to issue an opinion to authorize Mr André Ventura ( CH ) to make written statements, as assistant, within the framework of those cases.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u618	Let's vote, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] You would like to continue, Mrs.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u619	Mr. President and Mr. Members, the request of the Central Court of Criminal Instruction of Lisbon — TICC — Judge 1, Inquiry No 3829 / 22.5T9LSB, the Committee on Transparency and the Statute of Members decided to issue an opinion to authorize Mr Gabriel Mithá Ribeiro ( CH ) to make written statements as assistant in the course of the investigation.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u620	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let us vote on this opinion. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] I would also like to ask the honourable Member to give us an account of the file.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u621	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, have entered the Bureau, and have been admitted, Bills No. 460 / XV / 1. a ( PAN ), which falls to 6. the Commission, in connection with 5. the Commission, and 461 / XV / 1. a ( PAN ), which falls to 6. the Commission, in connection with 1. the Commission. Resolution Projects Nos. 353 / XV / 1 were also admitted. a ( L ), which drops to 8. the Commission, and 354 / XV / 1. a ( BE ), which falls to 8. the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-06.u622	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, this concludes today's session. The next plenary session will be on Wednesday and we will hold the debate with the Prime Minister on general policy under Article 224 ( a ). the Rules of Procedure. Very good weekend to all. [[It was 14 hours and 45 minutes.]]
