ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-15.u1	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. Let's start our plenary session. [[It was 15 hours and 9 minutes.]] I'm asking the ladies. Authorities please open the galleries to the public. Thank you very much. I ask Mrs Maria da Luz Rosinha to read the file. [[Pause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-15.u2	Mr. President, I apologize for the delay. I greet all and all. They entered the Bureau, and were admitted by Mr. President, Bills No. 626 / XVI / 1. a ( PAN ), which falls to 10. the Commission, 645 / XVI / 1. a ( PCP ), which goes down to the 1st Commission, 650 / XVI / 1. a ( IL ), which falls to 13. the Commission, in connection with 6. the Commission, 651 / XV / 1. a ( IL ), which falls to 5. the Commission, in connection with 6. the Commission, 652 / XV / 1. a ( IL ), which falls to 1. the Commission, in connection with 5. the Commission, 653 / XV / 1. a ( PSD ), 654 / XV / 1. a ( PSD ), 655 / XV / 1. a ( PSD ), 656 / XV / 1. a ( PSD ), 657 / XV / 1. a ( IL ), which falls to 5. the Commission, in connection with 6. the Commission, 658 / XV / 1. a ( IL ), which falls to 5. the Commission, in connection with 6. the Commission, 661 / XV / 1. a ( IL ), which falls to 6. the Commission, 662 / XV / 1. a ( PAN ), which falls to 11. the Commission, 663 / XV / 1. a ( CH ), which falls to 6. the Commission, 665 / XV / 1. a ( BE ), which falls to 13. the Commission, in connection with 3. the Commission. Resolution Projects Nos 543 / XV / 1 also entered. a ( PSD ), 544 / XV / 1. a ( PAN ), which drops to 1. the Commission, 545 / XV / 1. a ( CH ), which falls to 9. the Commission, 546 / XV / 1. a ( CH ), which drops to 1. the Commission, 547 / XV / 1. a ( IL ), which falls to 6. the Commission, 548 / XV / 1. a ( IL ), which falls to 6. the Commission, and 549 / XV / 1. a ( PAN ), which falls to 8. the Commission. That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-15.u3	The agenda for today's sitting was set at the request of the PSD Parliamentary Group on the theme « housing », in which the following initiatives will be discussed: Draft Law No 653 / XV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Alter the Legal Regime of Urbanization and Building and the Legal Regime of Territorial Management Instruments in order to simplify licensing, strengthen the means of monitoring and facilitate land use for housing use; Bill No 654 / XV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Tax measures for social intervention to resolve the serious crisis in access to own housing, the increase of charges generated with the rise of interest in housing credit and the promotion of measures that encourage a better impact of the devolved buildings and the strengthening of confidence between the parties in lease contracts; Bill No. 655 / XV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Establishs the transitional income allowance scheme and approves mitigation measures on the impact of aggravating interest on housing; Bill No. 656 / XV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Housing for young people — student housing, rent for young people and acquisition of the first own and permanent housing; Resolution Project No 543 / XV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Accelerating implementation of PRR funds for housing, promoting innovative housing and housing solutions, and assessing changes to the urban lease regime; Draft Law No 603 / XV / 1. a ( CH) — Extension of the seal tax exemption provided for in the Seal Tax Code; Bill No. 607 / XV / 1. a ( CH) — Amend the VAT code so that the overall value of rehabilitation and related works carried out in buildings for housing benefits from the reduced rate of VAT by 6 %; Draft Law No 609/XV / 1. a ( IL) — Allows civil society to rehabilitate the state's returned buildings for affordable rent; Bill No. 631 / XV / 1. a ( L) — Amends the Tax Benefit Statute by limiting the exemption of IRC to funds and real estate investment companies that provide 30 % of their real estate in the Rent Support Programme; Draft Resolution No 481 / XV / 1. a ( BE) — Recommends that the Government not sell or transfer land to real estate speculation processes and be used for public housing policies; Draft Resolution No 525 / XV / 1. a ( IL) — By the creation of the Digital Urban Licensing Portal ( PDLU) ; Draft Resolution No 526 / XV / 1. a ( L) — Recommends that the Government contract the human resources necessary to pursue public housing policies; and Draft Resolution No 542/XV/1. a ( PCP ) — Prevent speculation, guarantee and protect the right to housing. To present the initiatives of the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mrs Marcia Passos has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-15.u4	Mr President, Mr Ministers, Mrs State Secretary, Mrs and Mrs Members: Portugal is experiencing a serious housing crisis today, a crisis that affects the most disadvantaged social classes, but also the middle class. In seven months, the PSD analyzed, heard the municipalities, the parish, the investors, the landlords and the renters, heard the banking institutions, heard the civil society and heard the people. And in just seven months, the PSD presented its programmatic lines and short, medium and long-term solutions,... [[PSD applause.]] ...what the Socialist Party Government was unable to do in seven years. Without hearing anything, nor anyone else, the PS will forever leave its brand in the country with regard to housing policies: it is the mark of the failure and incompetence that Fernando Medina and Antonio Costa used to leave Lisbon with the largest number of returned homes that there is memory and with the largest number of people living on the street. [[PSD applause.]] A new path to housing is no longer a program, to join the more than 20 that PS has announced since 2015, many of them without any application. That is, yes, the construction of the alternative. The new path to housing proposed by the PSD is a path that makes the state responsible, respects investment, creates opportunities, encourages construction, gives stability and security, thinks of young people, families and the elderly. of the most immediate application solutions that we bring to everyone's reflection today, we highlight the following: Offer shock. The PSD proposes that the State first arrange its « home», say what its properties are returned, rebuild, rehabilitate and place them at the service of people, in affordable rental, in student accommodation and in combined housing. Incentives to the construction, with the simplification of licences, the change of soil policy in collaboration with municipalities, and tax incentives for construction and rehabilitation. Incentive to the sharing of inheritances, with the exception of capital gains until the end of 2024. It assists families through income insurance, income allowance with higher values for young people, tax benefits in housing credit and renting—for example, discounts on family IMI and elimination of seal tax, programs specifically directed to the housing of younger people. The PSD proposes that a serious diagnosis of the lease market be made, so that it is possible, in a short time, to review the urban lease regime, so as to end with the blanket of flaps in which it has become, create instability and escapes to the parallel market, where everyone loses, including the state. The PSD also presents today innovative solutions that have already proved success in other countries: to build for rent, revitalization of cooperative housing and collaborative housing, housing program as service, as an alternative to acquisition or lease, facilitation of modular housing. Build an alternative without removing the investment that Portugal needs so much. Build an alternative without violating property rights. [[PSD applause.]] Yes, it is possible to build alternative without destroying local accommodation and without harming tourism. The PSD calls all parties, from left to right, to a joint reflection, free from prejudices and ideologies, far from populisms and demagogy, with an attentive look at the current housing crisis, with the maximum concern for people and their future. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we are all summoned. There is will, strength and courage to join the PSD and, in a joint effort, to build a new path to housing in Portugal. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-15.u5	The Bureau registered two Mrs. Members to make requests for clarification, to which Mrs Marcia Passos will answer together. To make the first request for clarification, Mrs Maria Begonha of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-15.u6	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mrs Márcia Passos, the PS government has started the debate and has led the political initiative on new responses to the housing crisis. At the heart of the concerns of the PS and Ms. Minister's bench, which I take advantage of to greet, is actually responding to the housing crisis in its multiple dimensions, such as the increase in the supply of buildings and houses in the lease market at affordable costs and the support and protection of families. But there is another dimension, which the PSD completely leaves out of its answers, which is even the fight against speculation and the escalation of prices that it lives and a greater presence of the state. Mrs. Members, the revenue or the error we do not want to return to and which is transversal to the PSD package is this: that the answers may be on the market and that the state must, with the exception of the support measures—but I will go there— and leave the front and allow the housing business to prosper. Structurally, the difference is that the Socialist Party wants to transform housing into a pillar of the social state,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-15.u7	Seven years!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-15.u8	... I plan that the PSD does not share, does not accompany, leaving behind all those who claim precisely more protection, more social justice and less market, which says rules of exclusion. That is why, at a time of profound crisis, the PSD voted against the 2 % limit on the increase in income. That is why we have found zero, zero market regulation measures in these proposals. That is why they pointed out the batteries of criticism to the fact that evictions are no longer facilitated. Balance, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mrs Marcia Passos, it is even difficult to find structurally in the PSD proposals. Tax incentives and tax breakdown are confidence-building measures for the private sector that are also decisive in PS measures, but we know that they are not sufficient. So my first question is this: how do you expect to solve the housing crisis by leaving people — middle class, low class, young people — outside, delivered to vertiginous and lucrative rises far above the inflation that has occurred, what do we consider an attack on the right to housing? The gentlemen. Members will answer that it is with the "supply shock", an expression that now seems to be judged by authors and owners. We know that in this field the Socialist Party has led a set of proposals, from the simplification of licences to the increase in construction, and there is convergence here. I highlight another example of the lack of balance of PSD proposals: they do not even understand who is affected by the housing crisis. On the one hand, they agree with the Government and the Socialist Party when we say that there must be more construction and increased supply. On the other hand, the ladies. Members propose the reduction of VAT to 6 % in construction. For whom? For affordable rent, so that it is available to families, to young people? No, the ladies. Members propose for everyone and for example also for the construction of luxury housing. Is this the construction that will solve the housing problem for the middle class and for young people? Madam Member, can the PSD recognise that there is a limit on which, when the prosperity of the business, of private activity has negative consequences on fundamental human rights, the State should intervene? I ask this because we do not find in the PSD proposals any measure for what has been so criticised, such as measures to limit local accommodation. And we explain, Mrs Deputy, the Portuguese panorama: it is 100 000 local housing licences and 120 000 public park housing, which is 2 %. Does the PSD believe there is a balance? This is another question I'm leaving. Can the PSD assume that none of its measures have the courage to combat any effect of speculation? It is about the only major state intervention reform in the market, which is the increase in the public park, the right in general, and the PSD in particular, that we already know it does not support. That's why, sirs. Members, there are certainly convergences that allow dialogue to continue. This convergence is not in the support proposed by the PSD, which has a time limit — the PSD or support for people, but wants to reassess in 2030. There is a possibility of dialogue and convergence, but we must even say that there is a lack of moderation and balance in the PSD proposals, which fall short of the initiative that the Socialist Party has already had, because many of those most in need of this Parliament's intervention are not protected. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-15.u9	To make the request for clarification on behalf of the CFP Parliamentary Group, Mr Duarte Alves has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-15.u10	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs Márcia Passos, looking at the initiatives that the PSD presents to us, in particular for the Bills No 654 / XV / 1. a and 655 / XV / 1. we find that the basic housing policy options proposed by the PSD are not so different from those presented by the PS.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-15.u11	They're very different!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-15.u12	In fact, this says a lot about PSD, about PSD policy, but more about the political options of the Socialist Party Government. The Government proposes more tax bills as a solution to the housing problem. PSD doesn't disagree, PSD either is even more. That's the difference. For example, when it comes to income taxation, the PS has already had the principle of encumbrance in its electoral programme — one can imagine! — and now proposes to further reduce the rate of relief for rent from five years. The PSD agrees and still wants this principle of tax injustice to go further,... [[PSD protests.]] ... by making that millionaire income can be taxed at a much lower rate than that paid by income from work. The government also wants to put taxpayers to pay the bank's profits, subsidizing the continuation of high benefits without undermining the bank's profit margin. We came yesterday to see the PS and PSD confront the Portuguese Banks Association with the social insensitivity of the bank, but we do not see, either in government measures or in PSD proposals, any measure that would cause the benefits to be lowered at the expense of the bank's profits. We see, yes, proposals to put taxpayers to subsidize this differential and that is where there is no difference in the political options of the PS and PSD. We also see both the government and the PSD saying that they will force banks to make a fixed rate available. Now, let us ask: how can your proposals require banks to present a fixed rate which is at least desirable? This reminds telecommunications operators when they have been obliged to submit contracts without loyalty. They presented contracts without loyalty, but had no effect, because they put these contracts far higher than contracts with loyalty. The same could happen to these fixed-rate bond measures, because there is no measure to ensure that banks present fixed rates compatible with the income of the population. So what we've checked is that PS and PSD know, as we know, that housing is not a tax issue. in recent years, what has happened was not an increase of taxes in housing,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-15.u13	That's right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-15.u14	... what happened was a deregulation of the market, what happened were tax privileged regimes, golden visas, unusual residents, which made prices disappear around a speculation promoted by real estate funds. And neither the government's proposals nor the PSD proposals touch on the interests of those who, in fact, have caused the housing crisis. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-15.u15	To answer, you have the floor to Mrs Marcia Passos.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-15.u16	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr Duarte Alves and Mrs Maria Begonha, the PSD proposals were presented in time, so it gave them time to study them a little better. [[PSD applause.]] Mrs. Maria Begonha says the young people are out. I have not read our proposals, of course.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-15.u17	She's wrong!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-15.u18	Mr Duarte Alves, the PSD proposals have few points in common with those of the Socialist Party, very few. With regard to the reduction of the liberative rate, yes, it is our proposal that we defend and defend. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-15.u19	You know why? Only with the flexibility of the lease regime will we be able to solve the problems of housing in Portugal. [[PSD applause.]] [[Protests by PCP Member Duarte Alves.]] Mrs. Maria Begonha says the Socialist Party has led. Have you led the housing debate?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-15.u20	Here!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-15.u21	Do you know what the Socialist Party has led? A set and one without a number of proposals that has been presenting since 2015, in real advertising, and half, or perhaps more, has no practical application. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-15.u22	I'm going to give some examples: the 2016 Revive Programme — promises and more promises for the recovery of public buildings, which we still don't know what they are; the Financial Instrument for Urban Rehabilitation and Revitalization; the National Fund for the Rehabilitation of Building — do you know what priorities were? Recovering social neighborhoods, ensuring that by 2024 no one lives in precarious conditions. In 2023, zero, Mrs. Member! Zero! [[PSD applause.]] [[Protests from PS MP Maria Begonha.]] I give more examples: the PEDU (Strategic Urban Development Plan ) ; the PRU (Action Plan for Urban Regeneration) ; the Effective House Program ; the Rehabilitation to Landing. Finally, I could continue out here, because you have achieved absolutely nothing and therefore are leading — they are leading incompetence, they are leading us so that we have more and more housing problems in Portugal. And more: they deceive people, they deceive Portuguese. That I know, in the Socialist Party's electoral programme, there was no end to local housing, for example. [[Protests from PS MP Maria Begonha.]] In 2020, you regulated heavy requirements that force a huge investment, and today they want to end. Loans have been made, they want to take the tourism away, after all, one without a number of — I am sorry — nonsense.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-15.u23	Fight inflation!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-15.u24	It was also not in your programme that you wanted to move away from the investment and it has not been done, until today, to prove that these measures solve the problem of housing, quite the contrary. It's just that you don't do the housework, as you didn't today,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-15.u25	Look what we've been preparing!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-15.u26	... they don't make the diagnosis, they don't do the studies and they don't show the country that your measurements are the best because, in fact, they're not, they're the worst. But, fortunately, today there are two completely different paths for Portugal with regard to housing and ours is undoubtedly the best. [[PSD applause.]] [[Protests of PS Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-15.u27	To present the initiatives of the Parliamentary Group of the Arrival, Mr André Ventura has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-15.u28	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government : The debate that brings us here today, the PSD, is about housing. on this day when we talk about housing, we should make it clear as water that the country lives one of the biggest housing crises in its history. But in this housing crisis, the PS brings us to the debate, tells us that it has led the housing debate. And for once in life, we have to recognize that the PS is right. [[Mr Pedro Pinto's laughs.]] Indeed, incompetence and propaganda, the PS has led the debate of housing in Portugal. [[Congrats from the CH.]] Incompetence and propaganda, PS has done what it can and cannot ensure that housing is the theme of the day and is the theme of the agenda. former Minister Pedro Nuno Santos, who was going to solve much of the problems of housing, we no longer have news, but the jokes and lies that have been told about TAP ( Portuguese Air Transport ). [[Protests from PS MP Maria Begonha.]] of his successor, we know only to be the newest minister ever in Portugal, who came with the ideas of Pedro Nuno Santos and seems to have no more than these ideas.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-15.u29	Is being young a defect?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-15.u30	It is the truth that we have today of the new Minister who has entered, who has already made history, and we must recognize it. The Minister of Housing has made history of this : in the greatest attack on private property that there is memory in Portugal. It is the biggest attack on private property that there is memory in Portugal! [[Congrats from the CH.]] Ms. Minister said she wanted to make use of the devolved houses, the empty houses, the unused property of the individuals, but the state is the main non-compliance, because it has thousands of houses returned by the whole country and does not use them. The Minister wants to force the owners of empty houses to use them, but the State is the main non-compliance in this matter. The Minister says she wants to know how many owners have empty houses and she, who owns thousands throughout the country, does not know how many empty houses the State has in Portugal. [[Congrats from the CH.]] But the subject doesn't stay here. Before being Prime Minister, Antonio Costa said that the local accommodation was a great incentive for tourism and the development of the city of Lisbon. António Costa went further than any other of his predecessors: imagine that he has come to place for local accommodation and for tourism the house of the President of the Lisbon Chamber himself, in Monsanto. At the time, it was António Costa making vows of love for local accommodation, tourism and development, in the same way as the privates of tourism. Now, they want to kill local housing licenses. Now, after they've used the money of hundreds of thousands of our compatriots who have rehabilitated buildings that the government didn't want to rehabilitate, who have rehabilitated houses that the cameras didn't want to rehabilitate, they tell them: "Get the money over here, that the licenses will end. » Mr.Minister, this is not called to lead the debate of housing, this is called expropriation, and is closer to the PCP than the modern country we want to build. [[Congrats from the CH.]] But the socialist government always has something in his sleeve, and he still has another one. He had the compulsory lease to bring us. In the middle of bullshit behind bullshit,... [[Protests from PS MP Maria Begonha.]] ... of incompetence behind incompetence, the government carried the obligation of tenants to rent real estate when they were not being used. Coercive lease—they did these words well, because few of us thought we heard them in the 21st century. The state, the all-powerful state, such as Venezuela, Cuba or North Korea,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-15.u31	In Cuba? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-15.u32	... tells the owners: "You don't want to rent, but you have a tattoo and you're going to rent the real estate you have! Do not keep on seeking. ” Mr Minister, this is not the case of a government that wants evolution and development, it is the government of the Prec (Revolutionary Process in Course) and will deserve our total opposition. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-15.u33	You know what PREC is there!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-15.u34	Mrs Maria Begonha said that there was a need for more state presence in the house. The PS, who was seven years in government — seven years! — and that it has never solved any housing problems, neither public nor private, the PS, which would be ashamed to look at the other housing programmes of other governments, before its history, or now more state in the housing. But let's get rid of each other. They don't want any more state to build housing, they want to take out housing to owners, entrepreneurs, families and investors, to the good socialist way of "give here what is yours to serve them forever". Deep down, it's the PS being the PS, and you're only fooling yourself. It is the PS to say that whoever worked, who invested, who paid taxes, who put all the savings of a lifetime in a business, now, all that is these people will stay for the huge dust of the state's interests, serving them forever. This, ladies and gentlemen. Members, it is to kill our economy, it is to kill tourism in Portugal, it is to kill private investment, it is to get closer to the PREC, that we do not want to live again. [[Congrats from the CH.]] [[Protests by PCP Member Duarte Alves.]] We have no doubt: the government has to lower taxes and must have the courage to dynamize and promote construction. Lowering taxes is the way. The socialist government does not want to do so,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-15.u35	That's something else!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-15.u36	...because he will always want something else, which is more money to distribute for the same as ever. in this case, there was a choice to make: lower taxes and create more construction or take everything to families to give to the same ones as ever. The PS, once again, chose to take everything that he did in life to give to the little ones and to the old ones.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-15.u37	You know who the kids are!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-15.u38	on our part, the middle class will be at the heart of our concerns and the PS, we expect, will leave to the Prec of history the measures it presents here. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-15.u39	To present the diplomas of the Liberal Initiative, Mr. Carlos Guimarães Pinto has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-15.u40	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The main problem of housing is lack of construction. According to the censuses, between 1981 and 1991, we had more 758 000 houses ; between 1991 and 2001, more 861,000 houses ; between 2001 and 2011, more 823 000 houses. On average, over 800 000 houses were added to every 10 years in these three decades of democracy. In the last decade, this value has dropped abruptly from 800 to 100 000, a huge difference from 700 000 homes from one decade to the next. A difference that would have made the difference in the lives of many people. These 700 000 houses, which have not been built, represent the lost dreams of young people who would like to leave their parents' homes, couples who would like to have a second child, people who cannot get rid of an abusive partner because they have no place to live, and, yes, people who live in other countries and who, for different reasons, dream of living and working in Portugal. The problem of housing is mainly a problem of lack of construction. We can only solve the problem of housing, solve the problems of all these people by increasing the number of houses, building more houses. If we build more houses, not only will there be more people with access to them, as existing houses will be cheaper. Building less does not mean just having higher prices. It also means an older housing park, where it gets colder and consumes more energy. For years, the government has looked at the decline in the construction of houses and has seen no problem. We have an increasingly expensive, aging housing park, but nobody ever wanted to know that until we reach the unsustainable situation we have today. The current Prime Minister and Minister of Finance were autarchs in the period when this decline was more marked, they knew the problem closely, but they never did anything to combat it. Faced with such great feelings of guilt, I now act in despair, in a clumsy way, and attack the local accommodation, which represents a small part of the country's housing park. They don't mind destroying businesses and jobs of people who have given so much to the country, just to hide their own incompetence. [[Applause from the IL.]] They also announced a fully impracticable coercive lease measure. It is true that only a few days have passed, throwing to the authorities the responsibility of executing an ill-designed measure and which is probably going against the Constitution. With this, the government does not really want to solve any problems, but only achieve two political objectives. First, with the announcement of the measure, he liked the most radical fringes of his party that in 1975 they would have fought against Mário Soares, next to the extreme left, opposing the right of ownership. [[Applause from the IL.]] Second, he threw into chambers led by political opponents the responsibility for the inevitable failure of the implementation of a bad measure.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-15.u41	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-15.u42	But this perception of despair and instability will have even more devastating consequences on the housing market. Legislative instability is at this very moment delaying new investment projects. No one knows what rules will exist in one year or what more will be done by a desperate government and with a misdirected aversion to private property. In the face of uncertainty, many will prefer to invest elsewhere, further exacerbating the housing problem we have. We do not need desperate, ill-thought-out measures that violate basic principles. We need to reduce the cost of building, speeding up licensing and increasing transparency in licensing processes. We can't let opacity be the rule in the departments of urbanism. We therefore bring here today the proposal of a single licensing portal, which will standardise project submission processes and where we can monitor and compare the licensing times of all authorities. We also believe that the State, which recognizes that there is a housing problem, to the point of wanting to expropriate private returns, cannot, in good conscience, keep thousands of its own buildings out of abandonment. For years, the State has not even been able to invent its returnees, the more it takes advantage of them to do something useful. So we also bring here today a proposal to put private entities to identify and rehabilitate state's returned buildings for affordable rent. With the right incentives, by putting private and state to cooperate, we can initiate a process of rehabilitation of the state's returned heritage. Former primary schools, barracks, residences of state officials and many other buildings are now being abandoned, some in areas of high urban pressure. How do they have the courage to propose expropriating private buildings, preventing people from continuing their business, when, at the same time, in the same areas, there are state buildings that have been abandoned for decades and are not even invented? [[Applause from the IL.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, there could be people dying. If you approve our proposal, soon you will even live people and without the state spending 1 € of taxpayers' money. I finish as I began: the main problem of housing is a problem of lack of construction. A destructive vision, according to which the housing problem is solved by destroying tourism, destroying the economy, undermining property rights and appealing to basic feelings of envy and xenophobia, does not serve the country. It will not be putting tenants against foreigners, Portuguese against foreigners and residents against tourists who will solve the problem. We need a constructive, positive vision that adds up and does not divide. As in so many other topics, we need a liberal view. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-15.u43	Two honourable Members have signed up to request clarification. Ladies and gentlemen. Are you going to answer the two together?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-15.u44	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-15.u45	To make the first request for clarification, Mr Ivan Gonçalves of the Socialist Party has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-15.u46	Mr. President, Mr. Ministers, Mrs. Secretary of State, Mrs. Members, Mr. Carlos Guimarães Pinto, in the face of the crisis Europe is facing, with a shortage of housing in urban centres, Portugal is also obviously not indifferent to this crisis. [[CH Member's protests Filipe Melo.]] In recent weeks, the Government of the Socialist Party has put in public discussion a wide range of measures, ranging from the simplification of the licensing process to the fight against speculation, through the protection of families from the increase in interest rates or the increase in the number of houses in the lease market. Over the past few weeks, the Portuguese neoliberals have accused the Socialist Party and the Government of being communists and of being — imagine! — promoting a new Prec (Revolutionary Process in Course).
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-15.u47	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-15.u48	The Portuguese neoliberals launched an information campaign based on a concrete measure, of dozens in public consultation, as we have also just seen. Now, in the face of the ferocity of the criticisms of the Liberal Initiative, when what is under discussion is just...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-15.u49	Just!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-15.u50	... that, lastly, the State can intervene in devolved houses, place them on the housing market and compensate the owners, as it is already done in other countries of Europe, and not in Venezuela and in those countries which the Arrival likes to invoke, what I would like to ask, Mr, is the following: whose interests are the interests that you are defending in this debate? We already know that they are not defending the interest of Portuguese people who have holiday homes, because they are not affected by this measure.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-15.u51	The ministers' houses!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-15.u52	We already know that it is also not the interest of immigrants who have houses in Portugal or of those who are displaced for professional reasons, because these houses are neither returned nor covered by this measure. It is not clearly that of taxpayers, because, as you see, if your proposal for the creation of the Phoenix system were to be applied as it is, the State would sell its estate to the waste,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-15.u53	The wreckage? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-15.u54	... without any medium and long-term structural vision for empowerment and without investing in its rehabilitation.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-15.u55	It's better to continue returning!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-15.u56	They are also not defending the interests of middle-class youths looking for a home, because those gentlemen have already said that it is not worth it, that not everyone can live in the city centers and that, if they are not lucky enough to be born into a rich family or with heritage, forget, because they cannot live in a large urban center. [[Protests by CH Member Rita Matias.]] We already know from other debates, which is certainly not the interest of the Portuguese and Portuguese students who have studied or studied in public school or in public higher education, nor is it the interest of the Portuguese who use the National Health Service that you defend, because these you understand that they are deeply indispensable services. [[IL protests.]] So, Mr President, the question I ask you once again is simple: who are you defending in this debate? What are the interests that you are defending in this debate when what the Socialist Party Government is presenting are measures to reduce the cost of housing in Portugal? [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-15.u57	You now have the floor, also for a request for clarification, Mr Luís Gomes, of the PSD Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-15.u58	Mr President, in fact, today we are discussing a very important issue that affects all Portuguese, which is the widespread crisis of lack of housing. I just heard Mr Ivan Gonçalves of the Socialist Party, and it seems that this crisis, this drama that Portuguese society is living, has nothing to do with the Socialist Party, as if the Socialist Party had not been ruling this country eight years ago. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-15.u59	The request for clarification is not for us!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-15.u60	But, in fact, this is a clear reality. It is a reality of young people, in particular, and of the middle class of our country, who cannot have the ability to access the housing market. They cannot have this capacity because it is not playing money from the PRR ( Recovery and Resilience Plan ), which then cannot be executed, which we solve the housing problem. We managed to solve the problem of housing with structural reforms, and the PSD presented here, with Mrs Marcia Passos, a set of serious structural reforms aimed at solving the problem of housing in Portugal. [[PSD applause.]] From the outset, the first problem is solved with the issue of spatial planning. We must have a qualified territory to respond to the needs of the Portuguese, to the needs of the authorities, because, unfortunately, today, our country's autarchs well want to implement housing policies, but they cannot. Why can't you? Because we have a system of spatial planning which you do not want to improve and which is highly bureaucratic. [[PSD applause.]] But, as if it were not enough, you come forward with another proposal to the Socialist Party. [[PS Member Protests Eurico Brilliant Dias.]] In other words, those who have to solve the problems of the State are once again the private ones. It is the private who have to give their heritage so that the State can fulfil its social obligations. [[PSD applause.]] This is the matrix of the proposal presented by the Government of the Socialist Party to the country: once again, putting the private ones, just as they are overcharged with taxes, to solve the problems of housing in Portugal. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-15.u61	in this circumstance, I would like to ask Mr Carlos Guimarães Pinto... [[Ah!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-15.u62	... if you think it's placing the property of the privates and killing the local accommodation that we actually managed to give a response to the needs of the Portuguese or you think we should put the public heritage, the state heritage, to set an example and give home to the Portuguese. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-15.u63	To reply, Mr. Carlos Guimarães Pinto has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-15.u64	Mr President, Mr Luís Gomes, I think you know the answer. We are quite in line with that perspective. Mr Ivan Gonçalves, I confess that I sometimes admire the can of PS Members. [[PS protests.]] The honourable Member here suggests that the Liberal Initiative might be wanting to defend any obscure interest in the construction sector.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-15.u65	I didn't say that. I just asked!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-15.u66	the construction sector! The Socialist Party, of the Lena Group, of the Mota-Engil, of Carlos Santos Silva, has the can to suggest that any party may be defending the interests of the construction sector! [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-15.u67	Pedro Pinto also says things like that! [[CH-protests and PS-protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-15.u68	You don't have to have a shame on your face to bring that kind of thing. But I'm telling you what interests we're here to defend. We are here defending the interests of those young people who cannot leave their parents' home because there are no homes on the market. We are defending the interests of those people who live in abusive relationships and who don't get rid of them because they don't have a house to go to. We're defending the interests of families that can't have any more children because they don't have a house to go to. That is why we are advocating a set of policies that will enable us to build more houses. That is why we argue that the state's returned buildings, the real estate that the state has not even invented, but that the PS is very concerned that they are sold at too low a price. Mr. Deputies, these buildings are being abandoned. We have old primary schools, all over the country, to abandon. The abandonment! They could be houses. Any use given to them would be better than simply being abandoned today. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-15.u69	It's selling them all!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-15.u70	So, honourable Member, unlike you, we defend these interests, the interests of people. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-15.u71	Mr Rui Tavares has the floor to present the initiatives of the Free House.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-15.u72	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Ministers : On the day when housing is debated in this Parliament, it is important to start by identifying an illusion, which would be dangerous for us all and dangerous for the country, which is the illusion that, having a housing crisis that we all recognize, now that we start to debate more deeply this problem and do anything, that problem will decrease. That's not true. Unless there are measures on a scale, the problem of housing will worsen, the crisis will deepen in the coming days, and much. Do not forget that, despite the relief of the pandemic, we are returning to the levels of tourism before the pandemic, but before the pandemic we were going up a lot, every year, and it is expected that so again. Do not forget that, in relation to the American creative classes or to the brazilian high class or to the Chinese or Indian high media, who seek to invest in the real estate in Portugal, tiny percentages of one tenth of each of them mean hundreds of thousands of homes that no longer are available to the people who already live in Portugal. The Liberal Initiative, recently, spoke of « cana» and I would like to realize exactly what designation can be given to those who, even a few weeks ago, abstained from the State's obligation to make an inventory of their heritage and the State's obligation to make a plan to transform their returned heritage into homes and now come to propose that it be civil society—with many quotes—to identify that heritage and keep it. I don't know if they're confusing civil society with society by quotas or anonymous societies.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-15.u73	The debate is about housing, you got it wrong!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-15.u74	To begin with, at least, solving the problem, there are two essential things to do: a first, object of our Resolution Project No 526 / XV / 1. the, is there is a serious human resource hiring, in order to be able to deal with a problem with the scale it has; and a second, object of our Bill No 631 / XV / 1. a, is that real estate funds only have access to the exemption of IRC (tax on income of the public) if - I think - a very moderate proposal - at least 30 % of their property is intended for affordable income. Otherwise, what will happen is that, as far as it is being built, what is built disappears, if there is no public housing park with which we can make public housing policies.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-15.u75	Mr Jorge Salgueiro Mendes of the PSD, but he does not have time to answer. I ask Mr Salgueiro Mendes whether the request for clarification remains.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-15.u76	I keep it, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-15.u77	Please, Mr. Deputy. You have the word.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-15.u78	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Rui Tavares, I thank you for your speech, which, despite our differences, enriches the debate on the proposals under discussion. In the draft resolution presented, the Book states that the PS Government's proposals, a More Housing package, are insufficient to solve the serious problems of housing and has doubts as to the viability of government intentions, given the lack of human resources allocated to the implementation of policies. In the PSD Parliamentary Group, we could no longer agree. After seven years of socialist governance, of speeches full of intentions, we witnessed the collapse of the lease market, at the cost of the and with the asphyxiating housing for families. Of the 26 000 houses that the Government has proposed to build, 90 % continue to be completed or on paper. Nor does the PRR save us, as attested by the National PRR Monitoring Commission, which considers housing investments as worrisome, necessary measures and / or its re-schedulement. In short, the measures submitted by the Government have been: inconsequential, always in the field of intentions, do not solve the problems of the Portuguese; avulses, and even the measures of the Most Housing have been presented without the legal diplomas of support and the taste of public opinion, of the 'let itself be seen'; and erratic, as proved by the recent proposals of the Government, still last week, regarding the defrosting of income until yesterday frozen 'until death in separation' and today possible to thaw, but also the new simplification and acceleration of waste, this diabolical measure of the PSD and CDS that the PS has always fought, but now it will be, and there have been lost seven years of confidence in the lease market.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-15.u79	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-15.u80	Ladies and gentlemen. Members, Agustina Bessa-Luís, in her novel Joy of Family, wrote: "Let's talk to the future by recreating the past. And that everything isn't what it was, but better, much better. Do not keep on seeking. ” Mr Rui Tavares — for reflection until the vote — are you the Member and the Freeman to follow the PSD proposals in general and for any amendments to the speciality? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-15.u81	Augustine is with us!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-15.u82	To present the Left Block initiative, Mrs Mariana Mortágua has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-15.u83	Mr President, Mr Ministers, Mrs and Mrs. Members: It took the price of houses to double to hear the PSD in the Assembly of the Republic to recognize a crisis in housing. See: 350 000 € is the price of a house with 95 m2 in the district of Lisbon; 500 000 € is the price of a house with 95 m2 in the municipality of Lisbon; 311 000 € is the price of 95 m2 in the municipality of Porto. A house of 95 m2 for rent costs, on average, in the district of Lisbon, 1600 € / month, and in the port costs 1300 € / month. This is the liberalized market at its best. This is the best market has to offer people. But if the market sells for this price and if the market rents for this price is because someone buys and someone pays the income. And I would like to give you a new one: it is not who lives and works in Portugal who buys and pays these rents. It's not the teachers, it's not the nurses, it's not the justice officers, it's not the tourism workers, it's not the local housing workers who pay these rents and this housing price. It's not worth it, ladies. Ladies and gentlemen, create false divisions. This is not just a problem of young people or students, this is not just a problem of poor workers — whether they are immigrants or not — this is not a problem of those who do not have a home against whom they have a home. This crisis is everyone's, it affects everyone, all those for whom housing has become a luxury, all those who are displaced away from their place of work, all those who live in overcrowded houses or in unhealthy rooms. They are the people who need a house and they don't find it, they are the people who have a house, but they're at risk of losing it, because they're going to be cleared, because they can't pay the rent or they can't pay the benefit to the bank, they're the children and they're the grandchildren of those who have a house, because they got it before the madness, speculation and tourism that invaded the big cities of Portugal. And this didn't happen by chance, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen. What did you think would happen when you promoted Portugal as a real estate paradise? And when were roadshows made in Russia to sell golden visas?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-15.u84	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-15.u85	What did you think would happen when you secured tax bills to non-residents? And when they fed unbridled tourism, without any control, that invaded buildings, neighborhoods, whole cities? What did you think would happen when you gave tax benefits to urban rehabilitation for high-value and luxury buildings?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-15.u86	It's true, Robles!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-15.u87	And when did they give tax benefits to real estate funds? What did you think was going to happen when you cut down on lease times and made it easier to clear? What did Minister Fernando Medina think was going to happen when he was President of the House of Lisbon and said he didn't know what tourism was the most? « I don't know what tourism is the most» said the Minister of Finance. The PS and PSD have transformed housing into a pure business—it is a financial asset, it is a very speculative—and now they deceive people, telling them that they will solve the housing crisis without touching in the interest of real estate. You're not going, ladies. Ladies and gentlemen, don't go. More tax benefits will not solve the problem. Returning to unbridled construction will not solve the problem. There are more than 1 million and 800,000 houses in this country than families to inhabit them and income subsidies will not solve the problem. People deserve a home that can pay with their wages and not be dependent on subsidies that are the kindness of the PSD or the Government of the Socialist Party.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-15.u88	It's the subsidy!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-15.u89	The way is different, ladies and gentlemen. Members: To end tax benefits to speculation, to place more houses for housing on the market, to limit incomes to values that may be compatible with wages. That's protecting the housing. The rest is business! [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-15.u90	The Bureau registered a Member for a request for clarification. Mr Luís Gomes, from the PSD Parliamentary Group, has the floor to put it down.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-15.u91	Mr President, Mr Ministers, Mr Secretary of State, Mrs Mariana Mortágua, it is true that there is a housing problem, and Mrs Deputies has also described it, but it is also true that, over five years, you have endured a management formed by the Socialist Party, the Left Block and the CFP. [[PSD applause.]] Perhaps, Madam Member, that would have been a good time—as the Cuban poet José Martí says, 'doing is the best way to say' — and the Left Block lost a good opportunity to demonstrate that it wanted, within the framework of the parliamentary coalition that supported the government, to seek to implement a housing policy. But the fact is that the Socialist Party is completely disillusioned with the inability to solve this problem, and it is at a disadvantage such as one of the proposals—and I would like the honourable Member to point out whether or not she agrees with it—regards Article 123. the legal regime of the Territorial Management Instruments, which provides that, in the event of a cessation of servitude, this soil then passes to a housing purpose. So what if you belong to a national agricultural reserve? What if you belong to a national ecological reserve? What if you belong to a natural park? Is the blackout so much worth it all? Madam Member, do you agree or disagree with this proposal? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-15.u92	In reply, Mrs Mariana Mortágua has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-15.u93	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, tax benefits, facilitation of licensing and construction and income subsidies are the responses that PSD and PS have to solve the housing crisis. They're exactly the same answers. But, Mr President, I would like to return the question to you: where was the honourable Member — the honourable Member was not a Member — or rather, where was the Democratic Social Party's bench when, during these five years, we brought here the end of the golden visas? Where was the Democratic Social Party bench when we brought here the end of the benefits for non-traditional residents? Where were the PSD's votes when we brought here proposals to bring stability to the lease, to end the easy evictions, to get more stable leases and roofs to the rents? Where was the Social Democratic Party while the housing crisis was raging and we brought here proposals to control it? [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-15.u94	To present the CFP initiative, Mr Bruno Dias has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-15.u95	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government: As time goes on, debates in plenary sessions, parliamentary hearings, television shows and newspaper pages are going on and so on, problems with housing in Portugal are getting more and more serious. It is important that the problems be identified, that the solutions be faced and that the political debate be done, but what is urgent, and it was already late yesterday, is that we are moving forward with the concrete measures to respond not to speculators, but to people who need home and cannot afford it. When the CFP presented proposals and solutions to these problems, the answers could have been given, and we would not have reached this point. We know that access to housing is one of the biggest concerns in the country today. Anyone looking for a house can't find it, because prices are absolutely prohibitive. Anyone who has home and pays income or benefits to the bank faces costs that do not stop increasing and lives on the constant standstill of being able to come home without. This is the reality of thousands and thousands of families. The proposals presented today by the PSD, the IL and the Arrival are measures that do not respond to the problems felt by families and promote speculation. PSD, IL and Arrival seek to go even further than the Government, by proposing even more tax benefits that will favour, above all, the same ones of the custom, those who have obtained bad profits with the speculation of housing — real estate and large owners— by using public resources to continue to feed up income and interest rates instead of facing the interests of the bank and the real estate, and by maintaining tax regimes of privilege,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-15.u96	In Atalaia! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-15.u97	...that is an example of the regime of unusual residents, except for visasgold, whose revocation was already delayed. About the law of evictions, not a word. For the Government and for the right, housing remains a commodity and not a right enshrined in the Constitution of the Republic. They rely on the measures announced and now proposed in the logic of the speculative market, which has already revealed that it does not only solve the problem of access to housing, as it is responsible for its worsening, this competition for ideas for tax bills to economic groups and real estate funds and the refusal of measures that confront speculation. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Government members : The CFP proposes a set of measures to prevent the rise in the provision of housing credit, to protect tenants from redundancies and income increases, and to increase public housing supply. We propose measures for the protection of own housing, limiting the maximum spread to be applied by the public bank, with a relevant influence on the market, placing as the first and main consequence of the increase in interest rates not the brutal punishment of families, but rather the resources that will fatten the profits of the bank, or, among other measures, mediated renegotiation, defending families against the power of the banks. We propose measures for the protection of rented housing and for the protection of tenants, in the face of increased income, in the face of evictions and in the face of contract complaints, when there is no adequate income to ensure the subsistence of the tenant or his family aggregate and when it is demonstrated that the pay income corresponds to an effort rate equal to or greater than 25 %, and, from the outset, the revocation of the new urban lease regime, adopting legislation that strengthens the protection of tenants, removes the mechanisms for facilitating the disposal and regulates the values of income. Finally, we propose that the State assume its responsibility as a public housing promoter, with the aim of extending the supply and making public housing available, to meet the identified deficiencies. We propose the identification, rehabilitation and provision of state buildings that may be intended for housing, prohibiting the alienation of public property with characteristics that enable it to be used for housing purposes and the promotion, through the cooperative movement, social and mutualist sector, of a housing park at controlled costs and quality, intended for the conditional income regime. This, among several other concrete measures, is proposed in draft resolution No 542 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ). Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, housing performs a social function: providing a basic need. Housing is the basis of the structure and organization of a family and is, of course, a fundamental condition for each person's dignified life. Now, being an essential asset, the priority must be to protect the housing of families and ensure access to housing for all. For the PCP, it is the right to housing that has to be protected rather than profits. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-15.u98	The honourable Member has a request for clarification. To put it forward, I give the floor to Mr Alexandre Simões of the PSD Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-15.u99	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr Bruno Dias, as your draft resolution states, housing is one of the main problems of the Portuguese. We agree, and that is why this parliamentary initiative of the PSD is so justified and so urgent. It is this Parliament's duty to contribute to solving the serious problems of housing, something which — and I am sure that you will also agree with me — is clearly not affected by government measures, because it is important to know how to do it. And about knowing how to do, it is important today to remember, until 30 years ago about this important measure, the response given by the PSD government,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-15.u100	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-15.u101	... through the PER (Special Programme of Realisation), the largest re-housing program of ever, that eradicated the chaga of the barracks in the metropolitan areas, and that everyone should be filled with pride. Pride! [[PSD applause.]] Mr. Deputies, some may have the social in their mouths, but the PSD knows how to realize and realize, and this is a big difference that matters here to highlight. Also today, Mr President, we are presenting very concrete proposals, from the outset, to reduce the impact of increased interest rates on families in decades, which subject 74% of families to serious financial difficulties. Mr President, I do not know whether your bench has read or not perceived the PSD proposals, but it is important that the following be clarified, and therefore the question: does it agree or not, as defended by us, that banks are obliged to offer customers an alternative credit to housing at a fixed rate?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-15.u102	More fees!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-15.u103	Whether or not it supports our bill of rescalation of housing credits,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-15.u104	With a fixed rate, with a roof!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-15.u105	... allowing payment for interest increase to be postponed and thus providing families with a stable and predictable monthly benefit? And that there is no worsening for the consumer, because it is important here to stress that it is important to protect the consumer and therefore the law must ensure that this renegotiation cannot result, either from banks or from the Banco de Portugal, any risk or marking of the customer as a restructuring or risk client. These are some issues that it was important here to see the CFP and the other associated parties respond, because they are concrete proposals that we want to be welcomed, not because they are from this or other bench, but because they respond effectively and competently to the specific problem of Portuguese. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-15.u106	Zero impact!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-15.u107	To reply, Mr Bruno Dias has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-15.u108	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr Alexandre Simões, the problem of housing will not be solved with tax bills and with benefit to speculation. That was the recipe for the disaster that brought us here.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-15.u109	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-15.u110	Therefore, we don't have much time to talk about now, the debate will continue, but I just want to stress that the proposals presented by the PSD to the bank, as if they were a Sword of Damocles, as my grandmother said, « cut butter in the summer».
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-15.u111	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-15.u112	That's very soft for the bank and for the financial groups. What is needed is to face the interests of the economic groups, face the speculators and ensure that housing is a right and not a commodity, on a speculative market. Do we understand each other, Mr? Oh, my God! [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-15.u113	What about a solution? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-15.u114	For an intervention in the debate, I now give the floor to Mrs. Minister of Housing, Marina Gonçalves.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-15.u115	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, I want to thank the PSD and wish you to welcome this debate on housing,... [[PSD laughter.]] ... considering that it started seven months ago and we, fortunately, are doing it seven years ago, and I'm glad we've been doing it seven years ago. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD, CH and IL protests.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are debating housing and we are discussing concrete measures, presented by the PSD, because in due course the government said that, beyond all the reform that was under way and all the measures in progress — and I will now go there — that are also being implemented by many PSD autarchs, and indeed, by the country outside, we needed new housing measures. Let us remember a little bit of the way we have made: a new generation of housing policies; Housing Bases Law, which was not approved by all parties in this House and, therefore, it was not all the parties who took responsibility for the state, to have housing as a pillar of the social state. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-15.u116	There he is! Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-15.u117	These two instruments have allowed to design a set of programmes in our legal order and have also created financial and legal frameworks to create more housing and to strengthen the public housing park, in a joint effort between the State, which assumes its responsibility, and the authorities. All authorities are doing this work in the territory, to ensure that families with lower incomes, middle class families, have access to housing. That's the work that's going on. And I will already give you some information about this work, of programmes that existed, that exist and that will continue to exist and that, unlike some PSD proposals, are not legislative programmes, are structural programmes, to stay in our territory, to respond at every moment to the needs of the population, in a joint effort between the state and the authorities. Mrs. Members, the evaluation that we make of our programmes and the needs that arise, not only by the pandemic we have gone through, but also by the increase in the cost of living, by the increase in interest rates, by the increase in inflation, by the lack of supply compatible with family incomes, by the increase in pressure, by all these factors, makes us today have to look at our policy and understand how we can complement it. This is what the More Housing programme represents. It is a complement to an ongoing structural programme, based on these two instruments and also based on the National Housing Programme. We present a More Housing programme based on two essential priorities: on the one hand, support families and, on the other hand, realize how, jointly with all partners, with the private, with the cooperatives and with the public sector, we can be part of a strategy to increase the housing park and increase the responses that are effectively compatible with the incomes of all families in Portugal. This is the work we have in this More Habitat programme and that is the document that is under public discussion. Yes, because we are having this debate, when this document is also in public discussion, and then it will come here again to be part of this public discussion. What we are presenting in support of families is income support and housing credit support to ensure that families who today have housing credits and leases can be sure to be able to maintain their obligations, either in one sphere or in another. With regard to the strengthening of housing responses, what we are presenting is not a measure. during this debate, we spoke as if we were always talking about a concrete measure, but not. What we present, supported also in the studies we talk about, are concrete measures in the various phases of the process. In terms of soil, we have measures to facilitate access to more soils, to build housing and to rehabilitate housing. We present licensing measures, many of which are compatible with some of them here, to try to simplify and speed up licensing, without obviously losing the logic of guaranteeing edificibility and sustainability. Yes, we do! We announced a long time ago. In fact, whenever we do this debate, we forget that codification of housing legislation is already under way. We've introduced that! We have already identified all the diplomas and are now doing the second phase of this work. In addition, we present here the simplification of the license. But we want more. We place here a set of incentives, which the PSD even commands the government to do, and which the Government is already doing, like the National Rental Balcony, to speed up and ensure the protection of both parties in the equation, because tenants and landlords are important in the housing market, or the RGEU ( General Urban Buildings Regulation ), which is one of the measures they also send us to do. Therefore, we are codifying legislation, but we also create instruments so that the state can be part of the solution, such as Arrendar to Subarrendar. We have created, of course, a set of limitations, a set of measures, particularly for local accommodation, not to end local accommodation — contrary to what is said here —...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-15.u118	Oh, no? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-15.u119	...not to end or devalue the investment of families. No, sir. Ladies and gentlemen! If you look carefully at the proposal—and I advise that, before you do the debate, you can read our proposals— what we do is compatibility and, above all, look at a problem which is so common and so consensual in this Parliament, which is housing, and we can see how we can all be part of its promotion. And, in this context, what is at stake is really compatibility, because nobody ends the investment that has been made, what we do is suspend licenses. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We can always reverse how we present the measures or how we want to discuss the measures, but what is in our proposal is compatibility, it is suspending the allocation of new licences and not moving in the already granted licences,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-15.u120	He says it's all over in 2030! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-15.u121	... so that we can prioritize, from here forward, something that seems so consensual: housing, housing! But, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we are doing more, because I have not just mentioned the measures. We have created, it seems, no — for those who listen to the debate, it seems that we have done nothing, but we have created, I repeat, a set of tax incentives so that cooperatives and the private market can be part of these solutions. We looked at the state's returned heritage and, without prejudice to the strengthening of the public park, which is, for us, a priority — in fact, we have already had a long, ongoing work with the cooperatives for the mobilization of that heritage — now we have extended these answers to the private park. But one thing is certain: it is not without any objective of public policy, it is based on the common objective of ensuring that the lease we make is compatible with the incomes of families.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-15.u122	Creating ghettos? Oh, my God! That's what you want!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-15.u123	And, yes, we are all welcome to this public policy, all partners are welcome to this public policy. Mrs. Members, as mentioned here, the PSD has made its proposals through studies, and that the PS has no studies, I remind you, Mrs Member, that the studies you present in your measures are studies taken from the National Housing Programme.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-15.u124	And you have copyright? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-15.u125	So I don't think I need to say anything more about why the studies you present are the basis of our measures. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]] It is that the National Housing Programme is based on studies and these measures do not contradict the National Housing Programme, are the realization of many of the things that are in the National Housing Programme. But let's go to numbers. The gentlemen. Members say that, for seven years, we have done nothing, with the instruments we have presented, and that only now we are entering the debate and that only now, in the last seven months, has the PSD appeared to talk about housing. I'm going to give some numbers: in Program 1. the law, we have 236 municipalities already with the implementation strategies and we have all other municipalities to work on their strategies. [[Protests by PSD MP Jorge Salgueiro Mendes.]] of these, we have more than 1000 homes given to families. We have 8500 residences of the municipalities, which you greatly devalue, of all municipalities, of several parties, who are mobilising themselves and making this promotion of the 1. the law with answers and mobilisation of the public park. And if you devalue this program, I repeat: there are more than 1000 families that today have decent and suitable housing thanks to these instruments. That's what we're talking about! [[P.S.'s applause.]] As for the Porta 65 programme, we have a proposal on the table to end Porta 65 and, in 2026, on commitments, you say « we will reassess whether we want to maintain Porta 65, with this new income allowance ». This is what is in the PSD proposal : to reassess in 2026 if we want to continue to have support for the young lease. What we did in Porta 65, and I am going to set the example only for the last year, was to ensure that Porta 65 reached 21 052 young people, it was to guarantee a performance of more than 100 % because we are still raising the funds. And you know why, Your Honor? We increased the funds to ensure that all eligible young people had access to the support of Gate 65. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-15.u126	That's great! Young people love it!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-15.u127	This is the novelty that I bring you here: in 2022, there was no eligible young man to stay out of Gate 65! But if the PSD proposal advances, in 2026, eventually, no support can be given to the young person. [[Protests of PSD and CH Members.]] The Accessible Rent Program today reaches around 1000 families. They can say that it has to be improved, that it has to be simplified, that it has to accelerate; we have already assumed it here and we have already said that this is the work in progress. But there are 1,000 families, Mr. Members, I repeat, 1000 families who today have access to decent and adequate housing for their incomes thanks to this programme. Let's go to the state's returned heritage, because between the 1st. law and affordable rent, State promotion programme, we already have a lot of mobilised heritage.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-15.u128	How many buildings are returned?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-15.u129	We have an inventory that I advise you to see at the Housing Portal, and we have several real estates already identified with ongoing interventions or ongoing projects. I don't think I have to explain all the steps that we need to go through until we get to the time of the work, which, unfortunately, is the only thing that matters when we debate.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-15.u130	How many buildings are there?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-15.u131	I will give an example that, for the Liberal Initiative, was one of the examples in this discussion: the Defence Building, on Avenida de France, registered on behalf of the IHRU (Instituto da Habitação e da Rehabitación Urbana), currently has the competition launched to make the project, which is a simpler rehabilitation project, so that you can enter the job in the coming months. We have the Almada Integrated Plan and Setúbal Integrated Plan, with public plots mobilized to promote, in total, more than 2000 fires, which are, in their large majority, on project and there are already some with the undertaking in progress or in contract. With regard to the Head of Bola, here in Lisbon, the competition is ending, so that we can move forward with the work still this year. At the Shipment, we have IP housing ( Infrastructures of Portugal ) mobilized and which are already in operation to enter the Accessible Rent. In Vila do Bispo, Sagres, there are also houses, with an unfinished property that was in the sphere of the state and which is under construction to place in the public housing park at the service of families. Lousada, Paços de Ferreira, Maia, Porto, Aveiro, Matosinhos, Oeiras, are areas where we have built heritage or public lands identified and that are today with project, in conjunction with the authorities, to mobilize them for the Accessible Rent. I was not exhaustive, but I gave you here some concrete examples of what is happening at this time in the field and which we so often ignore when we are having this debate. And so many times we forget the effort of so many and so many people, in IHRU, in the municipalities, of the whole sector, of civil construction, of the designers, of all those who work daily to mobilize this state heritage for housing policies. Mrs. Members, this mobilization also depends on the partnership with cooperatives—and that is one of the measures that is in the More Housing programme—and with the private, always mobilized for affordable rent. We make this debate very isolated, because on the right we are being very Venezuelans, on the left we are being very liberal, but what I can tell you is that what we put in the More Housing program was, more than giving in to demagogy, which we often use to talk about the measures,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-15.u132	Do we use it? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-15.u133	...to understand how everyone, without exception, can be part of the solution. That's what you're here for. You're all part of the solution. That is why we have such diverse measures to mobilize all entities in the sector. That's why, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen, without prejudice to the questions they will certainly ask me, I think it is important that we be able to make this debate with concrete measures and not devalue the work that is being done on the table and that is being done by so many entities.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-15.u134	But does it support PSD measures or not? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-15.u135	This is the difficulty: we realize how we can all be part of the solution. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we are having this debate at the time when our More Habitat programme is being publicly discussed, which will then come to Parliament. That is why it is important that this debate be held together — and it is not being done that way — because, as you know, our programme has not yet entered here, despite the announcement that it was going to come in. [[Protests of PSD, CH and IL Members.]] But, said this, they are always welcome to the debate and will always be welcome to discuss these measures together,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-15.u136	Today, you have come to our debate!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-15.u137	... in favour, I hope, of what is a common objective, so that at the end of the day the measures are enforceable and, above all, guarantee, as we have been guaranteeing, housing responses for all the families that they need. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-15.u138	The Minister has seven requests for clarification, to which, according to the Bureau, she will respond in two groups. The first request for clarification belongs to the Parliamentary Group of the Arrival. To that end, Mr André Ventura has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-15.u139	Mr President, Madam Minister, we have known for some time that—and it was seven years ago that the Prime Minister announced a public investment of EUR 1400 million, shared by Social Security, which would aim to offer 7500 houses with affordable income to deprived families—to date there is not a single house in accessible lease of this brutal fund of 1400 million. Is this true or is it a lie? If it is true, how do you want to make us now believe in the government programme, when your Prime Minister announced seven years ago, with the same pump and circumstance that Mr. Minister there announces, a program of 1400 million to 7500 houses, and so far we have zero? Oh, my God! It is worth noting that the government is in fact missing its word and, if so, what leads us today to believe in the word of the Government. Then the Minister spoke of the programmes that the government has already had, and she had, to support young people with affordable income, but what she did not say, despite insisting a thousand times on 1000 families, 1000 families, 1000 families, 1000 families, with a cartridge of 1000 families, was how many were left out. Tell us how many left off the show? How many young people left out of the affordable income program in 2021? How many middle-class families were left out of government propaganda, which said they were going to have programs for this and that and had no programs for anyone at all? Oh, my God! [[Congrats from the CH.]] The Minister said that she wanted this housing program to be like the SNS (National Health Service ) and then we already realized, because, in fact, with the SNS falling apart, with the heads of the emergency to resign, with the hospitals unable to have conditions and to close it, perhaps that is what the Minister wants. So when she was asked about this piece of forced lease, the Minister said this, and I quote: « second houses, holiday houses, migrant homes, displaced persons, all of these will not be covered. » So I wanted to ask you here, once and for all, to make this clear to the country: who will be covered? Who will be covered? Second houses are not, displaced are not, emigrants are not... Then the Minister says: "I don't know who will be covered, but we're going to take a look at the limits of consumption." the limits of consumption? Oh, my God! ...Mrs. Minister, you're here, in your interview! So you're going to have to see what? How much was spent on light this month? How much was spent on water this month? This is a little too much! « So, aren’t you taking over your house? Oh, my God! Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-15.u140	This isn't Venezuela!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-15.u141	Mrs. Minister, this is not Venezuela! This isn't Venezuela! So, I think it was a good day today to give this explanation to the country: which houses can be rented legally? What houses? Instead of just saying, in the air, that will be houses, say concretely that houses. Second, how are you going to monitor? It's just that Mrs. Minister spoke in city council reviews and in terms of consumption. Mr. Minister, this is not Venezuela! This isn't North Korea!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-15.u142	Sure!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-15.u143	You don't go into the people's house to see how much they spent on water or light. Have a sense of it and be ashamed! For once in life, they respond to what the Portuguese want to know. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-15.u144	Mr. Hugo Carneiro, from the PSD, has the floor to request clarifications.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-15.u145	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, today's Minister for Housing has revealed only one thing to this House: a total breakdown of the government in relation to housing policy. A total disintegration! And I'll explain why. [[PSD applause.]] The Minister has identified measures which over the years she claims to have taken to resolve the problem of housing. But, then, if everything is as perfect, as the Minister says, why is it now presenting the More Housing program? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-15.u146	Because we continue to rule!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-15.u147	After all, it is because the government's measures were insufficient to solve the problems of the Portuguese. But, Minister, let me tell you more: the studies we asked for were about the visasgolds, and we are still waiting. And the statistics that were in this PSD document, which showed the whole House, are national statistics. That was what the government was missing now saying that we could not use data from the INE (National Institute of Statistics ), « only the government can, the opposition cannot! » More decorating, Mrs. Minister! [[PSD applause.]] By the way, let me tell you that the government has been dragged into this debate today, in Parliament, provoked by the PSD, precisely because the PS and the government for seven years have done nothing to solve the serious problem of this housing crisis.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-15.u148	Paper houses alone!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-15.u149	This has to be remembered! While we are discussing very concrete proposals today, PSD bills, the government has not yet been worthy of having the ability to bring legislative initiatives here all these years. This is a problem with which the Minister has to be confronted. So there is one question I have to ask you, which is the following: your intervention today, here, and the intervention you have made in the consultation that the Government is developing, is not a proof of the life of the Minister, because the Prime Minister has given you three months to solve a problem that the Government has been unable to solve for seven years? Oh, my God! It is proof of life that you need to come here today.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-15.u150	Look at that! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-15.u151	I ask you very specifically: will you or will you not approve the State guarantee to support young people in the purchase of the first housing, as the PSD proposes?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-15.u152	That's the point!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-15.u153	Does it or does it not support the adoption of the PSD initiative on simplification of licences and flexibility in land use? Will it or will it not approve the temporary VAT reduction measure (value added tax) in construction and rehabilitation to 6 % in order to help reduce the cost of housing for Portuguese people? Will you or will you not support the PSD measure which upholds the exemption from the seal tax and the reduction of the IMT (municipal tax on expensive property transmissions) and, including for young people, the exemption from the seal tax and the IMT? More: how does it explain to the more than 55 000 families who depend on the local accommodation that will charge them an extraordinary contribution, that will impose more taxes on them and that who has a T1 with 50 m2, as has already been announced publicly, can come to pay 4500 € a year?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-15.u154	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-15.u155	This is the extent to which the PS and the Government defend for the Portuguese: it is to expropriate the income of the private, it is to expropriate the income of the families, those who work hard to earn the bread each day. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-15.u156	You now have the floor, for a request for clarification, Mr Carlos Guimarães Pinto, from IL.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-15.u157	Mr President, Madam Minister, I begin with an apology. He said earlier that the government had been late for the housing problem, but the Minister corrected me and said that they were already working on it seven years ago. So my apologies: the government has not been late, it is simply incompetent, clearly.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-15.u158	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-15.u159	I have two very quick questions. Knowing that you've been studying this issue for seven years, I'm sure these numbers, you know them in color. The first number I am asking for is that of devolved property that is currently in the hands of the state and how many they plan to rehabilitate in the next three years. I wanted a specific number. They've been looking at this for seven years, so I imagine they know exactly the number of returned buildings and how many they plan to rehabilitate in the coming years. The second question is with regard to your proposal to take up, rent, private return homes. However, we already knew there was a set of exceptions. My question is this: having studied the subject as well, as you have certainly studied, how many private buildings fall within the scope of this proposal, after we have excluded all those exceptions, which have already assured us that they would not be covered by this proposal? How many private returning buildings will be covered by this proposal? [[Applause from the IL.]] [[Meanwhile, he took the presidency of Vice President Editi Estrela.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-15.u160	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I welcome you all. I also congratulate the Ministers and the Secretary of State. For a request for clarification, you have the floor of Mrs Mariana Mortágua of BE.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-15.u161	Madam President, Mrs Minister, the Government has promised 26 000 houses to solve all housing shortages and 170 000 houses to affordable incomes up to 2024. Now, 2024 is next year and I'd like to ask you where these houses are. There are two important things in this debate, which has focused more on the proposals that are in public discussion than necessarily on other proposals that can solve the housing crisis. The first is that nothing will happen to local accommodation: licenses are unaffected, even though local accommodation has invaded the city centers. The second is that there will be no compulsive lease, which was already in the law. Surprisingly, these two things that will not happen — nor harm local housing, withdraw licenses, or compulsory leases — are those that dominate the debate on housing. But when we take this out and the jokes that the government uses to give a left-wing air to the measures it presents, what do we find is what? Oh, my God! Facilitation of construction and licensing, tax benefits and income subsidies. It's the PSD program for housing! I would like to ask you whether you think tax benefits are the answer to the problem of housing, when the government maintains tax benefits to unusual residents and real estate investment funds. I would like to ask you whether the income allowance is the solution to the problem of housing, if you think that people are worthy to depend on a State allowance to be able to have a home. These are people who work, who have a salary and who are dependent on a subsidy, on the goodwill of the government, to be able to have a home where they live with dignity. I would like to ask you if you think this is a left-hand answer to a social problem. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-15.u162	To respond to these four requests for clarification, you have the floor of Mrs. Minister of Housing, Marina Gonçalves.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-15.u163	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I thank you for the questions. With great regret, we are afraid that we will not have a fair debate with what we say, because we ignore numbers, facts and families that have been covered by the programmes, families that have been supported by the State and the authorities. We are olympically ignoring this data, because what we really want to say is that nothing has happened, that nothing has happened in the last seven years, that we have done nothing about programmes, that we have done nothing with legislative measures. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]] There you go, ladies. Ladies and gentlemen, I will always be different, certainly. We can say that we're giving a tax bill, we can say that we haven't done anything and that we're just doing it now. But let me tell you this: many of the things that we have approved here, arising from the Basic Housing Law that we have approved here, are what today realizes the right to housing to so many families. I am glad that in 2015 we decided to move forward with the priority of housing, and not just seven months ago, so that today we can be doing this debate with data, with assigned houses, with supported families, instead of always talking as if it were not true that these families are being supported. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We speak as if it were not true that we, when we say what we are doing, assume two things: that the great structural response—and I will repeat slowly, because I speak very quickly—which is ongoing is that of the public park, are the answers of the 1st. the law, are the responses of the mobilization of the devolved state park, which is underway in so many municipalities and with so many programs, and that we want to continue. This is not a policy until 2026, but a structural policy.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-15.u164	It's 26,000 houses, isn't it? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-15.u165	I asked him about it!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-15.u166	Having said this, we know that today, with a set of factors that have determined an even greater problem in housing policies, additional, complementary and never substitute instruments are needed. This seems to be a matter of detail, but it is not, because in every intervention we do, some people think that we are making policies through forced leases and that we are going into the house of people inside, and others think that we are making policies only through tax incentives.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-15.u167	But is that true or is it a lie? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-15.u168	What I'm telling you, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen, it is fortunate that thanks to the measures that have already been adopted, which have been discussed so many times here, and it has only been debated by anyone who wants to — are so many families today supported by government programmes and so many families who will happily continue to be supported by the programmes of this government. On the questions you have asked, on the PSD measures, on what is on the table, whether or not we are available to submit these proposals, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we have tabled a very varied set of proposals. We have provided investment support — a set of tax measures, as the PSD presents — we have been providing support to cooperatives for a long time — in fact, at the beginning of the More Housing programme — and we want to mobilise cooperatives, which the PSD proposes in its programme. [[Protests from PSD Members Hugo Carneiro and Luís Gomes.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-15.u169	More of the same!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-15.u170	We want income subsidies, not because we think this is a structural measure, but because we immediately think that we need to get to the families and that we cannot postpone the answers while we wait for an answer that takes time, because rehabilitation and building public heritage takes time, but it does.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-15.u171	But it was you who promised and gave the dates!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-15.u172	Mrs Mariana Mortágua, of the two, one: or we accept that it takes time and we do not link to the problem of families immediately, or, then, we work in addition, and we work in this structural response while, in the short term, we build the tools needed to respond to families. As a priority for families, I think that we need to complement the two answers and not just focus on one, because we cannot have a segmented view of the housing problem, we have to answer and find all partners for its implementation. This is the fundamental instrument that we have: we are all part of a common strategy, to give ultimately condigna and accessible housing to Portuguese families. That should be our priority. I will not enter the question of proof of life. The proof of life that this government gave was in 2015, when we prioritized housing and while building housing policies. It wasn't seven months ago, Mr. Hugo Carneiro! I was not the one who said it, so I am happy to say it: seven years ago we did what the PSD decided to do seven months ago, which is to look at housing and try to make a housing program.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-15.u173	Ten months!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-15.u174	But today whoever makes proposals is the PSD!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-15.u175	Therefore, Mr President, I do not think that I need to say much more about this. For the young people who are out of the country, for the programmes we had and are not being implemented, I will be spared. The honourable Member who has questioned me is no longer present - the parliamentary group is here, of course - but save-CL - I will repeat everything I have said. [[CH protests.]] If you want, I'll repeat. If you want, I'll read, Mr. Members, I will read again all the municipalities and all the houses delivered, and the supports that were given in Porta 65.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-15.u176	What about the non-eligible ones? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-15.u177	Again, within the framework of Porta 65, of 2022, 100 % of the young people who had an eligible application were supported. For those who were not eligible for income ceilings, we did an update. [[Protests by CH Member Rita Matias.]] In fact, Mrs. Rita Matias, while we didn't, said we wouldn't do it, and when we did, she stopped talking about it. But let's do it!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-15.u178	No, no! Have you done it yet? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-15.u179	The April invitation to tender will already have the ceilings extended and that is why, I remember, we have a 30% increase in the amount of Porta 65, to reach the young people who need this support. But we do the same in the Rent Support Program, the Accessible Rent Program, etc. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we do not want this to be the structural policy of subsidies, but we do not want to leave our families unanswered. That is why we are strengthening these instruments rather than ending them in 2026. We strengthened the instruments, created structural programs, from Porta 65 to public responses, to be able to respond, at every moment, to families.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-15.u180	Bring 70!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-15.u181	About the returnees, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to remind you that the diploma of the returned heritage already provides for the delivery of consumption, there is no change in this legal diploma, and it also provides for what is a refund. I strongly advise you. Members to read the legislation in force since 2019, to understand what a devolved person is.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-15.u182	And the returnees of the state? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-15.u183	Only to understand: when we talk about the returnees and the application of a measure, the returnees are returned to everyone. I have no problem saying that the state's returnees are being rehabilitated and have to be mobilized, but we have to understand what they are being returned, frame them in a law that already exists today.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-15.u184	It's just that the state doesn't count on you!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-15.u185	Instead of having a demagogic discussion, without looking at what we all know to be in law, we look at the framework of the returnee, we talk about what exists and we really talk about the legal framework that we are creating. Forced lease is a figure that already exists in our legal order, in the Legal Regime of Urbanization and Building. We are strengthening an instrument, we are not changing public policy for that, even because, as I have already said, I will repeat! — we favour partnership, we favour the promotion of responses in partnership and, above all, answers to families, which is our great goal.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-15.u186	We don't see this being done to any real estate!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-15.u187	With regard to how many buildings we have mobilized, we have an inventory of housing fitness of the state heritage that is under way, it is ongoing. The heritage is being found, until, often, the fires wander and they can pass into this inventory. We have identified in two diplomas—and in this inventory we have also identified several other buildings—the compromise we have for the legislature, which is the 6800 fires. This is our commitment to the heritage we have identified. But that does not mean that this number is not going to increase. This process of inventory and integration into the stock market is even a continuous process. Every month we have that definition. at this moment, we have a little more than 4000 already registered fires, already integrated, with all the initial steps up to the already running project, to then enter rehabilitation. But this is a continuous work and it is a work that has never been done, that of integrating the entire heritage with housing skills, understanding the needs of the population and giving it an answer in the housing park.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-15.u188	Missing answer to PSD questions!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-15.u189	It is an ongoing work and, at this moment, it is this data. On the question...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-15.u190	What about our questions? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-15.u191	I don't know what the question was anymore. [[PSD protests.]] I was looking here because, at some point, I hear the PSD and I ask: what was the PSD question I didn't answer? Oh, my God! I have answered your questions, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen. [[PSD protests.]] You didn't like the answer! [[Zero answers! Zero!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-15.u192	They asked if this was necessary and I said yes, this was necessary, in addition to what we were doing. They asked about the data and yes, sir. Ladies and gentlemen, the data we have used are the same as the honourable Members. Deputies used it. They asked if we have never brought news to Parliament and said that we have never brought our diplomas, but yes, we have. The Basics Law was approved here, but it was only approved by anyone who wanted it. Sir, did you ask for proof of life? The proof of life is what the government has been doing since 2015 and the PSD has started doing seven months ago! I hope I answered. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-15.u193	For a request for clarification, Mrs Inês de Sousa Real has the floor of the PAN.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-15.u194	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Madam Minister of Housing, we have heard you firmly defending the regime of the returnees once again. However, this is a government policy that is more 'do what I say to you, do not do what I do', because it gives us a number of 6000 fires already identified when we have 26 000 families identified as requiring housing solutions. The Minister also said that, in seven years, we had only 1000 houses allocated by the State — I am not accounting for those of the authorities — which gave a ratio of about one and a half hundred houses allocated per year. Now, if the need is 26 000, if for students and student accommodation there is a commitment, up to 2026, of 15 000 beds, where are you going to look for the rest? To demand from the private what the government does not do does does does not seem to make any sense to us. It also presents more data, either on the Porta 65 programme or on other rental support, but it has forgotten that, even today, it has been announced in the news that more than half of the families are unable to pay the expenses, including household expenses. Therefore, the Minister will soon have not only 26,000 families, but a true tsunami, for which there is total insensitivity of the government, because we have not heard a word today about what was reported in this study. This is half of the Portuguese families, Mrs Minister, we are no longer talking about only 26 000 families! There were, too, several proposals...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-15.u195	You must conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-15.u196	Madam President, I am really concluding. The PSD today presented itself to the discussion even with proposals for which it abstained, when presented by other political forces, such as the NAP, particularly on the credit bonus, but also repeats a government measure, which is the use of soils. This use, being for construction rather than rehabilitation, is in contradiction with the fight against climate crisis and environmental defense. I ask you whether or not there will be more sensitivity of the government in this area to avoid jeopardising climate commitments.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-15.u197	Mr António Faria of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor for a request for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-15.u198	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the Ministers, the Secretary of State, today we take advantage of to congratulate the opposition parties, who finally, in the face of one of the greatest challenges that Portugal, Europe and the world have gone through, decided to abandon the easy and demagogy discourse, in the face of this challenge of greater importance for our country, joining its voice with that of the Socialist Party. For us, the Socialist Party, this subject has been working since 2017, when we started the debate on the Housing Basics Law, this work is translated into proposals of undeniable importance, such as programme 1. the law, which has contributed to give dignity to the fulfilment of this irrevocable constitutional design, which is the right to housing. [[P.S.'s applause.]] In the negotiation of the PRR, Portugal was the country of the European Union which most devoted funding to the housing area, in a clear sign of the Government's strong commitment to meeting the needs of our people. We have also established the control of the increase in incomes and the control of local housing, because the Socialist Party soon understood that the market alone is not able to respond to the housing needs of our people. With regard to all these proposals, the parties on the right have always shown themselves against, accusing us of radicalism or ideological drift, until they have been forced to wake up to this problem, and I finally repeat today the game in this matter, which has always been essential to the Socialist Party and to the Government.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-15.u199	So it wasn't? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-15.u200	This essentiality is clearly evident in the new package of housing measures, which will already be approved at the end of this month. Now, as before, there are voices that rise to call the measures closed there by 'extremists'. They do so out of ignorance and neglect, because it would suffice to take note of what the most developed countries in Europe have done, many of them governed by liberals, in order to realize that the government is not doing any more, no less than what needs to be done. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-15.u201	Today it's about housing! What are you talking about? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-15.u202	We speak of a Europe where, for example, Austria, Denmark, France, Germany, Ireland, the Netherlands and Sweden already control initial incomes and their subsequent increase ; we speak of a world where, for example, in Canada, from this year onwards, the purchase of housing by non-resident foreign citizens will be prohibited. That is why, Madam Minister, the importance and relevance of the Government's measures is what I would like to ask you about: what guarantees does this new housing package give our people, in terms of access to housing, which are not guaranteed by the legislative initiatives under discussion today? [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-15.u203	For a request for clarification, Mr Bruno Dias of the CFP Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-15.u204	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister of Housing, the Housing Bases Act was passed four years ago, the Constitution has been in force for 46 years, but the right to housing needs to be respected. On these structural measures, the question is very simple: how does it explain that in Portugal there are 723 000 empty houses, 160 000 in the Lisbon Metropolitan Area alone, and the government responds with the structural measure of 26 000 houses for a few years? Oh, my God! And, in the meantime, not a word on the "law of evictions"? Oh, my God! Mr. Minister, in the last decade, the offer of housing has increased more than the number of resident families and, in the meantime, the price of housing more than doubled. It increased the price of housing five times more than wages. The measures that the Government has been taking, and more so what it now announces, have not changed this reality and will not change it. It is very simple: while continuing this lease regime with the « layoffs law », or this wheel free from real estate speculation, or this impunity of banks,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-15.u205	From the banks? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-15.u206	...or this aberration of tax privilege, does the Minister think any structural change will happen? Or is the government just keeping this idea of housing as a commodity in the speculative market and is it a matter of throwing money from taxpayers to subsidize speculation?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-15.u207	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-15.u208	Madam President, I conclude with the question: is this how the Minister feels that the problem will be solved? [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-15.u209	In response to these three requests for clarification, you have the floor of Mrs. Minister of Housing, Marina Gonçalves.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-15.u210	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by saying that, with this More Habitat programme, with the measures we are presenting, what we want to ensure is, in addition to structural reform — and I will already talk about structural reform — we have measures immediately, which are effective in order to ensure more housing for all families. Many of the measures that we have discussed are not measures — you also said, and well — in which we are innovating, either in local accommodation or in the forced lease and in how we include this instrument, either in the strengthening of the public park, or in the incentive measures, either in State measures as part of the solution. We have here a set of measures to ensure, together with all, more housing, more confidence in the market, more support for families, more safeguard the right to housing. This is essential not only when we present these measures, but above all when we implement them. This is also our great challenge: that, after this discussion, which is an important discussion, and the approval of these diplomas, we are able to make families effective and housing the same way as we are giving the instruments that are already under way. As I realized that it was not quite clear,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-15.u211	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-15.u212	... I'll repeat again.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-15.u213	That's it!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-15.u214	of the various instruments that say that nothing has been done, that nothing is realized, that nothing puts in the housing market, that we have only come to list the instruments and not give numbers,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-15.u215	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-15.u216	... I'm going to repeat those numbers again.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-15.u217	But listen!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-15.u218	These numbers are: 236 municipalities with ongoing strategies; 66 000 families identified for response in the public park, for response in program 1. the law; the 26 000 dwellings we fear to talk about are targets of the Recovery and Resilience Plan and its financing;... [[Protests by PCP MP Bruno Dias.]] ... the goals of program 1. the law are those that are underlying the strategies and that before the PRR already had the source of funding defined, with the State Budget and with a co-responsibility with the municipalities. [[Protests by PSD Members Alexandre Poço and Hugo Carneiro.]] We can discuss the model, but we have this model defined and it will continue. If you are paying attention to the State Budget this year—I recommend that you look again at the maps of this year—in addition to the PRR’s words, there are already words from the State Budget, because there are projects that go beyond 2026 and projects that started before 2020 that are being financed with the State Budget’s funds.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-15.u219	By the year the problems were over!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-15.u220	It's just promises!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-15.u221	Many of these dwellings are not even listed in the PRR, nor are they intended for the 26 000 dwellings. They are additional dwellings, whose construction was started before 2020, which do not even enter the Recovery and Resilience Plan.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-15.u222	The PSD questions are that they have no answer!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-15.u223	So I repeat the number again: 66 000 families is what we have considered in the strategies of the municipalities. The will exists on the part of the municipalities and on the part of the State to implement this programme. Let us all have the will to strengthen the public park and continue this project, to implement housing policy, in the same way as the PER. Sometimes we forget that this, even if it took time, has achieved policy on the territory. That is what we want to do: to ensure that these programmes are implemented, and the instruments for this guarantee are created.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-15.u224	Lack of execution capacity!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-15.u225	More: in this program, we have already delivered 1200 homes and we have more than 1000 that, starting this year, are in a position to be delivered; we have 8500 homes with applications in IHRU, therefore, are in project, or already with work on the ground. We have a program, Gate 65, which reaches all eligible young people,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-15.u226	Is it enough for all the young people? Oh, my God! Only if it's the one with the PS card!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-15.u227	... with an amount not in parallel with any year of implementation of the programme. I leave here the challenge of finding implementation as last year: EUR 26, 5 million, EUR 21,052 young people covered by the Government's strengthening, which the Government approved, that the government reinforces by 2030 and does not want to end by 2026. In the Rent Support Program, we have 1000 families, we want to simplify the process, we want to make it more attractive, so that more people can get there. [[CH protests.]] We have the Accessible Rent Program on the ground, we have work and project on the ground. We're talking about 4600 fires—just now, it said about 4000, but it's 4600 — already identified, integrated, in project and in work. These are numbers, they're realities, they're families. We can devalue, always look at the final objective and think that until then we have achieved nothing. I, whenever I know that there is a family that has no housing and that can be in these programs, I am happy to realize that our programs are operating in the territory and I am happy that they are a reality in the various municipalities, whatever they are.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-15.u228	There are people living on the street!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-15.u229	On the questions of the honourable Member and on the objectives of the public park, I have already answered. The fact is that, and it is important for this to be borne in mind, our structural objectives are not the PRR — which is a source of financing and has defined objectives until 2026 — but those of the public park, structural objectives that will remain, as long as Parliament and the government so want, and these instruments will continue to be structural for strengthening the public park. No one wants to hear this data, but this is reality.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-15.u230	You can't hear anything!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-15.u231	These are programs to strengthen the public park, to ensure housing for all families. We are sure that these are the structural responses that must be complemented at every moment by the instruments I have mentioned, with more conjunctural measures, depending on the moment in which we live.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-15.u232	Answer the PSD questions!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-15.u233	It would be worse if, at every moment, we ended up with what we had, we did a measure of occasion, such as income allowance, until 2026 and then, at that time, we soon saw.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-15.u234	What about the PSD? Oh, my God! Missing answer to PSD questions!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-15.u235	What we do are structural responses, which remain, with exceptional answers, that complement them.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-15.u236	What about PSD projects? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-15.u237	Mrs. Members, what we really want is that all families have access to housing and therefore I am always available to have more partners, as the PSD now seems to want to be, in promoting more housing. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-15.u238	Mr Hugo Carvalho, from the PS Parliamentary Group, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-15.u239	Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We say repeatedly that politics only makes sense if the problems of people's lives are solved. There are no beautiful words to solve the problems.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-15.u240	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-15.u241	Portugal has a problem with access to housing today. I admit that without flowering and with the attention that a problem of this size should deserve. We were, in fact, the first to do so, with the approval of the Housing Basic Law, and we did not demarcate new answers in times of greater need. No other right can be achieved if we ignore the central role of housing, of our home while home, as a window of opportunity for all dreams. Our house cannot be the monetary value of m2, which, cannibalesca, creates urban perimeters stratified by incomes.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-15.u242	And go on, do what? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-15.u243	"The good areas are for those who can afford them" is just a resignation of some in this plenary which we socialists, I never repeat, will never follow. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-15.u244	It's just conversation!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-15.u245	This is the indifference of those who look at housing not as a right of all citizens, but rather as a market to make money, as an abutre who, legitimately, can choose who has access to live in a certain place.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-15.u246	So what? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-15.u247	This indifference leads to the fact that the PSD proposals today do not focus on more housing, but rather on lower costs for economic transactions. There are those who think it is normal to use this House to normalize, outside, the discourse of fear.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-15.u248	What's that about the fear speech? Oh, my God! What is that? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-15.u249	We prefer the discourse of respect: respect for those who want to have a house to live comfortably in their city, at prices compatible with the family budgets of those who work. [[P.S.'s applause.]] This is the right of those who leave in the morning and return at the end of their working days, who cannot be sucked by others who, because of happy circumstances of their lives, need not add more money to their money to live. The freedom of choice that some have to place or not their heritage on the lease market cannot be an obstacle for those who work cannot find a home to live. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, this is not about attacking private property. This is respect for the basic and alienable right of access to housing by all. [[PSD protests.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the first step in finding solutions is to understand why housing prices have risen this way. No one is right in the answers if they clearly do not want to attack the causes and this is where the problems of the PSD proposals begin. The PSD brings the debate only beautiful words, but few structural solutions.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-15.u250	Bills!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-15.u251	They continue to ignore the existence of a speculative market and deny the imbalance of forces between the parties to the housing market.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-15.u252	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-15.u253	They know that we need more houses, but also here, and let me, in my footnote, remember that building implies labour, labour that enter our borders and that the Social Democratic Party seems to have difficulty in accepting it. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Members, PS and PSD options are different. Yes, we both want to simplify and speed up licensing processes, we both want to change VAT (value added tax) of construction. But the devil is always in the details! ... Allow me to give you an example. As long as we choose to lower VAT to a reduced rate for those who build, to generate affordable lease, in a clear incentive to the lease market, the PSD opts to lower all the VAT of construction, including for those who want to make luxury enterprises or real estate speculation.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-15.u254	They're housing!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-15.u255	They are clear and obvious signs of what separates us. We both identify the problem, but choose differently who we want to protect. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Members, this is the time for all of us to be called to give answers, without hiding within the clouds of smoke that we artificially seek to create, without the smoking curtain that there is now an attack on private property, in which the PSD is hidden, or the smoking curtain of still returned public buildings, with which the Liberal Initiative is hidden. On the right, we already know what to find. There are the negationists of negative externalities, of local housing or of golden visas, the speculative market negationists and the promoters of the housing business. That's why it's time to know who's left on the left of the PS if you want to put. If you move in the direction of proposals that in recent years have defended or created artificial smoke curtains around a hypothetical financing of the speculative market. It is time to say whether they really want to improve the lives of Portuguese people or whether they prefer to be isolated in a demanding role of opposition. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I finish exactly as I started:...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-15.u256	Mal! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-15.u257	... nice words don't solve people's problems. But they certainly help to realize who we want to be next to! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-15.u258	We are going to let the honourable Member get to his place, because he has a request for clarification. [[Pause.]] In order to make the request for clarification, Mrs Mariana Mortágua, of the Parliamentary Group of the Left Block, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-15.u259	Madam President, Mr Hugo Carvalho: "I don't know what tourism is the most! » Who said these words, Mr? Was it or was it not the Minister of Finance of the Socialist Party? Did you just say from that rostrum that people have the right to live in the center of cities and that it is necessary to end the speculative market? Is that what the honourable Member said? Oh, my God! What did you do to end the speculative market? Oh, my God! Tell me a measure to end the speculative market! Tell me a measure to get people back to the city centers! Mr Member, does it or does it not belong to the party that supports the government that called the digital nomads? Does it belong to or does it not belong to the party that supports the government which maintains tax benefits to non-standard residents worth EUR 1000 million per year? Does it belong or does it not belong to the party that kept the visasgold until they run out with the housing market in Lisbon? Does it belong or does it not belong to the party that wants to keep all local housing licenses? Does it belong or does it not belong to the party that refuses to lower the rent? Does it belong or does it not belong to the party that refuses to increase the length of the lease and to move into the lease law? Mr President, there is no slightest correspondence between the words I said in the rostrum — and which so much delight the Socialist Party’s bench — and what the government does, which is to keep a speculative market that is driving people out of the city and denying them the right to housing. Your beautiful words will not solve the problem of people in their right to housing. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-15.u260	To respond to this request for clarification, Mr Hugo Carvalho has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-15.u261	Mrs Mariana Mortágua, I appreciate your request for clarification. Let me tell you, from the very beginning, that I belong to the party that stayed until the end to solve the problems of Portuguese life. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-15.u262	Look at that!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-15.u263	I do not belong to the party who, when confronted with internal electoral issues, decided to abandon the path that broke with austerity in Portugal. I belong to the party that did not give up, that did not give up and that did not have party calculations. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Protests from BE Mariana Mortagua.]] Mrs. Member, let me tell you, Mrs. Member, if it is a novelty for you, I don't mind giving it to you: the world is not black to white.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-15.u264	You don't care, do you?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-15.u265	The world is not black and white! For the Left Block there's everything or nothing. For the Left Block there is all in, even when it comes to solving the problem of people's lives.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-15.u266	Tell that to those who don't have a home!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-15.u267	The Left Block would rather not recognise, in this debate, that we have come forward with the end of the local housing areas, with the golden visas — proposals they even defended! The Left Block prefers to play all the garbage on behalf of a supposed equality.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-15.u268	Whoever said I was going to end speculation was Mr. Deputies!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-15.u269	It is this proposal of the Left Block, this intransigence of the Left Block, which the Portuguese in the past have already borne, that the honourable Member should see as a great recommendation and a great contribution of the Socialist Party to the future of the Left Block. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[BE's protests.]] Madam Member, the Left Block has to choose whether you want to be part of the solution or continue with the protest role. The world may end, but the Left Block won't change. That should not be a good slogan for Mrs Deputy. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-15.u270	Mr Alexandre Poço of the PSD Parliamentary Group speaks for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-15.u271	Madam President, Minister for Housing, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Today we know that young people are experiencing one of the biggest crises that there is memory of access to housing. His emancipation has been greatly threatened by seven years of Antonio Costa, Fernando Medina and now Marina Gonçalves. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-15.u272	But he's changing!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-15.u273	After seven years of PS government and with more than 20 programmes and initiatives in the area, the problem in housing has not been solved, and has even worsened. As far as young people are concerned, the results fall short of expectations because, for PS, all young people continue to live in their paper houses. But reality and results are in sight. Mrs. Minister, the young Portuguese are the ones who later leave their parents' home in the European Union at almost 34 years of age. In seven years the PS has achieved this, but whoever hears it here seems it's all great and young people have access to wonderful housing. [[PSD applause.]] They are small-scale programs, programs that don't work and attempts to kill the lease market! Ms. Minister, the PSD has done its part and thus the Parliamentary Group of the Democratic Social Party, in conjunction with the Social Democratic Institute, today presents a bill that seeks to respond to the three housing moments for any young person to pass into their lives. A young man, when he enters college, needs a room to study; when he enters the job market, he needs a house to rent; when he wants to realize his emancipation, he may want to buy his first house. [[PSD applause.]] This is the focus of the bill that PSD presents here today. For that, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we have mobilized all possible answers and means: yes, the private media, the public media and the social media. It is the design of the room, income and purchase of the first house for those who have no entry, because they have no rich parents. It is the bill that all the young people who are listening to me today can understand — except probably Mrs. Minister of Housing. This is also the project, Mrs. Minister, Mrs. President, Mrs. Members, a character who was brought to this Parliament six months ago. This is also the project of Ana dos Olivais and its emancipation problems. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-15.u274	Who is Ana of the Olives? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-15.u275	I am convinced, ladies and gentlemen. Members, that Ana dos Olivais, given the merit and content of the proposals presented today by the PSD in its draft law for the housing of young people, would do the same as the Socialist Party Member Miguel Matos and vote in favour.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-15.u276	He's out! He's not here!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-15.u277	Know today the whole PS, for once, do not disappoint Ana of the Olives. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-15.u278	You have a request for clarification, but I will allow you to hear it first. [[Pause.]] Mr Pedro Anastácio of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-15.u279	Madam President, Minister, Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Alexandre Poço, I like to see you in the gallery. The times when you and your parliamentary group, to solve the emancipation of young Portuguese people, are not distant, suggested that they look for a home in Paris, Luxembourg, Brussels or elsewhere. [[P.S.'s applause.]] And the honourable Member — take a good look! — he was able to choose the Ana dos Olivais, which has the particularity of the Olives being even near the Lisbon airport, Mr. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It's tuned with the policies it defends. First, I would like to thank the PSD for the importance of bringing this debate to the Assembly of the Republic in which there is room for convergence and, of course, for differences. This merit is sincere, because it took seven years when VV Ex.as were always in the usual record of saying wrong of everything—because they are against, because they are against, because they are against! — for now, they wake up from this long sleepwalking and appear concerned about the right to housing. This debate, more than bringing answers on housing, marks above and beyond the PSD. Before the PSD, which told us for seven years that this debate was not important, and then, in which it brings together some proposals to perhaps try to resolve as the Socialist Party programme votes. So what you tell the Portuguese is: "Now it is! We haven't been worried, but now we're going there'. [[PSD protests.]] I would even like to be unfair, because I would like the main opposition party to participate in this debate and in building solutions for the Portuguese people. But there is nothing that allows me to say that I am being unfair. So let's see: the PSD elected a leader recently — it has a relatively recent leadership — having chosen seven priorities, but none of the seven priorities placed housing. And now the PSD says it's worried about housing! [[P.S.'s applause.]] The PSD also, in a motion called « Believe », does not have a word about accessible housing. This is the kind of housing the PSD defends and believes in for young Portuguese people. [[PSD protests.]] So the first question I have for the PSD is whether housing has actually become a priority or whether the PSD comes before the government trailer, the government that tells us to challenge the opposition and therefore tells us that we have no line on affordable housing. Curious, isn't it? in this long list of curiosities, see: in the Housing Bases Act, where was the PSD? He was against it. With regard to the regulation of local accommodation, about which today they talk about the need to create balance and not be radical, when we approved mechanisms to create restraints for municipal chambers, where was the PSD? He was against it. When we mobilized in the PRR ( Recovery and Resilience Plan ) the largest money for public housing promotion, what did the PSD do, even having the example of other countries for this outside Europe? He was suspicious of public promotion. And it is this same party that tells us, as regards housing, that «now it is that it is». So I wanted to ask the parliamentary leader of the PSD one thing: in view of this long list of curiosities, was it more difficult to convince the PSD board to present a proposal for housing or had more difficulty in convincing Louis Montenegro, who did not dedicate a line of its priorities for housing? Or, then, Mr. Parliamentary Leader, did not convince either of the two, i.e., he did not convince his bench or the leader of the PSD, but he said: « So you see, for now we get a vote to solve the Socialist Party programme. Is that what you did? On Gate 65 I will address the leader of JSD ( Social Democratic Youth ). It is a programme that has seen its increased attractiveness, year after year, with more budget, and the PSD believes that the best contribution it has to this debate is to say: "Well, it ends with the programme! » Question : is this irresponsibility or is it just distrust or ideological prejudice? It is not worth saying that they replace it with a new programme, because that programme by which they replace it is of limited duration. That is to say, what you are doing is to put an end to a programme that is giving answers to young Portuguese people.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-15.u280	to the young socialists!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-15.u281	This is not a contribution, that is to maintain the emancipation line: emancipation, for the PSD, in London, Paris or Brussels. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Meanwhile, President Augusto Santos Silva was re-elected.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-15.u282	In reply, Mr Alexandre Poço has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-15.u283	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Pedro Anastácio, with sympathy: what a mess! [[Laughing.]] What a total confusion. [[PSD applause.]] The honourable Member has been able to talk about everything and something else, but he has not spoken about where are the houses of the National Building Rehabilitation Fund which probably should be in the same place where the beds of the National Higher Education Housing Plan are. [[Protests by PS deputy Pedro Anastácio.]] He didn't talk about the average age of leaving the parents' home. He did not mention, for example, what the PS has to say to students of higher education who are displaced, to young people who enter the professional market. He didn't say what the PS has to say to the young people who want to buy his first house. I understand the discomfort. That is why you are throwing yourself at the PSD bench, as if the Socialist Party had not been ruling for seven years. [[PSD applause.]] I remember, Mr President, that they have been ruling for seven years and the results are in sight — ask any young person! Get out of this Parliament and ask a young man, already here on St. Benedict's street: is it or is it not more difficult to rent a house? Is it or isn't it harder to buy home? Is it or is it not more difficult for a young man outside to get a room in Lisbon? This is the reality and it is because of this reality that we present this bill with concrete answers, and now the answer is very simple. The PS that does not, the PS that promises, the PS of paper houses, the PS, at the end of seven years, is or is not available to enable new solutions, good solutions and solutions that place confidence in the lease market and in the procurement market for young people in our country? That is the question, Mr. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-15.u284	For an intervention, Mr Filipe Melo, of the Parliamentary Group of the Arrival, now has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-15.u285	Mr President, Mr Ministers, Mrs Secretary of State and Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen: We have brought two more initiatives to this debate and, with these two, there are almost 40 initiatives in this Parliament — no approvals. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, are they all bad, insufficient? No, no, no. It's your ideology...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-15.u286	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-15.u287	It's yours!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-15.u288	...which constantly harms the Portuguese in this matter. [[Congrats from the CH.]] The State makes, with this program More Housing, a closed attack on private property, to remind, as has already been said today, the Prec (Revolutionary Process in Course). Make an attack on private investment at the end of the golden visa. It attacks tourism and small owners of local accommodation. This government attacks everything and has no solutions. Mr. Minister, it was good that the State, before attacking the private, looked and saw how many real estate they had returned. The State must now have almost as many real estate as the CFP, but it does not put them on the lease market. [[Congrats from the CH.]] The PCP brings again its ideology for this debate, that style « look at what I say, do not look at what I do. » Owners who are forced to place their properties on the market. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, get yours!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-15.u289	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-15.u290	You guys have a lot of heritage, use it. Let them stop gossiping and get your buildings on the market, which, yes, they are many and would serve many people and there we would recognize legitimacy to talk about this matter. [[Protests from PCP MP João Dias.]] Regarding the projects presented here today, we welcome the Free which also brings a project to this debate.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-15.u291	It's a little project!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-15.u292	It should be noted that the honourable Member is attentive to international policy, because it was precisely in Hungary, with Viktor Orbán, that this proposal began a few years ago. It's good to see you, sir! [[Congrats from the CH.]] Mr. Alexandre Poço, your project is very nice, without a doubt, had not come down to the committee without a vote two weeks ago, a project of the Arrival which you plagiarized and to which you added a few more things.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-15.u293	There he is! [[That's fake!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-15.u294	But let me tell you something else, too. [[Protests from PSD Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-15.u295	Mr. Alexandre Poço, you have been in this House since 2019. I have never seen him defend young people in the area of housing, I have never heard him present original proposals, not plagiarized, in the field of housing. [[What?! That's fake!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-15.u296	And I'm going to tell you something else: the subsidised young credit only has to go back, as is stated in the Reach proposal that you caught, because the PSD government in 2012 ended with the subsidised young credit. [[PSD protests.]] Therefore, Mr, to bring forward proposals to restore royalties that have been eliminated by a PSD government, if it is not utopia, is the reality of the current PSD. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-15.u297	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-15.u298	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-15.u299	Mr. President, it is to defend the honor of the bench. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-15.u300	You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-15.u301	Mr President, Mr Filipe Melo, I realized that the honourable Member was in a hurry and that he had to distribute fruit for everyone and therefore also had to throw himself on the PSD proposal. But you know, sir, you haven't read the proposals. Clearly you haven't read! [[PSD applause.]] If you read the proposal presented by the PSD in this House and compare it with your proposal, you see that yours is a mess: you don't even know if it's a credit bonus, if it's a personal credit, if it's two credits to buy a house. You know, Mr. Deputies, the PSD does not present any credit proposals. [[Here! All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-15.u302	So, Mr. Deputy invented it, or so he lied. You have to choose: either invented or lied. If you see the PSD proposal, you see that it does not refer to personal credit, credit bonus, or two credits—as it seems to you in the proposal of the Arrival. What our proposal clearly advocates is the creation of a public guarantee for the part that is not covered by bank financing. This, Mr. Deputies, for those young people who can't get the entrance to buy a house. [[All right!]] [[Mr Pedro Pinto's protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-15.u303	The honourable Member says that we have pleaded for a proposal, but I say to him in front of us: we would never be plagiarizing your proposal, because your proposal is incomplete, it is insufficient and you do not even understand what you are defending. Simple. [[PSD applause.]] So, Mr President, on this subject we are talking about. If you've never seen me talk here about housing, I can send you my YouTube link and then you can confirm by yourself right at night, okay? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-15.u304	Mr. Filipe Melo, do you want to explain?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-15.u305	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-15.u306	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-15.u307	Mr President, Mr Alexandre Poço, it is good that I have made a reference to you and the honourable Member has invoked the defense of the honor of the bench. You are very young, but you already find yourself the owner of the Social-Democrat Bank.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-15.u308	Ah!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-15.u309	It's not yet!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-15.u310	Mr President, I would like to remind you: Bills Nos 190 / XV / 1. a and 275 / XV / 1. the one from arrive are here, and if you join the two of you will have a draft of your proposal. [[PSD laughter.]] Moreover, the credit bonus is not what you were saying. [[Protests by PSD Member Alexandre Poço.]] Mr President, be calm, I have listened to you very carefully, be calm. As for the bonus credit, no one has talked about distributing credit, or two credits, or whatever. Mr President, first of all, you should inform yourself of what is a bonus credit, because when your party, in 2012, ended with the bonus credit — surely you were still in school and should not remember this — it was within the framework of the so-called ‘Cristas law’, which was naturally supported by your government,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-15.u311	And for your leader!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-15.u312	... that he agreed to put an end to a measure that helped immensely young people in the purchase of the house. What we did was to bring two proposals that were intended above all to give young people the opportunity, again, to be able to buy home at more affordable costs and with the intervention of the State. What the honourable Member has done, once again, like what has been the habit of this PSD, has been mixing everything and giving it back, without meaning, without nexus. Mr Deputy, this way, the PSD has no area, no shore, no house. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-15.u313	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-15.u314	To what effect, Mr.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-15.u315	It is to make an inquiry to the Bureau on the conduct of the proceedings, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-15.u316	Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-15.u317	Mr President, you may cause confusion even for the honourable Members. and Members of Parliament who will have to vote shortly this reference to a proposal which, if not mistaken, is not the vote. [[Mr Pedro Pinto's protests.]] Mr Filipe Melo referred to a proposal for the Book which would already be in force in Hungary. The Free House proposes that real estate funds be exempt only from IRC (tax on income of the public) if they have 30 % housing...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-15.u318	Is that an intervention? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-15.u319	... in affordable lease; in Hungary, real estate funds are completely exempt from taxation.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-15.u320	What does that have to do with it? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-15.u321	I take the words of Mr Alexandre Poço: it may have been invention or lies and they are not mutually exclusive.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-15.u322	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-15.u323	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-15.u324	It is also for an appeal to the Bureau, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-15.u325	Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-15.u326	Mr President, it is only to say that we will ask for the distribution of documentation which shows that in 2012 the PSD/CDS government did not end with the credit bonus, only did not allow younger people to resort to this instrument. [[PSD applause.]] [[Mr Pedro Pinto's protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-15.u327	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-15.u328	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-15.u329	It is also for an appeal to the Bureau on the conduct of the proceedings.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-15.u330	Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-15.u331	Mr President, I call on Mr. President to explain to Mr. Rui Tavares that he has a very simple way of corroborating what he said here with regard to the project Mr. And then you draw your conclusions and clarify the House.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-15.u332	They completely exempt us and we don't!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-15.u333	As far as Mr Miranda Sarmento is concerned, I don't think we have to say anything else, because he said everything. Mr. Deputy just shot himself in the foot with his own gun.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-15.u334	Spread out! Spread out!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-15.u335	Therefore, Mr President, there is nothing more to add about this.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-15.u336	It's their words on the contrary!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-15.u337	Ladies and gentlemen. Members, I ask for maximum restraint in the use of regiment figures. An appeal to the Bureau should be addressed to the Bureau and be only on the conduct of the proceedings,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-15.u338	That's what Rui Tavares should have done!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-15.u339	...and the defense of honor should be used when the honor of the bench or the person is offended. We shall continue with Mr Eurico Brillante Dias on behalf of the PS Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-15.u340	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We are meeting here almost a month after the government has presented the More Housing programme. Tomorrow, it will be a month ago that the Minister and the Prime Minister have presented a programme with measures which are under public discussion, with three fundamental points, which I will talk about later, promoting an important debate, open to Portuguese society. I would therefore like to say, today, that it is our purpose to continue this discussion in the specialty, in the committees, with the set of bills that have been presented, so that we can continue a debate that is important for the Portuguese who hear us at home.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-15.u341	That's a lot to tell me!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-15.u342	Above all, what is important to realize is that, without prejudice to the discussion we are having today, the Portuguese wait for responses to the circumstances, to the situation, but also to solve some structural problems in the housing sector. The Government presented the More Habitat programme, but did not present it as a first step of the PS governments, and that has already been said—and well! — by the Minister of Housing. The Housing Basics Act passed in this Chamber in 2019 ; the Porta 65 programme — which, for example, the PPD / PSD wants to reformulate — was launched by this Government ; the more than 230 local housing strategies are under way, are moving forward. There are realisations, there is the Recovery and Resilience Plan ( PRR ), there are 26 000 houses that are being contracted with municipalities to do good and close to people, citizens. This More Habitat program solves problems, as I said, of a conjuncural and structural nature. Of course we have problems of a conjuncural nature. Inflation — the monetary policy, so applauded by the PPE and the PPD / PSD — has created new problems for those with their own home, those with a credit for housing. That is why, in the context of the response, the Government places in support of those who have contracts with housing credit and for whom the rate of effort exceeds a certain limit. Therefore, the Government has a proposal to respond to a situation that is not the same as we had in 2015, in 2016, but which largely derives from both the pandemic and the war we have in Ukraine. The government also supports the lease, helping people in need of support to pay their rents. Thus, one of the proposals the Government makes is to support families to pay their income, so that they stay in their homes more calmly — a support that we all, as a community, owe to these people.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-15.u343	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-15.u344	The government is not blind, deaf and much less dumb. The Government responds to a situation with powerful and powerful instruments and hopes that in this House it will be possible to build a large and broad consensus on emergency measures to support aspects that are intimately conjuncural. But — it is not worth hiding — there are structural elements, which have already been discussed when we discuss the Housing Basics Law. A first element has to do with public supply: Portugal has a very low level of public supply, of 2 %, which actually compares very badly with the vast majority of European countries,... [[Protests by PCP MP Bruno Dias.]] ... many of them led by liberal parties or the EPP, where there is more public construction. The Government has undertaken this effort with new instruments and therefore seeks to solve this structural problem. It is the support to solve this structural problem that we call on all the banks, asking all democratic and democratic parties to be aligned with this will that we must increase the proportion of public housing supply in our country. But there is more: not only does the government address this structural problem but it also looks at the fact that we have a housing park that is higher than the family aggregates. He said the PPD/PSD Election Program, which was supported by the Portuguese, is true for the PPD/PSD to be opposed: « Portugal has about 5, 7 million homes for 4 million aggregates. This proportion places Portugal as the country with the most housing per inhabitant of the Union, in front of Germany, France or Spain. Do not keep on seeking. ” Portugal has many dwellings that are of vacation or people who already reside in homes of old age, but also have many dwellings that are returned, unused, unused, not placed on the market, and that is deeply negative. First, because this is one of the factors that structurally increase the price.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-15.u345	It's the law of supply and demand!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-15.u346	Secondly, because many of these dwellings do not have the conditions to be used today, and it is to solve this problem that the government expects to work with the owners, to work with those who have these dwellings. The Government's proposal is not to rent legally, without listening to the owners,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-15.u347	Define "coercive"!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-15.u348	...but it's, yeah, working with the owners, and that's what you're doing today. Building more can be important — it is important! — but the country has a housing offer that must have its social use, and its social use is to serve for the Portuguese to have a better housing. Finally, it must be said that there is a third dimension — which also includes some proposals from the PPD / PSD — which is to simplify licensing. In other words, license faster and simpler, to allow the supply to reach the market faster, while at the same time working on demand. For many years we had been looking for a kind of housing, a type of housing. The gold visas, the local housing—which was so important to recover our cities and to recover much from the heritage built in cities—were a kind of search that generated pernicious effects on value, on the price of housing. Therefore, in this context, it is necessary to manage, administer this side of the search. That is what the government does, while looking at the side of the offer. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, what we are doing today is responding to the Portuguese. What the Government did was respond to the Portuguese and extend the support base with an ambitious programme to solve a central problem of Portuguese life. Mrs. Minister, you can count on this bench to continue working. We are waiting — these 120 Members are waiting! — be able to continue to count on the opposition benches, so that we can build a better More Habitat programme. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-15.u349	You have a request for clarification, but clearly you do not have time to answer. I therefore ask Mr Paulo Rios de Oliveira whether the request for clarification remains.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-15.u350	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-15.u351	You have a word for it, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-15.u352	Mr President, I believe that this lack of time has not been exactly involuntary, but I will nevertheless put to the reflection of Mr Eurico Brillante Dias and this House the following: in this debate the Socialist Party has a very serious first problem, which is that of credibility. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-15.u353	It is very difficult for those who want to look at this issue to think how someone who is in the government year after year has never solved it, although he has announced it, proposed it and arranged good names and good programmes. It is therefore difficult to hear the PS say « now that it will be», it is a problem of credibility. [[PSD applause.]] The Socialist Party has another problem with this matter, which is to appear now with these measures, which are markedly ideological. That is, in our intervention, we have to have an ideological mark, but it cannot be this way, because your ideological brand is killing the solution! unlike the Socialist Party, we...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-15.u354	They don't have ideology!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-15.u355	... we understand that the solution for everything is not state, state and more state. We understand, in particular, that it cannot be State, State and more State when, in setting an example, the State itself sets no example, as is the case with the devolved houses. [[PSD applause.]] Furthermore, Mr President, the right to housing is a constitutional right, as well as the right to property, but what the Constitution does not say is that the right to housing is done at the expense of private individuals. [[PS Member Protests Eurico Brilliant Dias.]] What the Constitution does not say is that, in order to ensure this right, it is up to the State — and I shall read the proposal, that the Minister has forgotten to read — that « the forced lease referred to in the previous paragraph (...) », Article 15 (2). , i.e. « (...) carried out preferably on buildings which meet living conditions which enable their immediate lease ». That is to occupy, starting with occupying the homes that are better. We are far from that, because that is not how we see the solution to this problem. [[PSD applause.]] An analysis with political and intellectual good faith will allow us to realize that there was a serious effort of the PSD. We do not present programmatic standards, we do not present great principles, we say: these are the principles and we will implement them. And we've come true! Today, this debate happens because the PSD imposed and scheduled it, it was not the Socialist Party. [[PSD applause.]] [[PS Member Protests Eurico Brilliant Dias.]] Therefore, Mr President, I look forward to this — and in your words I take a touch of hope — that, on the merits of the proposals, the PS does not want to use its majority to prevent these solutions, which are concrete, prompt and new to solve concrete problems, and which are, above all, without ideology and without prejudice. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-15.u356	The Bureau has no further requests for intervention so that we will proceed to the closing phase of the debate, which will be Mr Paulo Rios de Oliveira to do by the PSD Parliamentary Group. You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-15.u357	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: At this closing session, we believe that in good time the PSD presented its proposals and had this debate scheduled. Unfortunately, most of us are united in the diagnosis: Portugal lives a serious and galloping housing problem, whether in the offer of housing, whether in access and demand, or in the vast web of bureaucracy and procedures, which only delay, adapt and complicate the lives of municipalities, promoters, landlords and tenants. [[PSD applause.]] The figures clearly show that this problem has worsened in recent years because of the immense maraism and immobility to which the government has condemned the sector, with the tendency to have no one—even no one! — to stand up for the legacy of the Government. And the state, which if you want to get into everything, nor does the example, as I said, give, keeping thousands of empty public buildings, without destination or use. The mere announcement of the ideological package of measures which the Government has announced—in a trickling and inconsistent way, made on the knee and without hearing anyone—is already causing the worst fears in the sector, because we are talking about further withdrawing demand with limitations of present and future incomes, the gross violation of private property with forced leases and an attack on private initiative and local housing. [[PSD applause.]] With this government, we will end up having less housing available, more expensive and more degraded, removing landlords and tenants, as well as investors and promoters. But the PSD did not just identify the problem. We have gone further and today we have presented new and courageous proposals, aggressive proposals on the side of the offer of housing, of a fiscal, urban and regulatory nature, with emphasis on housing at affordable prices. They are sensible and practical proposals on the demand side, with clear support and simplified procedures for access to subsidies, with the discrimination of the most deprived. These are new, disruptive and decisive proposals for young people, whether in the accommodation of students, in the young furniture or in the purchase of first housing. [[PSD applause.]] These are dramas that go through a whole generation and to which we point new ways, serious, credible and urgent. We have left this debate for the votes that follow, with the certainty that the Portuguese will have two models, two paths and two visions for Portugal in this area as well as in other areas. The PSD is building the alternative. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-15.u358	We have come to the end of the debate and we shall proceed to the vote. I request the services which open the quorum verification period. [[Pause.]] I wonder if any Member of Parliament or some Member of Parliament has not been able to register electronically. [[Pause.]] There are no problems, I ask the services to close the quorum verification period and advertise the result. We have 215 registered Members... one more, Mrs. Patrícia Gilvaz, who failed to register electronically, but has now been able to mark her presence. We shall then proceed to the vote. We will generally vote for Bill No. 653 / XV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Alter the Legal Regime of Urbanization and Building and the Legal Regime of Territorial Management Instruments in order to simplify licensing, strengthen the means of monitoring and facilitate land use for housing use. [[The vote was taken by votes to PSD, CH and IL, votes against the CFP, BE, PAN and L and the PS abstention.]] The bill goes down to 6. the Commission. We proceed to the general vote of Bill No 654 / XV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Tax measures for social intervention to resolve the serious crisis in access to own housing, the increase of charges generated with the rise of interest in housing credit and the promotion of measures that encourage a better impact of the returned buildings and the strengthening of confidence between the parties in lease contracts. [[The vote was taken by votes to the PSD and IL, votes against the PCP and BE, and abstentions against PS, CH, PAN and L.]] The bill goes down to 5. the Commission. The general vote of Bill No 655 / XV / 1 is hereby followed. a ( PSD ) — Establishs the transitional income allowance scheme and approves mitigation measures on the impact of aggravating interest on housing. [[The vote was taken by votes to the PSD and CH, votes against the PCP and L, and abstentions against the PS, BE and PAN.]] The bill goes down to 5. the Commission. We proceed with the general vote of Bill No 656 / XV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Housing for young people- student accommodation, lease for young people and acquisition of the first home itself and permanent. [[Submitted to the vote, it was adopted, with votes in favour of PSD, CH, PAN and PS Diogo Cunha, Eduardo Alves, Francisco Dinis, Miguel Matos and Tiago Soares Monteiro, votes against the PCP, BE and L and abstentions from PS and IL.]] The bill goes down to 6. the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-15.u359	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-15.u360	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-15.u361	Mr President, it is to announce that on behalf of the five PS Members a statement of vote on this last vote will be submitted.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-15.u362	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. We shall proceed to the general vote on draft resolution No 543 / XV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Accelerating implementation of PRR funds for housing, promoting innovative housing and housing solutions, and assessing changes to the urban lease regime. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PSD, the CH, the IL, the BE and the NAP and the PS, the PCP and the L.]] The bill goes down to 6. the Commission. The general vote of Bill No 603 / XV / 1 is hereby followed. a (CH) — Extension of the seal tax exemption provided for in the Seal Tax Code is carried out. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, the CFP and the BE were rejected, votes against the CH and the NAP and abstentions from the PSD, IL and L.]] We will generally vote for Bill No. 607 / XV / 1. a (CH) — Amend the VAT code so that the overall value of rehabilitation and related works carried out in buildings for housing benefits from the reduced rate of VAT by 6 %. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and the BE were rejected, votes against the CH and the NAP and abstentions to the PSD, the IL, the PCP and the L.]] We proceed with the general vote of Bill No 609 / XV / 1. a (IL) — enables civil society to rehabilitate state's returned buildings for affordable rent. [[Put to the vote, it was adopted with votes in favour of CH and IL, votes against the CFP, BE, NAP and L, and abstentions against PS and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-15.u363	Do you abstain from this? Oh, my God! Wow!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-15.u364	The bill goes down to 6. the Commission. We shall now proceed to the general vote on Bill No 631 / XV / 1. a ( L) — Amends the Tax Benefit Statute by limiting the exemption of IRC to funds and real estate investment companies that provide 30 % of their real estate in the Rent Support Programme. [[Subject to the vote, votes against IL and the CFP were rejected, votes against the PAN and L and abstentions against PS, PSD, CH and BE.]] We continue with the general vote on draft resolution No 481 / XV / 1. a (BE) — Recommends that the Government do not sell or transfer urbanised public land to real estate speculation processes and use for public housing policies. [[When put to the vote, votes against the PSD and the IL were cast in favour of the CFP, BE, NAP and L and abstentions by the PS and the CH.]] The general vote on draft resolution No 525 / XV / 1. a ( IL) — By setting up the digital portal for urban licensing ( PDLU). [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the CH, the IL and the PAN, votes against the BE and abstentions against the PS, the PS, the CFP and the L.]] The draft resolution goes down to 6. the Commission. We shall proceed to the general vote on draft resolution No 526 / XV / 1. a (L) — Recommends that the Government contract the human resources necessary to pursue public housing policies. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PSD, the PCP, the BE, the PAN and the L, the votes against the CH and the IL and the PS abstention.]] The draft resolution goes down to 6. the Commission. We now vote, in general, the Resolution Project No 542 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Prevent speculation, guarantee and protect the right to housing. [[When put to the vote, votes against the PSD and the IL were cast in favour of the CFP, BE and L and abstentions from the PS, the CH and the NAP.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we have ended the voting period...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-15.u365	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-15.u366	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-15.u367	Mr President, it is for a vote to be corrected.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-15.u368	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-15.u369	In the Bill No 655 / XV / 1. the PSD, I believe it will have been recorded that the Book voted against, but the correct vote is abstention, so I asked that correction be made.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-15.u370	All right, Mr. Deputies. We have come to the end of today's work and the agenda for tomorrow consists of... [[Pause.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Gentlemen, I just need 57 seconds... [[Pause.]] Every president has his mania, I don't like people being behind him. Tomorrow, the next item is the election to Vice-President of the Assembly of the Republic, the urgent debate required by the CFP, on « Speculation of essential goods prices and the measures to be stopped », followed by political declarations and on a fourth and final point the assessment of Petition No 9 / XV / 1. a ( Pedro Manuel Regueira Valadas Coriel et al.) — In defense of the Park of Generations, against the proposed amendment 308 of the Cascais PDM, along with the Resolution Projects Nos 181 / XV / 1. a ( PAN) — Recommends that the Government preserve and value the Generation Park as a fundamental axis of a national skate development and promotion strategy, 249 / XV / 1. a ( L) — Recommends that the Government classify the Generations Park as equipment of public interest in order to avoid its destruction, 470 / XV / 1. a ( BE) — Recommends to the Government the classification of the Generation Park as equipment of public interest, 511 / XV / 1. a ( PS ) — Recommends that the Government classify the Generation Park as equipment of public interest and 512 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Rescue of the Generation Park. Good rest of the day to all, especially to Mr. Eurico Brillante Dias, who celebrates his birthday today. [[PS, PSD, CH, IL, PAN and L applause.]] The session is closed. [[It was 18 hours and 6 minutes.]]
