ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-28.u1	Good afternoon to all and to all. We have quorum, so I declare open the session. [[It was 15 hours and 7 minutes.]] I welcome the ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr Minister, Mrs and others. Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, the ladies and gentlemen. Journalists and the ladies and gentlemen. Representatives of the authority forces, to whom I ask you to open the galleries to the public. [[Pause.]] Thank you very much. The first item on the agenda is the general debate on the Proposal for a Law No 88 / XV / 1. a ( GOV ) — Transposes Delegated Directive ( EU ) 2022 / 2100 and strengthens standards for the prevention and control of smoking and drafts of Law No 879 / XV / 1. a ( CH) — Change Law No 37 / 2007 of 14 August, amends the labelling in tobacco products in order to eliminate photographs or illustrations of combined health warnings and give more prominence to available anti-smoking support options and 881 / XV / 1. a ( PAN) — The second amendment to Law No 88 / 2019 of 3 September, known as the « law of the beats », is made in order to ensure its most efficient, effective and transparent application, together with Draft Resolution No 868 / XV / 1. a (PAN) — Recommends that the Government ensure the adoption of incentives for correct discarding and re-use of tip tobacco products. To submit Law No 88 / XV / 1. a ( GOV ) has the floor to the Secretary of State for the Promotion of Health, Margarida Tavares.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-28.u2	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The proposal for a review of the tobacco law here under discussion has three main objectives, which are to protect against harmful effects of non-smoking tobacco, prevent children from starting consumption and becoming dependent on tobacco and promote smoking cessation. Recognizing the scientific evidence that accumulates, we choose the ambition to review the law of tobacco in an integrated way, without stigmatizing or blaming anyone who smokes.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-28.u3	Really? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-28.u4	In line with our European partners, we aim to achieve a tobacco-free generation by 2040. This means reducing the prevalence of current 17% smoking to levels below 5%. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, a century of the tobacco epidemic has caused a completely avoidable public health tragedy. It would be an inexcusable mistake not to act now. This is a priority theme of a modern public health agenda. In Portugal, at least one person dies with a tobacco-related disease every half hour. About 13 % of these people are not even smokers: they are often exposed to the smoke of others without an option. It is also estimated that for each person who dies, at least 30 others live with a serious tobacco - related disease. In addition, a smoker lives on average less than 10 years than a non-smoker. The numbers are overwhelming, and behind them there are faces. Between complacency and consequence, where to follow? Can we prolong inaction with the insufficient decrease in tobacco consumption in Portugal, or should we recognize that new products are multiplying in increasingly appealing and additive formats, which will eventually compromise to this decline? Can we ignore that in Europe we have the second worst result in tobacco-free environments, or should we increase them significantly? Can we continue to deny evidence and allow the spread of manipulative pseudoscience and aggressive marketing techniques, or should we oppose incentives for initiation and consumption? Can we resign ourselves not to accept that the profusion of tobacco outlets is associated with initiation and relapses, or should we clearly separate the places where tobacco is going to be bought from those where you are living and socializing? [[Protests from BE MP Joana Mortagua.]] on our part, the options and answers are clear. One of the fundamental tasks of any society is to organize the protection of the most vulnerable. We know that exposure to passive smoke increases the occurrence of respiratory diseases and early manifestations of cardiovascular risk in children. In pregnant women, it is associated with the risk of fetal death, congenital malformations and low birth weight.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-28.u5	Worse abortion!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-28.u6	We also know that smoking disproportionately affects the poorest. This means that the measures we are presenting today also respond to a basic question of justice and social equity: those who smoke more and longer have less social and economic resources and have become dependent earlier. Effective health promotion measures contribute to breaking historical cycles that perpetuate these inequalities. The challenges we face are not only solved with information campaigns. They are useful, but all population surveys have shown that people are well aware of the negative effects of tobacco. We may even fall into a strange contradiction: we are all available for healthier lives, but at the same time reluctant to intervene in the marketing of seductive lifestyles, which result in an increasing burden of disease, disability and death and which diminish the resources available for other priorities. The well-known and documented strategies of consumer incentive counterpounds, as we could not fail to do, reasoned regulatory strategies, proportionate and progressively implemented, with historically supported and easily integrated measures by society. We are directing a large part of our measures to prevent smoking among young people, which have long been known to be the most effective.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-28.u7	It's not prevention, it's prohibition!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-28.u8	It is imperative to undo the illusion that tobacco products are a consumer goods like anyone else, associated with a stimulating and affirmative life model. It should also be noted that we will also increase support for those who want to quit smoking, with the strengthening of smoking cessation consultations in the SNS (National Health Service) and in the context of occupational health and sharing medicines that can help in this process. Legislation, however, is a decisive step, as international experience shows. It is difficult to imagine a health promotion policy that ignores one of the main determinants of disease. Health promotion cannot be a mere inconsequential declaration, it must become a real policy, which helps create healthy environments and promotes beneficial choices. It is in the hands of each of the Members and of each of the Members. Ladies and gentlemen, let Portugal, once again, not be late for the future! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-28.u9	Look, only the smokers are beating their hands!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-28.u10	The Secretary of State has two requests for clarification. How do you want to answer?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-28.u11	Together, Madam President.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-28.u12	To make the first request for clarification, Mr Miguel Santos of the PSD Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-28.u13	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to congratulate you on two reasons: firstly, on the very well-aligned speech that you have just produced, and then on the fact that you are taking part in this debate, since you have the Minister next to you.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-28.u14	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-28.u15	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-28.u16	No, it's just to see! [[Protests of PS Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-28.u17	It's already lowering the level!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-28.u18	Mr. Minister has a... Continuation of PS Deputies Protests.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-28.u19	Mr. Deputy, just a moment. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, let us create conditions for the speaker to express his ideas in good condition. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-28.u20	They're gonna smoke a cigarette!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-28.u21	Thank you very much, Madam President, I have every opportunity to speak. I say this because Mr. Minister has a hat, which is the executive director, to take care of him, he won't do much trouble,... [[Mr Pedro dos Santos Frazão's laughs.]] ... and now you have the Secretary of State, who is more devoted to this topic of tobacco. But I note that, despite not intervening, he is present. Therefore, sign your presence. With regard to your speech, the Secretary of State, as you said, made a very clear speech, said what was needed to be said about the amendment of the tobacco law, in fact, but let me make some amends. First, you have no idea of the impact the change to tobacco law will have on the small, but relevant, steel and Madeira tobacco industry. [[Protests by PS Member Berta Nunes.]] They don't have any data, they don't have concrete data, they don't have a study, they didn't worry, they didn't care...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-28.u22	Stop with your mouth and talk!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-28.u23	But they did not care, they did not worry about having the knowledge of which the impact on the specific case of the Azores and Madeira. Then, clearly, the transposition of the directive, in its prohibitive spirit, goes far beyond what was foreseen in the directive. Therefore, there is a heavy burden assumed, under a banist aspect, on places of sale and tobacco consumption. All right, Mr. Secretary of State, but the most important thing is not that. The most important is prevention and access to care—to consultations, treatments, to the participation of the most used medicines and considered to be more effective. That is to say, all that is most fundamental and most important in order to prevent people from smoking and getting people to drop tobacco, the Minister does not speak. But here I have a statement from you, Minister : « It is part of this package of measures[...] the intensification of the response capacity of the SNS [...] by the generalization of tobacco cessation consultations in primary and hospital health care. » That's what you said, Minister. You don't talk, but you said that. What we are going to see is that consultations have decreased by 4, 8 % — and, if we were in previous years, the decrease is still much higher — and the sites of consultation and intensive support have fallen by more than half. And that, Mrs. Secretary of State, is the part that I think is hurt, frankly, because it's the part that gives the most work, isn't it? Therefore, making legislation and legislative changes is one thing; working with intensity every day, with decision-making capacity, with competence is clearly much more difficult. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-28.u24	For a request for clarification, Mr João Dias, of the CFP Parliamentary Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-28.u25	O John, did you go to the beach yesterday?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-28.u26	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Minister, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretary of State, the Secretary of State for Health Promotion made an assessment of the smokers we have registered and which is important: it is important not to stigmatize or blame anyone who smokes, and yet there is no persecution of smokers. That is why the CFP alerts the importance of measures to be robust and effective, but to this end health promotion and disease prevention.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-28.u27	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-28.u28	So, Madam Secretary of State, I would like to ask you about what measures we consider structural and to which all our options should be addressed, in particular with regard to the protection of the population at the exposure of tobacco. We are talking about the fourth amendment to Law No 37 / 2007. What measures does this proposal actually take to reduce and protect the population from tobacco smoke? Another question has to do with the need to continue to invest in the warning of the evils of tobacco. Where in this law is the involvement of schools, with all the capacity of the population we need to have?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-28.u29	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-28.u30	A very important question has to do with the fact that we offer help to those who need to stop smoking. You've been talking about the reinforcement of consultations, but for how many? We had, in 2019, 215 places of consultation and today we have 112,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-28.u31	Look at that! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-28.u32	There's not so many smokers anymore! That's enough!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-28.u33	... and it is expected that they will further reduce, taking into account the calamity in terms of access to primary health care. Then there is the question of participation, too. As a special regime, what is our participation in medication, bearing in mind that we have no support in this regard? [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-28.u34	In reply, Mrs. Secretary of State for the Promotion of Health, Margarida Tavares.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-28.u35	Madam President, Mr Miguel Santos, thank you very much for your questions. I record you liked my speech. Let me, then, tell you this: in fact, our proposal is not a banist,... [[CH's laughs.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-28.u36	No prohibitionist! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-28.u37	Even Isabel Moreira took her hands to her head!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-28.u38	...and in my speech I did very well that what we want is regular. Therefore, by reducing the places where smoking is possible,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-28.u39	Forbidden!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-28.u40	... by reducing sales points...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-28.u41	Forbidden!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-28.u42	... and by matching these new tobacco products,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-28.u43	Forbidden!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-28.u44	... that are much more attractive and addictive, we are, in fact, regular to protect.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-28.u45	It's not regular, it's prohibition!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-28.u46	This, yes, is our objective: to protect, above all, children and young people from the beginning of smoking, from tobacco addiction, which occurs at a very early age, because dependence is, in fact, very early to be acquired. So that's our goal. We follow the path that has been made, progressive, with a law that also dominates because it is progressive. We also pay attention to transitional rules, which allow not only for the adaptation of society but also of trade and industry, as you mentioned. There are standards here: on the one hand, for places of sale, only in 2025 are these new restrictions; on the places of consumption in spaces that had made the changes that were recently introduced, with indoor areas dedicated to smoking, only in 2030 will they enter into force. So we give ourselves time to adapt. Our legislation, in this sense, has been a step forward and, in fact, let me tell you, we have been accompanied in a late manner by other countries. Most European countries are far ahead and, as I said, we are in the last places in Europe.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-28.u47	We're used to it!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-28.u48	That's normal!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-28.u49	With regard to the consultations, we have already said that, yes, sir, we are going and obviously we are working on this. We have recovered a lot of production, not only in terms of locations, but also in terms of number of consultations, and many have been recovered from the great impact that the pandemic has had. As far as medicines are concerned, taking advantage of them to respond to Mr João Dias, at the moment, the medicine that was shared was removed from the market. There is another medicine whose participation has not been requested, and we are trying to make the way for it to be shared, but this has requirements for which the industry itself may not be available, because it is necessary to negotiate prices. So that's a way we're going. Dear Mr John Dias, thank you very much for your words, which are important to me.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-28.u50	Of course they're...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-28.u51	In fact, all of our measures are precisely for the protection of the population in relation to the exposure. We try to strengthen the places where it is not possible to smoke,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-28.u52	More? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-28.u53	... in particular the interior spaces, because, even using the solutions that had been recommended in the recent portal, this implies risks which should not be acceptable, and therefore, in a relatively dilated period, this space must cease to exist. There is also passive exposure to the outdoors and, in particular, something that is now being discussed, although I am already 10 years old, I smoke in the third hand. Yes, it can be very relevant and it can be very interesting in terms of legislation. On the one hand, there is also a need to protect people in the open air, but also to denormalize and not teach our children and our young people who smoke is a normal act. So this is also important. In fact, warnings are still regulated in the European area. And if you were referring to the information campaigns,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-28.u54	Exactly.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-28.u55	... they have to be disseminated, and we do-CL- we will-it, as it is obvious. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-28.u56	To submit Bill No. 879 / XV / 1. a ( CH ), Mr André Ventura has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-28.u57	Madam President, Minister of Health, Secretary of State, Mrs. Members: Don't cease to be curious, along with the lack of enthusiasm of the Socialist Party's bench — probably the smokers of this bench —,... [[Mr Pedro Pinto's laughs.]] ... the Minister appears in a debate not to speak, but to smile alongside the Secretary of State. [[CH and PSD MP Miguel Santos' laughs.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-28.u58	It's nice, it's nice!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-28.u59	Mr President, I think you are a nice person. I will now give you some advice if you allow me: if you want to come to Parliament to laugh, it is not worth coming, Minister. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-28.u60	It's not worth coming! Stay in the Ministry, stay solving the thousands of problems you have to solve,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-28.u61	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-28.u62	...and at least trust your State Secretaries a little, that they are able to face Parliament without the hand of Prof. Pizarro. Now, Madam Secretary of State, you can try to deceive anyone you want, you can't fool Parliament. He said: "We are in the last places. » Good, but that with PS is already the normal, we are in the last places in everything:...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-28.u63	Not at all!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-28.u64	...we're in the last places in employment, we're in the last places in foreign direct investment, we're in the last places in the tax burden... so that's not new either. [[PS protests.]] The novelty is to say « we are aligned with the European partners », when the Secretary of State knows well that this proposal by the PS goes far beyond the European directive on this matter.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-28.u65	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-28.u66	So we're not aligned. Europe wants to regulate, the PS wants to ban. That is the difference: Europe wants to regulate, the PS wants to ban! That's the difference. [[Congrats from the CH.]] I could also say that, curiously, the Socialist Party, a few years ago, asked the restoration entrepreneurs to do works, renovations, investments in thousands of commercial establishments throughout the country, some of which, according to testimony we received in our parliamentary group this week, invested thousands of euros to change their plans, adapt their plans to new tobacco legislation and, of course, to have smokers and non-smokers in their space. What has the government been doing now? Forbidden, you can't smoke in the flats! So let me ask you this, you and the PS bench: is the PS available to compensate hundreds of thousands of restaurants entrepreneurs who have now spent a fortune on the plantations in Portugal? [[Congrats from the CH.]] Madam Secretary of State, it is estimated that, with your legislative creativity, we will lose 4000 jobs — 4000 jobs. While we play tobacco laws, while we play machines where you can sell and where you can't sell, 4,000 more people will lose their jobs, 4,000 more people will lose their jobs. While we are playing machines and selling bans, we are going to increase tobacco smuggling shamefully, by banning their sale in areas and fun spaces where, of course, people who smoke would buy these equipment. Therefore, this government will not regulate anything, this government will not legislate anything, this government will be the biggest promoter of tobacco smuggling in our recent history in Portugal. That's what's gonna happen. That's what's gonna happen! [[Congrats from the CH.]] Madam Secretary of State, Minister, I have never thought, in my entire parliamentary life, of quoting Isabel Moreira in a parliamentary debate. [[PS and CH rice.]] this time I will-I will do it - because I said what had to be said, and for people who treasure the truth, like me, this is really... [[Laughter and protests of PS, PCP, BE and L and CH counterprotests.]] [[Ui! Ui!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-28.u67	He's a jerk!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-28.u68	He's the greatest liar!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-28.u69	Ladies and gentlemen. Members, please... Continuation of PS, PCP, BE and L protests and CH counterprotests.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-28.u70	And the fake news during the summer? And the ERC ( Regulatory Entity for Social Communication )? What about the false news?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-28.u71	Shut up!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-28.u72	But it's the ladies. Members of all the seats, Mr Filipe Melo. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, please create conditions for the speaker to continue. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-28.u73	Thank you, Madam President. I will not answer to who had 600 votes in Madeira,... [[CH's laughs.]] ...I will not allow myself to give that answer, I will focus on other things. I'm going to focus on other things. [[Congrats from the CH.]] Mrs Moreira said: « Treating smokers as criminals continues to bear fruit. This law is an attack on freedom. » I never thought I'd finish a speech with a socialist quote, but I hope so, Mrs. Members of the Government, Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, for once in your life, listen to your illustrious Member. [[Congrats from the CH.]] Let anyone who smokes be a smoker, let freedom work, let the Portuguese be free and, above all, leave who has invested and is living to pay wages to their employees to do so without the sanitary dictatorship of the Socialist Party. [[Congrats from the CH.]] [[PS and L protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-28.u74	To submit Bill No. 881 / XV / 1. a and the Resolution Project No 868 / XV / 1. a, of the NAP, has the floor to Mrs Inês de Sousa Real. Continuation of PS and L protests and CH counterprotests.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-28.u75	It's like Joacine, she had more vows than you!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-28.u76	Joacine's obsessing you!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-28.u77	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, you will begin your speech. I am grateful that they create the conditions for this.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-28.u78	But I shouldn't! This drag is a shame.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-28.u79	But will you speak on behalf of the PSD?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-28.u80	Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-28.u81	Madam President, I understand that you are still suffering a few pains. [[CH's laughs.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government here present, who also comply with the debate on the amendment of the tobacco law submitted by the Government, the NAP has already had the opportunity to meet with the Secretary of State. We are therefore presenting ourselves today in the debate with sensitivity and good sense, sensitivity of those who understand that smoking is a serious public health problem, which annually kills hundreds of smokers, including passive smokers, and which also compromises the quality of life of children and young people, as well as being an environmental, social and political problem. For this reason, we follow the introduction of restrictions, for example, in certain places, such as public transportation stops, school roundabouts or beaches. But in this debate we also want common sense and proportionality and we do not accept excessive or abusive solutions, such as those for higher education establishments, the spreads, the sales posts, which, if so exaggerated, not only call into question the investment that has already been required of traders in the past, but also question the objectives proposed with the transposition of the directive itself. On the other hand, we want to focus on the enormous environmental impacts that can be caused by tobacco. If, at the time of the law of the beats, the NAP had already warned about the need for awareness in this area, we must not forget that the environmental footprint of the tobacco industry is still enormous. [[CH Member's protests Filipe Melo.]] Each year we speak of 600 million trees slaughtered, 22 billion tons of water consumed, 84 million tons of CO2. And, as if this were not enough, the beats are the most laid waste on the planet, to which the vaporizers, the warm tobacco, where there is no chain or flow of waste, with an environmental impact, yet added. That's why, for the NAP, you need to go further. After three years of implementing this law, it is necessary to create more innovative measures to ensure that there is a more accurate deposition of the beats, but also that there is more conservation of nature, particularly through the Environmental Fund, and the preservation of resources, as well as a strategy for re-use which structurally bets on innovative projects for cigarette tips, in particular for the production of bricks, paper and even surfboards. After three years, we also want more transparency in the application of this law and its results.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-28.u82	Are you using PSD time?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-28.u83	Ladies and gentlemen. Members, they are simple but crucial proposals for a future where the right to a stable climate and to the public health of present and future generations can and should be respected, so there is openness in the specialty.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-28.u84	You have a request for clarification, but you have no time to answer. I would like to ask whether the request for clarification remains, and I would also like to ask whether there is some time for you to be able to answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-28.u85	PSD!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-28.u86	The PSD is that you have to deal with it!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-28.u87	Thank you very much, I've already noticed that you don't. To make this request for clarification, Mr Ventura has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-28.u88	Madam President, since Mrs Inês de Sousa Real no longer has time to answer, I will just say this with all due respect: the proposals brought here have zero to do with what is being discussed, they have to do with the law of the beats and not with the prevention of tobacco consumption—so they should not have been admitted at first, but with the NAP, everything is allowed—...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-28.u89	You didn't complain!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-28.u90	... and they well show the style of legislation that the NAP has, that is to prohibit, prohibit, prohibit. And I'm sure...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-28.u91	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-28.u92	And very well!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-28.u93	And that's what the PAN can do better.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-28.u94	So much for you pigs, they want you all to be!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-28.u95	I know Block agrees, that's where we know, but now it's more the PAN. They don't always want to have the protagonist of things. [[BE's protests.]] But I'm sure, Mr. President and Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, that, as bad as the draft law of the PAN... [[BE's protests.]] I am sure that, as bad as the NAP projects are, the PSD will certainly find a way to reach out and take to the entire mainland and to the Autonomous Region of Madeira laws as this one that the NAP brings here. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-28.u96	We moved on to the intervention period. To that end, Mrs Joana Cordeiro of the Parliamentary Group of the Liberal Initiative has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-28.u97	Mr President, Mr Minister, Mrs. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members: This bill is proof that the Government sees the Portuguese people as irresponsible children, not recognizing it the ability to make decisions without a paternalist orientation of the State.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-28.u98	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-28.u99	This proposal for a law which the Government intends to adopt will, among other things, extend the ban on smoking outdoors: in flats, in sports venues, in public transport stations or stops. They are open-air locations where damage to third parties is zero. For this reason, it seems obvious that a public health measure is not involved in this bill. The discussion on public health, yes, has already taken place when discussing the impact of tobacco smoke on passive smokers and when it was decided by the ban on smoking in closed public spaces.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-28.u100	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-28.u101	Until then, yes, people who chose not to smoke were manifestly affected by the smoke of those who chose not to smoke. What is now at stake here is a health complex made with the paternalism of the state. [[Applause from the IL.]] Today, we all know that tobacco hurts and all scientific evidence proves it. This bill appears as a condemnation by the Government of a behavior that it considers to be wrong. But since the government does not have the courage to totally ban tobacco consumption, because this would be unpopular or understood as a measure worthy of dictatorship, it has chosen to make everything so difficult, thus finding that everyone will be overcome by fatigue and by all these excessive prohibitions. along this bill, we can see that it is taxing on prohibitions and restrictions on citizens and businesses. « It is prohibited », « it is prohibited », « it is prohibited », « it is still forbidden » : all expressions which the Government has not ceased to use throughout the text.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-28.u102	And the PAN too!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-28.u103	However, with regard to State obligations, the government is already quite laconic. On information and education for health, « the State must» ; on consultations on smoking cessation, « must be created » ; on access to nicotine replacement medicines or anti-tabbagic drugs, « must be promoted ». That is, citizens and businesses are obliged to everything and are banned from everything, but the State, that supposed good person, should only. More: is the government aware that, with so many prohibitions and, in particular, with all these restrictions on sale, this will only encourage the illegal sale of cigarettes? It is that anyone who wants to buy and anyone who wants to continue smoking will obviously do so, but using a black market, which will be promoted by the state itself and in a way in which the quality of products and therefore the health of citizens will not be at least guaranteed. But let's go to other questions. How many micro, small and medium-sized companies will be affected by these prohibitions? How many jobs will be at risk or even lost? Does the government have any estimates of this economic impact? Speaking in impact, I cannot help but ask the Secretary of State where is the assessment report of the current law, which is still in force, that the Government should have made and sent to Parliament. [[Applause from the IL.]] I remember that this report should have arrived three years after the law came into force, which, as we all know, was in 2017. So far, you don't even see it.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-28.u104	Well remembered! Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-28.u105	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the Government has recognized that the transposition of the directive is just a detail of this bill; it has recognized that individual freedom conflicts with the aim of making smoking no longer a normal act; and it has ensured that tobacco is legal, that it is not being illegalized and that it does not prohibit, stigmatize and does not limit anything to smokers. The Government has also stated that protecting the most vulnerable from threats is a function of the State; and it has stated that the State is not paternalist, it is protective.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-28.u106	And it really is!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-28.u107	Mrs. Members who are here and who are smokers, even those who are from the Socialist Party, seem to think that the government considers you a threat.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-28.u108	And they are!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-28.u109	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, what is at stake here is the way the government views public policies: to take care of the citizen because he is unable to take care of himself. For this government, « we know, we think for the citizens », and this, for the Liberal Initiative, is completely unacceptable. [[Applause from the IL.]] I challenge you all to find a smoker who is not aware of the evils of tobacco. I challenge you to find a person who is not aware of the evils of tobacco today, either because you learned at school, whether by awareness campaigns, or because in your day-to-day life some close family member died of a complication caused by tobacco. But, Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members, the Liberal Initiative does not deal with excessive bans or paternalist positions of the State on its citizens. Today, we all know that smoking has harmful health consequences and that, on the limit, it can be fatal. I mean, today, whoever decides to smoke is aware of all the risks. If he still chooses to do so, this is called freedom — freedom to put and dispose of his life. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-28.u110	For an intervention, Mrs Isabel Pires of the Left Block Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-28.u111	Oh, I thought it was Isabel Moreira!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-28.u112	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Members of Parliament, Secretary of State, Ministers: Recognizing, and I think we all recognize in this room that tobacco is harmful to health and that there should therefore be public policies that look at this problem and try to mitigate it, there are two notes that we would like to leave on how this debate is being done and on the proposal for a concrete law under discussion. First of all, it seems to us that the government is actually walking long and fast steps towards a prohibitionist path, indeed, which, I think we can all agree, does not have the expected results. You've never had at any time! Therefore, we are not opposed to the principle of protecting people who are not smokers from exposure to tobacco, but, in fact, we are facing a situation where there are two freedoms that come into conflict: the freedom of someone to decide and to be able to smoke and the freedom of someone who does not want to smoke, whether active or passive. in this conflict, it is understood that there are rules and, in fact, this idea of prevention and protection of these people already has an expression in our legislation, with some measures such as the restriction of smoking in closed places. But one thing is to ensure that in closed spaces there are no passive smokers and therefore that all people who do not smoke are protected; another very different thing is to severely restrict the places where you can smoke, especially outdoors. That is why it seems to us that the problem comes in, because we have free and conscious individuals who, in fact, are just being prevented from performing behavior within their sphere of freedom. For example, they are restricting themselves and banning various outdoor places where, perhaps, no one else is around. That's what this bill does. This is where we believe that we are entering a very different stage of the debate that we should be dealing with in relation to public health, risk prevention or a decrease in the prevalence of smokers. We are even entering a debate on control and prohibitionism that we think makes no sense and that may actually have the opposite effect. But then we are going to what is in the proposed law on the places of ban and the proposals that are put forward. Some are absolutely unreasonable and out of touch with reality, Secretary of State. For example, smoking is prohibited in residential social responses addressed to dependent people, without shelter or victims of domestic violence, and we ask why. Why should these people be forced, even if they don't want to, to quit smoking? What's the alternative? For many of them, are they going to live on the street? All right, the government says it places exceptions to the bill, but we're going to the exceptions. They say there may be exceptions in sheltered or self-catering apartments provided that there is a space that is physically separated from the other facilities and that has a negative ventilation and pressure system. They propose the same for prison establishments. I wonder what reality the government is in, to propose these kinds of exceptions that we do not understand and that we think they are completely unreasonable and very difficult to implement. But there is more, within the framework of restrictions and prohibitions, which, from our point of view, makes no sense, which has to do with sales. Smoking tobacco and buying tobacco is not illegal and, not an illegal product, how is it possible that we are banning its sale in certain places? We think this does not make any sense, especially in contexts and places where adult people smoke, such as fun centers, restaurants or outdoor festivals. What is being promoted with the sales ban? What has always existed throughout the history of humanity when it is prohibited to sell, and the Secretary of State knows what that means.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-28.u113	It's smuggling!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-28.u114	So what we consider is that it will not be and cannot be the government, whether this is anyone else, to decide that anyone who smokes has to stop smoking. Surely, in principle, we may agree that, on a health issue, this should be the ideal, but that is not how things happen. It is not up to us, from a moral and prohibitive point of view, to say that people should stop smoking overnight because there is a bill in which the government bans it in most outdoor places. Finally, I wanted to turn to the second note, which also seems to us to be worrying. When we read the bill from the beginning to the end, we have, on the last page, page and half, some mention of the issue of smoking cessation mechanisms, consultations and drug participation. For the Government, and the Secretary of State made this intervention here, it is one of the objectives: to promote and support smoking cessation. However, there is nothing in this bill that effectively guarantees not only the participation of medicines, but also the question of smoking cessation consultations. The part of this objective that the Government says it wants to have, in fact, only propaganda. The only effective thing in this bill is prohibitive measures. So in conclusion, Madam President, what we think is that we should be looking, yes, at the prevention part of the possible onset of tobacco consumption; we should be looking at the way the National Health Service is structured and has answers to anti-smoking consultation; and we should be looking, yes, at the question of drug participation. But that is not what this bill brings and therefore it seems to us that it fails in too many of the things that are the objectives it intends to respond to. Obviously, we will always be available, in particular, to improve what can be improved, but, as it is, we cannot follow this bill. [[Congratulations from BE and the PS MPs Alexandra Leitão and Isabel Alves Moreira.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-28.u115	Mr Paulo Marques of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-28.u116	Mr President, Mr Minister, Mrs State Secretary and Mr State Secretary, Mrs and Mrs Members: From May to now, many organizations and natural people have expressed their views in the public space, one in favor of others, about the options that the Government intends to introduce. But there were still others who called for more determined steps in the fight against smoking. By this time of year, and throughout all these months, all parliamentary groups must have received in the hearing entities requesting it to present their views on the options outlined in this bill. They all have a particular approach, which is theirs, once more focused on health issues, others on the economy, others on the fundamental rights of citizens and others on the need of the State to intervene in these matters. Not many months ago, there was a broad consensus in this House on the virtuality of the creation of the State Secretariat of Health Promotion by the XXIII Constitutional Government. Today, more than ever before, in our debates, between the different representatives of the parties and even with the government, we speak and we want to take action to prevent the disease rather than to deal strictly with it. On this point, I understand that I can infer that we are united in this desire, even though we have the notion that we will not have very few times and we would have different options to be taken by each political force on how best to treat the disease. If in the means to be used to fight the disease until we can diverge, the prevention of the disease does not make sense that we do not have one voice. The prevention of the disease cannot be a weapon of shooting to place Portuguese against Portuguese. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-28.u117	But this is not prevention, it is prohibition!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-28.u118	We all bear in mind, without any doubt, that tobacco consumption is directly responsible for millions of deaths in the world and for thousands in Portugal. However, still within these statistics, there are many other deaths triggered by exposure to environmental smoke. In order for us to have a serious discussion about the best measures to be taken to prevent tobacco from gaining new and more smokers, for those who believe that measures must be taken to avoid, reduce and mitigate those and other damage, it is not appropriate to mix in this matter other things also important for the promotion of health, such as the high consumption of existing alcohol, sugar, salt, excessive exposure to the sun, air pollution, drug consumption, among others that we can possibly list. No, this does not take as a valid argument and is not serious for this discussion. [[Protests by members of the CH and BE.]] They didn't use it here now, but they've used it before. We are now discussing proposals to combat smoking, which is a global and public health problem, and not tobacco users, as it has already been heard that this law or that this bill aimed at. This initiative by the Government has been assessed on the basis, as has already been widely disclosed, of the transposition of the Community Directive on the withdrawal of certain exemptions for hot tobacco products.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-28.u119	It's fake!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-28.u120	It is certainly from the knowledge of the ladies and gentlemen. Members who have a set of European and world-wide standards, plans and targets, such as the European Cancer Action Plan,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-28.u121	It's fake! It has nothing to do with your proposal!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-28.u122	... the Framework Convention of the World Health Organization and the 2030 Agenda with which Portugal is aligned, at least the Portuguese Europeans. Even last September 15, during the debate here on the occasion of the 44. the anniversary of the National Health Service, several of us proudly highlighted some indicators for which we asked for measures to the countries of central and northern Europe. However, when we compare ourselves with other countries in Europe with regard to tobacco issues, we are quite badly photographed. It is the intention of the Government, with the measures taken, as has already been said, to protect non-smokers from tobacco smoke, to discourage the initiation of tobacco consumption and to promote and support tobacco cessation. In order to achieve these objectives, a number of new measures are proposed in line with those already taken in the past when the amendments to the so-called 'Tacated Law' are amended. In this regard, Portuguese civil society has, over the years, given signs of profound maturity, understanding what is at stake, and has accepted, because it recognizes them and their purposes, the measures taken previously. Tomorrow, we will vote on the initiatives under discussion today, and I sincerely hope that there will be as much consensus as possible as possible in order to implement measures aimed at improving our public health indicators, but not least, so that we can do more and better with the younger ones to alert them to the harm of tobacco and that sufficient support measures will be put in place so that anyone who wants to stop smoking can do so with the necessary support, with consultations on smoking in time and time and allow smokers to enjoy, with support also in the purchase of medicines, usually very expensive for the pocket of the common citizens. Let us fight the evils of tobacco—it is an appeal that I wanted to leave, to end— and never to smokers, a collective cause in which we all have to commit ourselves. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-28.u123	Mr Rui Cristina of the PSD Parliamentary Group speaks for one speech. Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-28.u124	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The bill currently under discussion transposes a European directive which equates heated tobacco to conventional cigarettes, but which, we know, goes far beyond that and extends tobacco restrictions extensively. The Social Democratic Party is in principle in favour of reducing tobacco consumption. We bear in mind the evils of tobacco for human health and do not ignore its contribution to increasing the burden of disease and mortality. Mrs. Members, 14 000 deaths per year are associated with tobacco consumption — about 12 % of the country's mortality, a number we cannot ignore. If, on the one hand, it is true that, in the last decade, tobacco consumption has decreased in the Portuguese population; on the other hand, we find that smoking rates remain high in younger age groups. In fact, the low results achieved in the fight against smoking are more due to the application of prohibitionist measures and restriction of consumption than to measures promoting tobacco cessation developed by the Government. The numbers are truly despondent. Otherwise, let us look at some examples: between 2019 and 2021, the number of anti-tabbagic sites in the National Health Service decreased from 235 to 113, i.e. to less than half. Also in the SNS, smoking prevention initiatives, covering 192,000 people in 2019, suffered a sharp reduction in 2020, decreasing to about 15 000 people 10 times less than in the previous year. The number of consultations supporting smoking cessation in SNS decreased from 42 000 in 2019 to 24 000 in 2021 a breakdown of 43 %. Finally, and just to give one more example, the waiting time for consultations to support smoking cessation arrives to reach one year in the National Health Service, as it was reported a month ago by the Portuguese Society of Pneumology. As I said, if this law is passed in its current formulation, about a year later, the sale of tobacco will be severely restricted in places where you can no longer smoke, which includes cafes and other restaurants, among many other places open to the public. However, the PSD fears that the reduction of legitimate channels for the sale of tobacco in areas where these channels are already especially scarce, as is the case in the Autonomous Regions of Madeira and the Azores,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-28.u125	And the PAN agrees? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-28.u126	...and even in regions within mainland Portugal, it can lead to the undesirable development of illicit trade in these products, which is the same as the increase in smuggling. And this illicit trade entails an unacceptable increase in risks to human health, not to mention its negative impact on the country, both economically and socially. in this context, it is worth remembering that, even recently, the Secretary of State for Health Promotion said that, and I quote, "we do not want to prohibit people from having access to tobacco". We will see if the government will honor this time the promise given. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the PSD is not, of course, against reducing tobacco consumption, but we ask: is it serious for a government to approve measures that dramatically limit the sales points of tobacco products, without ensuring rapid access to consultation and tobacco cessation treatments for smokers? How is it possible for the Government not to monitor legislation as restrictive as this with concrete, effective and measured measures to support people who smoke and want to quit smoking? Also recently, the OECD ( Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development ) considered that DGS's priority programmes ( Directorate-General for Health) for the prevention and promotion of healthy lifestyles are not adequately funded. In this regard, it is worth recalling that last June the PSD presented an initiative proposing to strengthen the allocation of tax revenue to health promotion and the prevention of the disease, with 3 % of the tobacco tax product, a proposal which did not entail any additional costs, but which could represent some EUR 100 million per year for these areas. The Socialist Party has led this initiative simply because it does. The PSD, unlike the Socialist Party, does not make land policy burned. [[All right!]] [[Protests by PS MP Maria Antonia de Almeida Santos.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-28.u127	And, therefore, we will discuss this proposal in the field of expertise, we will promote the hearing of the entities whose contributions we consider useful and we will decide, at the end of this process, what the final option that best and most adequately serves the interests of the Portuguese people, to start, always, for all those who want to stop smoking. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-28.u128	This PSD equals Wood PSD!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-28.u129	Mr João Dias of the CFP Parliamentary Group has the floor for an intervention. Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-28.u130	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members : We are discussing today the transposition into the national legislation of the Delegated Directive ( EU ) 2022 / 2100 and the Government intends to strengthen the standards for the prevention and control of smoking. Much more than this transposition to which we are obliged by the imposition of the European Union, essentially what we are discussing today are once again amendments to the tobacco law, Law No 37 / 2007 of 14 August. It is already the fourth amendment, if it is being implemented. I could begin this intervention by bringing the most different data on smoking, from tobacco-related mortality, to the diseases and risk factors that smokers are exposed to, through impacts on health expenses due to chronic smoking diseases. However, and because the most important thing is to have policies with robust and effective measures to promote health and disease prevention, we need to address those who are exposed to smoking and, in this regard, the data are clear and worrying. Smokers start smoking in childhood and especially in adolescence, and it is at this point that they become dependent — 88% of smokers start smoking before 18 years and 99% before 26. That is, smoking is an additive behavior of children, adolescents and young adults. The tobacco industry knows this well and also knows that once addicted, its customers become an entire life. It is therefore clear that, in addition to helping to protect who is already a smoker, it is equally important to help protect future generations from the harm of tobacco. The need to help and motivate smokers to quit tobacco, as well as to prevent others from engaging in this behaviour, is based on the need to implement effective measures that protect the population from exposure to tobacco smoke, to continue to warn about the harm of smoking and — this is also a fundamental measure — to offer help to those who want to quit smoking. In all these measures, although with some advances, much is to be done, and the current bill we are now discussing does not provide an answer, being totally contradictory to the lack of means to support smoking cessation and health promotion and non-smoking actions. These measures have been falling free in recent years, especially with regard to the current situation of primary health care, where consultations and conditions for health promotion are lacking. The improvement of the health of the Portuguese population is umbilically linked to robust measures of health promotion and prevention of chronic diseases, without which we fail to fulfil the duty to protect public health and the well-being of the population. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-28.u131	Mr Rui Tavares has the floor for one speech. Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-28.u132	Madam President, Dear colleagues : We represent political parties, citizens, we also represent ideological positions, and it is good that this is how it is, because it gives legislatability to the public debate. The Free is, for the first time, discussing this issue, and do so from the ideological position that is yours, which is on the left, which is libertarian, which is ecological. It is from this point of view that we want to say here, in this first intervention in such a debate, what we follow, what criteria we consider justified — since a basic libertarian position is that each exercise of authority has to be justified or is then illegitimate — and what we do not follow or follow, either now or in the debate in the field of specialty, or in the future, in other debates on the same subject. We follow—and I think that everyone has to follow here—the idea that my freedom ends where the freedom of others begins, namely those who are most vulnerable or who still have no ability to form their decisions in conscience, as is the case with children. If some follow this criterion and then come to a debate as if they did not follow it, it is because they are completely wrong to withdraw the consequences from their ideology. We certainly follow that, from the point of view of public health management, there are resources that are used for diseases that would be preventable and that should be channeled to diseases that are not. Therefore, there are public policies that must seek to shape reality so that resources can be where they should be.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-28.u133	You've run out of time!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-28.u134	We can follow until, in public policies, it is more effective to prevent more people from smoking than then having all the work. Moreover, it is also more effective, from an individual point of view, never to smoke than then to quit smoking, and for public policies the differential of difficulty is the same.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-28.u135	I would ask you to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-28.u136	I shall conclude, Madam President. What do we not follow? That we are trying to reach an ascetic society without dependence. We are interdependent and we have the right to manage, in conscience, our dependencies. That means it's good that you don't stigmatize, it's good that you don't pursue. But it is also very good something that does not diminish or infantilize smokers — that we will never follow!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-28.u137	For an intervention, Mrs Maria Antónia de Almeida Santos of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-28.u138	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Portugal has taken a very positive course in tobacco prevention and cessation, discouraging initiation and encouraging smokers to quit smoking. This is evidence that has been increasingly obvious over the past few years. Portugal has already fulfilled its commitments under international law, which were taken into account in the Framework Convention of the World Health Organization for Tobacco Control, of which we became a State party in 2005. But this proposal for a law which we are discussing adds two completely different matters which, in my opinion, should be considered autonomous: one is the transposition into the Portuguese legal system of a European directive which regulates only the issue of distinctive aromas; another is about restrictions in places of sale or consumption of tobacco products, i.e. trying to make a fundamental legislative amendment to the prevention of smoking, and therefore goes far beyond the directive. What, then, are the reasons for changing this law? In my opinion, there can be three. And who's in the government's opinion will this be? Maybe not. As for the situation of the country and the evolution of this subject since the amendment to the law, it will not be the reason, because the law itself provides for periodic evaluation in the country, and, since this evaluation is not even done, no one should make statements without knowing. So it was good to know, it was good to start.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-28.u139	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-28.u140	Third reason: international obligations. This one, maybe!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-28.u141	Don't! Over there!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-28.u142	Rules that should be transposed into national legislation with mandatory character, and now! So, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Government members are justified to amend the law for the purposes of the transposition of the directive in question, but for all other arguments used, there is no reason, evidence, or urgency to go further than that. And we're just in the debate in general. [[Applause from the PS and IL Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-28.u143	The Bureau shall record a request for clarification. Mr André Ventura, from arrive, has the floor to make it.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-28.u144	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, there is something in which, I think, we may agree: the Government, as well as the majority in which you present yourself here, has done little to reduce the dependence on tobacco in Portugal and, at this point, rather than wanting to correct what has been done or to do what has not yet been done, whether to prohibit Portuguese people and treat smokers as children or as liars. This is the truth of the proposal presented here.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-28.u145	That's just your opinion.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-28.u146	It is not my opinion, it is what comes from the bill that the government does. I ask you, Mrs Deputy, if you know how many medicines you have taken to stop smoking there are in Portugal. [[Pause.]] Zero! At the moment we are, there are medicines to stop smoking in Portugal whose packaging costs more than 100 €, and none is already shared by this Minister of Health. None! And they want to ban Portuguese from smoking! That is, you can't smoke in fun spaces; there can't be machines for sale in fun spaces; there's only coffee in a village that won't have any sales points, but what's important is to say that you won't have these sales points. And I would like to ask you, Mrs Deputies, what will happen when there is no longer a point for the sale of tobacco in the villages. What will happen when the only two authorized points for the sale of tobacco cease in some villages in Portugal? Do you know what's gonna happen? We all know, but nobody wants to say it. There's going to be a brutal smuggling wave in Portugal!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-28.u147	Truth!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-28.u148	And it's the PS that's promoting this smuggling wave! So here we come, we look and ask: how long does it take in Portugal to get a medical consultation to try to reduce tobacco dependence? Months! In some districts of the country, years! How many medicines are shared? Zero! And what is the solution? To prohibit, prohibit, prohibit and fine. The same logic that has always worked: hunting the fine; hunting the money bag of Portuguese, treating them as liars, treating them as criminals, treating them as children, all of them. This is what the PS can do better. [[Congrats from the CH.]] I shall finish, Madam President, because I know that my time is over. Although you are questioning the honourable Member, who still has time, I would like to say that even more than her intervention and the intervention of the Government, I have been saddened by the intervention of the PSD. [[Oh!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-28.u149	And I'll tell you why. It is that, after so much talk and so much attack, we do not understand how the PSD will vote! We don't realize if you're going to give your hand to the PS again, or if you're going to vote against the law.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-28.u150	You're going to abstain!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-28.u151	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-28.u152	And I think that those who are at home are already a little tired of this: we are against, we are against, we are against! How do we vote? We vote in favour. [[CH's laughs.]] We're against, we're against, we're against! How do we vote? We vote in favour. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-28.u153	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-28.u154	I think this is enough!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-28.u155	Sir, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-28.u156	I will finish, Madam President. This law is zero, and it's like zero that has to be treated. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-28.u157	In reply, Mrs Maria Antonio de Almeida Santos has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-28.u158	Madam President, Mr Ventura, in the midst of the talks and the gossips — let us say so — between the PSD and the Arrival, you will understand that I am not going to get in, but I will not follow or follow its drift and statements regarding the prevention and treatment of smoking. In fact, there was a course that began in 2005, and when I stated the first evidence was with all the conviction that Portugal made a very positive path in the prevention of smoking and in the treatment of the disease. There was, in fact, an investment in tobacco cessation consultations, but what happens with regard to medicines is that the participants still exist — they are none!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-28.u159	Look, they're gone!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-28.u160	I've been making a consultation and there's at least two of them, but there's gonna be a lot more.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-28.u161	What are they?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-28.u162	But you know, Mr President, what scientific evidence says, and what was even stated in an interview by the Secretary of State, is that unfortunately the drugs that exist have not been very effective for this purpose. In fact, it seems that new drugs are emerging that are more effective for the fight against smoking and also for the prevention of the disease. Therefore, this is a way that will continue to be done and, to this extent, I must say that the governments of the Socialist Party have indeed had this concern. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-28.u163	And that courage!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-28.u164	As far as prohibitions are concerned, it is clear that no one likes them in this way, in rights, freedoms and guarantees, in such an imposing way. When there is a higher value until we can understand, as has happened in the past or more recently, that we have taken measures that have been difficult for us to take, because in fact it was necessary to do so. Therefore, and understanding that we are still at the stage of the debate in general, I would like to call on the honourable Member to be able to make improvements and corrections, bearing in mind that a law should leave here that is fulfilled and that he also hopes for the global guidelines that may be to come after the COP ( Conference of the Parties) 10, which will take place in November this year. [[Protests by CH Member Pedro dos Santos Frazão.]] So let's wait and do this in two times. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-28.u165	Madam President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-28.u166	Mr. Paulo Marques asked for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-28.u167	There's no time!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-28.u168	Madam President, it is to make an inquiry to the Bureau, saying that I will send a link to the SNS 24 that answers Mr André Ventura's questions. It's only 7 minutes of reading and there's the answer to your questions. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-28.u169	Thank you very much for the information. Mr. João Cotrim Figueiredo, of the Parliamentary Group of the Liberal Initiative, has the floor for a brief speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-28.u170	Madam President, I have decided to use these 32 seconds that I have left because, in the face of this debate, in the face of the body language of the PS Members, before Mrs Maria Antonio Almeida Santos, I feel obliged to make an appeal. I don't know very well how the PS compressor roll coordinator machine works...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-28.u171	There isn't!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-28.u172	The Prime Minister has been thanking the Pope and has led the Deputy Minister and Parliamentary Affairs — they are not here — the parliamentary leader is not here either, but this session is being transmitted and recorded, so someone will send the message: please give the vote to this bench! [[Applause from the IL.]] [[PS protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-28.u173	We have! [[Rice from IL and from the CH Member André Ventura.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-28.u174	I know — we all know! — smoking is bad, but voting against conscience is even worse. Freedom of vote, please. [[Applause from the IL.]] [[PS protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-28.u175	Mrs. Susana Amador asked for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-28.u176	For an appeal to the Bureau, Madam President.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-28.u177	Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-28.u178	Mr President, just to explain, to those who have not yet understood, that the Socialist Party has as its basic principle and underpins freedom of vote in this Parliamentary Group. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[CH's laughs.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-28.u179	It's the only one!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-28.u180	Therefore, this has been an essential evidence and rule. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-28.u181	Mrs Deputy, clearly, it was not an appeal to the Bureau.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-28.u182	There's freedom of vote here! [[CH protests.]] The exception is the opposite. Haven't you noticed yet? Oh, my God! [[We'll see!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-28.u183	When the Members and the Members Ladies and gentlemen, stop chatting from bench to bench... [[PS protests and CH counterprotests.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, if they do not create the conditions for us to continue, I shall interrupt the session. [[Pause.]] Mr. André Ventura is asking for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-28.u184	Ah! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-28.u185	Chiu! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-28.u186	Of course, it is not an appeal to the Bureau, as recently as it was not an appeal to the Bureau, and I said that.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-28.u187	I just want to say, Madam President...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-28.u188	If they kept more silence they would hear what the Bureau said.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-28.u189	I just want to say, Madam President, that there is total freedom of vote in all matters in the coming days. [[Congrats from the CH.]] [[Rice from PS and the Minister of Health.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-28.u190	Ladies and gentlemen. Members, please create conditions for Mr João Dias of the CFP Parliamentary Group to use the floor. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-28.u191	Madam President, if there are conditions, I think it is important to remind this House that we are discussing one of the most relevant issues, namely health, health promotion in our population, because it seems to be forgotten what should be the milestone when we evaluate the proposal we have on the table. In fact, what we are concerned about is that this serious reflection is not being done, and it must be quite thoughtful, particularly as to how we can give our people the ability to promote health, to promote healthy habits. This is what we should reflect on. And how is that done? It is done through education, through communication, but mainly through public health policies that go against the fight against the evils of tobacco, which we are discussing in particular. Who is most exposed to the evils of tobacco, ladies and gentlemen. Members, it is children, adolescents, young adults, our pregnant women and also the most disadvantaged social layer. Therefore, it is important that we have effective and concrete public health measures, not that we put smokers against non-smokers or that we call into question these public health measures.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-28.u192	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-28.u193	We have doubts whether the government really wants to walk in this direction, because to do so has to strengthen the National Health Service, in particular with consultations in primary health care, but resists doing so! [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-28.u194	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the closing phase. To this end, Mr. Secretary of State for the Promotion of Health, Margarida Tavares.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-28.u195	Is he a minister? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-28.u196	The Minister came here to do what? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-28.u197	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much for your speeches. Today, it was a very important day for us. In fact, I would like to make it clear that we could transpose the directive without needing to change the law, but it imposes itself on everything that we have all said here, and we all agree with most of the arguments. I would also like to know that most of the arguments that are here today are used are the same that were used in other times, as in 2007 when this course began with the tobacco law, for example. These measures are usually welcomed by the population—and they will not be an exception — especially after they are implemented, even by non-smokers. This initiative aims to reduce the incentives to maintain, but especially at the beginning of smoking, tobacco dependence.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-28.u198	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-28.u199	And that is really the main objective — look at these means! All the measures present in this law are highly based on scientific evidence,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-28.u200	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-28.u201	... with this central goal of protecting the beginning, because most people who start at very early ages take this dependence, often—too often! - for the rest of your life. And it's very difficult for her to be treated, to be resolved. So look very carefully. Let us give you this task of treating, reviewing and looking at each of these measures and consider well the effect that they will have at the beginning of smoking, especially in our young people. I also wanted to say that we do not give up on measures to support tobacco cessation...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-28.u202	There's nothing here!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-28.u203	...and that it is not true what was also said here. They note that setting an example for the years 2020 and 2021 is not correct. These consultations were very affected by their characteristics, because the professionals who did so were, in fact, professionals who responded to the covid-19 pandemic.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-28.u204	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-28.u205	Only in the year 2022, the recovery was practically the same and we are almost at 2019 levels. We have not yet reached in number of locations, but we have almost reached in number of consultations. But we want to go much further. In particular, we want to give priority to workplaces, which are also very important places for health promotion and disease prevention. So that's where we're going. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-28.u206	Before we say goodbye to the members of the government, I wanted to wish Mr. Secretary of State for Youth and Sport John Paul Correia a happy birthday. Many congratulations. [[General applause.]] Now I've heard that also years ago Mrs Sofia Matos of the PSD. Many congratulations and happy birthdays. [[General applause.]] Now yes, I say goodbye to the Minister and to the Members. State Secretaries. We move on to the second item on the agenda, which consists of the assessment of draft resolution No 853 / XV / 1. a ( CH) — Recommends that the Government change the registration rules in the daycare centres which adhere to the Creche Felis programme by giving priority to children with working parents, together with, in general, Bills Nos 876 / XV / 1. a (IL) — Freedom of choice of day care, 877 / XV / 1. a (IL) — Includes children with both parents to develop professional activity in the criteria for access to free day care and 882 / XV / 1. a (PAN) — Creates extraordinary support for the frequency of daycare or daycare, for children who have not had access to the vacancy covered by the free social and solidarity sector or on the licensed daycare facilities of the lucrative private network. To present draft resolution No 853 / XV / 1. Mr Jorge Galveias.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-28.u207	Ex. Mrs. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The daycare centres, as places that provide a safe, stimulating and pedagogical environment for children between the ages of 0 and 3 years, are also a necessary and fundamental response for all families, but especially for mothers to be able to carry out professionally, thus contributing to the economic and social development of our country and its realization as people. But unfortunately, reality is a stepmother. She is a stepmother for children, a stepmother for families and, above all, a stepmother for mothers who take on their own parental responsibilities.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-28.u208	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-28.u209	António Costa promised free daycare for all children born after September 1, 2021, including, but not met. He lied and continued to deceive families, counting on the socialist propaganda machine and the help of the PS bench in this House. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, thousands of vacancies are missing in the nursing home and it is not the fault of the families, it is the fault of Antonio Costa and his government. [[Congrats from the CH.]] The lack of jobs in day care centres is not the responsibility of families, as Antonio Costa recently stated, in the South Margin, saying that the vacancies are insufficient due to the increase in demand for day care leavers and the increase in birth rates.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-28.u210	Of course!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-28.u211	But what is not meant to be an increase in the birth rate? Oh, my God! It would be good for someone to explain to the Prime Minister that there are no vacancies because there is a need to build more creches throughout the national territory, due to the bureaucratic machine of the fat socialist state. The new vacancies created are due only to – and I think this should be well tackled – to the increase in the number of children in each room and to the adaptation of existing spaces, but that they did not meet the technical conditions for classrooms. That is: construction of day care centers, zero! But the most absurd thing is to see children with parents in the unemployment situation have priority, in the occupation of vacancies in a daytime, over children with parents who work. Our proposal is very simple and objective, because in real Portugal there are parents to say good-bye or to get off, against their will, so they can stay at home and thus take care of their own children. The Commission proposes that children with working parents have priority, and for this we ask the Government to change the rules of registration. [[Congrats from the CH.]] I remember that if there are no vacancies in the daycare centers, the responsibility is eight years of socialist government, and I draw attention to the fact that the lead of our proposal is the confirmation that the PS wants even a Portugal on the contrary. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-28.u212	To submit Law Nos 876 and 877 / XV / 1. a, of the Liberal Initiative, has the floor of Mrs Carla Castro.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-28.u213	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Creches! We talk and we need to talk again about day care. Social mobility begins in the first years of life and our future, as Country, not only begins in school, begins in this first school, begins in day care. The Liberal Initiative is clear in the defence of a greater and better response to the first childhood, an area where political action should be guided by the objectives of universalizing access, ensuring a quality response, expanding supply and allowing effective freedom of choice. Today, the Liberal Initiative presents two projects: one, on the scope of the programme; and another, on the criterion of access to the program itself. In the first one, we continue to question and defend an amendment to the design of the Government Programme, supporting effective freedom of choice in the day care centres. It is important to ensure the best development of the child, provided that quality criteria are guaranteed, and this is independent of being public, private or the social sector. Currently, the private sector daycare centers are only considered in the program of freeness, and I quote, «[...] following, in the territory under consideration, the lack of vacancies covered by the free social and solidarity network with cooperation agreement[...] ». This means, in practice, that the private network is only activated when there are no vacancies in the public or social sectors. This criterion then implies, Mr. Members, who do not have the effective freedom of choice which the Government's own speech inducing and which the Liberal Initiative defends. In addition, it has the pernicious effect of instability and unpredictability of the necessary vacancies on the private network, acting, for example, in reducing incentives for the creation of vacancies and for the day care centres to enter the programme itself. Therefore, we know that more needs are needed and that we also have to work at the level of incentives for them to exist. We therefore propose, with our projects, that the criteria associated with geographical restrictions be abandoned and that they are not justified, because, often, the travels of families are made unnecessarily, with schools on the street next door. The future of our children cannot depend on the postal code. We also propose that families be able to choose, at the start, any integral day, in a true integrated system between private, public and social. We are fighting for this change of principle, but, in the context of maintaining the criteria, we believe that priority criteria should, yes, be improved. In fact, in the inability to implement, the government announced the freeness of day care without ensuring the very significant increase in vacancies that would allow not only to accommodate the usual demand, but also the additional demand, which, naturally and positively, was created with this announcement. Result: day care centers are free, but day care centers don't have breaks. It doesn't make sense! What to do in this situation? It has been discussed here that parents often have to say good - bye to care for their children. When no longer working to accompany children is a decision of its own and independent of daytime vacancies, it is a legitimate, positive, valid, respected decision. The problem arises when family members — and typically mothers — have to say goodbye and are pressured to stop working. We are talking about leaving professional life, often having difficulty returning, a stronger penalty for women, a damage to the economy and a family scourge, at a time when household budgets are effectively tighter. Cherries at the top of the cake: with these stories, there is still a risk of disincentive to birth. Therefore, we present the second project, where we propose to change the criteria for access to the day care centre, in order to include this dimension as well. In addition to the projects presented, it is important to recall the situation of day care facilities managed by public entities not covered by the Creche Felis program. We are talking, for example, about day care facilities managed by higher education institutions or authorities. It was in April that, in this House, a resolution was adopted to lift these crèches and extend them the measure of freeness. After five months, the situation remains. So last week, we asked the Minister of Labour, Solidarity and Social Security about the situation and the time frame for this inclusion, in order to ensure — always remember — justice and effectiveness and to tend to the desired universality. The Liberal Initiative, with its projects and scrutiny, reflects the discussion in the interests of families and, above all, in children. Let us remember that the first three years have a central impact on development, not only for individual development, but also from the point of view of equal opportunities. Everything we do in this House will have a special impact. I conclude by asking whether there will be courage to place the supreme interest of families and children at the center of the discussion, approve these projects and we will move on to the specialty; and if we will indeed continue to fight for universal access. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-28.u214	To submit Bill No. 882 / XV / 1. a, of the NAP, has the floor to Mrs Inês de Sousa Real.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-28.u215	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In every 10 children, the free daycare program does not reach four. In the real country, the waiting list for a strike on a free day ends up for two years and the government's digital application presents available vacancies that do not exist. In the real country, Filipa Santos, a mother from Moita, will leave her job to take care of her child, because she did not have a job on a free daystand, has no family rear and has no money to pay for a private daycare or a nurse. In the real country, Joana Pinto, a mother of a 16-month-old child, did not get a vacancy on the free daycare program and will therefore spend almost half of her salary paying the daycare monthly in private. Also in the real country, Tânia Vargas, a mother of Amares, tried to sign up her son on 42 day care centers and found no vacancy in any of them. daycare is a fundamental element for the development and growth of children; it is a place not only of socialization but also of social inclusion and equal opportunities. Ensuring their gratuity, more than fulfilling a constitutional right of protection in childhood, is fulfilling expectations legitimately created in thousands of families in the year 2021. For this reason, in this debate, more than encouraging the division between working parents and non-working parents — something that omits a whole idea of prejudice, which we reject — the NAP comes up with a very concrete proposal: to recognize that the Creche Felis programme is failing and that we have a duty to give to all families who have certainly not achieved a free daycare strike extraordinary financial support to help pay part of the monthly daycare in the private or the nurse during the school year. We speak of socially fair support, since it has a logic of progressiveity that gives more money to families with lower incomes and which only includes families up to the middle class. We are talking about support which, at the worst of the scenarios, will cost EUR 4 million, a value of just over 3 % of the total budget surplus recorded in the first six months of this year, which is perfectly affordable in a context where there will be a budget surplus. This is not therefore a question of lack of money, but of lack of political will, if we are not able to overcome this barrier as a specialist.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-28.u216	Presented the legislative initiatives of the parliamentary groups, we move on to the period of intervention. To that end, Mr José Soeiro of the Parliamentary Group of the Left Block speaks.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-28.u217	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The inclusion in the law of the right to free daycare was a huge political achievement, but the government has been unable to transform that law into a law in practice. This is for two reasons: first of all, because the vacancies in Creche Feliz are very short of the number of children who would be entitled to free daycare in Portugal. There are 85 000 vacancies—or about 85 000 vacancies—the government says, but there are more than 120 000 children who would have the right and the need for daycare in this context. And there are families that are desperate, that knock on the door of daybreaks and daybreaks, and there is no gap, that make tens and dozens of candidates, and there is no gap. That's the situation. The second reason for this huge hiatus between the right announced to day care and the non-implementation of that right is that the Government and the Socialist Party in this House repeatedly refuse to build a public network of day care centres. However, the public network of day care centres is the way to achieve and guarantee access to this right to day care. Public provision throughout the territory is the way to ensure and organize a social right which should also be a public service, but the way the Government and the Socialist Party wanted to organize the offer of day care is contrary to the logic of building a public service. Why? Firstly, because they kept the monopoly of the non-profit private sector in cooperation agreements with social security. It started here, by maintaining the monopoly of the IPSS (private institutions of social solidarity) in the financing that social security makes for the provision of day care. That is, only the IPSS, and not public entities, could integrate the Creche Happy program and the social responses paid with social security money. And secondly, because the private social sector did not have enough vacancies—no more or less! — and opened the way for the profitable private sector. What is amazing is that the Government of the Socialist Party excludes the public sector from the free daycare program. That is, it may be the non-profit private sector, it may be the lucrative private sector, but the public sector daycares, the public daycares, the daycares of the municipalities and the daycares that are managed by the parish are the only ones who cannot receive social security funding to integrate the Creche Feliz program, from the free daycares. It's absurd! This happens even after Parliament adopted, at the end of March this year, a resolution recommending that the Government extend the free of charge of daycare to those which are managed by public authorities. It's incredible, it's absurd, it's unacceptable! But it is here, in the increase of supply and in the construction of a public network, that is the key to responding to the problems that some of the bills presented today, and that we are discussing, they supposedly seek to answer. But these bills, particularly those of the Arrival and the Liberal Initiative, respond poorly to this problem and answer the side,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-28.u218	The state is good!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-28.u219	... because, instead of contributing to universalize access, instead of having proposals to strengthen supply, from the very outset, what these proposals do is try to take on and manage the shortage and lack of day care, introducing discriminatory criteria and making citizens compete with each other for a right that is everyone's. This is no solution.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-28.u220	The state is that it's a solution!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-28.u221	In fact, this creates great injustices. For example, one of the most well-known, most brutal cases, which came in the newspapers, is a mother, whose name was Tânia, who couldn't find a vacancy for her son. She was a mother who had knocked on the door of 42 day carers and still couldn't find a vacancy.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-28.u222	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-28.u223	I shall conclude, Madam President. On this case of Tânia — you certainly remember — this mother had a professional occupation, which is one of the criteria they are proposing? Oh, my God! I didn't. She was an informal caregiver.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-28.u224	Monoparent!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-28.u225	I had a disabled child and I wanted to put the other child on a daycare center.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-28.u226	Monoparent!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-28.u227	However, if this discriminatory or selection criterion is imposed as one of the criteria for access to the programme, it is, for example, to discriminate against informal caregivers who do not have a professional occupation. They don't have it, but they have a job: they work 24 hours!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-28.u228	No, no! Read the project!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-28.u229	Mr. Deputies, you really have to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-28.u230	Therefore, on these criteria, we are against. We are in favour of strengthening the offer, universality and public character of day care. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-28.u231	It's not worth everything!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-28.u232	Mr Alfredo Maia of the CFP Parliamentary Group speaks for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-28.u233	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The CFP today did not come to the discussion on the importance of daycare facilities and the requirement for the provision of child support equipment and families as a condition for the integral development from the older age and the link between the personal and emotional life of families and work. The PCP has been advancing decades in the fight...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-28.u234	Uh! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-28.u235	... by creating support for maternity, paternity and childhood, as well as conditions for the full realization of the rights, especially of women and families,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-28.u236	I already said Álvaro Cunhal!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-28.u237	... requiring a public network of equipment, with access to day care facilities for all children under three years of age and kindergartens from that age, among other measures. We are discussing this issue because the PCP demanded and achieved this measure — although with limitations imposed by the PS government — when the PS did not have a majority. We had always heard from successive PS Executives and PSD/CDS that such a thing was impossible, but it's actually in progress. And here we are, continuing to fight for our proposal to create a public network that responds in the first place to needs. The PCP has no doubt that, besides universally free access to daycare must go far beyond the social response, that is, the mere guard, because it must also guarantee, and I would say above all, a quality educational response...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-28.u238	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-28.u239	Truth!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-28.u240	... and promote the best education for all children, therefore, regardless of their family, economic and social contexts, both in the perspective of full and equitable enjoyment of the right to constitutionally consecrated education, and in the perspective of the design of the integral formation of the individual from the earliest age. For the CFP, it is essential to overcome the serious constraints on access to free daycare, from the outset ensuring a public offer through a network of establishments held and managed by the State, with the creation of at least 100 000 vacancies up to 2026 and 148 000 by 2030, fulfilling an obligation which it is responsible for: giving a public response to the only age group, i.e. from zero to three years of age. It is in this sense that Bill No. 900 / XV / 2 goes. a ( PCP ), already delivered in this Assembly,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-28.u241	Where is he today? He's not here!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-28.u242	... that we hope to discuss soon and that it also aims, in a very important qualitative advance, to integrate the age group from zero to three years in the education system, under the protection of the Ministry of Education. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-28.u243	Where's the project? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-28.u244	The one today doesn't matter! The rest doesn't matter!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-28.u245	Mr Hugo Maravilha, from the PSD Parliamentary Group, spoke for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-28.u246	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin by saying that this issue of free daycare is indeed a matter of concern to the PSD. As for Bill No. 876 / XV / 1. the Liberal Initiative, which aims to eliminate the geographical restrictions that prevent access to freeness, we understand that, indeed, the proposal presented is entirely appropriate, when the objective is to allow families to reconcile family life with professional life. It is unacceptable that at present families do not have the right to gratuity only because children are not attending a daycare facility within their residence hall, especially when they live at the limit of the municipality and the nearest daycare centers are in the neighbouring municipality. In addition, parents may want to choose day caregivings that are close to the immediate family, for example, of grandparents, who can live in the neighborhoods. Nor is it understood why families are obliged to accept vacancies in social-sector day care centres, whether they prefer or have a vacancy in private-sector foster care centers that can best serve their interests, until the cost to the state is exactly the same. Nor is it acceptable for this priority to be made by council and not by parishioners, thus forcing many families, daily, to meet many distances to go to a daycare center.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-28.u247	All right! [[Protests by PCP Member Duarte Alves.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-28.u248	For these reasons – in fact, the PSD, in times, also presented a project in this sense – we will follow this bill of the Liberal Initiative. Regarding the draft law submitted by the NAP, which deals with the extraordinary support for the frequency of day care, or to pay friends, outside the Creche Felis program, in our view, this measure is absolutely inadequate, for three orders of reason. On the one hand, this proposal does not solve the biggest problem and the main issue, because there are not enough love, there are not enough vacancies, not even outside the Creche Felis programme, and it is not this support that will create more vacancies. On the other hand, the main reason why some private day care centers have not yet joined the free daycare bag is because their operating cost is more than € 460. Therefore, if a daycare center has a monthly amount of €500 or €600, it is not these 86 € proposals that will help families to have access to a free daycare centre. Finally, I also wanted to say that we will not follow this bill, because we understand that there may be a risk of promoting the creation of love clandestinely. As for the draft resolution of the Arrival, which recommends to the Government that Creche Happy give priority to children with working parents, and also to Bill No. 877 / XV / 1. the, of the Liberal Initiative, we are of the understanding that both of them do not stop presenting controversial proposals and therefore deserve some reservation on the part of the PSD. Why? Why are they controversial? We understand the intention. The intention is to say that if a parent is unemployed and is at home, they can stay with the child and there is no priority.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-28.u249	Sure!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-28.u250	But at the same time, we are saying that people who are unemployed will have an obstacle if they want to return to the labour market.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-28.u251	Hey, we didn't think about it!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-28.u252	Don't think too much!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-28.u253	But would you say good-bye? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-28.u254	The PSD is not saying that it is against; it has to be well thought about this measure. It seems to us that this measure, presented either by the Liberal Initiative or by the Arrival, deserves further reflection. [[PSD applause.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen — above all, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Members of the Socialist Party — the issue of free daycare is a very serious problem for Portuguese families. There are families who are saying goodbye, others who are abdicating their career progress, because they cannot reconcile family life with the professional. In fact, the government has had enormous difficulties in implementing the Creche Felis, but fears not to recognize it. [[PSD applause.]] The PSD has presented various solutions, various parliamentary initiatives to improve the operation of the free-of-charge measure. However, these measures, these parliamentary initiatives—probably what these are going to be discussed here today— were rejected by the Socialist Party. This is a matter to which the Social Democratic Party has devoted particular attention, because it interferes with the personal and professional life of families and therefore the PSD believes that, in order to better implement the measure of free day care, it is necessary to hear who, daily on the ground, deals with this situation. in this sense, the PSD Parliamentary Group has already made a request in committee to hear various entities about the implementation of the Creche Felis programme. The PSD will always be next to the solution that best protects the personal and professional interests of families, leaving aside any ideological prejudice. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-28.u255	Mr Rui Tavares has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-28.u256	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In order not to be here discussing the difficulty of access to daycare, it would have been necessary to plan and structurally change access to daycare, passing it from the field of social security to the field of education, where it makes sense from the earliest age, giving families the opportunity to start the educational projects of their children and daughters and also to have access to the labour market with the freedom that the possibility of having children in the daycare allows them. These solutions, which the Free and other parties brought here, of creating a public network of creeks were rejected by the Socialist Party. It is also true that long-term solutions do not solve problems that are immediate—and we have an immediate problem—but then how does this problem not be solved and how does it be solved? It is certainly not resolved by limiting access to free daycare for families with both parents in the labour market, which prevents people from looking for work, as has already been said, and prevents a whole other range of situations in which we would not be respecting the freedom of people, because, for example, the children of people who are under medically ill, who have life projects that pass through their qualification should also enjoy access to daycare. It is resolved at this time because there are not enough public care for everyone, giving support to those who need to use a private day. It is not a situation that we like, but in an emergency, we must do so. It resolves itself by supporting the lovers and, above all, it resolves itself by giving signs that we are ready to take the step towards the creation of a public network of creches that, yes, responds to all those who need it.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-28.u257	For an intervention, Mrs Mara Lagriminha of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-28.u258	Shut up! Looks like a wake!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-28.u259	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : We are again today discussing the programme of free daycare, as we have done many times in the previous Legislative Session and how we will always be available to do, because this is the kind of policy that has a dimension to transform people's lives. This debate therefore seems to us to be timely, appropriate and even necessary. It was an opportunity because for the first time in decades we have a real policy of support for the first childhood, with a concrete strategy, with planning, with predictability, on the ground...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-28.u260	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-28.u261	... and with criteria that over time have been adapted to reality and that meet with transparency, rigor and clarity access to the Creche Felis programme. It is good to remember that over the years, the discussion on which the third sector should play a role in social protection in Portugal cannot and should not be dissociated from the discussion of social action and social protection within the framework of the social security system and the subsystems of solidarity and family protection. On the other hand, close to the 50 years of April 25, we cannot forget the leap we have taken towards a vision of the social state quite different from the welfare and corporate State of the New State. It is this social state anchor which is within the scope of measures such as this one, family protection, to face the demographic challenge and birth, but which also allows better territorial planning, particularly in less covered municipalities, correcting asymmetries, and that is also why the third sector is so relevant in defining, in particular, this measure. Therefore, the initiatives that are being discussed here, which propose the change of preferential admission criteria, do not guarantee the material justice of the measure and can be deeply penalizing for families, especially for the most vulnerable,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-28.u262	I haven't read our proposal!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-28.u263	... by introducing, for example, the criterion of both parents working, which in itself is already revealing a certain ideology and burden we already know in the extreme right, but which we still did not know in the Liberal Initiative, whose proposals translate unacceptable discrimination, particularly for single-parent families. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-28.u264	I didn't read the proposal! He didn't read!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-28.u265	They don't count on us to distort the objective of this program, which is actually working to have more jobs in day care and not create more inequality and injustice.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-28.u266	It's reading! Next time, it's reading!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-28.u267	I also said that this debate is appropriate, because we are two years from the start of the implementation of the measure and only one from the enlargement to the private and lucrative network. The truth is that the Creche Feliz program, which has been reinforced and extended, today represents a significant saving for families, because it is more than 400 € per month that remains in the family pocket. Ask each of these families whether or not it has an impact on their lives. From January this year, the free-of-charge was extended to the frequency of social network daycare or solidarity daycare, without cooperation agreement, in the territories where the offer of free vacancies in social network daycare and solidarity is exhausted. That is why the basis of the measure is the freedom of a child to join the programme and not, as the IL proposal states, to do the opposite. We recognize the difficulties of running a programme of this dimension and therefore its implementation is progressive,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-28.u268	That's not what happened!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-28.u269	...but its dimension is objective. We had in February more than 53 000 children benefiting from free daycare, in June about 60 000 children benefiting from daycare free education, and at present we have an offer capacity for about 85 000 children benefiting from daycare free. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Finally, I also said that this debate is necessary, because reality shows that finally, the country is democratizing access to day care, even for those who before freeness could not even equalize their children into such equipment. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, we do not forget the basis of the measure, not only for the impact it has on early childhood, but also because this family support policy has a positive impact on the reduction of child poverty. This is also a measure that should be seen in a broad context of family support measures, in particular families with children, such as increased family allowance, updating the steps of IRS (tax on income of natural persons), investment in income increase, housing and reconciliation policies. This measure together has a very positive impact on young families and on the promotion of birth.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-28.u270	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-28.u271	That is why our action must be in the strengthening of the ability to respond to needs. For this purpose the Government has strengthened the sharing agreements and simplified procedures, having been created more than 9000 day breaks in the last two months, thanks to the door which has enabled the maximum number of children per room and to convert spaces previously dedicated to childhood to increase response capacity, and forecasting, under the PARES ( Social Equipment Network Enlargement Programme ) and PRR ( Recovery and Resilience Plan ) programme, to invest in more than 20 000 new vacancies. This is a path that is not made one day for the other, but this is where we will go, without ideological prejudices or social stigmas such as those we have had the opportunity to read in some of the initiatives presented. Clearly, transparency and truth this will always be a timely, appropriate, necessary and, above all, clarifying debate, because this is our ambition to do more, to respond to the search and to work so that we can have the right to a daycare at all and not only to those who could pay it, and that is why it is social justice. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[In the meantime, he took the presidency of Vice-President Adam Silva.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-28.u272	I would like to congratulate the ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. I now give the floor to Mr Pedro Pinto of the Republic of Spain.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-28.u273	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Almost at the end of this important debate, I listened carefully to Mrs Mara Lagriminha and I realized that the only way she receives palms from the Socialist Party's bench is to speak in extreme right. [[Ah...!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-28.u274	I mean, it's a tactic they use now. Oh, how am I gonna have palms? Extreme-right! ... Then he spoke in ideological prejudices. If anyone here, in this plenary, has ideological prejudices, it is the Socialist Party's bench, for example, in relation to the bench of arrive. [[Congrats from the CH.]] Mr. José Soeiro said that the draft laws and resolutions submitted by either the Arrival or the Liberal Initiative respond badly to this free daycare program.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-28.u275	It's discriminatory!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-28.u276	What about the left block? It's just that the one in the Left Block is this one. This is the left block project for everyone to see at home. It's zero! A blank sheet. What the Left Block presents here today is a blank sheet. It's zero! So who responds more to Portuguese problems? Is it enough or is it the Left Block? It's enough, never the left block! [[Congrats from the CH.]] Mr Hugo Maravilha, I also understand you perfectly. In fact, I understand that this new PSD is the same: half says « yes », half says « no », asks « what are we going to do? « Well, we have reservations about these proposals... ». I understand your reservations: is that some have to call Luís Montenegro, the others have to call Inês Sousa Real,... [[Repeals of CH Deputies.]] ...and therefore your reservations with regard to our proposals. The great reality is this: free daycare is needed and free daycare is lacking, particularly for parents who are workers. These, yes, must have priority, contrary to the NAP proposal that says we cannot create divisions; yes, we must create divisions. Those who work deserve help. Who works! For those who work, the kids deserve to be on the daycare center. These are the first ones we have to help. [[Congrats from the CH.]] We cannot — and I will finish, Mr President — cases such as those mentioned here today: from Tânia, who enrolled a child in 42 day care centres; from day care centers in Leiria, in which the parents have to register the children in 20 or 30 day care centers to have a vacancy; or even from Philippi, who may resort to a nurse, but to whom the unemployment solution quickly seemed better, because they had to pay € 350.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-28.u277	Mr President, you have to conclude, because you have exceeded your time.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-28.u278	I will finish, Mr. President. Therefore, this proposal of the Arrival is relevant, it is the proposal of freeness and more: the working parents must have priority in the day care centres in relation to those who want to do nothing. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-28.u279	We will move on to the conclusion of this item on our agenda, giving the floor to Mr Jorge Galveias, who has two minutes.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-28.u280	Mr. President and Mr. Members : It is clear that this Creche Felis programme, like all the other programs presented by the PS governments of Antonio Costa, are a success only in presentations, brochures and communication campaigns paid with the money of our taxes, but when they come to the concrete life of the Portuguese, they are a disgrace. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, Antonio Costa has promised free daycare for all and not just for some. The Creche Feliz program is just another case of the mess of this Minister of Labour, Solidarity and Social Security and Prime Minister António Costa. The measure is a good measure, for it supports families and fights the demographic winter, but, Mr. Members, the machinery of socialist bureaucracy transforms the measure into hell for families, especially for those in which parents work. However, despite the fact that the Socialist Party has been in full agreement with this project, even though it fully agrees with the need for children on every day of the day, I ask: the Socialist Party has been in government for eight years and is a real solution to the construction of day care—and there are already eight years—how many could it not have already done? Stop lying and stop fooling people! [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-28.u281	We then move on to our point three of the agenda, which consists in the joint assessment, in general, of Bills Nos 862 / XV / 1. a (BE) — Program of valorization of artistic education, 883 / XV / 1. a (PAN) — Identifys specialized artistic education, providing for the identification of needs and public responses, the creation of artistic scholarships and the hiring of specialized teachers, and 928 / XV / 2. a ( PCP ) — Enlargement of the public specialized artistic education network. To present the Left Block initiative, Mrs. Joana Mortágua has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-28.u282	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : There is a phenomenon in curriculum development which, in many — some — years of debate on education, has always fascinated me: it is the so-called 'curricular narrowing'. Curricular narrowing is the phenomenon of the concentration of schools, students, educational community in the disciplines or areas that go to examination and the consequent devaluation of the areas that do not have the focus of the examinations above. In the debate on the education system and public school in Portugal in recent years, we have suffered from the same narrowing to, of course, the question of the lack of teachers. The government, by not doing what it competes with to ensure that all children, all students, all schools have the teachers that are necessary, has just led us to the situation of having to discuss one, again and again the solutions and the government's irresponsibility about the lack of teachers. This does not mean that there are no other essential debates on public school, and it is one of these debates that we want to bring here today, hoping that there will also be room in the debate on education for these issues. Specialized artistic education plays a key role in the democratization of education and education in Portugal, but also in the democratization of culture. It is a part of the public school that provides students with educational offers in the area of music, dance, visual arts and audiovisual. However, these integrated response systems are concentrated in some regions of the country. In the case of the areas of music and dance, in the metropolitan areas of Lisbon and Porto, in addition to some other offers that exist in the Algarve, Cávado and the Azores. We all know there's only one King's Suns and an Antonio Arroio. But we also know that there are thousands of students throughout this country who would like, and to whom should be given the opportunity, to study in a Soares dos Reis or in António Arroio, such as in a music or dance school at the National Conservatory, or at the Gregorian Institute, as in Portugal. Regardless of the quality that is recognized to these specialized and artistic public schools, they are absolutely concentrated in just a few regions of the country. This is an objective obstacle to access to these alternative curriculum offers, to these artistic and school offers, which can eventually result in unsuccessful school courses, because there are many students for whom these options would be the ones that best fit their will and their educational profile. That is what the Left Block here proposes, which we can discuss the valorisation and expansion of the public artistic education network. For many years, this discussion has also emerged in another: the precariousness, for years, of its highly specialized professionals, technicians and teachers. Since 2015 we have insisted on the linkage of these professionals. Finally, in September this year, there was a light at the bottom of the tunnel. Now we need to look a little further forward. What the Left Block expects is that, after eight years discussing the linkage of a few tens of professionals who do public art education...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-28.u283	You must conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-28.u284	... in Portugal, which we do not need so much time to discuss the importance of a public network of artistic and technological education in Portugal. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-28.u285	To submit Bill No. 883 / XV / 1. a ( PAN), I give the floor to Mrs Inês de Sousa Real.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-28.u286	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: If education is so far a impoverished sector in our country, artistic education has been its poor relative. The successive governments have devalued the role that arts should play in school. A little bit of everything is missing: spaces, materials, appropriate equipment, opportunities. And we talk about children and young people who want to develop their artistic talents and skills and a teaching that should prepare them for a variety of careers in the field of arts and culture that not only enrich them, as enriched the cultural landscape of the country. But, despite artistic education being an essential educational tool for development and being crucial in the educational and cultural training of children and young people themselves, what we have, in reality, are children and young people who, for example, in the dance area, do not have balnearies, or they do not have the minimum conditions. The same is true in the music area. Today we actually have excellent artists who, in many cases, could only be because they had opportunities to support their families, because otherwise they would have abandoned their dreams. In fact, the starting point of the different children is not the same. Precisely because not all children and young people have this possibility, which accentuates the structural inequalities in our country and in access to offers and opportunities not because of their taste and skills, but because of their socio-economic conditions, it does not seem to us that the development of art education should be dependent on applications. First, they should be integrated into the priorities of national education strategies. That is why, with this initiative, what the NAP proposes are three very clear things. In the first place, a national survey of supply needs and infrastructure conditions for specialized artistic schools and the development of a medium and long-term investment plan for these needs. Secondly, the establishment of a system of financial support scholarships for artistic students, providing conditions for students not to give up their dreams and can continue their school course. Finally, provide for the hiring of teachers specialized in arts and expressions at all stages of teaching, encouraging and thus promoting the development of arts clubs in schools in collaboration with the community. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, we want something as simple as ensuring that all children and young people have the opportunity to explore and develop their artistic and cultural talents regardless of their socio-economic condition and that they can pursue something as simple in life as what they have the right to dream.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-28.u287	To submit Bill No. 928 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ), Mr Alfredo Maia.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-28.u288	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: on a recent visit to the Soares dos Reis Artistic School in Porto, which forms, with the António Arroio school, in Lisbon, the lonely pair of establishments that allow young people to open and expand unique artistic, aesthetic and technical horizons, follow the professional way, continue higher studies or simply cultivate the use of the arts, we have been stressed the intense search for that educational establishment to be targeted and that cannot satisfy. The case highlights a fact of greater relevance: the inequality in students' access to artistic education, especially in the arts and plastic expressions, since, throughout the country, there are only two schools, precisely in the two main cities. Many students travel long distances, consuming up to two or three hours on trips. There are no residences for high school students. In addition, a heavier hourly load than that of your colleagues of other options, translated into 40 times a week, i.e. more than 8 hours of practical and theoretical lessons per day. There are those who, being even further from the Guard, for example, can access the Soares of Kings thanks to the luck of having a brother, a cousin or a friend in higher education in the Port who gets them a vacancy in a room. These students are, however, generally happy, despite the effort required, including with jobs and projects taken home. Now, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, what we want to talk about here is not to raise episodes of effort, sacrifice, self-sufficientness or even luck, but what the case shows is profound inequality in young people's access to artistic education, due to the flagrant lack of response from the state.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-28.u289	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-28.u290	In fact, in continental territory there are only eight public art schools specialized in music and/or dance, geographically concentrated in Lisbon, Porto and Coimbra, although they also exist in Braga, Aveiro and Loule. At the artistic level, in addition to the soares dos Reis and António Arroio, there are only artistic courses taught in the groups of schools of Bemposta, Vialonga and Luís António de Verney. This landscape in terms of very limited public network, especially with regard to artistic education specializing in arts and plastic expressions, which does not even find an alternative in private, cooperative or associative offer, as is the case with music, calls for urgent expansion and restructuring, as well as a territorial distribution that responds to student appeties and aspirations and promotes the democratization of culture. in this sense, the CFP proposes the extension of the public specialized artistic education network, with coverage throughout the territory, with at least one public establishment in each district in which there is no possibility of nuclei in each school.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-28.u291	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-28.u292	The State must also transfer the funds necessary for the retraining and equipment of the schools to be created, as well as equip them with the appropriate teaching bodies. By the way, the PCP, which has already contributed with legislation for competitions approved herein, appreciates the struggle of art teachers in Soares dos Reis and António Arroio schools, without which the recent agreement on the linkage and competition regime of special technical teachers between the FenPROF (National Federation of Teachers) and the Ministry of Education would not have been possible. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-28.u293	Let's move on to the interventions now. For the Parliamentary Group of the Liberal Initiative, Mrs Carla Castro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-28.u294	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This is an important debate, not only because of the importance of the existence of specialized artistic education as a response to the talent of many young people, but also in the light of the increase of students enrolled in this type of education in recent years, which is the most expressive of all possible ways to complete secondary education. It is important to begin by valuing and exalting specialized artistic education and art teaching, which has significant repercussions throughout the student learning process, and clarify, for those who do not have it in mind, that there are three artistic areas covered by these courses: music, dance and visual or audiovisual arts. In music and dance, the student may opt for or by an integrated regime, attending the components of the course in a single establishment, or by an articulated regime, in which the disciplines are divided between artistic schools and one of general education. The Liberal Initiative values this teaching. We presented and managed that it would be approved unanimously, including a project to contribute to the effective exercise of freedom of choice of the school, so that students who opt for articulate education can reconcile and exercise their effective right, enshrined in the law, of freedom of choice, so that they can articulate their own classes. Perhaps related to today's agenda—we already know how things work—the government has approved a specific scheme for selecting and recruiting teachers from specialized artistic teaching, an extraordinary competition for artistic teaching teachers has been opened, but there is much more to be done. In particular, specialized artistic education needs to be done on the private network. I know that a lot of voices will be raised against here, but the time is scarce and the government and the slowness and inability to deal with this network is causing a deterioration in the quality of teaching that, on the one hand, they say to value, but to whose needs they do not respond. Ideological issues aside, the reality is that specialized artistic education is largely done by private schools, funded by sponsorship contracts that supplant the offer of public school. More than 50% of high school artistic students attend the private network. Therefore, it is important to recognize its importance and not to do, as we have seen here in some speeches, it seems that it hardly exists. We are close to the delivery of the State budget. It will be important in these days to understand what will be the budget proposal on the updating of values, which needs to be reviewed. Because, on the one hand, we call it "eyes of love", but on the other, we have a freeze on the values of these contracts almost 10 years ago. Unfortunately, this situation is not exclusive to this teaching network. It also passes with special education schools, IPSS. The operational restrictions that this imposes are serious. There are several things to do, but as long as the discussion does not go from words of appreciation to a practice in action, it is of little use. Some try to create roots—and we have seen this in the proposals under discussion today—a public network, throwing out what is good on the ground. The schools will continue to do their best and impossible, in a daily effort to which the government is not. I ask again: How far are these schools going to go without an answer? Is it until they reach a point without return? [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-28.u295	I now give the floor to the PS Parliamentary Group and to Mrs Maria João Castro.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-28.u296	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Left Block, the PCP and the PAN present today bills on the enhancement of specialized artistic education. The PS governments have recognized the centrality that arts should have in curricula—in fact, at the same level as other areas—because they are fundamental to the comprehensive training of students. Specifically, it has valued specialized artistic education, allowing students with vocation to take an artistic course and access artistic higher education and / or perform professional activity in visual arts, audiovisual arts, dance, theatre and music. [[P.S.'s applause.]] But let's talk about the public specialized artistic education of visual and audiovisual arts, which is the focus of the project of the Block of Left. As has been said, in our country there are two public schools of excellence: the Soares dos Reis Artistic School, in Porto, and the António Arroio Artistic School, in Lisbon. They combine cross-sectional and artistic theoretical knowledge with practical teaching, which combines the most innovative technologies with the most traditional specialized techniques, some coming from the arts and crafts. The quality and excellence of this teaching depend heavily on its teaching body, especially those with specialized artistic and technical knowledge. These teachers, who are a permanent necessity and a pillar of these schools, were in a precarious situation, without binding them. Now, there was a course taken here in the Assembly and also with the unions in the struggle for the rights of these teachers. I remember that the original bill of the Left Block, which we discussed here today, had another title and another text—in fact, it was I who made the opinion about it—and called for the opening of an extraordinary bonding contest for these teachers. This was achieved last September 7th after negotiations with all trade unions. The government heard, negotiated, acknowledged that this was a fair struggle, having been approved an extraordinary competition for the binding of these teachers, already in 2023, and amended the specific regime of selection and recruitment, uniforming all procedures in the various modes of the arts. This is not a government victory,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-28.u297	Oh, that's not it, of course!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-28.u298	...of a party or of parties, this is a victory of specialized artistic education and of all who defend their valorization. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The Block has changed its bill and now requires the creation of more public schools of specialized artistic education, visual and audiovisual arts and the hiring of teachers already in the next academic year. The PCP bill requires the creation of specialized artistic schools throughout the territory, up to 2024. I remember that it is part of the Ministry of Education's programme that the expansion of public supply to more students and to other areas of our country, especially starting in visual and audiovisual arts. We agree with the fact that the two public schools referred to have limits, they do not stretch, so there are students who stay out of public education — although the government supports private schools and cooperatives. However, the creation of these schools must meet the excellence and quality that is required for artistic education. There is a need for a quality teaching body and for studying which priority areas these schools should be in. In addition, they need very sophisticated equipment, very well-equipped workshops – something that is obvious to those who know this teaching – and therefore it is necessary to know the financial impact of this. The PCP itself speaks, in its draft law, of the need for a structured and balanced network.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-28.u299	Mrs. Deputy, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-28.u300	I'm done now, Mr. President. Now, none of this is done just because at the last hour we remember demanding, for the time being, what is being done in a planned, structured and rigorous manner. For the PS — and to this end, Mr President — specialized artistic education must be of excellence, quality, requires rigour and much planning, or we are at risk of defrauding our students. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-28.u301	Mr Gabriel Mithá Ribeiro.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-28.u302	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Party welcomes the initiatives of the Left Block, the PCP and the PAN. We agree at all with the support of artistic teachers and their working conditions in schools. However, of all we have heard, including the PS, it is to explain how the financial disaster called the Ministry of Education will cost support to teachers, students and new schools. Parliament cannot continue to discuss laws for solutions that never appear. Nothing will change, without significant cuts in the parasitic intermediate organs of the Ministry of Education.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-28.u303	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-28.u304	Nothing will change with extensive, bad school curricula, insatiable bakers of public money. Mrs. Joana Mortagua, the curricular enlargement over chaos is more chaos. You just need to accuse the populist enough now for being the only one to insist on the obvious. [[Congrats from the CH.]] [[Oh!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-28.u305	We are a popular party, the most aware of the duty of good governance in this Parliament. It is a pity to live among those who, when we say « moral», answer « moralism» ; when we say « authority», respond « authoritarianism» ; when we say « colonial», they say « colonialism there» ;...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-28.u306	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-28.u307	... when we say « racial issue», they accuse us of racism; when we say « popular», they insult us with the term « populism».
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-28.u308	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-28.u309	And so far, all right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-28.u310	Using 'ismos' is irrefutable proof of who all judges because nothing understands. [[Congrats from the CH.]] Max Weber taught that the more we judge less we understand and vice versa. Creating an intelligent society capable of responding to its challenges is helping to understand. Making a poor inquisitorial society is encouraging people to use ‘ismos’ all the time, to judge everything and everyone.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-28.u311	It's about art teaching!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-28.u312	It is not possible to associate the word populism with human intelligence. The reflection is in the normalization of the type of proposals we are discussing today on education. Let's be crystals. All knowledge is valid only when it is a compromise between abstract and concrete, between theory and empire. Living only from theory is living from abstract, it is called alienation.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-28.u313	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-28.u314	Living only from the empire is living from concrete and is also called alienation. There is only socially useful knowledge, there is only policy that actually improves people's lives, when the commitment between abstract and concrete is unequivocal. The concrete of societies is and is captured in speeches of common sense, in informal speeches. That's why street conversations, coffee, bus, market, football, teacher rooms, teacher demonstrations, ahead of that, are absolutely decisive.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-28.u315	Artistic teaching!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-28.u316	The coming Party is the only one in this Parliament who takes such evidence.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-28.u317	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-28.u318	The speech of the street is just because it is not an end in itself. It is only the necessary raw material to understand people and to rule well from laws that have to have abstract value and effective consequences. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-28.u319	Why have we been insisting, decades ago, on proposals for education based only on legal abstractions? This Parliament cannot continue to disregard the concrete: the always empty boxes of the Ministry of Education. Nor can we ignore that the taxes that the Portuguese pay are secular practices of oppression of the peoples. [[Congrats from the CH.]] The political parties present here do not realize how much the common people despise, how much they despise reality, how much they despise — worse! — knowledge? I end with a question to the present and the absent: will you continue not to be ashamed to use the word populism? [[Congrats from the CH, having the Deputies Pedro dos Santos Frazão and Rita Matias applauded standing.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-28.u320	What about artistic education?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-28.u321	Mr Rui Tavares has the floor for a free speech. [[PS protests and CH counterprotests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-28.u322	They had a free class!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-28.u323	Long live freedom!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-28.u324	I would like to ask Mr Rui Tavares to be patient.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-28.u325	Patience, no!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-28.u326	No, it is really a bit of patience, Mr Rui Tavares. I think the conditions are created. Have kindness, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-28.u327	Mr. President, I have all the patience. I'm waiting for the gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen of the Chamber said the speech your colleague just made on the rostrum and then told us what it was. [[PS laughter.]] Because, at one point, I am right, it is not about the subject of the debate.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-28.u328	Less, less! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-28.u329	But let's do it! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-28.u330	I thought it was Madeira's results! You missed the elections and lost 4 - 0!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-28.u331	I ask the honourable Member to suspend his speech. [[CH protests.]] No problem, we'll wait as long as it takes. [[Pause.]] You would like to continue, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-28.u332	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Alfredo Maia and Mrs Joana Mortágua have used a word that is essential for talking about artistic education: the happiness of the students themselves who attend it. Often, when they arrive at the university, they are disappointed, because Antonio Arroio and Soares dos Reis were places of such creativity and such self-expression that they should serve as an example. What's amazing is how in our country, with schools of this quality, for decades, they haven't replicated them. More António Arroio and Soares dos Reis not only in the arts, but also in the sciences, in the languages and as public international schools. This is because if there is something we have learned in education—and I think that Mr Gabriel Mithá Ribeiro will accompany—is that students are not all the same. Some do not want to specialize soon, others are enormous talents and, dear colleagues of the PS, the enormous time that all this takes means that we are losing talent, we are losing creativity and we are losing happiness from these students who contribute to the future of our country.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-28.u333	For an intervention by the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mr João Marques has the floor. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-28.u334	These applauses are the warning to Mr. João Marques. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-28.u335	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The proposed law of the NAP, the Left Block and the Communist Party aim to promote the dignity of specialized artistic education, providing for the identification of needs, as well as the creation of public responses in all modalities of this teaching. Two of the proposals also point to the necessary and required linkage of teachers in these areas of education in public schools, which has long been promised by the government and not met, as it is customary for this PS government. [[PSD applause.]] [[PS protests.]] Obviously, the PSD agrees and meets this need and this requirement. But, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the reality of artistic education in Portugal goes far beyond the existing public schools or to create. We must take artistic education into account... [[Rice from PS MP Maria João Castro.]] ... existing in private and cooperative schools, with financing contracts with the State, or in professional artistic schools, also financed by the Portuguese State and the European Social Fund (ESF), through the Operational Capital Human (POCH) Programme, with courses in the areas of the arts of the show, especially in theatre and cinema, for example, music and dance, up to design and fashion, etc. For this reason these proposals are reducing in their scope and insufficient for the needs of artistic education in Portugal. Against the identification of the needs and public responses of specialized artistic education, provided for by the NAP, and the expansion of artistic education to more students and to other points of the territory, as the BE and the CFP, of course, have nothing to oppose, rather. However, it is necessary to respect the entities, associations, foundations and institutions of law and private nature, some with public capital, holders of schools, conservatories, specialized educational and artistic training institutes and existing in the national territory. We hope that the Government will not have the same opportunistic policy and distribution of artistic education, as it has done and has done with private and cooperative education, from preschool to high school. Let us remember how schools with a contract of association have recently been treated, which the government simply blew up — I repeat, blew up! -,... [[Protests by PS MP Maria João Castro.]] ...and it wasn't because they were more expensive to the state or because of malfunction or lack of quality. No, ladies and gentlemen. Members, it was not because the costs are lower than 54 % per student, compared to public education, and the school results of the students prove that there is quality, even in the most deprived areas of the country, which defuses the argument of the alleged selection of the best students. [[PSD applause.]] It was by ideological complex, unfortunately totally assumed and van gloryed, as can be seen in a recent interview given by a former government responsible to a media agency in our square. Let's hope the same doesn't happen to private art education. [[Protests by PS MP Maria João Castro.]] It would be once again to throw out an accumulated experience indispensable and a competence based on excellent educational and training projects and on high and dedicated teachers and trainers of different artistic areas. It is therefore necessary to captivate the best for art teaching and, to that end, it is necessary to pay them justly and create conditions for career progression. It is urgent to change the model of existing service time count for professional and artistic education, i.e. to artistic and technical-professional teachers with full hours with more than 800 hours of education or annual equivalent, should be counted 365 days for their career progression, as in others. It is not acceptable, it is not admissible, this discrimination is not fair. [[PSD applause.]] Therefore, the PSD agrees with the stabilization of teachers in public artistic schools, but also requires another attitude towards artistic private education teachers. The reduced funding by the State and the POCH to these schools, currently in financial asphyxiation, prevents these technicians and artists, teachers, from being attracted to teaching activity. The government continues to hold on to this suffocation, because even now, in September, with the doors and offices published, it has maintained virtually the same amount of funding per class and refused to restore the 5% cut, which is still coming, see! — of the time of the troika, because only the first years were contemplated. [[PSD applause.]] And the requirement of at least 14 students per class in artistic education, in the area of music, for example, and 16 or 19 students in professional and artistic education in general, reveals itself very penalizing,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-28.u336	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-28.u337	... mainly for schools in the most impoverished country.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-28.u338	You must conclude, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-28.u339	I shall now conclude, Mr President, by not authorising the opening of classes below these numbers or penalizing with cuts of 6, 66 % per existing student is highly penalizing and unenfrancising these schools located in these territories. So — and to conclude, Mr President and others. Members — the PSD accompanies some of the measures provided for in these draft laws, but considers them insufficient for the needs of the country, taking into account the public-private model of artistic education in Portugal. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-28.u340	We will close the third point of our order of business, giving the floor to Mrs Joana Mortagua.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-28.u341	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : No one doubts the quality of the artistic schools that exist scattered throughout the country, especially the Orphan of Leiria, the Academy of Music of Almada and so many others, that I, by chance, know well. I know them well, because I was with his workers in the protests because of the lack of funding cuts they suffered because of the change in the financing model that Nuno Crato imposed on artistic education in Portugal, which made all these artistic schools, in particular those of regions whose financing model was changed, remain with the rope in the throat. There was never a time in Portugal when artistic schools went through as many difficulties as the one in which the PSD and the CDS ruled.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-28.u342	The troika!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-28.u343	No party has ever failed both the schools of artistic education in Portugal and those who preach the so-called freedom of choice on the right. The right was the one who failed the most...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-28.u344	And you guys don't miss anything!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-28.u345	... to artistic schools in Portugal. What does it not mean that when we speak in freedom of choice, we cannot ask a question, which is: freedom of choice without public offer, what is it, Mrs Carla Castro? [[Protests by Mrs Carla Castro.]] Freedom of choice without public offer is what if not an income for private schools? Where is the freedom of choice of a student, a student, a family, in an area of the country that has no offer at all? That you don't have an offer?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-28.u346	If there's economic freedom...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-28.u347	Where does freedom of choice remain in a country where the State does not have an obligation to guarantee specialized artistic education?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-28.u348	We're rich!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-28.u349	Where is the freedom of these students to choose to attend these schools? It doesn't exist. And why doesn't it exist?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-28.u350	Because there's no alternative!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-28.u351	Because the State does not assume any obligation for itself to build a public network of specialized artistic education. [[Protests by Mrs Carla Castro.]] It does not take on you, nor does the government take on this as an objective. Regardless of what the Socialist Party Parliamentary Group brings here, the Government is not thinking, planning or preparing a public artistic education network. Never, even, told this goal, so it would be a novelty,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-28.u352	The honourable Member has to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-28.u353	...now, being preparing something you never intended to do. It seems to me, and I conclude, Mr President, that there is at least one question on which we can agree, which is: it is necessary to decentralise the offer of artistic education in Portugal, that the Soares dos Reis and the Antónios Arroio multiply throughout the country, and that is what the Left Block proposes. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-28.u354	So we move on to the fourth point of our agenda, which consists of the debate of Bills No. 522/ XV/1. a ( PCP ) — Charter of fitness for cereal cultivation, promotion of cereal production and follow-up of the National Strategy for the Promotion of Cereal Production and 305 / XV / 1. a ( CH) — Promotes national agricultural production with a view to achieving sustainable food sovereignty and security, in general, in conjunction with Resolution Projects Nos 604 / XV / 1. a ( L) — Recommends that the Government ensure the continuity of the Portuguese Bank of Germoplasma Vegetal and that it consider, in the next State budget, the financial resources that are inherent in its functioning and mission and 869 / XV / 1. a ( PAN) — Recommends to the Government the hiring of superior technicians for the Portuguese Bank of Germoplasma Vegetal. To present the initiative of the CFP, Mr João Dias, of course, has the floor. Speaking of cereals, it is with Alentejo — it was so in times past. [[Rice from PCP Member Duarte Alves.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-28.u355	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: in a matter of high importance for the country, such as the production of cereals, the CFP today presents a bill that seeks to respond to the dramatic situation that the country faces. More than a problem of food sovereignty, we are faced with a serious and serious national security situation, a situation in which the food security of our people is at risk.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-28.u356	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-28.u357	At each plan and strategy for promoting the production of cereals that the government is presenting, the situation gets worse and worse. It is appropriate to say: "Please do not announce any more plans and strategies, that the situation will worsen, of course. Do not keep on seeking. ” at the same time, do not come to us with the excuse of the war of Ukraine, because this problem of the limited production of cereals is much before the war, in fact, has nothing to do with it. The central issue of the problem of low national cereal production, when we could be producing much more, lies in the lack of planning. There is no planning, what exists is the so-called market that pushes producers into productions that call into question the food of the country. in this sense, we believe that it is up to the State to plan minimum levels of national cereal production, ensuring the food security of the people. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we also release the criticism that the CFP proposes the indiscriminate extension of cereal production to whatever land is. What we demand is that political options be taken to ensure the production of cereals where it is possible; what we demand is the political option to put public investments that have been made, such as Alqueva.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-28.u358	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-28.u359	And let's ask, ladies and gentlemen. Members: at the service of who is today the public investment that was made in Alqueva? to the service of sovereignty and food security is that you are not, of course.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-28.u360	Well, well! Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-28.u361	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, with this bill, the CFP wants to ensure the protection of soils with agricultural capacity for the production of cereals and thereby promote the production of cereals, which implements a real strategy for the promotion of the production of cereals. We cannot fail to have a word for the rice producers, since for several years the rice growers have been complaining that the import of rice, by harvest height, has created difficulties in the flow and fall of sales prices to national production, which is now aggravated by the increase in production costs and factors and access to land, which is also an added cost, especially for the claimants. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-28.u362	To submit Bill No. 305 / XV / 1. a, from the Arrival, has the floor to Mr Pedro dos Santos Frazão. You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-28.u363	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: To promote national agricultural production in order to achieve sovereignty and food security in a sustainable way, it should be a national design. But we patriots are those who are able to fight for national designs, for we are those who love our land, our people and our nation.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-28.u364	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-28.u365	We all know that the hearts of the progressive beats with the cadence of the left international and therefore are always available to blindly obey the interests and projects of the great globalist international. But the times are changing, because the peoples of Europe are saying that these forces are coming to be "ecomarxist", which want to limit both the freedom and all sovereignty of the peoples.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-28.u366	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-28.u367	It will not allow the policies imposed by the Brussels bureaucrats to be applied compulsively to Portuguese farmers. [[Congrats from the CH.]] The arrival will not allow the new Holodomor, in which we are stripped of our lands, of our productions, so that others may impose different forms of hunger. H.E. Mr. President, Mr. Members, after eight years in power, Portugal will never reach sovereignty and food security with this socialist government and this incompetent minister, because they look at farmers as enemies. Four years ago, the Minister of Agriculture took up functions and guaranteed to increase the self-supply of cereals from 18 % to 38 % in 2023. Now, in 2023, self-supply does not take off the landfill 20%, this year's cereal campaign has been the worst ever and in recent years we have had the lowest cereal productions in the last 35 years. The Minister also promised to address our total production deficit, but we see that this is still one of the highest in Europe at 27. It is therefore evident once again that these system rulers have no word and live well with this dishonor. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, farmers are not enemies of the government, but governments have been enemies of the farmers, whether the governments of management or the governments of the gergaponcha. [[Congrats from the CH.]] Portuguese farmers are good people, who only ask, in powerful demonstrations on the street, to let them work, that the governments honor the word given. They demand that neither the Ministry nor the DRAPs ( Regional Directorates of Agriculture and Fisheries ) be destroyed. They request that the IFAP ( Institute for Financing Agriculture and Fisheries, I.P. ) buy the payment dates. They demand freedom from fundamentalisms of the CAP ( Common Agricultural Policy) 2023 - 2027. They ask them to let them hold and use the water from the rains that, when there is, is lost to the sea. They ask them to let them treat their animals with the respect they have learned from their parents and grandparents. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, is it very difficult to respond to these simple requests from the rural world? Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we cannot hide the war in Europe, the brutal increase in the price of fertilizers, electricity and fuel. All of this has further increased the difficulties of the agricultural and livestock sector, sectors that have already faced serious problems, such as successive droughts, depopulation, the social anathema that is to be farmers or livestock, the abandonment of the interior and, worse than everything, the persecution of successive PS governments, which, in addition to applying more than 1200 agricultural charges, look at primary sector entrepreneurs as if they were eco-criminals without realizing their valuable role. All the government wants to leave out of hand, as if the little that IFAP pays, late and bad hours, for an alms, was still a great favor. For all this, we have to cut with the policies of the past, together with Portuguese farmers, the obvious patriotic solutions for agriculture and the families of farmers. And we, in the finish line, have a spine and we have a word. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-28.u368	We now have the Resolution Project No 604 / XV / 1. a (L) — Recommends that the Government ensure the continuity of the Portuguese Bank of Germoplasma Vegetal and that it consider, in the next State budget, the financial resources that are inherent in its operation and mission, which will be presented by Mr Rui Tavares.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-28.u369	Mr. President, Dear colleagues : I would like to begin by thanking the CFP for bringing this debate, which has to do with ensuring food security at the present time. The Free Paper complements this debate with a draft resolution on ensuring the same food security in the future, in particular by recommending that the Government try to ensure the continuity of the Portuguese Bank of Germoplasma Vegetal — where seeds of more than 10 000 species are kept, being worldwide among the 10 % of the richest banks — because we know, in particular in agriculture, that those who do not preserve cannot sow and those who do not sow cannot harvest cannot eat. I see here that there are those who fill their mouths with the homeland and nation, but there is absolutely nothing to worry about preserving what we already have and which is used to ensure the continuity of our agriculture. Therefore, in its draft resolution, the Free House recommends to the Government that it consider, already in the next State budget, and we will accompany it with other proposals, the financial resources so that the Portuguese Bank of Germoplasma Vegetal in Braga can have continuity and exit from the current crisis situation in which it is located. We will also add to these proposals other than those related to the promotion of precision agriculture. It seems that there are political groups in this House who think that promoting precision agriculture is licensing. No, precision agriculture is done with data, it is done with information,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-28.u370	Hey! Hey! What does he know about agriculture? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-28.u371	... is made with a good connection between universities and farmers, to use the resources we have, such as water, rationally and adequately, and to avoid fertilizers and fertilizers where they are not needed. [[Mr Pedro Pinto's laughs.]] We will also present the proposal for the creation of a national knowledge transfer agency, as already exists in other countries, which ensures this continuity between the university system and those on the ground. In the case of Portugal, this network must also preserve the knowledge of those on the ground, because, there is, some of those who fill their mouths with the Nation do not know it and do not know that in this country there are those who have knowledge of the best species, with more quality and who are better in each land, in every cubic meter of our land. [[Rices and protests from CH Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-28.u372	Cubic meter? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-28.u373	Mr. Member, cubic meter, the line where the roots of the trees are inserted. Without ensuring that this knowledge is preserved and that it is not lost with the replacement of generations, we also have no knowledge to circulate in the economy, also in agriculture.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-28.u374	What do you realize about the economy, man? You have never been to the Committee on Agriculture once! [[L. Protests.]] O Rui, the papillas don't catch Madeira. Don't take Madeira, man!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-28.u375	It is now time to present the Resolution Project No. 869 / XV / 1. a ( PAN) — Recommends to the Government the hiring of superior technicians for the Portuguese Bank of Germoplasma Vegetal and therefore I give the floor to Mrs Inês de Sousa Real.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-28.u376	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We also thank the CFP for bringing this issue to debate, because indeed, at the time that the war in Ukraine poses different challenges to Europe and the world, particularly at the level of food survival and the need for food sovereignty and autonomy, the work that is developed by the Portuguese Bank of Germoplasma Vegetal takes on an added importance, being considered one of the most important on our planet. In fact, I recall that this issue has been addressed several times throughout the State budgets and that unfortunately we have seen measures rejected in this area. This bank, which is installed in the city of Braga and which dates back to 1977, has a unique collection of more than 47,000 samples of 150 species and 90 kinds of cereals, aromatic and medicinal plants, fibers, fodder, pastures and vegetables. It also has the second largest collection of maize worldwide. This work involves ensuring the collection, conservation, documentation and enhancement of genetic resources, promoting biological diversity, sustainable agricultural production and supporting the implementation of biodiversity protection policies. It is a unique work that must necessarily be preserved. However, this institution faces a challenge that may call into question the transmission of acquired knowledge over these decades, since the Portuguese Bank of Germoplasma Vegetal currently has, in its staff framework, 23 employees in service, of which four are superior technicians, aged between 43 and 60, five are technical assistants, aged 57 and 65, and 14 are operational assistants between 52 and 61 years of age. It is not difficult, therefore, to see that it is urgent to ensure a renewal of human resources in good time, so that the knowledge acquired is not lost and the training necessary for the exercise of duties and their specificities can be carried out. This is why the NAP brings this proposal to promote a programme of awareness-raising for the importance of harvesting, conservation, documentation and exploitation of genetic resources in order to ensure the biological diversity of genetic and plant resources, as well as a strengthening of human resources in this institution, so as to enable the timely renewal of the staff framework, giving continuity to the recognized and valuable work developed. Then we can talk about precision agriculture, innovation and climate change, but if this precious knowledge is not transmitted, we will not, in fact, have to pass on to future generations this genetic heritage which is important to preserve.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-28.u377	We now turn to the interventions for which you have already entered. For the Parliamentary Group of the Liberal Initiative, Mr. João Cotrim Figueiredo has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-28.u378	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This debate on the promotion of cereals culture allows once again the PCP and the Arrival to be found on the same side of the barracks. [[PS Member Carlos Brás's laughs.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-28.u379	From the barracks?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-28.u380	Be respectful!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-28.u381	in this barricade, on the one hand, are those who, like the Liberal Initiative, like the open country, the global world, the free market,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-28.u382	They don't like agriculture!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-28.u383	... a model that should be remembered here, in the last half century, has removed hundreds of millions of people from poverty all over the world in the greatest movement of global inequality correction that there is memory in the history of humanity.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-28.u384	Be respectful! Try to figure out where he is!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-28.u385	on the other side of the barricade, are those who like the country closed, protectionist, obsessed not only with food security, but with the food sovereignty that in recent times has assumed dangerously a kind of synonym of protectionism and self-sufficiency.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-28.u386	Here is the IL's contribution to the debate!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-28.u387	They forget to say that if all other countries have the same intention of being self-sufficient, our producers of tomatoes, olive oil, vegetables, butter, milk and all the other products we produce more than we consume, they carry their rumbe, and these productions are responsible for the greatest growth of our agriculture in recent years. [[Protests from PCP MP Paula Santos.]] But worse, the proposals from the CFP and the Arrival seem to assume that our farmers are dumb when they decide not to grow cereals. [[PCP protests.]] To us, Liberal Initiative, it seems to us that our farmers are very smart: they cultivate what they think has sustainable and profitable flow. [[Protests by PCP MP Bruno Dias.]] Therefore, the cereals have not had it and they do not cultivate it. What you want to do, to make them attractive, is one of two things: either subsidize and someone will pay, and that someone is the taxpayer; or impose tariffs on imports from other countries and also someone will pay, which is the consumer, who has higher prices, or even farmers from countries that would export to Portugal.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-28.u388	Oh, now they're rising prices!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-28.u389	These countries, generally poorer than we, would also be worse. So I see no advantage in any of these approaches.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-28.u390	They don't have bread, they eat brioche!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-28.u391	Here, allow me a little suggestion from the PCP: if you are really concerned about food safety, call your friend Putin and tell him to get out of Ukraine and free the Black Sea ports. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-28.u392	Don't be a pig! Don't be ordinary!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-28.u393	Start being too much!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-28.u394	As for the draft resolutions on the Portuguese Bank of Germoplasma Vegetal, we have no objection. I think they test a little the limit of the concept of material connection when they are dragged into this debate, but it is a worthwhile work, we recognize the important role of this bank and we will make both initiatives viable. I must note that there is also a small barricade here, because on the one hand they are spending on increasing expenditure without quantification at all, without considering alternatives, because they assume that they can always increase taxes; on the other hand, they respect taxpayers' money. We will therefore make the proposals viable, but we want to know exactly how much it will spend on this, because on the taxpayers' side, we will always be. [[Applause from the IL.]] [[Protests by PCP MP Bruno Dias.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-28.u395	It is now the turn of the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group, which will divide the times by Mr. Mr Norberto Patinho and Mr Palmira Maciel. I now give the floor to Mr Norberto Patinho.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-28.u396	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In July 2018, through the Resolution of the Council of Ministers No 101 / 2018, the National Strategy for the Promotion of Cereal Production was approved, which defined three strategic objectives developed in operational objectives aimed at reducing external dependence, for the consolidation and increase of production areas, for the creation of value in the row and for the viability of productive activity throughout the national territory. The National Strategy is being implemented. It was prepared with the sector, taking into account the country's edafoclimatic conditions and the contingencies that result for production. It identified a path to enable and value the production of cereals in Portugal, which is under way, and the effects of which will be analyzed and evaluated from the point of view of the objectives. It is not appropriate to make changes prior to its final assessment, in particular because for the first time this year the support measures associated with the production of cereals included in the PEPAC (National Strategic Plans for the Common Agricultural Policy) are being implemented. This is the case with the new payments associated with the production of banana cereals, grain corn, silage corn and the multiplication of certified seeds, as well as the continuity of the payment to rice. Within the framework of the National Strategy was created the National Centre for the Skills of the Pragueous Cereals, Oilseeds and Proteaginous, which has promoted multiple information and awareness-raising actions for the cereal culture, and there are also five innovation poles directly linked to the grain value chain, namely in Coimbra, Salvaterra de Magos, Coruche, Elvas and Serpa. There is, therefore, a set of ongoing actions on the ground to encourage the production of cereals, promoting the organization of the sector, the yield of producers, the appreciation of the final product and its use by the consumer, so we must evaluate the results of the current policies and measure the strategy in the right time, there is no justification or opportunity for this bill, which, in our view, is quite poor, adding nothing new. The soil charter already exists; monitoring and monitoring of the National Cereal Production Strategy is provided for in the resolution of the Council of Ministers through regular reports; information on payments of direct support to farmers may be obtained on the IFAP portal. By that, Bill No. 522 / XV / 1. she won't count on our support. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-28.u397	You now have the floor for PS, Mrs Palmira Maciel.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-28.u398	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, I would like to welcome the Free and the NAP for the initiatives that bring us today concerning the Portuguese Bank of Germoplasma Vegetal, located on a farm in the vicinity of Braga and which we know very well. It is with pride that we highlight the work of the Bank as one of the largest genetic resource conservation infrastructures around the world. The Bank houses an impressive collection of more than 47 000 samples, representing about 150 species and 90 genera, covering cereals, aromatic and medicinal plants, fibers, fodder, pasture and vegetable crops. According to the Second Report on the Status of World Phytogenetic Resources, published by FAO ( Food and Agriculture Organization ) in 2010, Portugal, notably this Bank, holds 2. the planet's largest corn collection. In addition, the Bank is among the top 10 %, together with 170 banks worldwide, which retain about 10 000 varieties. The Bank's mission is multifaceted, including the collection, preservation, characterization, documentation and enhancement of genetic resources. This ensures the maintenance of the biological diversity and sustainability of the agricultural sector, both in the present and in the future. It is undeniable that its work plays a crucial role in responding to contemporary and future challenges related to our food, agriculture and climate change. To meet these noble objectives, the Bank works tirelessly on two strategic fronts: the conservation of genetic resources and support for the implementation of policies aimed at the protection of biodiversity. During these 46 years of existence, the Portuguese Bank of Germoplasma Vegetal has strictly followed the guidelines of renowned international organizations such as FAO and the Program for the Conservation of Plant Genetic Resources of the Mediterranean. We are aware of the importance of the Bank, and therefore the Ministry of Agriculture and Food, in collaboration with INIAV (National Institute for Agricultural and Veterinary Research ), has been dedicated in recent years to continuously modernizing the Portuguese Bank of Germoplasma Vegetal, both in terms of infrastructure and digital technology. It is important to mention that in the context of the Innovation Agenda for Agriculture 2020 - 2030, approximately EUR 1 million was approved for this INIAV pole, thus accelerating the Bank's ongoing modernisation process. In addition, it should be noted that the Ministry of Agriculture and Food, together with INIAV, has closely followed the needs for strengthening human resources. In addition, it is gratifying to note that the financial resources available to this Bank have been shown to be adequate for the effective performance of their mission, thanks to the commitment, work and dedication of the employees there. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-28.u399	Mrs Palmira Maciel, if I may, it was a pleasure to hear her on such a hot matter. We now give the floor to the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mr Paulo Ramalho.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-28.u400	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, I greet all the parties that today bring here initiatives that show concerns about the government's investment, or lack of it, in scientific research, as a very important tool for the development and innovation of agricultural production, seeking to advance contributions to the construction of our food security and sovereignty, which, despite all the commitment, work and resilience of our farmers, is, with this government, an increasingly distant objective. These are concerns that we have been following and that the PSD has long been reporting. Investment in scientific knowledge, in research and development, is today a fundamental ally of promoting agricultural activity and its competitiveness. The commitment to the promotion of agricultural production and the strengthening of our supply capacity is not only a strategic option, as a mandatory mission. Let us not forget the important teachings that have offered us the pandemic and the war in Ukraine, with the crisis in supply chains. According to the INE ( National Institute of Statistics ), the deficit in the trade balance of agricultural and agri-food products was recorded in Portugal in the last year an increase in the order of EUR 1300 million compared to the previous year, setting in 2022 a value of more than EUR 5000 million. In 2019, Portugal produced only one third of the maize it consumed and imported about 90 % of the wheat it needed. It is true that the Government of António Costa presented in 2018 the so-called « National Strategy for the Promotion of Cereal Production », with the aim of reducing external dependence and consolidating and increasing production areas. With this strategy, the Government intended to reach a level of grain supply of about 40 % within five years. It happens that we're in 2023 and little or nothing happened. [[PSD applause.]] We also have no doubt that excessive bureaucracy, based on an awkwardness of more or less useless procedures, sometimes highly complex and even difficult to apply, is often a problem — not to say a barrier — to the farmer, who wants to invest, who wants to produce more and better, and ultimately affects the competitiveness of the agricultural sector. It was not by chance that the PSD recently applauded the announcement of the simplified licensing for the construction of tanks and small reservoirs of water for agricultural purposes. in the same way, we have required, without prejudice to the necessary transparency and rigour, simpler, more competent and accessible procedures, with clear rules and easy to apply within the framework of applications to national and Community funds. It is not by chance that we have almost EUR 1 billion of the RDP (Rural Development Programme) yet to be implemented. By the way, it is not acceptable that the deadline for submitting applications to the Single Application within the framework of PEPAC, which should have ended on 31 May last, has been extended successively until 31 July, precisely for reasons related to the excessive bureaucracy and highly complex procedures, of difficult application, as all organizations have denounced, and consequently caused the postponement of due payments to beneficiary farmers, which is causing them serious damage. [[PSD applause.]] Until, in good faith, they believed in the words of the Minister for Agriculture, who always guaranteed that the problems relating to the submission of applications would not call into question the early payment of the direct aid from PEPAC. This is, moreover, absolutely unacceptable, because the State and its representatives have a greater duty to behave as good people, to be reliable generators. It is true that farmers are patient and that money, which comes only from Community funds, even late, must arrive. The problem for many, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the banks may not have the same patience. It is worth the resilience of Portuguese farmers, who, despite the damage suffered by climate change, the terrible increase in production factors and the lack of a trusted and competent partner in the Ministry of Agriculture, continue their mission to produce quality food and affordable prices, without prejudice to continuing to watch over the rural landscape and the commitment to the promotion and protection of environmental sustainability, as stated in the rules of the common agricultural policy. [[PSD applause.]] We have the European Ecological Pact in progress, which cannot and should not be ignored. We have the oldest agricultural business fabric in the European Union. Portuguese farmers under 40 years of age do not reach 4 %. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, let me at this point remind you of some of the words made by the President of the European Commission, Ursula von der Leyen, in his recent speech on the state of the Union: "Today, I would like to pay tribute to our farmers and thank them for their daily supplies of food. For us, Europe, this task of agriculture — producing healthy food — is the basis of our agricultural policy. The guarantee of food independence is also essential for us. That is what our farmers do. It is not always easy, since the consequences of the Russian aggression against Ukraine, climate change that causes droughts, forest fires and floods, as well as the new obligations of farmers, are increasingly affecting their work and their income base. We need to take that into account. [...] ’
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-28.u401	Mr. Deputies, you have to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-28.u402	I will now conclude, Mr President. "[...] Together with men and women who are engaged in agriculture, we must be able to overcome new challenges. Only then can we guarantee the safety of future food. We need more dialogue and less polarization. That is why we want to start a strategic dialogue on the future of agriculture in the European Union. » I'm done, ladies and gentlemen. Members, saying that it was good for everyone that this government considered agriculture a real priority, as clearly assumed by the European Union.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-28.u403	Mr. Deputy, you really have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-28.u404	And now that the Government has taken advantage of the RPP funds to leverage investments that promote the modernisation and expansion of national agricultural production. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-28.u405	Mr Pedro Filipe Soares spoke for one speech by the Left Block Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-28.u406	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The debate that is being launched, and whose initiatives are annexed, is about national independence in relation to the food sector, in particular the cereals, and, in other words, about the sovereignty of our country as regards safeguarding an essential factor such as access to food, products and goods that are independent of our quality of life and maintenance as a country. It is interesting that, at the beginning of this debate, we see those who look at the news, know the reality of the country, know the reality of the difficulties of various distribution chains worldwide, recognize that the war of Ukraine is having a brutal impact on the cereals sector and then we have that view of Mars of the Liberal Initiative, which considers that any kind of thought that is prepared from a reflection that safeguards an essential good, such as the right to housing, can be a negative influence on the market. And it goes from there and makes all a fundamentalist speech that denies until recent years. We have seen, not yet, five years ago, a reality that has shown us that, when international distribution chains and logistics chains are at stake, we cannot even have access to plastic gloves — plastic gloves! And then we will discuss how our country will use its territory, its agricultural area, to safeguard its strategic access to the defense of food sovereignty seems sacrilege. It is absurd and only proof that, in fact, there are people here in this debate who are outside the reality of the country. In reality, there is an agriculture that is left behind, because all strategic thinking is actually delivered to the market. And there is strategic thinking in the market, we must not deny it: we simply see the investments, for example, of the Spanish or American that are being made, on a large scale, in the Alentejo and that are changing our agriculture. But there is a huge lack of strategic thinking on the part of political decision makers. The government doesn't think agriculture, the government doesn't have a more or less statistical view, it doesn't have a vision about what agriculture will be in five years' time. The Minister is merely breathing, afraid that, if she stops, well, she doesn't know what tomorrow is. This reality is inconsequential, and we are no longer talking in a dispute on the right or on the left, it is for those who just want to do something about our country's agriculture. It is therefore incomprehensible that this immobilism of the Socialist Party, which does not even allow it to do so. And, by not doing what you should do, for example, puts strategic investments like the Alqueva to not render to the country as they should render; puts the non-thinking of agriculture to deliver the country to a logic of environmental unsustainableness also by not thinking properly about agriculture; it puts territories in the country already with extreme drought problems to invest in cultures like the avocado, as is the case in the Algarve region. It should be absolutely forbidden to make new investments in this reality, but, no, the government continues to have no strategic thought. He continues to look at the forest and to let go in the expectation that the eucalyptus occupies the whole country and then comes the fires and we are constantly running after the damage. There is none of these fundamental issues of strategic thought and therefore I greet the PCP for bringing about a topic that can polarize, but that is strategic for the country and that I think it has to be framed as such. We believe that there should be a thought for agriculture that stratifies not only the cereals sector but also embraces it throughout the country, and that it has a perspective on the territory — as we have fixed people — both social and economic. All this without leaving to put on the table what is fundamental, strategic food, and only you can get there through a sustainable and planned agricultural production for the country. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-28.u407	We now have a second intervention by the CFP Parliamentary Group. Mr. João Dias has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-28.u408	Mr President, I would like to be able to talk, of course, about what we have here, about the debate on cereal production, but I cannot fail to make a reference to what was the splendor of Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo's speech. He didn't resist! The honourable Member, who yesterday criticized the irritating intellectual authority of a Member in this House, today has shown how well an intellectual authority, which is even sorry. Their lack of honesty, at all levels and, above all, intellectual, is very worrying.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-28.u409	Sir, I'm sorry. It does not refer to a colleague as a lack of honesty at all levels. We extrapolated...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-28.u410	At all levels, Mr. President...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-28.u411	I'm sorry, maybe it's worth keeping this "at all levels" and putting it in the political sense, if you want, or otherwise, but I'm asking you not to repeat that expression.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-28.u412	Mr President, I withdraw the comment that can be made on reading that is more comprehensive than politics. In fact, I would like to address the one that was the approach that you have made, in political terms. Of course, we are concerned that Mr Putin, who in 2013 constituted a delegation that went to Russia looking for golden visas, and that he will certainly have the contact of Mr Putin,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-28.u413	I went to Russia? Me? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-28.u414	... bring this connection to the CFP, which you know very well that the CFP has nothing to do with the social conception of either Mr President of the Russian Federation or of that society. [[IL Member's laughter João Cotrim Figueiredo.]] Therefore, the CFP has made more clear than the one that is the position on this issue to which it wants to call us. But I can give myself here to the work of explaining why the CFP has brought this initiative here, and that is what we need, in particular, what is the use of the land for, Mr President? The earth has a social function and must be preserved. It, first of all, serves to produce food, and this is what we are here defending. It is not as the PSD, CDS and other parties once said, that it was cheaper to import than to produce, and the effects that we have is a total destruction of national production capacity, particularly agriculture. It is this concern that the CFP here brings, that the land serves its social function of food production and not that it is at the disposal of the said market,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-28.u415	Any resource has a function, it's not just the earth!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-28.u416	...to tell us what we should produce and not what our people need to produce. And our inability to produce and improve our self-sufficiency in terms of cereal production is worrying. To close our eyes to this is to say that we are in agreement with those who defend the difficulty in responding to food security and sovereignty, because it is, yes, Mr President, a matter of food security and sovereignty that is at stake when only 6 % of the wheat is produced.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-28.u417	You must conclude, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-28.u418	I conclude, Mr. President. We only produce 18 % of cereals.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-28.u419	It's 20 %!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-28.u420	Obviously, we cannot be self-sufficient in everything, nor in the production of cereals, but we can constitute much higher levels of self-sustainment. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-28.u421	Mr Pedro Frazão has the floor for an intervention by the Parliamentary Group of the Arrival.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-28.u422	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I have asked for the floor to comment on what was heard here at the end of this debate. In fact, I cannot begin by thanking the parliamentary groups who seem to follow the proposal of the Arrival, but I also want to tell Mr Rui Tavares that it is natural that we find it strange that we fill our mouths with words such as 'nation' and 'patriotism'. Let us fill our mouth with words such as 'nation' and 'patriotism', and with great honour, Mr President! [[Congrats from the CH.]] Now, Mr Deputy, it is from the papilla party, which does not pass from Longa Manus from international globalists, and we well know what is the plan they have for the primary sector and to subjugate agriculture in Portugal.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-28.u423	There he is!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-28.u424	Mr João Cotrim de Figueiredo, I would like to tell you that I also think it is natural for you to say that you do not see any advantage in our proposal, because, indeed, Mr Cotrim de Figueiredo confuses self-sufficiency concepts with self-supply; confuses those which are the direct aid included in PEPAC and in the CAP with mere production subsidies; speaks of free market, without realizing what is CAP, what is PEPAC and what is the European Union ; talks of farmers as if they were long-sighted demands,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-28.u425	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-28.u426	Nothing, nothing!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-28.u427	... simply because the Liberal Initiative does not exist in the rural world. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-28.u428	You must conclude, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-28.u429	I shall conclude, Mr President. As for the PSD, in fact a few days ago, Portuguese farmers realized that they could not trust the PSD which, above the rostrum, proclaims the defense of farmers, but then, on the most difficult election nights, will compact with the animalistic devil. [[Congrats from the CH.]] But farmers know...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-28.u430	It has to be serious! Wasn't there anyone before we got here? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-28.u431	... that they can count on the Arrival, because in the Arrival, the rural world, the livestock, the primary sector and all that compose them are, for us, a point of honor,... [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-28.u432	You really have to conclude, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-28.u433	...and, in this bench, there's still honor and there's still word. [[Congrats from the CH.]] [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-28.u434	For an intervention, Mr. João Cotrim Figueiredo has the floor. It has three seconds, but it will have some sympathy and kindness from the Bureau, given the deviation of times that other parliamentary groups have also recorded. You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-28.u435	Mr President, I do not think I will need three seconds to say the following: Mr John Dias, or he demonstrates that I have been in Russia in that quality or dishonesty you are. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-28.u436	Mr Pedro Filipe Soares, if IL does not know the country, you certainly do not know agriculture, because you are a member of the Committee on Agriculture and I seldom see you there. [[All right!]] [[Protests from BE Pedro Filipe Soares.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-28.u437	Mr. Pedro Frazão, he demonstrated what I started by saying: so many times, regardless, on the same side of the barricade, the Arrival and the Communist Party. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-28.u438	Mr Rui Tavares is calling for what effect? V. Exa has not been invoked in this last intervention. I do not, Mr, have the slightest willingness to give you the floor. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-28.u439	I want to ask the Bureau for an inquiry on the conduct of the work.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-28.u440	Mr President, or it is even an appeal to the Bureau on the conduct of the proceedings, or I shall withdraw the floor immediately.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-28.u441	Mr President, I would like to ask the Bureau to seek in the Diaries, in the upper part of this House, the quotations in which the Parliamentary Group of the Arrival, which has just accused of lack of patriotism several other Members of this House...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-28.u442	It's over, no, it's been a while. Give malt work for what? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-28.u443	Is that a defense of honor or an appeal to the Bureau? Ask for honor's defense, so I can answer you.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-28.u444	Can I finish?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-28.u445	Yeah, want to finish. [[CH protests.]] No, no, no. Just a moment. Mr. Pedro Frazão, just a moment. Mr Rui Tavares, conclude quickly, we already understand, and be very brief.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-28.u446	Prescient of defending honor, because the offense to honor is of all Members, when someone thinks patriotism is his only. [[CH's laughs.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-28.u447	You don't want to hear my answer!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-28.u448	Please, Mr. Deputy. Come on.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-28.u449	But the times when the arrival, which here today refused to be populist and nationalist, stated textually that it is because he who changes...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-28.u450	Shut up!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-28.u451	Mr Rui Tavares, don't say anything else. Because I don't care anymore. You are already given the message to the Bureau, the Bureau will do the research. You would like to sit down please, Mr President. [[L. Protests.]] Mr João Dias asked for the floor for an intervention. What is the reason for the request for a word?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-28.u452	It is for an appeal to the Bureau, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-28.u453	Appeal to the Bureau? May it even be an appeal to the Bureau.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-28.u454	It is indeed an appeal to the Bureau. Only because I was accused of having no evidence, regarding what I said about Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo, will I bring the link where precisely the demonstration is, with news about the delegation to which I referred.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-28.u455	And will the news be true? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-28.u456	Here comes the proof and the link and, however, while there comes and does not come the proof and the link, I give you the word for the end of this debate.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-28.u457	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In view of the difficulty faced by the country in terms of its ability to supply cereals, the difficulties faced by farmers and cereal producers, particularly in terms of the fair yield paid for production, the increase in the costs of production factors, the difficulties they are facing due to the drought conditions — it is clear that drought has broad backs — what we can say, until we remember that, precisely when the seeds are to be thrown to the ground, there has been an increase in rainfall which has made the seed of cereals difficult this year, we are faced with a situation in which we cannot leave our farmers alone. We must, of course, have knowledge and planning of what we should produce in Portugal. And this is where the CFP brings precisely the solution: we need to identify the lands that have the ability to produce cereals. [[Protests from PSD MP Sonia Ramos.]] And before this identification, we need to protect these lands, so that they can serve precisely that purpose.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-28.u458	That's what they did, didn't they, protect the lands? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-28.u459	What we're watching right now, ladies and gentlemen. Members — and that we have seen in the visits that we have still made last week — are that farmers are being pushed into productions that do not meet the food needs of our country. As for cereals, which are the basis of our population's diet, we are in a situation where we have a few days' supply, Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen! And there, we have conditions to produce much more. Today, in the Alentejo, we are sure that we do not want it to happen in a way that spreads all over the world the production of cereals—as the CFP has often been accused. That is not what is at stake; what we want is that farmers can correspond to national cereal production. Today, the intensive and superintensive olive tree, mainly, is occupying land with a profile for the production of cereals. We need to protect them and it's with that profile letter that we need to move forward. [[Protests from PSD MP Sonia Ramos.]] Together with what, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen? With measures to support the production of cereals and also with effective and rigorous monitoring... [[Protests from PSD MP Sonia Ramos.]] ... of the campaign and of the National Strategy for the Promotion of Cereal Production. I shall finish, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, saying this: it is not enough to set targets, as the government did in 2027 to have 38 % of the production of self-supply cereals. It is necessary to follow these goals with measures in order to ensure that this production is viable. We understand that national cereal production is central and vital to ensuring the sovereignty and food security of our people. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-28.u460	Today, this question of cereals has been of great intensity, as it must be.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-28.u461	With us, no one makes flour!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-28.u462	Mrs Palmira Maciel has relevant information to communicate to the House. I'll give you the floor right away.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-28.u463	Mr. President, it is to account for the entry into the Bureau of the Bill No. 923 / XV / 2. a ( BE ), which falls to 9. the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-28.u464	Thank you very much, Mrs Palmira Maciel. I shall therefore announce the agenda for the plenary meeting tomorrow, 29 September, beginning at 10 a.m. The first item on the agenda concerns Law No 92 / XV / 1. a ( GOV ) — Authorizes the Government to transpose Directive ( EU ) 2020 / 1828 on collective actions for the protection of consumer interests. Then, the second point is related to Bill No. 859 / XV / 1. a ( IL) — Approves the Basics Law of the Universal System of Access to Health, by way of the repeal of Law No 95 / 2019 of 4 September 2019. The third point of the agenda concerns draft resolution No 763 / XV / 1. a ( PS ) — Recommends to the Government new water monitoring and supply solutions in Portugal, which drags several bills and draft resolutions. The fourth point has to do with the Bill No. 836 / XV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Strengthens the protection and rights of all workers-students, who drags out various bills and also draft resolutions. And finally, the fifth point, with a regiment vote. All the ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much and see you tomorrow. [[It was 18 hours and 36 minutes.]]
