ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-03.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the government, we have quorum, so the session is open. [[It was 10 hours and 6 minutes.]] I would like to ask the honourable Members. Authorities please open the galleries to the public. Today we do not have a file, so we have already started the agenda. The first point concerns the assessment...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-03.u2	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-03.u3	Do you ask for the floor to what effect, Mr?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-03.u4	It is for an appeal to the Bureau, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-03.u5	You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-03.u6	Mr President, I know that we do not have the period before the agenda, as in other assemblies. In any event, given the importance of the matter and also the fact that it is directly associated with its competences, I would like to address a subject. As Mr President knows - I think you will know - a generalist newspaper today brings information about your office, noting that Mr President would have been organizing the coming of the Brazilian President to Portugal for a long time now,... [[PS protests.]] ... and that he would have done it to the wake of Parliament, which he presides, and to the wake of the Members. It says this newspaper, that today,... The speaker showed the newspaper he referred to. ... that Mr. President had been organizing for months, together with the President of the Republic, the coming of the Brazilian President to Portugal, to speak at the Solemn Session on 25 April. In fact, the title is suggestive, it says that it is your fault, but irrespective of the title I want to question it, as it is obvious.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-03.u7	But what is the regimental figure? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-03.u8	The reason for this is that it is directly related to its competences. I would like to know if Mr President is available to give such an explanation — and that is why I am doing this before the next item — it is confirmed that he has been in negotiations with the President of the Republic to bring the Brazilian President to Portugal, so that he could take part in the 25 April session, and if he has done so in the wake of Parliament, which we do not think — to arrive — very adjusted. I would like to stress again that we are before the agenda, but if Mr President wanted to give that explanation we would be very grateful for. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-03.u9	Mr President, the answer is simple: no. Can we get on the agenda? [[Pause.]] All right. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Let us then proceed to the discussion, in general, of the Bill No. 516 / XV / 1. a ( PS ) — Second amendment to Law No 66 -A / 2007 of 11 December defining the powers, organisation and functioning of the Council of the Portuguese Communities, together with draft Resolution No 162 / XV / 1. a ( PS ) — Recommends that the Government value citizen participation in electoral procedures by reviewing the compensation values for participation in voting assemblies, 394 / XV / 1. a ( PS ) — Determines the preparation of the codification of electoral legislation and 426 / XV / 1. a ( PS ) — Recommends that the Government conduct a face-to-face electronic voting experience in mobility in the electoral circles of the communities, with Petition No 30 / XV / 1. a ( Luís Humberto Pacheco Ferreira Teixeira ) — For a greater conversion of votes to mandates and, in general, also with Bills Nos 377 / XV / 1. a ( PSD ) — The second amendment to Law No 66 -A / 2007 of 11 December defining the competences, organisational and functioning of the Council of the Portuguese Communities, 398 / XV / 1. a ( PAN) — Establishs the legal regime applicable to civic clarification and to the right of antennae in the elections to the President of the Republic, Assembly of the Republic, Regional Legislative Assembly of the Azores, Regional Legislative Assembly of Madeira, European Parliament and bodies of local authorities as well as in national, regional and local referendums, 517 / XV / 1. a (NAP) — Alter the Election Law for the Assembly of the Republic, reducing to 10 the number of electoral circles and creating an electoral circle of emigration and a national circle of compensation, 518 / XV / 1. a ( PAN) — Other diplomas, extending the right to vote in advance in elections to local authorities and improving the electoral process in the circles of emigration in elections to the Assembly of the Republic, 560 / XV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Consecrates the option of voting by correspondence, as an alternative to the face-to-face vote, to voters resident abroad in the presidential elections and in the European elections, by amending the twenty-third amendment to Decree-Law No 319 -A / 76 of 3 May, which regulates the election of the President of the Republic, the sixth amendment to Law No 14 / 87 of 29 April, which approves the electoral law for the European Parliament, and the seventh amendment to the Legal Regime of the Electoral Recensation, approved by Law No 13 / 99 of 22 March, and ensures the implementation in the forthcoming European elections of a non-binding pilot project of non-peristial electronic voting for voters living abroad, 577 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Extends powers and strengthens support for the functioning of the Council of the Portuguese Communities ( second amendment to Law No 66 -A / 2007 of 11 December ), 581 / XV / 1. a (L) — Review the electoral laws, extending the range of ineligibility to the Assembly of the Republic; establishing a national clearing circle; extending the electoral campaign period, voting by correspondence to the elections to the Presidency of the Republic and the circumstances in which it is possible to vote in advance, in mobility, and establishing rules related to television debates, the removal of electoral propaganda and the possibility of international missions of observers, 582/XV/1. a ( L) — Provides a deadline for the removal of electoral propaganda and determines that its violation constitutes counter-ordination, amending Law No. 97 / 88 of 17 August, in its current wording, 583 / XV / 1. a (L) — Creates a national commission for electoral debates and amends the law of electoral coverage, 587 / XV / 1. a ( PAN) — Strengthens the powers of the Council of the Portuguese Communities and the rights of their advisers by amending Law No 66 -A / 2007 of 11 December and 589 / XV / 1. a ( CH) — Alter to Law No 66 -A / 2007 of 11 December defining the powers, organisation and functioning of the Council of the Portuguese Communities. To present the PS initiatives, Mr. Paulo Pisco has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-03.u10	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Council of the Portuguese Communities ( CCP ) is a government consulting body, of great relevance, which has functioned well, regularly and with all necessary means, which has a remarkable public presence through social communication, and which has made an important contribution to the definition of policies in the area of communities, among other things, because advisers live within and in proximity to the relationship with Portuguese presence in the world. With this schedule, the Socialist Party thus fulfils its commitment to give priority to the proposals for amendments to the law defining the competences, organization and functioning of the CCP, since it is urgent to mark the elections — which are unviable by the pandemic and the dissolution of the Assembly of the Republic between 2020 and 2022 — but also because it is absolutely essential to adapt the electoral circles to the enlargement of the electoral universe, which rose from 320 000 voters in 2015 to more than one and a half million, today, with Portuguese registered in 186 countries, as a result of the revolutionary implementation of the automatic census. That is, it did not make sense to mark the elections without first adapting the representativeness of the CCP to the new electoral map which has much more voters and in more countries. But this amendment to the law, which includes many proposals from the Council of the Communities itself, is also an opportunity for its strengthening and valorisation within its advisory powers, safeguarding the balance and distance from the executive power of the Government and Parliament. Therefore, the PS Parliamentary Group presents a mature, responsible and solid proposal, far from populism and the demagogy of those who want to give everything in any way, which contributes more to the discredit of the CCP than to the effectiveness of its action, and here I am referring in particular to the projects presented by the CFP and the Arrival.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-03.u11	Then explain it!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-03.u12	Our purpose is to contribute to making the CCP more credible and recognized as an important consulting body, both with the institutions in Portugal and with the communities. This debate here today, with bills of five parties—even if some proposals are manifestly unrealistic—...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-03.u13	Irealistic on what? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-03.u14	...it remains an important sign that the Portuguese presence in the world is recognized and considered. We therefore propose the non-binding mandatory consultation in matters of community interest; the inference of advisers as members of consular advisory councils; a specific amount in the CCP budget for studies; an increase of 80 to 90 in the number of advisers to be elected; the preparation of reports by regional councils that map communities in each region or country; gender parity in the candidate lists; and a limitation of mandates as a way to promote the renewal of perceptions about our communities. We also fulfilled our commitment to kick-off in the discussion of electoral laws for Parliament and for the President of the Republic, with the scheduling of the codification of electoral laws, with a particular concern regarding the electoral process for residents abroad, in order to promote greater participation, substantially reduce the cancelled votes, envelopes that do not reach the destination due to wrong dwellings and waste tons of paper in votes and envelopes. In addition, in the context of electoral laws, we propose the realization in communities of a face-to-face electronic voting experience in mobility, thus giving continuity to the experience carried out in the Évora district in the European elections of 2019. A possible implementation of this mode of vote in communities would certainly make a significant contribution to promoting the modernization of the electoral system and to reducing abstention, allowing for example a registered voter in Paris to vote in Luxembourg or Geneva, the same applies to the electoral circle outside Europe. This discussion here today marks the beginning of a process in which, as is normal in democracy, there are points of convergence and others which are, of course, irreconcilable. for our part, we are open to dialogue to find as broad a consensus as possible in these central areas for the deepening of our democracy, but also to strengthen the connection to the Portuguese communities in the world. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-03.u15	The honourable Member has a request for clarification. To formulate it, Mr Bruno Dias of the CFP has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-03.u16	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Paulo Pisco, with this suspense sound...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-03.u17	The sound was not worth it!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-03.u18	But it really is!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-03.u19	Sonsa! Sonsa!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-03.u20	... with which you rule out the PCP project, it is important here to clarify in detail what is the basis that you did not bring, because you did not base with a word this insult of the « populist proposal », according to your words, which was as defined by the PCP project. So, if you want to be true, because this is not the first time that you are missing the truth in the political debate around the CCP,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-03.u21	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-03.u22	Oh, no, no! It's every day!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-03.u23	...then demonstrate what is that thing of "giving everything anyway", as you said. Is it the proposal of the CCP to provide support services to the CCP? Oh, my God! Is it the proposal of the CFP, to guarantee a budget to the CCP? Oh, my God! Is it the guarantee that the CCP can function and have a voice in the Assembly of the Republic and can propose a debate per year? Oh, my God! What is your populist proposal in the CFP? Be true and be concrete,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-03.u24	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-03.u25	... and do not make any insinuations at the beginning of the debate. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-03.u26	To reply, Mr. Paulo Pisco has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-03.u27	Now, explain there, please!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-03.u28	Mr. President, Mr. Deputies, exactly. There are proposals that are absolutely unacceptable here, among them, for example, the Council of the Communities can make the call of the plenary,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-03.u29	That's a lie! Where is that? Read there!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-03.u30	... which means that there could be at least four plenary sessions, i.e. a expenditure of about EUR 1 million and 600 thousand per term. It is also unacceptable that the Communist Party's proposal would like to equate services with administrative autonomy, which means that they would have powers to authorize their expenditure and also to make their payment, which would leave the Council of the Communities completely out of control. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-03.u31	The PS doesn't study and then calls populism to everything!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-03.u32	You're studying!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-03.u33	To present the PSD initiative, Mrs Olga Silvestre has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-03.u34	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: There are no impossible dreams; our diaspora one day decided to walk and go in search of a better life. It is the greatness of the Portuguese here and outside that makes Portugal a larger country, in number, soul and culture. The Portuguese communities are the most important pillar of foreign policy. Respect and pride are what we deserve. The Council of the Portuguese Communities is fundamental — the PSD recognises this — as an advisory body in the development of Community policies. But there is no advice without advisers; they perform a herculial work in proximity to the communities. But society is changing and needs to adapt to the circumstances. Therefore, it is important to make its functioning more efficient, strengthen the action of each advisor and ensure its articulation with the services of the Public Administration. The PSD, a historic party in Portuguese emigration at this time, which is right, proposes changes, responding to the wishes of advisers and many other entities. With this initiative, we intend to make it compulsory to consult the Council on legislative initiatives in matters such as electoral law, teaching Portuguese abroad, consular network, association of Portuguese communities in the world, and to update the number of members, strengthen representativeness and maintain the presence of former members. On the other hand, we want to ensure an effective commitment on the part of the Government and Portuguese diplomatic representations abroad in the Council's work and to provide it and advisers with greater and better capacity for action, ensuring adequate funding and a more professional and efficient structure. [[PSD applause.]] We defend the appreciation of the role of ex-counselers, in particular of previous presidents, and the extinction of thematic committees. For the PSD, it is crucial to carry out an electronic voting pilot experience in mobility in order to improve the political participation of Portuguese residents abroad. It is imperative to note that the PS has been waving the flag of the electronic vote, particularly in the Council elections, to now present an initiative which is not a « hand full of nothing ». [[PSD applause.]] But we've been used to it by the PS. That led the Council itself to accuse the PS of doing nothing in this area. Elections to the Council should have taken place in 2015. Don't worry about it! The government has not yet scheduled them, nor is there a date in sight. Adding to this, the so propagated promise of e-voting was dropped. Mrs. Members, this Council is essential for the government's relationship with the communities, either by the value as a consulting body in the formulation of policies for our diaspora, or by the value of each advisor in his/her proximity relationship. But what moves us is the defense of the Portuguese communities and therefore we are available for a fair and effective consensus, aware that « Rome and Pavia did not become one day». [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-03.u35	To present the NAP initiatives, Mrs Inês de Sousa Real has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-03.u36	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In addition to the legislative initiatives of the various political forces, we also discussed today a citizens' initiative, a petition which brought together more than 8,000 signatures and whose first petitioners, present here, take advantage of greeting. I am also grateful for your efforts, because with this petition, this Parliament also discussed measures aimed at making the electoral map more fair and less inclined on the side of the big parties, making it, precisely, more respectful of the will of the voters themselves. The NAP does not accept that, in recent legislative elections, due to an unfair design of the electoral map, 671 000 votes did not serve to elect a single Member, serving only to widen the result of the absolute majority of the PS. We cannot accept that hundreds of thousands of voters are told that their vote is worthless.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-03.u37	How did you do the CDS?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-03.u38	The NAP therefore proposes today a new and fairer electoral map, with fewer electoral circles, but with larger circles capable of giving more weight to the most impoverished regions. We also want to see a national circle of compensation set up in the Azores to bring more pluralism to this Parliament.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-03.u39	Watch out for him!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-03.u40	However, we do not stay here and, in today's debate, we want to extend the early vote in the autarchic elections and standardise the rules of antenna law, nor do we forget the Portuguese communities abroad who, in the last election, have been disrespected by the annulment of 80% of their votes. Therefore, in addition to the creation of a single electoral circle for emigration and the strengthening of powers of the Council of the Portuguese Communities ( CCP ), we want to modernise the postal vote, decentralise the sending of ballots and adapt the regime of nullity of electoral acts to the specificities of immigration circles. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, this is not the first time we have discussed these matters in the Assembly of the Republic. Once and for all, an effort must be made to bring about the consequences of the debate on the electoral system. A fairer, plural and more respectful electoral system is meant to respect the wishes of all voters, they reside in a large city, in the interior or abroad, as is the most basic justice.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-03.u41	To present another initiative of the PSD Parliamentary Group — Bill No 560 / XV / 1. a — you have the floor Mr Hugo Carneiro.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-03.u42	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The PSD presents an initiative aimed at promoting and making effective the exercise of the right to vote of Portuguese residents abroad. We cannot watch the numbers of abstention and the complaints that exist, as well as the fact that, abroad, there is no voting table in each corner. Voting is an act of freedom, perhaps the greatest act of our democracy, of our rule of law. Therefore, the PSD could not remain indifferent to the difficulties of Portuguese residents abroad, when exercising their right to vote, discriminated against and segregated by political power over the years. For some parties, the vote of migrants is inappropriate; in microphones, however, they make the opposite speech. [[PSD applause.]] In the back of this House, they boycott or block any change, adopting a hypocritical and calculusist speech. It's the vendettalons of the temple! Open... [[PSD applause.]] PSD wants to change that. For us, citizens living abroad are citizens of full right and therefore the electoral system must conform to the particularities in which they are found. In the presidential and European elections, in a universe of 1, 5 million voters, only 27 000 and 14 000 respectively. However, in the legislatures, this figure has reached 173,000 voters. We therefore want these voters to be able to vote by mail in the presidential and European elections, as is the case in the legislative elections, and as the Constitution allows. Moreover, we want to test, for the first time in our democracy, the non-existent electronic vote for residents abroad. Mr President, today, another party presents the false intention of a face-to-face vote on mobility test. But do not be fooled, because this proposal does not aim to solve any problem and leaves Members who subscribe to its own-initiative power on which Parliament has power to legislate. We are the first party to have the courage to propose a large-scale non-binding test. It is an opportunity to learn, without weakening the electoral system. There will be those who will be against it. Today, they're gonna make up all the excuses, but that doesn't dissuade us from the Portuguese immigrants' cause. On the night of the presidential elections, Mr President of the Republic called for this matter to be resolved. The Portuguese residents abroad asked for it and the PSD heard it. Today, he's here in your defense. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-03.u43	To present the CFP initiative, Mr Bruno Dias has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-03.u44	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The first word of the CFP in this debate is to greet our compatriots who, in search of a better future, went to other countries and there built and built their lives, giving more strength to Portuguese communities all over the world. A word, too, to greet and value all those who, over the years, have given and give their best to represent and defend the Portuguese emigrants — their rights, their living conditions, their voice — with all the work that has been done for them in the Council of the Portuguese Communities. The draft law presented by the PCP to this House aims to recognize, in practice, the importance of the CCP and, consequently and seriously, create conditions for better developing its work. We propose that the CCP may have support services to ensure that there are practical conditions for the development of its functions. We propose that the CCP may have a stable budget, sufficient, appropriate to its needs to function properly.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-03.u45	It's normal!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-03.u46	We propose that this budget, defined and set with democratic transparency, be managed autonomously by the CCP's own officials and that no authorisation should be requested from the Government whenever they wish to implement it. It is truly regrettable that the PS considers this idea populist. We also propose that there be the necessary adequacy of the CCP, increasing the maximum number of Council members and valuing regional councils in their functions.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-03.u47	Of course!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-03.u48	We propose that the CCP be heard — by this House, by the Government, with mandatory non-binding consultation — whenever there are legislative processes that concern the Portuguese communities around the world. We suggest that there be an annual debate which is proposed, I repeat, proposed, Mr. Members, and not summoned, because whoever convenes the Assembly of the Republic and its sessions is the President of the Assembly of the Republic and the chairman of the committees. Therefore, what we propose — that there be truth in the political debate! — there is an annual debate, proposed by the CCP to the Assembly of the Republic. [[PCP applause.]] In fact, what we are presenting is the result of the proposals made by the Council of the Portuguese Communities. So we heard the CCP, so the PS wanted to do the same. for our part, we are in this debate with openness and with a desire to create consensus and collectively build the best solutions. However, we now want to make a warning: that this opportunity does not turn into a legislative process with bad results. We do not agree that efforts are being made to sub-alternise the CCP rather than create support services for the CCP, or that the CCP may be transformed into a government support service — which is not... [[PCP applause.]] ...it doesn't have to be! — So we have already left the alert to the honourable Members. Members for the legislative process now under way. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-03.u49	Mr Rui Tavares has the floor to present the initiatives of the Free House.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-03.u50	Mr. President, dear and dear colleagues, good morning. This House meets today, still in time to debate the operation of elections that have elected us all last year, but that did not proceed as we all wish they had happened in the circles outside our national territory. This means that this should have been one of our first work—but, in spite of everything, in the first legislative session, it still takes place in an appropriate and reasonable time—to ensure that this does not happen in the future and that our citizens outside the country could have a full participation in the electoral act. We are prepared to discuss, in particular, the various initiatives taken at this level, as well as those relating to the very important Council of the Portuguese Communities. This is also an occasion, an opportunity to discuss, in a broader way, justice and equity in the execution of electoral acts, such as their reliability and integrity. The Free Paper presents a number of initiatives in this regard. One of them, in particular, I believe it corresponds to a generalized feeling of the population, which has to do with the electoral propaganda that our parties attach to in electoral periods, and the proposal aims to ensure its removal in an appropriate period, under notification, thus ending with the visual pollution associated with electoral acts. Another initiative is related to the creation of a national clearing circle. It is absolutely unacceptable that there is so much vote that it does not elect mandates throughout the country, especially in areas with lower density. And in this context, the experience of a clearing circle has worked very well in the Autonomous Region of the Azores, so it must be transposed to the whole national. Finally, the Free will aims to regulate, in a more inclusive and stable way, what has to do with electoral debates. In Portugal, until recently, there was a great lack of criterion in the organization of electoral debates, but now the law requires that the parties already elected, for the same body, be present in the previous election. Being a criterion that is better than lack of criteria, it ends up giving people the chance to choose what has been chosen. To give an example that has already been suggested here—at least as a separate party—we have the CDS party that is not currently represented in the Assembly of the Republic but has had more than 1 % in the previous elections, so it makes every sense in the debates for the next legislative election. [[CH protests.]] That's why the Free wants to enter the law, as a criterion... [[CH protests.]] It seems to me that, a little while ago, the bank of the Arrival was concerned about the CDS, but now it is concerned about competition. It is seen that it is a little friendly the way they perform their parts. [[CH protests.]] If I could finish, I'd say it's absolutely fair that matches that had 1 %... [[CH protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-03.u51	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask you to allow Mr Rui Tavares to intervene. This is becoming systematic and is absolutely unacceptable. Whatever Member or Member is involved, you will always have the right to intervene, and there can be no such system—at least as long as I am President of the Assembly of the Republic, there will not be this system without which I protest—to try to prevent a person from speaking! Please proceed, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-03.u52	Thank you very much, Mr President. I shall conclude briefly by saying that the Book proposes that parties which have had at least 1 % in the previous elections, for the same body, be present in debates. We also propose that there be — as is already the case in several countries scattered around the world and, in particular, in Europe — a national committee for debates linked to the National Elections Commission ( National Elections Commission ), to produce recommendations that can be followed by television channels.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-03.u53	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it is my pleasure to inform you that we are attending our plenary, in the gallery, a delegation of local authorities from Italian municipalities — the municipalities of Nordic, Subiaco and Cassino — which are accompanied by the President of the Committee on European Affairs, our colleague Luís Capoulas Santos, and the Ambassador of Italy in Portugal, who also greets. This delegation visits us in the framework of an initiative for peace and united Europe, which looks forward to the transmission of a message of peace and hope, when the war, unfortunately, has returned to Europe, and is here, because Portugal will be home to the World Youth Day this year. On behalf of Parliament, I greet the Italian women and the Italian autarchs, who give us the pleasure of participating in a visit to our Assembly. [[General applause, with PS, PSD, CH, IL and L standing.]] To present the bill of arrival, Mr. André Ventura has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-03.u54	Mr President, Dear colleagues : The PS brings us a set of proposals on our communities and the Council that represents these communities, which is particularly ironic, after what has been the trapping of the last legislative elections in Portugal. This is the attempt to wipe the face out of time and with proposals that represent absolutely nothing in this matter. In fact, one of the titles of a PS proposal is particularly ironic: "Recommends the Government to value citizen participation in electoral procedures. » You know, as we know, that if there is something the PS does not want or will want, it is the real appreciation of the citizens who are in the communities in relation to the Portuguese electoral process. We have 5 million, 5 million migrants and Luso-descendants, 5 million, who elect 4 Members. It is 5 million that elect four Members! The PS never moved a straw to prevent it or make it change. [[Congrats from the CH.]] The PS never wanted to change this, because it knows well that many of those who emigrate, emigrate, because they want to escape your government, because they want to escape the tragedy in which this country has become, under your government, and that many of the young people who unfortunately go to London, Berlin or the United States of America are going to escape your government. [[PS Member Protests Eurico Brilliant Dias.]] in this sense, unfortunately, we even approach some of the worst dictatorships in South America, because whoever leaves there is to escape from socialism, as many of our compatriots want to escape from socialism. [[Congrats from the CH.]] The proposal from the European Parliament is clear and concrete: it seeks to give the Council the means to work. But it's not like the empty proposals that the PS brings here. Furthermore, it would derive from the law itself, Law No. 66 -A / 2007, that the Council had autonomy and means to function, and the PS has done everything so that the Council has neither autonomy nor means to function. As Mr Bruno Dias said, and indeed, it is true that the PS does not want an autonomous Council to work well; the PS wants an autonomous Council to serve the Socialist Party in the communities, and that is the difference in what we propose here. [[Congrats from the CH.]] Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we have failed our communities. We have failed deeply those who have been in search of a better life...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-03.u55	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-03.u56	...and that out there they still have the hope of being able to participate in Portuguese political life. We have failed in every right we have denied them. We never really wanted them to participate electorally, nor were they relevant in the composition of this House.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-03.u57	We were the ones that extended!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-03.u58	We always wanted to keep them waste, because you know well that they would have other choices to bet on. We have, as I said, 5 million, but it seems that we are that country of political schizophrenia: for the immigrants who come here we have everything and give everything — we give support, we give subsidies, we want them to vote, we want them to be regular, we want them to come in any way and use our public goods — for our own, who have to emigrate, in search of a better life, we have nothing, we give them nothing, we do not give them support and we close the door to them in everything that is national politics. [[Congrats from the CH.]] It is this political schizophrenia that we have to kill in Portugal. Today, which begins the extraordinary regularization of immigrants from CPLP (Community of Portuguese-speaking Countries), in which anyone who, in any event, is going to be resident here — and we will pay very much, one day, because of what we are doing here, there is indeed the warning from the Arrival that one day we will pay dearly the risks and mistakes that the PS is running today — if we want to be this country so open and so humanist unless we are first for our own and those of ours who have to leave. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-03.u59	The initiatives are presented, we are moving to the stage of the speeches in the debate. For the first intervention, Mrs Patrícia Gilvaz of the Liberal Initiative Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-03.u60	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Today a total of 15 projects are under discussion, which address topics as diverse as the reform of the permanent consular council, the electoral process in the circles of emigration, the introduction of a clearing circle, electronic voting and so many others, which, even with an extended time grid, will be short, guessing, therefore, interesting work and debates in the specialty. But today's time would always be scarce to discuss some of the most urgent and necessary reforms for the quality of our democracy, for our relationship with the Portuguese communities and for their representation. Therefore, in the field of expertise, we will be engaged in a serene and in-depth discussion on the improvements we want to make, particularly with regard to the reform of the electoral system — the subject we have addressed in a first political statement of this Parliament — where they can count on a proposal from us, and we are sure that other parties will follow us. I dare say, in fact, that this will be one of the few working groups with which we agree.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-03.u61	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-03.u62	Ah! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-03.u63	Electoral reform is one of the legislative priorities of the Liberal Initiative. We believe that this reform is urgent and unacceptable, precisely because it is the quality of our democracy that is at stake here. Our democracy cannot be full, while, as in the last legislative elections, we will continue to waste more than 600 000 votes,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-03.u64	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-03.u65	... about 10 % of the voting population, which did not serve to elect a single member.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-03.u66	All right! Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-03.u67	We need a system that better balances our local and national representation, taking advantage of all voters' votes through a national circle of compensation. Leaving the Beira road, let me also touch the roadside, in front of this vast schedule of initiatives. With regard to pilot projects that relate to electronic voting in clearing circles, we will be able-CL them, because we will be able to see whether they will be freedom of choice in voting mobility and maximum flexibility to enhance a much greater participation of Portuguese communities in the electoral process, as well as whether it will be possible to measure the reliability of the vote. It is a test that supporters and skeptics of the electronic vote will only wish it to happen.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-03.u68	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-03.u69	We will vote in favour of the proposal which determines the preparation of the codification of electoral legislation, because we defend that it is extremely important for all citizens to be able to access these diplomas in a simple, clear, integrated and harmonised way. It is also a form of simplification, so dear to the Liberal Initiative.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-03.u70	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-03.u71	Of all the proposals, there is only one against which we will vote, because it is precisely contrary to what we stand for, complicating, with the creation of another public structure, and adding criteria of subjectivity, trying to condition freedom of the press.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-03.u72	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-03.u73	We also agree with the need not only to clarify mobility and the electoral process in the circles of emigration, but also with all the initiatives that move towards the expansion of the vote in mobility and in advance. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We believe that the removal of all these procedural obstacles, derived from a bureaucratic culture of the 1970s, can do much for the quality of our democracy. And in this regard, I would like to ask directly the PS, the PSD and the PCP, which are the parties present here sitting in the Legislative Assembly of the Autonomous Region of Madeira and which could have already ended with the electoral discrimination that exists in Madeira, proposing, in the Madeira Parliament, the implementation of the early vote and in mobility, for the sake of democracy and freedom of Maderians. [[Applause from the IL.]] There's still time, ladies. Ladies and gentlemen! Make this proposal in Madeira so that the Madeirans are not Portuguese on second. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-03.u74	To speak on behalf of the Left Block Parliamentary Group, Mrs Isabel Pires has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-03.u75	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Today we are discussing an extensive series of bills, draft resolutions, as well as a petition, which allude to the question of the vote of the Portuguese communities abroad and to the role of the Council of the Portuguese Communities. I would like to begin with this last point, to say that we agree with the projects calling for this Council to be strengthened. It is a very relevant instrument in the way the Portuguese community spread around the world is related to Portugal, from the point of view even more institutional, from which it stresses the relevance of the form of organization of the elections themselves. We will therefore follow the initiatives taken on the subject of the Council of the Portuguese Communities. in a second note, the Left Block makes a positive assessment of the changes that have been made relatively recently, in particular with regard to automatic registration and preferential voting by correspondence. at that time, the electoral universe fired from about 300,000 to 1 million and 500 000 voters. However, while the amendments were introduced in the legislative elections and restricted to two electoral circles, we believe that now is not the time to apply the elections with a single national circle. on a third note, on the ideas of changing electoral circles and the creation of a clearing circle, presented in several of the projects under discussion, the Left Block has actually accompanied the theoretical reflection on this matter, but it seems to us that these proposals, in particular, are not yet properly substantiated or matured. We believe that, in this area, there is still a debate that needs to be far more detailed and that the proposals appear, from our point of view, in an extemporaneous manner in this agenda. And it also seems to us that we want to force this debate in absolute majority time is the invitation to agreements from the central bloc, whose results will not result in the strengthening of the plurality and representativeness of Parliament, and on the contrary we will not be able to follow these proposals. Fourthly, with regard to face-to-face electronic voting, we want to warn you that the experience of the United States, for example, has led to many criticisms and serious problems, as has been seen in some recent elections. This is a way of risk which, from our point of view, is not yet properly calculated or cautious, so we do not object to this form of study, but we cannot fail to alert ourselves to the risks that other countries have already demonstrated. In short, it seems important to us again to point out that the strengthening mechanisms of the Council of the Portuguese Communities are one of the central points which are discussed here today and which, of course, we are accompanying. On fundamental amendments to voting mechanisms and the creation of electoral compensation circles, we believe that the debate must be furthered from a technical point of view, because it seems to us that the solutions are not yet properly found. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-03.u76	Mr Pedro Delgado Alves of the PS Parliamentary Group now gives the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-03.u77	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Even before deepening some of the proposals brought by the PS, I mean that it is not unusual to have to remember what some political forces have said and done in the past. It is interesting that in a debate on the Council of the Portuguese Communities, the leader of the Arrival forgets that he himself gave a note—in 2020, when he looked at the exit of the President of the Regional Council for Europe—in statements he then made on what the representative councils of the Portuguese communities represent. He said at that time that « he resigned, and resigned very well, because he helped save the money of the Portuguese in those pockets that were not for nothing». This is the respect that the Council of the Communities has for its representatives and for those who seek to ensure representation abroad. [[P.S.'s applause.]] And to hear what we hear here about how we should, here in the Portuguese Republic, welcome immigrants and, therefore, to take into account how it is reflected in the lives of our emigrants, what we hear here saying is, curiously, what our emigrants had to hear at the National Front, when, in the 1970s and 1980s, they were the anatemized ones and they were the object of the will not to participate electorally, not to develop their role. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[CH protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-03.u78	You weren't even born yet!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-03.u79	And today, fortunately, for the great pride of the Portuguese Republic and for the great pride of the French Republic, we have a network of Luso-descendants who are autarchs, who are Members of the French National Assembly and of the Assembly of the Republic and who, thanks to the construction of these representation regimes, fortunately, are politically emancipated. Therefore, some shame was what would require some political forces in the use of the word. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-03.u80	It was you!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-03.u81	Shame, that's what you should have!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-03.u82	As I noted, I would also try to add some aspects to what we are bringing the debate today. Mr. Paulo Pisco has developed mainly the aspects relating to the Council of the Communities, so he wanted to leave two or three notes on the other projects. A first note is on a subject which, for the third time, we will try to consolidate in this House, which is that of electoral codification. It is a matter which, by not entering into the contents of the electoral system or its functioning, is important for those who are at the front of electoral processes, at the tables, and for the citizens of the electorate, because it makes clear what voting procedures are. Let us hope that, after attempts in XII and XIV, this is finally the time to take this step, which by the 1980s has already been the subject of an attempt. Furthermore, without entering into structural reforms and modifications of the electoral system, we can in fact gather consensus, I think, about some aspects complementary to this objective. The early and early vote on mobility can still be improved, and we have the availability to continue this work; the harmonization of deadlines and procedures between electoral laws, making it simpler and clearer the way in which votes are voted and how votes are counted, is also a matter in which we can improve procedures; information and monitoring of matters such as debates and electoral clarification is also a subject which can be substantially improved; and, of course, with regard to the voting of citizens living abroad, what happened last year well reminds us of the need to do clarifying and harmonizing work. Of course, not wanting to stop completely opening the channels for all the political forces who want to make this effort, I must also say that it costs a little, a year after what happened in the last elections, the Social Democratic Party does not remember to apologize to our citizens living abroad for the selective way they chose to send down and declare the nullity of votes that did not interest him in the election result, leaving the very electoral procedures impati and intact, when it agreed. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Therefore, at that time, the votes of the emigrants did not all deserve the same respect, because they remembered to challenge the circle of Europe. But in relation to the circle outside Europe, which had a very similar problem, it was left to be impatience and quiet, and it did nothing. In addition, we still have some projects and I would briefly like to make some remarks to them. In fact, we have some additional projects that we will not be able to follow in this debate and in this vote in general. In the project presented by the Social Democratic Party, we have not been able to follow all matters, although we recognize valuable issues there, such as the discussion on how many days voting is done in the circles of abroad and the subject of awareness-raising campaigns. But let's go to the point: non-presental electronic voting is a matter that must deserve our greatest cautions. I just remember that in France, where the system was used for the election of deputies to the National Assembly, there was challenge in two circles, which led to the repetition and reassignment of three mandates, precisely because security and reliability were not assured. Therefore, in relation to a system that has failures, we must ensure that what we introduced to improve it does not bring even more serious and more risky failures, at a time when a lot of extreme-right populist uses the electoral system to challenge democracy and its foundations, and it comes in some way to question...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-03.u83	And extreme-left!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-03.u84	Mr. Pedro Pinto, I was talking about foreign experiences, such as Brazil or the United States. You're interested, perhaps, in having the same debate? [[P.S.'s applause.]] I didn't know that arrive had that concern and narrative. Thank you very much for the alert! Perhaps it shows that we should, in fact, be quite cautious in this matter. [[CH protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-03.u85	We don't hide! You're hiding!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-03.u86	Finally, to finish, two final notes. I would like to greet the petitioners who bring us here the matter of improving proportionality. You don't necessarily have to go through a system review, you can go through small improvements. Finally, with regard to the appreciation of citizen participation, it is an initiative that Mr Caracol has left in this plenary as he has gone through. It is very important, because it is what citizens value that they give their time, on a Sunday, to be more than a normal working day to ensure the front line of the tables, so that they are properly compensated for this effort, and that is what we seek to recommend in that resolution. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-03.u87	To speak on behalf of the CFP Parliamentary Group, Mrs Alma Rivera has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-03.u88	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: With regard to this worthy agenda on the Council of the Portuguese Communities, we have seen a draft law of the PAN, the PSD and the Free, which as a whole intend to change from high to low all the electoral laws that exist — for the Presidency of the Republic, for the Assembly of the Republic, for the European Parliament, for local authorities, for national referendums to local referendums – and even those that do not exist, since there is no law regulating regional referendums in Madeira, because the PSD, in Madeira, never let it exist.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-03.u89	Only the condominium is missing!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-03.u90	On the other hand, the PS proposed the adoption of a resolution aimed at codification and consolidation of electoral laws, which would, in fact, give continuity to a work that began in the past legislature and that there was no time to conclude. Of two: either we codify and consolidate electoral laws, or we will review the electoral laws from top to bottom. from the PCP side, we follow the first objective. It would indeed be advantageous for the country to have uniform electoral laws in the procedural part, which should be common to all and with differentiated aspects in what is and must be differentiated. We are no longer, of course, following a thorough review of electoral laws in structural aspects, including matters that must be decided by a qualified two-thirds majority, but by the honourable Members. Members want to see discussion and vote suddenly, on Friday morning, without public debate, which naturally has to precede the adoption of matters with this dimension and democratic transcendence. Therefore, if there are processes in which, as it is usually said, «the mountain has yielded a mouse», in this case, it would be the mouse that would give birth to the mountain. [[Rice from PCP and PS Members.]] As for the other PS draft resolutions, we follow the purpose of reviewing the amount of compensation to be allocated to members of the voting assemblies, which is known to have been reduced in the time of the troika and makes every sense that is reassessed. We can no longer follow the draft resolution which provides for a strange thing, which is an experience of face-to-face and mobility electronic voting. There is an obvious error in this project: the face-to-face electronic voting experience made in Évora was not voting in mobility. The mobility vote is carried out in advance for whom, for any reason, it is convenient to vote on a place other than the place of residence or on a day other than that of the election. What was done in Évora was a face-to-face electronic vote simulation experience on election day, simultaneously with the actual exercise of voting rights. It had nothing to do with the mobility vote. The PS recommendation is not understood for the simple reason that, for migrants, there is no vote in mobility provided for in the law. Of course there may be a face-to-face electronic voting experience, but this can be both in Paris, as in Caracas or in Algodres furnaces. [[Rice from PCP MP Bruno Dias.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-03.u91	In Caracas I don't know! There are no votes in Caracas!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-03.u92	This PS project is a mistake that only has one goal, Mr. Members, and we have to say, that it is to save the face of PS Members who are going through the Portuguese communities to make promises of electronic voting that they know they cannot fulfill. This is not electoral fraud, but it is certainly a fraud of expectations and does not suit those who do so. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-03.u93	To speak on behalf of the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mr Hugo Carneiro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-03.u94	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: It is interesting, during this debate, to attend some of the speeches. Some of the gentlemen. Members said they were very concerned about Portuguese immigrants because they were in more difficult circumstances to carry out their participation. But I cannot help but marvel at the fact that there is an opinion of the National Elections Commission on these projects that have been presented here... The speaker displayed the document he mentioned. ... and, in particular, on the PSD project, which says that it is intended that in the presidential and European elections, emigrants vote by correspondence and an extended test with non-presental electronic voting — a test, I repeat, is what we are asking for, a test, non-binding, and the parties here claiming to defend emigrants vote against the PSD proposal, within the framework of the opinion in the National Elections Commission. And who voted this way? He voted the representative of the Arrival, who is in the National Elections Commission ; he voted the representative of the PS, who is in the National Elections Commission ; and they voted the representatives of the PCP and the Left Block. This must be said, because what I have warned above, in the rostrum, and I am repeating here, is that there is an immense hypocrisy in the discussion of what is a fundamental right of Portuguese immigrants, which is their right to vote. [[PSD applause.]] They make two speeches: one, in the social communication, saying that they are very concerned about abstention; and another, here in this House, boycotting any reform that effectively aims to defend immigrants abroad. [[PSD applause.]] I also find it curious that many of the parties, in this follow-up, have fled to pronounce themselves specifically on the correspondence vote and the non-presental electronic vote, a test we proposed. They spoke of all the projects and some more, but "they fled as the devil flees from the cross" to talk about this subject. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, there are no elephants in the room! Take what you stand for in this matter! As for other proposals, I would also like to say that we do not follow the parties who want to change electoral circles here, because they recognize, in the preamble to their proposals, as the Free House does, that there is a problem, which is the representation of the other parties, when we have few Members. Therefore, we have changed the circles so that this conforms more to our reality, that is, what we do not resolve with the number of votes we need to elect mandates, we solve administratively, recomposing the electoral circles. That's what they want. But they also want to create a group of debates, a CNE 2 in the form of a general assembly. We do not follow this either, which even interferes with the competences of the ERC itself ( Regulatory Entity for Social Communication ). That said, Mr. President and Mr. Members, be true and fully assume what they defend in relation to the vote of immigrants abroad. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-03.u95	Mr. Diogo Pacheco of Amorim has the floor now.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-03.u96	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, in two of the diplomas presented here today, we suggest a pilot experience in two types of electronic voting: one of them, an experience of voting in mobility and the other, a pilot project of non-presental voting. By its Resolution Project No. 426 / XV / 1. a, recommends the Socialist Party to the Government to carry out a face-to-face electronic voting experience in mobility in the electoral circles of the communities. That is why it is important to continue to improve the mechanisms at the same time to make the voting process simpler and more reliable. Perfectly agreed! That the present electronic vote will be simpler, that is beyond doubt. That it will be more reliable, even if it is, so in this respect all care will be few, regardless of whether this vote is complete and indisputably auditable, since it will be reliable only and to the extent that it can be auditable. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-03.u97	On the other hand, with Bill No. 560 / XV / 1. the, proposes the PSD a non-presental electronic voting pilot project. The comfort brought to the elector by this non-presental electronic vote, much more than the presenceal electronic vote, will be indisputable, but once again it must be guaranteed its strict reliability. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-03.u98	As non-binding pilot experiments, they are both welcome, but they can never go to the next stage without the reliability in both cases being strictly guaranteed.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-03.u99	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-03.u100	Nothing more corrosive to a democracy than you suspect you can rise on the reliability and confidentiality of your electoral system. Stalin said that no matter who votes, it matters who counts the votes. He was a realist, Stalin. Let us, too, vote realistic. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-03.u101	To speak on behalf of the Liberal Initiative Parliamentary Group, Mr Rodrigo Saraiva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-03.u102	Mr President, it is always very important when we discuss issues in this House directly or indirectly, in this case directly, with our migrants and with our communities. It is always a mixture of satisfaction and some stupefaction that I hear Mr Pisco talking about. Although the proposals relating, for example, to the Council of the Communities, cannot be deleted here by an agenda of the Socialist Party, which has been a Member of Parliament since six legislatures—if I am not mistaken, it has been in this House since 2009—and so far has not solved the CCP's problems. I recall that it was in the Committee on Foreign Affairs that the PSD made this commitment by saying: « if the Socialist Party or the Government does not move forward until the end of October or November, then we arrive at the front». And that's what the PSD did! But you came running, tow, and they made the schedule to look like they were the first ones. So, no, they didn't. It was under pressure from other parties — especially from the Committee on Foreign Affairs — that issues relating to the CCP are now being resolved. And it is very important to resolve once and for all the CCP problems, because we meet with the members of the Council and they have come to say: "Please solve this, because the Portuguese, in the diaspora, begin to think that we are attached to the place, to the power, and we are not and we want there to be elections. Do not keep on seeking. ” So, yes, ma'am, we will solve the CCP problems, we will vote in favour of all the projects, so that we can quickly, in our specialty, solve their problems and move forward, giving you, in fact, the importance of it, because it is very important, in consultative terms, not only for the government but also for this House. They count on us, we will vote in favour of all these projects to, in the specialty, approve the competences and finally have elections for the CCP, to start a new mandate with all the strength and vigor to solve the problems of our communities and our emigrants. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-03.u103	To speak in the debate, Mr Ventura, from arrive, has the floor. [[Pause.]] You can wait a few seconds until you get your breath back.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-03.u104	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: At the end of this debate, or near the end of this debate, two things must be said. First, the PSD comes to say that the arrival voted like this and voted assent, when, today, Mr. Hugo Carneiro, if there is responsible for the hustle and bustle that was the re-election process in the last month of January, sorry to say there, those responsible have names: they are called PSD and Rui Rio, who said one thing one day and another day, they claimed one thing, they did not claim another. [[Congrats from the CH.]] Therefore, I think that immigrants need to know that Rui Rio is the great one responsible for the scams that we are still paying for our communities today. Mr. Pedro Delgado Alves, I know that circumventing the truth is your usual method of debate, but you did not say everything. When you spoke about the President of the Regional Council of Europe, you forgot to tell the truth. The President of the Regional Council resigned, and I quote, "because she did not want to meet with André Ventura at meetings of Members".
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-03.u105	Exactly! [[Ah!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-03.u106	I mean, we had a representative in Europe who represents us all, but I didn't think he needed to meet one of the parties and preferred to leave. It did very well, that it did not come back and never participate again at any time. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-03.u107	The bad thing is they didn't talk to you! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-03.u108	Secondly, Mr President, compared the Portuguese emigration, men and women who left this country looking for a better future, with immigration and immigration vacancies that have arrived in Europe, let me tell you that it is an insult to all the families and to the Portuguese who have had to emigrate. [[Congrats from the CH.]] The honourable Member should be ashamed — ashamed! — to offend in this way the families of so many millions of Portuguese who had to emigrate. Finally, when he speaks of the extreme right and the threat to democracy, Mr. Pedro Delgado Alves, curiously, the Portuguese that we have seen returning to Portugal do not come from the United States, nor from Italy.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-03.u109	You don't come from the United Kingdom and Brazil?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-03.u110	Do you know where they come from, Mr. Pedro Delgado Alves? They come from Venezuela, they now come from Brazil, after the victory of Lula da Silva. I didn't see any Portuguese saying: «Oh, Donald Trump won the elections and I'm leaving New York to Lisbon » or « Giorgia Meloni won the elections and I'm going back from Rome to Lisbon. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-03.u111	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-03.u112	Don't! Escape from the tragedy that is your socialism all over the world! [[Congrats from the CH.]] That's where they run. And that's why they come back from Venezuela, from Cuba, so they come back from Brazil, so they come here looking for a better future because of the tragedy that you have generated to these families.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-03.u113	The honourable Member has to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-03.u114	If there is someone who has to be ashamed of his face is Mr Deputy, because, when he talks about the Portuguese who are out there doing their best, he should remember for a second that these men and women are worth much more than their place in this House. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-03.u115	The honourable Member will note that I have also let you explain your arguments. We have come to the conclusion of the debate, so I give the floor to Mr Pedro Delgado Alves of the PS. It has 2 minutes. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-03.u116	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Mr André Ventura, indeed, did not say everything on the subject. Mr President, as I said a few years ago, he said that «the removal of counsellors helps save the Portuguese money in these pockets which are useless», and he also invited a number of other advisers to follow the example and resign. The point here is as follows: whether or not to be right about whether or not a parliamentary-representative party should be received by a representative of the Council — and I can tell you that it may even have some reason —...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-03.u117	Sure!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-03.u118	... what is needed, then, to be insulted by all the Councils and advisers representing Portuguese emigration, inviting the others to resign? Who does the demagogic and insulting exercise to those out there and inside represents all Portuguese who are available to participate...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-03.u119	It's you!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-03.u120	... you are Mr when you say that, when you associate the Council of the Communities with tachos and use expressions that do not dignify the performance of these functions. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The second aspect, in fact, is precisely the point I referred to. The Portuguese men and women who went to give their body, their work and their sweat in France and the men and women who come from Nepal, Bangladesh, India and Pakistan deliver meals, ensure the driving of uber and bolts, catch strawberries and other products in agriculture, giving their sweat, being poorly housed, being exploited, have the same narrative.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-03.u121	Badly housed because of you!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-03.u122	These Portuguese emigrants have exactly the same story of people who even come from far away to build a better future for their children, and often they do not see them and must be far from their homes, families and homes. If there is anyone that Mr Don't Deceives are the Portuguese who have gone through this in France, and who do not look at these immigrants with disdain, with contempt, with the xenophobia that you are looking at. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The Portuguese look at them as equal, because in themselves they see their stories. And it is the Lusodescendants who, in the National Assembly in France, sit next to the people who come from Réunion and Martinique, who come from Nigeria and Madagascar,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-03.u123	You can go there too!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-03.u124	...and they are Members of the French National Assembly. Unfortunately, we do not have that degree of representation of racialized people, and that is a problem. [[CH protests.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Members, unfortunately, this speech is within the House, but there are people who are not deceived, because they know well what it is to be humiliated, every day, because they are different.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-03.u125	Go to Nigeria!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-03.u126	And to the Portuguese emigrants, you probably don't cheat. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-03.u127	So we close the first item on our agenda and move on to the second point, which is from the evaluation of the Draft Resolution No 466 / XV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Recommends that the Government assess the seismic vulnerability of state buildings and equipment to be transferred to municipalities and intermunicipal communities, together with, in general, the Law Projects Nos 580 / XV / 1. a (L) — Risk indicator in case of earthquake, 585 / XV / 1. a (PAN) — Establish a national system to cover the risk of seismic phenomena and natural disasters and create the seismic fund and for natural disasters, and 590 / XV / 1. a (CH) — Amend legislation with a view to strengthening the safety of buildings against earthquakes. To present the PSD draft resolution, Mr Luís Gomes has the floor. You can come slowly to the rostrum, so that the topography of the room is rearranged. Asking a snake to slow down is a logical impossibility. [[Laughing.]] Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-03.u128	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Deputies, Rui Tavares, in his essay The Small Book of the Great Earth, says the following: «There was a grave and hollow noise heard and, at the same time, the earth trembled. Apparently, the buildings began to collapse from the second minute of the earthquake. The fall of the roofs killed, injured or immediately immobilized most of the faithful who were in the churches, while the candlelight flames spread rapidly to the woods. It is said that 30 seconds of seismic praise resembles the person who lives them endlessly. But they came 30 seconds and spent 30 seconds and 30 more and 30 more. But what was going on, after all? The strong earthquakes in Lisbon were not so common that they would allow a generation to have recent memories. There was, of course, a collective reminder of the 1531 earthquake, another great Lisbon earthquake. Do not keep on seeking. ” The last great earthquake before 1755 had been 224 years before. Today, they separate us almost 268 years from the last great earthquake. Each must withdraw his or her own ions. Natural phenomena are not avoided: their effects are mitigated, engineering is used to protect citizens. That is why this issue is at the heart of the PSD's political concerns. We are aware that the risk is real and that a set of preventive measures should be implemented. This legislative and civic impulse of the PSD is not a response to the disaster that has plagued Turkey and Syria. We placed this issue last October on the agenda when we tabled a proposal for a change to the Budget for 2023, which was led by the Socialist Party. [[PSD applause.]] We promote hearings with experts and propose the establishment of a working group, which will, moreover, draw up proposals for reducing seismic risk. The draft resolution we present today to this House proposes that the Government assess the seismic vulnerability of equipment that will be transferred to the municipalities in the context of decentralization. We hope that this time the PS will make this proposal viable. What we don't really want is that it arrives tomorrow and if you think we could have made a different one today. [[PSD applause.]] [[At the moment, he took the presidency of Vice President Editi Estrela.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-03.u129	Good morning to all, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. I see so many young people in the galleries, to whom I address a special compliment. Welcome to the Assembly of the Republic. Mr Rui Tavares has the floor to present the initiative for the Book.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-03.u130	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : I would like to begin by greeting the PSD for having scheduled this debate and Mr Luís Gomes for quoting a booklet I wrote on the Lisbon earthquake. This book, which does not directly have to do with seismic risk, is a history of ideas, has often brought me into contact and debate with geophysicians, with structure engineers and with people who are dedicated to the rehabilitation of buildings, and the current view is that we are not fully prepared and, above all, that the information has difficulty in transiting to our fellow citizens, for those who rent a house, for those who buy a house and do not know, has no way of knowing, because we are not all engineers or geophysical, if what you bought has more or less seismic risk. As Mr Luís Gomes mentioned, seismicity in mainland Portugal, not in the Autonomous Region of the Azores, has very slow rhythms, which does not invalidate Portugal has a culture of anti-seismic precautions, as do countries like Japan, for example, where people are used to leaving home and turning off the gas. This is not generally what is happening in mainland Portugal and, however, the risk is there. The Free House joins this debate with other proposals, such as those of the PSD and the PAN, which propose the creation of a seismic risk indicator that can be assessed through geophysical data crossing and visual evaluation of buildings and that allows, when we buy or rent a house, we know what the seismic risk of that building or place is and that this information is given in an easy way, with an assessment that is easily akin to people, thus agreeing or going to the meeting of a request that has been made by the community that has been engaged in these matters for many years. The debate we are having today may be a relatively invisible debate, but you can be sure, it is a debate that will save lives in the future.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-03.u131	To present the NAP initiative, Mrs Inês de Sousa Real has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-03.u132	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Our country has been very exposed to seismic phenomena, but also to extreme climate events, such as floods, storms or fires. It is obvious that many of the cases of this exposure have been caused precisely by the public policies that have been pursued so far and which are in contradiction with the need for conservation and conservation of nature: the promotion of forest disorder and the waterproofing of soils is promoted; the construction in full bed or even on the coastal shore is allowed; the encouragement and creation of environmental simplexes, which are contrary to the principles of conservation; simplexes are made in the construction and licensing that harm the environment, biodiversity and the very safety of buildings. By passing this pass, we know that our country has also lost about 5 % of its GDP (gross domestic product) due to extreme weather events in the last 40 years and that an earthquake in Lisbon equal to 1755 would generate losses in the order of 20 % of GDP. Although the risks are well known, it is true that most people with insurance are unprotected and at present only about 15 % of dwellings are safe to protect them against seismic risk. Similar situation occurs with regard to extreme climate phenomena and the most obvious case is with regard to the 2017 fires, in which of the EUR 2000 million of losses suffered only EUR 240 million is that they were covered by insurance. This scenario is worrying and requires us to take measures to protect families. Therefore, the NAP proposes to create a seismic fund for natural disasters, in order to implement a national system to cover the risk of seismic phenomena and natural disasters. However, let us not fail to point out that it is important that territorial planning begins to prevent, rather than always remedial. Despite this reality, the proposal that we make thus gives realisation to the National Strategy for Preventive Civil Protection, which was approved in 2021, and to the calls made by DECO (Portuguese Consumer Defense Association) and the Portuguese Insurance Association. We are guided by the recommendations of the IMF (International Monetary Fund ), which follows the good international examples such as that of the United States of America, and we take advantage of the multidisciplinary work contributions that have already existed in our country. We hope that on the other side of the other political forces there will be openness so that, in the field of expertise, we can work on this initiative and find a solution for when the misfortune hits the door.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-03.u133	To present the initiative of the Arrival, Mrs Rita Matias has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-03.u134	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The earthquake that took place in the early morning of February 6 and those that followed with several replicas, which catastrophicly affected the territories of southern Turkey and northern Syria, relaunched in Portugal the need to discuss the capacity of response of national constructions to identical phenomena. If this calamity was strong enough to suffocate for a few days the various earthquakes and replicas affecting the socialist government, it also nude once again the political incapacity of this government. Less than two weeks later, the Government presented the More Habitat package and once again lost the opportunity to look at this sector and to the need to strengthen our infrastructure for these natural risks. The Portuguese Society of Seismic Engineering outlines several possible scenarios, such as a new earthquake similar to the one in 1755, with all the material and human damage that are immeasurable, the Academy and specialists are alert, only lacking political will. The occurrence of a calamity is almost inevitable. The next earthquake of great magnitude can happen in three days or in three decades. Now, what cannot continue to happen is the lack of structural reforms that the country needs. The 2021 Censuses show that there are more than 1 million buildings in need of intervention, i.e. 35 % of the housing park lacks significant interventions and the only change in recent decades has been the degradation of these buildings. For example, in Lisbon alone more than 55 000 buildings have not been built to resist earthquakes, which means that more than 20 % of the inhabitants of Lisbon have no houses prepared for this reality.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-03.u135	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-03.u136	On the other hand, speaking in resilience in Portugal and not thinking about the resilience of buildings in front of an earthquake is unbelievable. On the PRR pages ( Recovery and Resilience Plan ), the word « earthquake » is not mentioned once and there is no action listed in this matter, no longer to mention the shameful execution of only 3 % that makes us wonder whether housing is indeed a concern of this government. They created a new ministry on the premise of the centrality of this folder, but the PowerPoints they present and the inability to respond to the needs of Portuguese show that it is only a matter of political rhetoric. More: it is particularly significant that in today's debate the Socialist Party could show some will, but it comes to this debate with zero proposals. Zero proposals! [[Congrats from the CH.]] However, this legislative house must also be held responsible. If the Assembly of the Republic has promoted the seismic reinforcement of this building in 2009, it is time that we also try to strengthen the safety of our citizens and, above all, demand the implementation of the resolutions that have already been adopted. That is why it comes today to debate and presents a bill that amends the legislation in force in order to strengthen the safety of buildings against earthquakes. In view of the recent statements by several experts, noting that the rehabilitation and expansion of buildings are leading to an increase in seismic risk, we call for the strengthening of the regulatory framework, creating the mandatory mechanism for assessing seismic safety of buildings, in particular seismic certification. We also ask that, like countries such as the United States, Germany or Belgium, be created as the project reviewer, so that someone outside the construction or rehabilitation process of a house can ensure that construction solutions are in accordance with existing regulations. This figure could ensure greater accountability of all actors in the process, from construction to the analysis and monitoring of the works. I conclude by recalling what was written and described on the night of February 28, 1969, with the earthquake that was felt in Portugal and which caused at least 13 deaths. In the newspapers of the time it could be read: "The earth trembles at the men and women who inhabit it, because yesterday only two kinds of people did not tremble, the unconsciouss and the liars. Do not keep on seeking. ” What will it be written about us if we do nothing to prevent a tragedy? The question remains. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-03.u137	For an intervention, Mrs. Joana Cordeiro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-03.u138	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: It is generally known that part of Portugal, in particular the southernmost region of the country, is subject to a high seismic risk, which must be addressed in two distinct phases. On the one hand, it is necessary to prevent and act proactively in order to build and maintain buildings and infrastructures resistant to this threat. On the other hand, it is necessary to ensure that the country has a fast and effective response model to a potential catastrophe of great magnitude, ensuring that there is strong cooperation between the various national and even international bodies. We recognize that it can be difficult to ensure that all buildings meet the appropriate safety requirements and the state of the art in relation to seismic prevention, but the same cannot be said of the Government's response to possible earthquake, and this results in adequate preparation and preparation of contingency and emergency plans. Will Portugal be ready for this eventuality? A government that does not know what is happening in its ministries and in the companies that manages hardly will give us that confidence. If we witness every year the problems in the fight against fires, with a number of operational deficiencies, with lack of means and uncoordinated on the ground, and if we have still recently been called into question the ability to respond to an event also in itself, as is the case with the heavy precipitation, what guarantees can the Portuguese have in the operation of the State in a scenario of a regional scale earthquake? Unfortunately, we're afraid that few or none. If not the hospitals of Great Lisbon give us guarantees of seismic resistance, according to some experts, what about the other public infrastructures? A government that ignores how many buildings it has, a government that in seven years has been unable to organize a database of its real estate heritage, will be able to give us security in seismic resistance of buildings? What about the hospital response? How will it be possible if the SNS transmits signs of collapse a little everywhere? Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, this is the root of the problem: the lack of credibility of state institutions to ensure the effectiveness of public protection in the face of disasters and to reassure their citizens. In the Liberal Initiative we are aware of the need to establish prevention mechanisms, as much as possible in an earthquake scenario, an effective safety network and assistance to possible victims and implacable monitoring of all buildings already built or under construction, but we do not trust this government to do so. This government has been the champion of the failed promises: it failed, when it promised a family doctor for all; it failed, when it guaranteed the increase in housing supply; it failed, when it announced that it would end a long cycle of economic stagnation. Is this a government capable of conveying confidence to us, whether in terms of prevention and combating disasters, or in other matters? Unfortunately not. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-03.u139	Mr Pedro Cegonho has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-03.u140	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, I want to say that the assessment and prevention of seismic vulnerabilities and the resilience of buildings must be a concern that should be in the mind of any decision-maker or public executive. The initiative of the Resolution Project No 466 / XV / 1. a ( PSD ), which has dragged the other initiatives, is related to the scope of the decentralization of competences and the building in this context. In this regard, it should be noted that interventions which may exist either by the State or by the municipalities in the building concerned must comply with the legislation in force, particularly in these matters, and any changes to the duties of the local authorities or the State should be carried out directly in their legislation and in precise and concrete terms. With regard to the financing of the transferred powers, the Government complies with the legislation in force, depending, of course, on the financing of concrete requalification or construction interventions, the fulfilment of the legal provisions on seismic vulnerability and is appropriate to the needs reported by the local authorities, in particular in view of the significant increase in the amount of funds enshrined in the State budget for 2023. Nevertheless, the Government is constantly monitoring the expenditure reported and, concomitantly, assesses any need to change and strengthen the funds transferred, particularly within the framework of the Decentralisation Fund. That is why it is redundant what is recommended in this resolution, because the legislation and flexibility of the Decentralisation Fund already make it possible to meet the needs that the authorities have. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-03.u141	For an intervention, Mrs Isabel Pires has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-03.u142	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: If it is not a great novelty that Portugal is a country with significant seismic risk, it is also no less novelty than Portugal is a country in which much of the construction in risk areas is prior to the rules and, in part, to the most modern techniques of anti-seismic construction, and this means that populations are effectively exposed to risk. Therefore, it is necessary, progressively, but also as quickly as possible, to re-qualify the dwellings, buildings, to include this seismic protection. in this sense, the bills and the draft resolution that focus on measures that allow the assessment of seismic vulnerability, which create risk indicators, or strengthen project screening mechanisms in relation to the safety of constructions, deserve the agreement of the Block of Left. It makes sense, indeed, that state buildings can have this risk and vulnerability assessment, regardless of — and even further — whether or not they are transferred into any potential process of transferring competences to municipalities. in the same way, it is important to place a greater emphasis on the monitoring of projects and works itself, so that anti-seismic standards are effectively met. Different matters, it seems to us, are what the draft law submitted by the NAP that has to do with insurance, and on which, in fact, we have a few more doubts and we think that the debate should be further deepened. It seems to us that this proposal, speaking only of the issue of insurance, ends up a cycle in this area. And what is needed is to prevent public policies from failing, not nullifying existing risks and protecting populations. We must also bear in mind that insurance companies must be legally framed by now to avoid refusing insurance with anti-sysmic coverage, or not to make them inaccessible, which is what is happening right now. There is therefore a need here to combat the practices of insurance companies with regard to earthquakes. We have some doubts that necessarily go through making more substantive changes, as is proposed. Finally, I would like to say that it is also important to debate the subject of public investment for rehabilitation. It has already been said here, including that we need less state, but the truth is that we need the state to guarantee a set of very strict rules on building and rehabilitation, because this means protecting the population. It doesn't mean interference, it doesn't mean anything else. It means we're talking about a potential risk that happens if we translate a very big tragedy. Therefore, the State must ensure this ability to impose the rules and also to monitor them and, to that end, they obviously need to be shaped into legislation. From that point of view, we follow the concerns that have been shared. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-03.u143	For an intervention, Mrs Paula Santos of the CFP Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-03.u144	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Our country is located in an area of the world where seismic risk is considered moderate to high. This is a reality we face. We all know that the possibility of a significant dimension earthquake is real. As we have not been able to know when that will happen, the only thing we have to do is to prevent and prepare ourselves for any eventuality. Preparation and prevention involves strengthening means of inspection and supervision, but also implies assessing the seismic vulnerability of our buildings, public equipment, infrastructure, and measures to intervene and strengthen their resistance. It was in this sense that in 2010 the CFP brought to the Assembly of the Republic a debate on exactly these matters: the need for concrete measures to prevent and prepare for the seismic vulnerability of our country. Following this presentation, a resolution was adopted in the Assembly of the Republic containing measures such as the development of the national plan for reducing seismic vulnerability, industrial infrastructure networks, hospitals, school, government, energy transport infrastructure, telecommunications, gas, water and sanitation, as well as historical heritage, historical areas and urban nuclei. It also reflected the strengthening of the means of quality control of new buildings, ensuring consistent implementation with approved projects and also the implementation of training actions for prevention, among many other measures. Thirteen years later, what we found is that, essentially, these measures have not been implemented. And that is where the problem is, because it was 13 years that they could and should have been used for the implementation of this set of measures, and today we would be much more prepared. In this debate I would like to recall the following: we heard the PSD intervention referring to the importance of taking measures for seismic prevention, but the truth is that the PSD and the CDS in 2014 approved and imposed legislation in which they clarified the anti-seismic standards that were foreseen,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-03.u145	Moreira da Silva!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-03.u146	... with the sole aim of favoring the business of building real estate in our country. [[PSD MP Protests António Topa Gomes.]] I believe that this makes clear the importance given by this party to this matter.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-03.u147	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-03.u148	On the proposals under discussion, we would like to mention a number of questions. The PSD proposal, which proposes the strengthening of funds for the Decentralisation Financing Fund, only shows that in fact this whole process called « decentralisation » is a transfer of charges to the authorities. When discussing and preparing this process, all these matters should have been duly guarded...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-03.u149	Those are already!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-03.u150	...to identify the means that would be necessary for the authorities to assume this set of responsibilities, and that was not done.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-03.u151	Madam Member, I ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-03.u152	I'm really going to finish, Madam President, it's going to be very short. Regarding other projects, there is a set of issues that raise doubts, particularly that of the NAP, referring to insurance: it is important to make sure that this is not a pretext for increasing premiums. With regard to the seismic risk indicator proposed by the Free, it is important that it is no longer an element for real estate speculation in our country. Regarding the arrival, the reviewer figure of the project is a matter that has merited challenge by the Order of Engineers. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-03.u153	For an intervention, Mrs Fatima Ramos of the PSD Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-03.u154	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The theme of earthquakes is at the heart of the PSD's concerns. We are a personalist, humanist party and therefore human life is a supreme good — we have an obligation, regardless of the parties, to preserve. We don't want alarmist speeches, but we want to work to secure people. [[PSD applause.]] We have launched today's debate. In the Budget we presented a proposal, because we were concerned about the children of the schools that will transfer to the municipalities, because we were concerned about the health units that would be transferred to the municipalities. So we wanted these buildings to be evaluated so that people could be safe, so that municipalities could also be calm. Unfortunately, the Socialist Party has led this proposal.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-03.u155	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-03.u156	Today, we have brought a similar proposal again. After the many deaths in Turkey and Syria, after the devastation that existed in that country, knowing the reality of ours, knowing that these phenomena occur without warning when, how and with what intensity, we believed that the Socialist Party was more sensitive to this theme. [[PSD applause.]] But unfortunately, we're looking at no. And because the PSD is a party that, in fact, thinks these issues require consensus, we propose to hear a specialist in 13. the Commission. Next, we proposed the establishment of a working group with experts. We are dealing with a technical matter: we want to hear them; we want to assess the extent to which our country's strategic equipment can respond safely; we want to know how far the legislation in force needs to be corrected and improved, or whether it is sufficient; we want to know, by technicians, whether the supervision being carried out is sufficient or whether, in fact, there should not be a different supervision. That is why all of us are involved in this matter. So, my first question, to all parties, is if they don't agree with the PSD project content, if when we think about children and health we shouldn't evaluate and treat differently. [[PSD applause.]] With regard to other initiatives, we believe that they are on the right track. The Free House follows a lot of what is being done in the Lisbon Chamber and the others show that they care about people's safety and that they are on the right track. But we think that, given their technicality, they probably need to be more mature. And since we have a group of technicians that we will hear in this Parliament in a working group, we think that it might be better to clarify some situations and make more progress. The NAP, when it speaks to us in the national risk coverage system, assumes a more reactive position than preventative.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-03.u157	I would ask you to conclude, Mrs Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-03.u158	We also have doubts in the case of the Reach initiative about whom you are going to monitor. Is that the same company that's going to do the project? We have some doubts, but these are matters that deserve consideration and evaluation. That's why we stand up for it, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, there is no right-wing, left-wing or centre-based policy here. [[There, there!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-03.u159	There are people who preserve and defend it. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-03.u160	For an intervention, Mrs Rita Matias of the Parliamentary Group of the Arrival has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-03.u161	Madam President: Allow me to begin this speech by disagreeing with the last speaker, who said that there was no policy on the left or right in this debate. I have to disagree with what I said because, indeed, the right came to play with proposals, while the left remained for the beautiful words. So, indeed, there is a huge line that separates us. [[Congrats from the CH.]] Then, I want to say that it was overwhelming to see the Socialist Party, in this debate, going down the chairs below, perhaps with some shame, because the reality is that, since the coming to this House, they have not yet recovered from the earthquake and the way the system has trembled.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-03.u162	That was good!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-03.u163	But the reality is that they cannot continue to pass on responsibilities. Let us see: in the future construction of the new hospital in Lisbon, which is a strategic unit—you say—the SNS to the south of the country, which is already awarded, there is no forecast in the project for basic seismic isolation. And you know what? We are told by the international media that this would add only 4 % to its value. Now, if there is value and if there is enough money for diversions in the construction of military hospitals, is there no capacity to prevent earthquakes? [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-03.u164	I would ask you to conclude, Mrs Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-03.u165	I am indeed concluding, Madam President. You are so irresponsible that in the new More Habitat package they put an end to the cabin license without precaution of the seismic issue.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-03.u166	I would ask you to conclude, Mrs Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-03.u167	I am indeed concluding, Madam President. Looking at the example of Turkey, we have seen numerous buildings collapsing, and we know that there are hundreds responsible for these buildings, now destroyed, that are being held. Do you have any idea what will happen in Portugal, particularly for those politicians who have responsibility for inaction in this area? [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-03.u168	Mr Hugo Carvalho, from the PS Parliamentary Group, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-03.u169	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: It was with great perplexity that I attended the debate, in particular this final part. Let me make it clear that the PS has a criterion: we do not legislate on the basis of news or events of the day.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-03.u170	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-03.u171	We legislate according to the concerns and problems of the Portuguese people. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We don't need to give proof of life every day. We don't call the TV, we see a news story and we find: "Well, let's do a bill, let's go to the debate and tell the Portuguese people we're worried about! » No, we don't, we do serious politics.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-03.u172	No, they do it's a focus group!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-03.u173	Do you know what happens when you do that? Shots fired! And the diploma that comes with debate is a set of nonsense that any person in the engineering area, which is even my case, when he looks at it says "how is it possible for a political party to be presenting this diploma?" What the Arrival presents is a set of nonsense, and perhaps that is why no note has been given on its proposals. There was talk about the More Housing package, but not one proposal was defended.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-03.u174	Liar! I made the proposal, you didn't read it!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-03.u175	Liar!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-03.u176	Ladies and gentlemen. Members, what you are doing with this diploma is a lack of confidence in technicians, professionals, in the quality of engineering in Portugal, in the quality of construction sector professionals in Portugal, in the quality of those who legislate on this matter and in those who carry out surveillance on security against earthquakes. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, there are, for us, inexhaustible barriers. This is a technical and important issue that needs to be seen with reflection and not by a dragging of diplomas that happens because there has been an earthquake in Turkey. The parties that have chosen to carry out these diplomas—written in a hurry, with errors, without weighting, without listening to anyone who understands the subjects—know that they are rendering a bad service to democracy and our country.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-03.u177	Whiska blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah! You talk, you talk and you don't say anything!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-03.u178	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the PS is not insensitive to these issues. In fact, contrary to what has been said, there are even related issues in this debate on which the Socialist Party has already entered diplomas to be discussed. But to be discussed with time, with maturity and with a clear objective. It's not to show proof of life. We don't need this, and the Portuguese know: that's why they gave us an absolute majority. We're here to solve the problems of the Portuguese. That's the truth, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. We will therefore be here to work on diplomas that may have political relevance and with which we can, of course, work. There we will be to work on this topic which is serious, which is important and which should unite us all, but here we will be to do it without the foam of the days, calmly, with the knowledge of the academy, with the knowledge of our professional orders, knowing that in all of human activity there are risks. There are risks when we take our car, there are risks when we take a cigarette, there are risks when we take an alcohol bottle, there are risks when we walk.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-03.u179	So fucking together! How is that possible? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-03.u180	All human activity has risks, and the construction sector will also have risks. But here we will be, with responsibility, with knowledge, discussing this issue in the future and without wanting to catch the foam of the days to give answers to such a sensitive issue for the Portuguese. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-03.u181	Mrs Rita Matias is asking for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-03.u182	Madam President, for an appeal to the Bureau on the conduct of the proceedings.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-03.u183	Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-03.u184	Madam President, I would like to request the distribution of an IPMA document ( Portuguese Institute of the Sea and the Atmosphere ) that accounts for seismic activity in Portugal in the last month. Since the Socialist Party says that it does not legislate according to the foam of the days and says that this issue is not relevant and it is only a "follow-up" of what the news has been,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-03.u185	It's not worth lying! That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-03.u186	... we would like to realize that in the last month alone, there were more than 250 local and regional earthquakes.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-03.u187	Thank you very much, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-03.u188	And it is not a matter of not considering risks,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-03.u189	This is already an intervention, Mrs Deputies, it is not an appeal to the Bureau.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-03.u190	...because the greatest risk for Portugal is the Socialist Party. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-03.u191	Mr. Hugo Carvalho is asking for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-03.u192	Madam President, for an appeal to the Bureau.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-03.u193	Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-03.u194	Mr President, it is only to ask the Bureau for the distribution of Eurocode 8, which has an increase in the charges and effects on the size of buildings in Portugal, where of course the concerns of the honourable Member are patented.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-03.u195	What a fool!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-03.u196	Thank you very much, Mr President. We are moving to the closing stage of the debate. To that end, Mr Luís Gomes of the PSD Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-03.u197	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: PSD is proud to have put this issue in the public discussion space. Of course, we would like to thank the Free, Arrival and NAP for following up on the initiative presented here by the PSD. Mr Hugo Carvalho, I recall the timeline: we did not present this initiative within the framework of the earthquakes in Turkey and Syria, we did so within the framework of the State budget for 2023. That is why my colleague Fatima Ramos here said that this should not be a topic of political and party struggle. What has to do with the safety of citizens, with the security of our territory, has to do with all of us, with the next generations, with the Portuguese citizens. [[PSD applause.]] What remains also in this debate is that the cornerstone of a pseudo-reform of the Socialist Party is decentralization. The Socialist Party is so attached to this failure, to this failure, to these consecutive deadlines that have been systematically postponed and disrespected...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-03.u198	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-03.u199	... that now you don't want to understand, you don't want to understand, and you realize you don't understand and you don't understand. As if many schools, which are moving to the municipalities, had not been built before these regulations, which Mr. Deputies said would be in force. That's what we're talking about. What we are talking about is a set of building that is being passed on to the authorities, an authentic clock pump, without analysis of the seismic vulnerability of them. That's what we're talking about.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-03.u200	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-03.u201	And as Mr Hugo Carvalho here mentioned, and well, and you know that because he's an engineer,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-03.u202	Like Socrates?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-03.u203	... these buildings did not have any kind of anti-seismic project. That is what we are talking about. It is the safety of our citizens. I would like to appeal to the Socialist Party not to be stubborn, to something that has already failed, that is decentralization, and that it has civic consciousness and alters its sense of vote, approving this draft resolution. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-03.u204	We move on to the third item on the agenda, the discussion of draft resolution No. 469 / XV / 1. ( CH) — Establishment of a possible parliamentary committee to ensure and prevent abusive political interference in the Portuguese banking system. To present this draft resolution, Mr André Ventura has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-03.u205	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The reason for this issue to be brought here today is easy to understand by all. The parties of this House analyzed and plunged the proposal of a committee of inquiry to the interference of Antonio Costa in the bank. The news we have had in recent months has not been easy to understand, nor is it easy for the democratic regime: a prime minister who affords to interfere with the banking regulator, with financial institutions to obtain political profits or to protect allies, of a personal or political nature. The crisis, criticism and allegations of former Governor Carlos Costa should not leave any party indifferent.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-03.u206	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-03.u207	The criticisms, the crisis and the insinuations of Carlos Costa should immediately sound the alarm of the democratic regime, when a prime minister, in such an authoritative way, is found in the possible prerogative of being able to interfere with banking regulation. But what we did was look the other way around, to say that we didn't want to investigate anything, that there was nothing to see, and, today, so long ago some parties asked questions, asked questions again, came up answers, didn't come up the answers they wanted, we have the last chance to call the government responsibility and to demand clarification in this matter. [[Congrats from the CH.]] There are no two opportunities in this area. Those who think that it is asking systematic and temporarily dilated questions in time that we will get some answer from Antonio Costa may forget, or do not know our Prime Minister well.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-03.u208	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-03.u209	There was already the time of questions, there was the time of criticism and there was the time of insinuations. Now, dear colleagues, it's time to act, it's time to investigate, it's time to call António Costa to responsibility. [[Congrats from the CH.]] [[Meanwhile, President Augusto Santos Silva was re-elected.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-03.u210	To speak by the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mr. Hugo Carneiro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-03.u211	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: We are discussing this proposal of the Arrival with regard to an inquiry committee...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-03.u212	Anytime!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-03.u213	Thank you, sir. We are discussing a proposal from a committee if any because it is the habit of arriving at the same legislative session to present a proposal for a committee of inquiry every two months. That's the statistic. So, there's a work for the statistics.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-03.u214	That's to make opposition!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-03.u215	But this proposal for a committee of inquiry is loaded, because already in November, on the same subject, a committee of inquiry was also presented by the Arrival. And, however, what we are seeing is that by changing the object a little bit, they present the same intention of the same committee of inquiry. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-03.u216	That's to do favors on the left!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-03.u217	It is the same committee of inquiry they want, but this time they have made a little bit more nonsense.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-03.u218	That's to do the PS favors!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-03.u219	I'll explain why. It can be read, in the object, that they intend to set up an inquiry committee to propose the reform of the legislation.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-03.u220	Commission if possible!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-03.u221	To propose legislation reform is a competence of this Parliament, and the Arrival could have used it through the figure of the bill. Instead of a possible committee of inquiry, they presented a bill to revise the reform. [[PSD applause.]] [[CH protests.]] Then they also say they want to review banking legislation. There are two points on the review of legislation, only one is banking, another is the whole legislation.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-03.u222	I was making a referendum!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-03.u223	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I think they should be a little more careful in the way they deal with the figures at our disposal in this Parliament. [[CH protests.]] Let me also tell you this: already in November, when we discussed the same possible committee of inquiry, with a slightly different object, we said that the PSD will not abandon the search for the necessary clarifications on this matter.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-03.u224	Look at that! They've done a good job!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-03.u225	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, do not forget that if Mr Prime Minister has to reply to Parliament, he has the prerogative to do so in writing. I do not understand what your proposal helps to clarify the subject we have to discuss. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-03.u226	It's very easy in writing!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-03.u227	But there's more. As far as the PSD is really interested, and that is what we are concerned about — we are, in fact, the only party in the opposition who has the power to request an inquiry committee, and it is good to recall that — whether or not there was an interference by the Prime Minister on the question of Banif ( Banin International Bank of Funchal ) and on the issue of the regulation of the Banco de Portugal.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-03.u228	Of course there was!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-03.u229	That's what we want to know. Did Mr. Prime Minister or not call Carlos Costa to arrive there, a raspanete, because of the assessment of Isabel dos Santos' suitability? That's what we want to know. Mr Prime Minister has not answered our questions clearly and we insist again on the questions. Let us therefore hope that the Prime Minister will not now use the prerogative to ask for more 30, more 60, more 90 days, as many days as it may be, to answer a matter that is of his own personal knowledge. But it is also worth reminding this House that the PS recently tested a number to help Mr. Prime Minister,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-03.u230	We didn't do that!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-03.u231	... that it was requested from Banco de Portugal a set of documentation to assist Mr. Prime Minister in his replies on the subject of Isabel dos Santos and Banif.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-03.u232	The questions weren't about António Costa!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-03.u233	What is the problem with this request from the Socialist Party? It is that they are asking for information on the matter that is of the personal knowledge of the Prime Minister, Antonio Costa. [[PSD applause.]] [[PS protests.]] António Costa does not need documents from Banco de Portugal to answer PSD questions. We are still to know, truly, what the Prime Minister, Antonio Costa, wanted of Carlos Costa ; we are to know why he fled to the answers that the PSD has placed; we are to know whether Banif did not really fail because of the interference of the Prime Minister, with the letter he sends to the European institutions and that he anticipated the outcome of the bank itself. We still don't know this. [[PS protests.]] And that's what we're interested in hurrying, more than using fires of political numbers every two months in this House. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-03.u234	The Bureau registered Mr André Ventura with Mr Hugo Carneiro for a request for clarification. Mr. André Ventura, from arrive, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-03.u235	Mr President, Mr. Hugo Carneiro, let's see if we understand each other. This is not an inquiry committee, it is a possible committee. Under the law, the possible committee can prevent, define and even come to propose legislation, as happened with many other possible committees. So, yes, it makes every sense that, with suspicion that there are other previous acts of political interference in the regulator, there is a possible commission, that the PSD also supports, to study and prevent this matter. Mr. Deputies, there's something I don't understand, but we're going to stir up the memory of the PSD by making a historical report. « Last hour: The 12 PSD questions to António Costa about Banif and Isabel dos Santos. At the time, they said « last hour», not knowing that it was the first hour of a process that would still take a long time. [[CH's laughs.]] « Last hour: Government calls for more time to answer PSD questions about the bank. » Last hour too! [[CH's laughs.]] « Last hour: Montenegro tells Costa that it is “time to answer ” PSD questions. » Last hour too! [[CH's laughs.]] Montenegro was furious here. [[CH's laughs.]] « Banif and Isabel dos Santos : 12 questions from PSD to Costa two months ago without answer. Do not keep on seeking. ” [[PSD protests.]] Mr. Joaquim Sarmento, who I saw with great lightning there in the Lost Steps : « PSD gives Costa “the last chance” [...], to finally answer... [[CH's laughs.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let's see if we understand each other: it's either to make serious opposition or we're playing around here. [[Congrats from the CH.]] It is only necessary for the honourable Member to send a messenger on horseback to say: « Mr. Prime Minister, here are the answers about whether you interfered in the bank or not. Either they want answers or they don't want to, they can't be saying that they're 14 more questions, they're 12 more, now he's not going to answer, they're 30 more.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-03.u236	What's the question?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-03.u237	The PSD would better assume that you do not want to investigate this matter.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-03.u238	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-03.u239	It is legitimate for the rest of the opposition to ask themselves: don't you want to investigate why?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-03.u240	What about the question?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-03.u241	Out of ingenuity? Or do you really want to pay the government? [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-03.u242	Maybe they have some compromise!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-03.u243	In reply, Mr Hugo Carneiro of the PSD Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-03.u244	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. André Ventura, there is one thing I will say to you: the PSD is not the trailer of the Arrival. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-03.u245	You, you!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-03.u246	Let that be very clear. With the serenity we have, we make the constructive opposition as we understand it, but not abdicating all that has to be scrutinized.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-03.u247	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-03.u248	I recall what I had already said in a previous debate on a proposal for a committee of the same kind: the PSD is the only party in the opposition that may require power. We will not abdicate from all rights, including the right to ask questions, to submit initiatives, to request committees, to sum up, whatever is necessary at any time, depending on the circumstances. What we don't do is walk the trailer of arrive. Let me also remind you that it is not with this small committee that you have here that something will be resolved. You want to review the legislation, as referred to in point 1, then in point 2, you say you want to review banking legislation. Say there, Mr. Member, what is the legislation? Present an initiative to Parliament. [[PSD applause.]] If you have doubts about what is right and what is wrong, if you have criticisms of current legislation, you present a legislative initiative, but you are not going to shoot with populist numbers, which is what you are doing today. We are more interested in hearing Mr. Prime Minister's answers...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-03.u249	Let's hear the PS!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-03.u250	...and we believe that now Mr. Prime Minister will not fall into the mistake of asking for extensions to answer, which would be deeply regrettable. [[PSD applause.]] [[CH protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-03.u251	To speak in the debate, Mrs Inês de Sousa Real has the floor of the PAN. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, please be quiet.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-03.u252	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: For the NAP, it is not with a small committee that solves the problem of political interference in the bank; it is with a strong Banco de Portugal, and we do not see it bring us today a legislative amendment in that direction. In addition, this proposal comes to light in terms of the need for law reform, but I remember that in 2020, when we had greater interference in the Banco de Portugal and a system of rotating doors that allowed 42 % of the positions and holders who had been in the bank to pass directly to Banco de Portugal, it was precisely through a proposal of the NAP that ended with this rotating door. However, this House of the Republic rejected the proposal for an extension of the scope in this obstacle to the rotating door.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-03.u253	Not enough!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-03.u254	That's not what I said, sir. In particular, it was the left parliament that gave the PS at the time the opportunity to extend this move to the Banco de Portugal. In any case, this is a debate that we could be discussing today, a debate that could strengthen the powers of the Banco de Portugal rather than this proposal for the establishment of a committee. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we all agree with the principle that it is fundamental and essential to end this interference, but this is a debate that is somehow useless, because clearly it will not be a committee that will give the answers that the country needs — which are the answers that, of course, António Costa has to come up with in this case.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-03.u255	It won't work!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-03.u256	To speak in the debate, Mr Duarte Alves of the CFP has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-03.u257	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: On 15 December 2022, we discussed the arrival proposal to set up an inquiry committee on the alleged government intervention in the financial system, and today we again say what we said at that time. in recent years, what has led to the fact that the Portuguese have buried millions of euros in banks has not been too public intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-03.u258	Sure!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-03.u259	No, it was the fact that there was no public intervention that was necessary, ensuring public control over the bank. It was the delivery of structural banks to the handovers of private groups and again the delivery to the private, even after the public record paid the cleaning account. unlike the arrival, the CFP denounces the corruption of the financial system, the submission of the public interest to the private interests of banking capital,... [[CH protests.]] ... the role of the European Union, the ECB ( the European Central Bank ), successive Governments and the Banco de Portugal in relation to the millions that the Portuguese have already put in the cleaning of private banks in which the losses were public, but profits are now private. From the moment the book came out of a governor who, at the right time, said nothing, we have seen an attempt to rewrite history, launched by the PSD, after the committees of inquiry have contributed to each one's conclusions. However, it is the responsibility of the Prime Minister to reply fully to the questions submitted legitimately by the PSD Members. Rejected by the committee of inquiry, it is now here that the Committee of Inquiry proposes something a little strange, which is to create a possible committee. And for what? And I quote the project of the Arrival: ‘to ensure and prevent abusive political interference in the Portuguese banking system; to review the legislation in the area of financial regulation and its autonomy;...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-03.u260	Well!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-03.u261	... to promote hearings with sector experts — former governors and vice-governers of Banco de Portugal ; to promote further investigations with the Public Prosecutor's Office ; and to propose legislation reform in this area'. Well, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, there is already a parliamentary committee to do this!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-03.u262	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-03.u263	It is called the Committee on Budgets and Finance!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-03.u264	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-03.u265	We cannot see this obsession with the creation of committees, when there is already a standing committee of the Assembly of the Republic that has precisely these objectives: listening to entities, reviewing legislation, promoting hearings. Nothing prevents the Member of the Commission from starting to work in these areas.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-03.u266	Work!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-03.u267	We understand what the intention of arriving is. It is, on the one hand, to turn the PSD to the wall and, on the other, once again, to try to flag the operation of the Assembly of the Republic. Once again, we will not give to this petition. [[Congratulations from the PCP and PS MP Miguel Matos.]] [[CH protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-03.u268	You now have the floor to speak on behalf of the BE Parliamentary Group, Mrs Mariana Mortágua.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-03.u269	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: When it comes to investigating the protection that José Eduardo Santos' regime has received in Portugal, we will do the investigation and we will not leave stone on stone. But Parliament has more to do than go after personal account adjustments from the former Governor of Banco de Portugal. As for this project, when you want to make a number, but you do not know how and you have nothing to say, this is presented. It doesn't say anything, it doesn't work for nothing, it doesn't propose anything! It is not a committee of inquiry, because it could not be and therefore has no power. It has no more power than the Committee on Budgets and Finance ( COF) has. You don't have an area you can see. He wants to clear up and prevent abstract political interference throughout the banking system, forever and forever. Nothing! This is nothing, it says nothing, no one would do anything about it in a committee. Nothing in particular, everything in general. Then the arrival comes and recommends to the Assembly of the Republic that it review the legislation in the area of financial regulation and its autonomy. I do not understand whether it is financial autonomy or the autonomy of legislation,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-03.u270	You're studying!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-03.u271	...because it's not even well drafted from that point of view, but then he says he wants to review the legislation. at a point below he says he wants to propose the reform of the legislation.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-03.u272	What a mess he's going there!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-03.u273	Question: does he think that Parliament has to review the legislation or does he have to propose the reform of the legislation? And you have to propose to whom? Is Parliament proposing to whom? What if the Members want to review the legislation, why don't they review it? They are proposing that the Left Block Parliamentary Group should work in a committee to have legislative proposals which cannot lead to the Committee on Budgets and Finance.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-03.u274	They've got the COF!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-03.u275	It's just, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen, to hold hearings and propose the revision of the legislation — as the CFP Member said even now — is precisely what the Committee on Budget and Finance does. On the last point, 'promoting new investigations with the Public Prosecutor', Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, sending research matters to the Public Prosecutor's Office is a serious thing, which is not done by decree nor is it an end in itself. It requires a lot of work, a lot of demands and a lot of fact. Work, demand and de facto are realities that say very little to arrive. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-03.u276	To speak on behalf of the Free Party, Mr Rui Tavares has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-03.u277	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Since the committee of inquiry is dedicated to a more specific purpose and the normal parliamentary committees for more general purposes, it is up to the committees to study and analyze what is systemic and which did not fall into the first and does not have so much to do with the second. There could be some merit in the proposal presented if we were to move the title. This is because the title of this proposal is « Preventing abusive political interference in the Portuguese banking system ». However, of all we know, what is systemic is the interference of the bank in the Portuguese political system. It was the opposite. That's what it was! But that is not what he has put on the title of his committee of inquiry. Still this week we learned that a former governor admitted to being paid by a bank while he was in government in Portugal. Perhaps, if we were to analyze the interference of economic power through the financing of political parties in political leaderships, including party leaders, in Portugal, there is much to analyze. But that's not enough for you to analyze. [[Mr Pedro Pinto's protests.]] That is a good question for which, perhaps, we do not need any committee of inquiry.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-03.u278	To speak on behalf of the Liberal Initiative, Mr. João Cotrim Figueiredo has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-03.u279	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: After hearing various parliamentary groups, two facts should be recalled. First, the independence of the central bank is an important thing, not only because the supervision of the system is equally important, but also because the strength of the same system depends and because a strong regulator prevents the central bank from becoming an instrument to the hands and service of governments that have hegemonic tendencies. Secondly, there is reason to question whether this independence is full today. There are many reasons, I quote only two. First of all, a little bit further: in 2020 the Socialist Party decided to appoint the Governor of Banco de Portugal, someone who had just left the Ministry of Finance. Second reason, a little more recent: when, in the book of former Governor Carlos Costa, there are charges of direct interference in two cases, in the BIC Bank and Banif, which, until today, we do not know exactly whether they are true or not. [[Well remembered!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-03.u280	Mr. Prime Minister beats his chest and says he's going to process former Governor Carlos Costa, but until today we don't have much information about this process. Therefore, in view of the importance of the regulator and the doubts about its real independence, Parliament can do one of two things, in fact, it can do two things: it can legislate and it can vote. I recall that in October last year Parliament has already been legislating on related matters. In this Parliament there was a discussion on the speciality, on the Bill No 21 / XV / 1. the, for which several parties presented proposals for amendment. The Liberal Initiative was one of them — not enough, for example — and included a proposal for an amendment to Article 31. o -A of the General Scheme of Credit Institutions, which, as regards the suitability of persons in the financial system, also provided an assessment of their influence and political relations. The PS has plummeted—as always, it leads everything! — the PSD and the Arrival abstained and the other parties did not appear, such is the importance of this matter for them. So you tried to legislate, but nothing! There were, on the part of the PSD and other entities, successive questions to the Prime Minister about such accusations that were made in the book of Governor Carlos Costa, but answers, nothing! There were successive delays, but nothing! Nothing else is known today than what was known in November 2022. So, having come here, having tried to legislate and I have not succeeded, having tried to vote in the normal way, in the committees, through questions, and nothing, will we resign ourselves from our function? Oh, my God! No, we're not going to resign from our function. You can tell me that a possible parliamentary committee is too gross a tool for this function. So tell me another one! Tell me another one!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-03.u281	Mariana Mortágua just explained!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-03.u282	The other parliamentary instruments have failed. Then they say that the offer of arrive is bullshit. Yes, ma'am, we're already used to it. But that's correct. That is not the fundamental thing, and that cannot make us resign from our usual duties and responsibilities, we cannot stop fulfilling our role, nor can we allow that to be a way of leaving a single party concerned about the independence of the central bank and the transparency of the regulation itself. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-03.u283	To speak by the PS Parliamentary Group, Mr Miguel Costa Matos has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-03.u284	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Allow me to begin my speech with a greeting to all the young people who today manifest themselves all over the world for greater ambition in combating climate change.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-03.u285	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-03.u286	EUR 20 billion! This was the bill that, in the last 10 years, all Portuguese paid to support the bank. Banks pay people the lowest interest in the whole European Union while paying very high fees. To help the party, we have, in Portugal, the 6th. the largest financing deficit to the economy, according to the European institutions.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-03.u287	And you're going there? Oh, my God! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-03.u288	Now, the Portuguese know very well the abusive interference that the bank has left in their lives, in their budgets and in the State budget.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-03.u289	And you're going there? Oh, my God! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-03.u290	We have already said it and repeated it: the Portuguese have been very supportive of the bank; it is time for the bank to support the Portuguese. [[P.S.'s applause.]] And we have good conditions today to do it. We have, because the bank is today more stable and sound, financially. In 2015 the misappropriated loans amounted to EUR 50 billion. Today, it is just over 10 billion euros. In 2015 the coverage rate of these credits was 41 %. Today is 54%. in these years, Tier 1 capital covers more than 18 % of the assets, the liquidity ratio increased from 1, 5 % to 2, 5 % of the financial requirements. But it's none of this that he wants to debate here. What it wants is to reopen the debate of the seven committees of inquiry that have already been in the last 10 years and, as it may be, the PSD is coming to an injunction here with the Arrival about who is the leader of the opposition. So much so that you waited yesterday to send back the questions for which you have already received answers. And, it seems — astonishing that it is — the Liberal Initiative feels a need here to stick to these too and not to stand back and power, finally to launch a set of insinuations and doubts. Do you want to rekindle suspicion in the bank? [[Distrust?Oh, my God!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-03.u291	The change of what? Oh, my God! Insinuations in a book of supposed memories on issues that were ready and fully clarified? If Banif had settled in just one month, preserving the Portuguese deposits, after eight restructuring plans led by Brussels, after they had been protecting, why were we in an electoral year and they didn't want to question your election result? [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Protests by PSD Member Hugo Carneiro.]] This is a shame we cannot forget in our country. But, in case of doubt, a party that unfortunately is no longer in this Chamber had the kindness to ask the ECB what was the reality of each of these cases. And the Governor of the ECB came to order the former Governor of Banco de Portugal.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-03.u292	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-03.u293	And here's the letter... The speaker displayed the document he mentioned. ...that, very thoroughly, says that there was no kind of political interference, neither abusive nor less abusive, in the Banif resolution. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-03.u294	Have you answered to the European Parliament?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-03.u295	The others were here to pay!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-03.u296	And then they come to bring other issues forward, the government has unlocked the shareholder problem in the BPI, but they forget that this has avoided a serious damage to one of the biggest banks in our country. Or rather, because they do not speak of the need to have done this legislative intervention, after the agreement between shareholders to have noise only three days — three days! — after having been signed, the result of an intervention which came out of nothing,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-03.u297	It was signed by Mr. President of the Republic! Mr. President of the Republic has signed!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-03.u298	...untimely, by the Governor of Banco Portugal and whose grounds are still to be known? [[Protests by CH Member Rita Matias.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-03.u299	You can send a letter to Bethlehem too!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-03.u300	It is that the PS, unlike the PSD, did not wait for the eves of this debate to hang out to arrive to ask questions. The PS then asked his questions and, unfortunately, Mr Governor has not answered. That is why, Mr President, we do not feed or participate in this competition between the PSD, the Liberal Initiative and the Opposition Leader. We do not participate in this vote, because we do not want any more cases from the bank, we want to be solutions to the difficulties that the Portuguese feel. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-03.u301	The Prime Minister has to answer the questions!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-03.u302	No further requests for intervention are being made, we are now closing. To this end, Mr Ventura has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-03.u303	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: A few things are clear at the end of this debate. In addition to the intervention of the bank representative, which we have now heard in the last place,... [[Mr Pedro Pinto's laughs.]] ... moreover, of the young representative of the bank—which is already quite a title; there were the bank representatives, now there is the young representative of the bank, which is a rather elucidative title— Mr. Hugo Carneiro, we have no doubt of what he said and we have to give him reason for this. I wanted the House to record this, Mr President, because this is an important moment: the PSD said that the trailer was not going to arrive. We recorded this, we took it seriously, because we already knew that; we knew that PSD is the PS trailer! [[Congrats from the CH.]] For so long, for so long, the PS trailer has been running! So we already knew they weren't getting enough tow. If they were towed by arrive, we might have been long ahead of those gentlemen,... [[Protests by PSD Member Hugo Carneiro.]] ... but as they're giving them their hands, years and years to this part, we're still like we're on the right. We have no doubt that you guys aren't on the Tow of the Arrival. And, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we don't want you to go. We want, for once in life, to make serious opposition to the Socialist Party,... [[Protests from PSD MP Clara Marques Mendes.]] ...because they need to be opposed in this country. [[Congrats from the CH.]] Mr Duarte Alves and Mrs Mariana Mortágua, the confusion between public intervention and political intervention is total. The honourable Member said that if there had been more public intervention this had not happened, but it is escalating the actual fact. The real fact has nothing to do with public or private.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-03.u304	Here, here!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-03.u305	It concerns the unacceptable political intervention in the regulator, which must be autonomous.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-03.u306	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-03.u307	It must not be autonomous!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-03.u308	And that's what you don't want to see. But you do not want to see for one reason: you have always been against the autonomy of the institutions and therefore you find it normal, as in the communist countries, that a Prime Minister sends in the bank,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-03.u309	I should send more!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-03.u310	... send to Banco de Portugal and send in everything else!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-03.u311	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-03.u312	That's our difference with you, and that's why we want to investigate.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-03.u313	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-03.u314	Mrs Mariana Mortágua says that work and demand are the brand, which is certainly not the brand of the Arrival. Mr Member, I know you are now a candidate and you have a lot of work ahead of you, but looking at your parliamentary group and looking at ours, I would say that we have worked much better than the honourable Member.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-03.u315	It's no better!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-03.u316	I would say that; I would say that. [[Congrats from the CH.]] If we were to investigate local housing or real estate speculation, it might be a much more interesting matter for you; we could even call it the Robles Committee, for example, to give you a good name for these investigations. Finally, Mr Rui Tavares, it was important to understand this, so that no misdesignation should be made in the air.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-03.u317	He's hiding there!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-03.u318	He said that it was also important — and we agree — to investigate the role of the bank in the political campaigns in Portugal and in the campaigning parties.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-03.u319	Oh!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-03.u320	No doubt. And I'll even give you some information that you don't know. You are here, look: « The committee of inquiry comes to the financing of parties and campaigns in Portugal. Do not keep on seeking. ” The speaker showed the news he mentioned. And let's see, the Free didn't vote in favour, the Free didn't vote in favour! [[Congrats from the CH.]] So, Mr. Member, at least a little consistency! At least a little consistency. It is that the arrival proposes a committee of inquiry to investigate everything: the bank, how much money it put in the parties, the BES, everything. And the honourable Member — perhaps I would rather investigate George Soros, I do not know — says that he does not vote in favour. I know it wasn't Mr. Deputies who was here at the time, but Mr. Deputies, it was your party!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-03.u321	There's consistency!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-03.u322	So, come to say that this is important to investigate, but a year and a half ago, it did not vote in favour. I think there's a certain amount of inconsistency here that the Free should try to understand and correct. Finally, Mr. President and Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, we have to move on in this matter. We already realize that the PS doesn't want any clarification. We already realize that Antonio Costa will not give any clarification. this house will be remembered to have done something or not done anything to investigate the socialist government.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-03.u323	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-03.u324	And I honestly understand that the PS doesn't want to do anything about it. I understand. I understand that the left, committed to protecting the PS from another scandal, does not want to do anything about it. What I don't really understand is how the right, in view of the notorious, obvious and unconquerable facts, remains silent and remains silent.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-03.u325	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-03.u326	If you want to stand aside, one thing I want to assure you here: The arrival will not give up until Antonio Costa's responsibility is fully ascertained on the influence and interference in the bank in Portugal. This, my lords, is called serious opposition. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-03.u327	Mr. Hugo Carneiro asks for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-03.u328	Mr. President, it is to defend the honor of the bench.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-03.u329	Oh!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-03.u330	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-03.u331	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it has been suggested here that the PSD was on the tow, not on the finish—at least we agree on that, there is one point at which we agree — but on the PS. [[PS protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-03.u332	It's enough to go, now it's PS! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-03.u333	Now, I would like to make this very clear: none of those words I said earlier serve to draw an illusion of this nature. [[CH protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-03.u334	I ask for silence so that the honourable Member may make his point. Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-03.u335	They're always the same, loud ones!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-03.u336	Thank you very much, Mr President, for your attention. None of the words I said allow such a conclusion. And therefore I would like to make it very clear: the PSD does not run the trailer either from the Arrival, the Liberal Initiative, the PS, the PCP, the Left Block, the PAN, or the Free Initiative. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-03.u337	Not at all!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-03.u338	There's no tow from any party! We have a strategy of our own, and it is good that this is absolutely clear. But we know that arrive feeds on PS and that PS feeds on arrive. [[PSD applause.]] That's what we know, and we need to report this to the Portuguese, to understand this joint strategy that exists between the Arrival and the PS and between the PS and the Arrival. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-03.u339	Call Montenegro!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-03.u340	Mr Ventura has the floor to explain.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-03.u341	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen,... [[Pause.]] [[At this moment, the speaker coughed and was momentarily speechless.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-03.u342	You've even lost your voice!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-03.u343	What's the joke? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-03.u344	Mr. President and Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, we have only noticed that the PSD was very committed to saying that it was not the tow of the Arrival and that in this matter it seems to be more the tow of the PS than the tow of the Arrival. We hope that the PSD realizes that it cannot walk the PS trailer and that there has to be an opposition and an alternative. It's just that we often haven't noticed that in your behavior. That is why it was important for the honourable Member to clarify here that, if the tow is not on the way to arrive, neither is the tow of the PS either. And I can tell you something, sir. Mr. Deputy said that the PS feeds on the Arrival and the Arrival feeds on the PS.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-03.u345	That's not it!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-03.u346	No, Mr President, if I could — using a language that, I hope, is not offensive — eat that whole bench of the PS. [[Congrats from the CH.]] If I could get here, I'd eat that whole PS bench.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-03.u347	We even eat them!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-03.u348	And that is the difference between us: it is that you are well associated with this sharing of interests, convictions and system for 46 years; we do not want to feed the PS, but we want to feed the PS to change the regime in Portugal.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-03.u349	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-03.u350	And that is our difference, Mr President. The honourable Member is comfortable to be with them; one day we want to be so many that we even occupy their bench. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-03.u351	You have more eyes than your belly, sir!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-03.u352	Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the benches have used with parcimonia the figure of defending honor, because the defense of honor is made in relation to offenses, and political characterizations are not necessarily offensive. I hope we continue with that sobriety. As for the threat of gastronomic violence by Mr André Ventura,... [[Laughing.]] ...it does not concern me at all, unlike your threat of verbal violence in this plenary, which will not be tolerated. Let us then move on to the fourth item on the agenda, which is only for registration, of which Bill No. 558 / XV / 1 contains. a ( PS ) — Establishs the composition, organization, operation and status of the Climate Action Council. It is agreed that the appreciation is done without time. We shall therefore proceed to the vote on the Rules of Procedure. I would ask the services which open up the quorum verification system and I would ask the honourable Members to do so. Ladies and gentlemen who are ill can register. [[Pause.]] I wonder if anyone could not register electronically.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-03.u353	Mr. President, I couldn't register.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-03.u354	Your presence is recorded, Mr.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-03.u355	Mr President, I cannot register either.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-03.u356	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. I am going slowly because we have acted on the voting system 10 minutes earlier, as is usual, but not all parliamentary groups have exhausted their time of debate. So we're looking at if any bulk emerges in one of the various gates of access to the Hemicycle. I do not think so, so I ask the services to close the quorum verification period and advertise the result. [[Pause.]] We have quorum, so we will proceed to deliberations. The first is related to the Vote Project No 273 / XV / 1. a ( submitted by PS ) — regretting the death of Felicia de Assumption Pailleux. To read it, I give the floor to Mrs Palmira Maciel.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-03.u357	Mr. President and Mr. Members, the draft vote is as follows: « He died last February 16, at 96 years of age, Felicia de Assunção Pailleux, daughter of Portuguese soldier, born on April 5, 1926. over several decades it was Portugal's standard carrier at the annual celebrations of the Battle of La Lys. A battle fought in Flanders on 9 April 1918, which tragically marked Portugal's participation in World War I ( 1914 - 1918 ). If the Portuguese community in France, the largest of the Lusophone communities in Europe, with more than 1 million people, is historically linked to the process of economic reconstruction of the “30 glorious years”, following the Second World War, Portuguese emigration to France already verifies its origin in the participation of the Portuguese Expeditionary Corps (CEP ), in the European front of the Great War. More than 100 years after the Army of November 11, 1918, there are still many descendants of these Portuguese soldiers and migrants who fight for the preservation of their memory and watch for the only Portuguese military cemetery in Richebourg, northern France, a exclusively Portuguese military cemetery, which brings together a total of 1831 dead soldiers. It was the emblematic case of the non-agenary Felicia de Assumption Pailleux, daughter of the soldier and then emigrant João Manuel de Asunção Costa, coming from Ponte da Barca, who was part of the 2. the division of the CEP and which, like others, did not return to Portugal to stay in the geographical area where it fought, in Nord-Pas-de-Calais, a coal mined zone that consumed a lot of foreign labor. over the past four decades, Felicia de Assunção Pailleux was the standard carrier (the first woman to stand in France) of the flag of Portugal at the evocative ceremonies of the Great War at the cemetery of Richebourg and in the monument to the Portuguese soldiers in La Couture, in the Nord-Pas-de-Calais, honoring the memory of his father. Galardoata with the French Medal of the League of Combatants, is also justly awarded a Portuguese medal to the daughter of the former soldier and then emigrant João Manuel de Assunção Costa, created at dawn of the 21st century, in 2018, in four classes aimed at awarding military and civilian, national or foreign, who, in the technical and professional context, reveal high competence, extraordinary performance and relevant personal qualities. Thus, the Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary session, expresses its regret at the death of Felix of Assumption Pailleux, paying tribute to his dedication, the preservation of memory and the transmission of humanist values of peace and fraternity, and conveying his condolences to his relatives and friends. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-03.u358	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall vote on the deliberative part of the draft vote that has just been read. [[The vote was taken unanimously.]] Following the Vote Project No. 279 / XV / 1. a ( submitted by PS ) — Regret for Rui Cunha's death. As a former colleague of ours, the vote will be read by your parliamentary group. To that end, Mr Marcos Perestrello has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-03.u359	Mr President, the draft vote is as follows: « Rui António Ferreira da Cunha died on February 23rd, at 78 years of age. Born in Lisbon, on October 23, 1944, Rui Cunha became a member of the Socialist Party in 1974 — in the party of Mário Soares, of whom he was a friend and an indefinable admirer. Until the end of his days he was a PS activist, a party from which he had been prominent local and national leader—he was a socialist of body and soul, a Democrat Ferrenho and, above all, a very gentle human being, who transhipped sympathy and positively impressed those with him. He devoted a very important part of his life to political militancy at local, regional and national level, having actively and dedicated himself to many important struggles and moments of his party's life. Elected Member of the Constituent Assembly, he was re-elected as a Member on PS's lists in I, V, VI, VII and X Legislatures by the Lisbon electoral circle, and in VIII and IX Legislatures by the Beja electoral circle. Several Governments of the Republic, acting as Secretary of State for Social Inclusion from 1995 to 1999, Deputy Secretary of State of the Minister of Labour and Solidarity from October 1999 to March 2001, and Deputy Secretary of State and Transport from March 2001 to April 2002. He was also a member of the Municipal Assembly of Lisbon and President of the Municipal Assembly of Odivelas. Detainer of a long public service course in the social and health sectors, of civic militancy and commitment to political intervention for the construction of responses for people, between 24 August 2005 and 13 September 2011, was the Provider of the Holy House of Mercy in Lisbon — probably the most accomplished public functions, because he was a man who liked to help others. Where he passed by, he left friends to whom he now misses. The disappearance of Rui Cunha constitutes a great loss for his family, his friends, the Socialist Party, democracy and Portugal. Thus, meeting in plenary session, the Assembly of the Republic expresses its deep regret at the death of Rui António Ferreira da Cunha, recalling its qualities and addressing the family, friends and the Socialist Party, its deepest condolences. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-03.u360	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall vote on the deliberative part of the draft vote that has just been read. [[The vote was taken unanimously.]] We then passed to the Vote Project No 282 / XV / 1. a ( submitted by the PSD ) — Regret for the victims of shipwreck in southern Italy. To read it, I give the floor to Secretary Lina Lopes.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-03.u361	Mr President, the draft vote is as follows: « Last Sunday, February 28, a wooden boat carrying about 200 migrants shipwrecked off the beach of Steccato di Cutro, near Crotone, Calabria region. To date, the Italian authorities point to more than 60 dead, 14 of whom children, continuing their search to recover more bodies. Most of the migrants who oversold this boat were from Afghanistan, Pakistan, Iran, Somalia and Syria. Unfortunately, this is just another episode in the tragic demand of these migrants for European dream. Explored by networks of trafficking in persons, they are thrown into the sea under inhuman conditions, most of the time being delivered to their fate and to the full mercy of the climatic factors leading to the shipwreck of the fragile vessels in which they seek to reach the European coasts. In the face of this tragedy, UN Secretary-General António Guterres and UN agencies called for the creation of safer and more legal routes for migrants and, in fact, as UN Secretary-General himself stated “anyone seeking a better life deserves security and dignity. ” The Director-General of the International Organization for Migration, Antonio Vitorino, also recalled that the tragedy occurs days after 70 people lost their lives in a similar shipwreck in Libya. Thus, the Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary, expresses its deepest sadness over the shipwreck on the Italian coast and expresses its greatest sympathy for the victims resulting from this tragedy, at the same time wishing to quickly recover all the wounded and calls for greater mobilisation of the international community to prevent such accidents through the opening of legal migration routes that allow more security to all migrants. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-03.u362	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall vote on the deliberative part of the draft vote that has just been read. [[The vote was taken unanimously.]] Mrs Paula Santos asks for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-03.u363	Mr President, it is to announce that we will deliver a statement of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-03.u364	Be registered. Following the votes that we have just voted on, I would now ask the House to follow me in a minute's silence. [[The House kept, standing, a minute's silence.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Members, we shall generally vote on the Bill No 54 / XIV / 1. a ( ALRAM ) — Amends the voluntary social insurance scheme approved by Decree-Law No 40 / 89 of 1 February in the current wording as well as the Code of Contributing Schemes of the Preventive Social Security System, as annexed to Law No 110 / 2009 of 16 September 2009 in the current wording in order to allow the admission of Portuguese residents in the diaspora. [[When put to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PS and votes against the PS, the CH, the IL, the PCP, the BE, the PAN and the L.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-03.u365	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-03.u366	Is it to announce that you will deliver a written statement of vote on behalf of your bench?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-03.u367	Exactly, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-03.u368	Be registered. We shall then, in general, vote on Law No 59 / XV / 1. a ( GOV ) — Transposing Directives ( EU ) 2022 / 211 and ( EU ) 2022 / 228 concerning the protection of personal data. [[Having put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the PS and the CH and IL, the CFP, the BE, the NAP and the L.]] Mrs. Members, this bill goes down to 1. the Commission. We now proceed to the general vote on Bill No. 285 / XV / 1. a (IL) — Eliminates the Contribution to Audiovisual by lowering the bill of electricity for Portuguese. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, PSD, PCP, BE, PAN and L were rejected, votes against the IL and the abstention from the CH.]] We proceed to the general vote on Bill No. 39 / XV / 1. a (CH) — Amends the law approving the model of financing the public broadcasting and television service in order to change the conditions for charging the audiovisual contribution. [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, PS, PS, IL, PCP, BE and L, votes against the CH and abstention from the NAP.]] The general vote of Bill No. 376 / XV / 1 is hereby followed. a ( PCP ) — Change the Statute of the National Health Service ( first amendment to Decree-Law No 52 / 2022 of 4 August ). [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, CH and IL and votes against the CFP, BE, PAN and L were rejected.]] We then vote in general on Law No 146 / XV / 1. a ( BE) — Statute of the National Health Service. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, CH and IL and votes against the CFP, BE, PAN and L were rejected.]] We proceed with the general vote of Bill No. 584 / XV / 1. a (PAN) — Ensures the provision of psychological and nutrition consultations in health centres groups, amending the Statute of the National Health Service. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of CH, IL, PCP, BE, PAN and L and abstention from the PSD.]] We now vote in general on Bill No. 591 / XV / 1. a (CH) — Changes are made to the Statute of the National Health Service in order to enable and ensure fairness in the right to health of citizens. [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, PS, PS, IL, PCP, BE and L, votes against the CH and abstention from the NAP.]] We will generally vote for Bill No. 458 / XV / 1. a ( BE) — Amend the Rules of Procedure ( amendment to Decree-Law No 34 / 2008 of 26 February 2008 approving the Rules of Procedure ). [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of the CH, the CFP, the BE, the NAP and the L and abstentions of the PSD and the IL.]] We proceed to the general vote on Bill No. 486 / XV / 1. a ( CH) — The Rules of Procedure, approved by Decree-Law No 34 / 2008 of 26 February 2008 to exempt public officials from costs, in criminal proceedings for the offence suffered in the performance of their duties or because of them. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and the IL were rejected in favour of CH and BE and abstentions from the PSD, the CFP, the NAP and the L.]] Then we will vote for Bill No. 578 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Creates the mission unit for the review of the judicial costs regime. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of the IL, the CFP, the BE, the NAP and the L and abstentions of the PSD and the CH.]] We now vote, in general, the Bill No. 579 / XV / 1. a (L) — Amend the Rules of Procedure, exempting all workers and their families, in matters of labour law, from the payment of procedural costs irrespective of how they are represented in judgment and the annual income taken. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and IL were rejected in favour of the CFP, BE, NAP and L and abstentions from the PSD and CH.]] We proceed to the general vote of Bill No 586 / XV / 1. a (PAN) — Ensure access to law and courts by amending the Rules of Procedure and Decree-Law No 503 / 99 of 20 November. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and IL were rejected in favour of the CFP, BE, NAP and L and abstentions from the PSD and CH.]] We will generally vote for Bill No. 516 / XV / 1. a ( PS ) — Second amendment to Law No 66 -A / 2007 of 11 December defining the powers, organisation and functioning of the Council of the Portuguese Communities. [[When put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of PS, IL, BE, PAN and L and with abstentions from PSD, CH and PCP.]] This bill goes down to 2. the Commission. We then vote in general on Resolution No. 162 / XV / 1. a ( PS ) — Recommends that the Government value the citizen's participation in electoral procedures by reviewing the compensation values for participation in voting assemblies. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of PS, PSD, CH, PCP, BE, PAN and L and the abstention from IL.]] The draft resolution goes down to 1. the Commission. We will generally vote on the Resolution Project No. 394 / XV / 1. a ( PS ) — Determines the preparation of the codification of electoral legislation. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] The draft resolution goes down to 1. the Commission. We turn to the general vote on draft resolution No 426 / XV / 1. a ( PS ) — Recommends that the Government conduct a face-to-face electronic voting experience in mobility in the electoral circles of the communities. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the IL and the L, votes against the CFP and abstentions from the PSD, the CH, the BE and the NAP.]] The draft resolution goes down to 1. the Commission. Mr Pedro Pinto asks for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-03.u369	Mr President, it is to inform us that we will deliver a statement of vote in writing.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-03.u370	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. We continue with the general vote of Bill No 377 / XV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Second amendment of Law No 66 -A / 2007 of 11 December defining the competences, organisational and functioning of the Council of the Portuguese Communities. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PSD, the IL, the BE and the NAP, votes against the CH and abstentions of the PS, the PCP and the L.]] The bill goes down to 2. the Commission. We shall now proceed to the general vote on Bill No. 398 / XV / 1. a ( PAN) — Establishs the legal regime applicable to civic clarification and to the right of antennae in the elections to the President of the Republic, Assembly of the Republic, Regional Legislative Assembly of the Azores, Regional Legislative Assembly of Madeira, European Parliament and bodies of local authorities as well as in national, regional and local referendums. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PSD and the CFP were rejected, votes against the CH, the BE, the NAP and the L and abstentions against the PS and the IL.]] Let's vote now, in general, Bill No. 517 / XV / 1. a (PAN) — Alter the Election Law for the Assembly of the Republic, reducing to 10 the number of electoral circles and creating an electoral circle of emigration and a national circle of compensation. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, PSD, CH, PCP and BE were rejected, votes against the PAN and L and the abstention from the IL.]] We proceed with the general vote of Bill No 518 / XV / 1. a ( PAN) — Other diplomas, extending the right to vote in advance in elections to local authorities and improving the electoral process in the circles of emigration in the elections to the Assembly of the Republic. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PSD and the CFP were rejected, votes against the CH, the NAP and the L and abstentions against the PS, IL and BE.]] We proceed to the general vote of Bill No 560 / XV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Consecrates the option of voting by correspondence, as an alternative to the face-to-face vote, to voters resident abroad in the presidential elections and in the European elections, making the twenty-third amendment to Decree-Law No 319 -A / 76 of 3 May, which regulates the election of the President of the Republic, the sixth amendment to Law No 14 / 87 of 29 April, which approves the electoral law for the European Parliament, and the seventh amendment to the legal regime of the electoral census, approved by Law No 13 / 99 of 22 March, and ensures the implementation of a non-binding electoral pilot project for voters living abroad. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PSD and the CH, votes against the PCP and BE and abstentions against PS, IL, PAN and L.]] The bill goes down to 1. the Commission. We will generally vote for Bill No. 577 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Extends powers and strengthens support for the functioning of the Council of the Portuguese Communities ( second amendment to Law No 66 -A / 2007 of 11 December ). [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and PSD were rejected, votes against the IL, the CFP, the BE, the NAP and the L and the abstention from the CH.]] We proceed with the general vote of Bill No. 581 / XV / 1. a (L) — Review the electoral laws, extending the range of ineligibility to the Assembly of the Republic ; establishing a national clearing circle; extending the electoral campaign period and voting by correspondence to the elections to the Presidency of the Republic and establishing rules relating to television debates, the removal of electoral propaganda and the possibility of international missions of observers. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, PSD, PCP and BE were rejected, votes against the CH, PAN and L and abstention from the IL.]] We proceed to the general vote on Bill No 582/XV / 1. a (L) — Provides a deadline for the removal of electoral propaganda and determines that its violation constitutes counter-ordination, amending Law No 97/88 of 17 August in its current wording. [[Put to the vote, it was adopted with votes in favour of the PS, the CH, the IL, the BE, the PAN and the L and votes against the PSD and the CFP.]] The bill goes down to 1. the Commission. We will continue, with the general vote of Bill No 583/15 / 1. a (L) — Creates a national commission for electoral debates and amends the law of electoral coverage. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, CH, IL and PCP were rejected, votes against BE and L and the abstention from the NAP.]] We shall continue with the general vote of Bill No 587 / XV / 1. a ( PAN) — Strengthens the powers of the Council of the Portuguese Communities and the rights of their advisers by amending Law No 66 -A / 2007 of 11 December 2007. [[When put to the vote, it was adopted with votes in favour of CH, IL, BE, PAN and L and with abstentions from PS, PSD and PCP.]] The bill goes down to 2. the Commission. We will move on to the general vote of Bill No. 589 / XV / 1. a ( CH) — Alter to Law No 66 -A / 2007 of 11 December defining the powers, organisation and functioning of the Council of the Portuguese Communities. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, the PSD and the CFP were rejected, votes against the CH, the IL and the BE and abstentions against the NAP and the L.]] The vote on draft resolution No 466 / XV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Recommends that the Government assess the seismic vulnerability of state buildings and equipment to be transferred to municipalities and inter-municipal communities in the decentralization process. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of the PS, the CH, the IL, the BE, the PAN and the L and the PCP abstention.]] We then proceed to the vote on a request submitted by the Free Commission, Public Works, Planning and Housing, without a 60-day vote of Bill No 580 / XV / 1. a (L) — Risk indicator in case of earthquake. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] The bill goes down 6. the Commission under these conditions. We proceed with the general vote of Bill No 585 / XV / 1. a (PAN) — Establish a national system to cover the risk of seismic phenomena and natural disasters and create the seismic fund and natural disasters. [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS and the IL, the vote in favour of the PAN, the CH, the PCP, the BE and the L.]] We are going to vote on a request submitted by the Arrival, low to the Committee on Economics, Public Works, Planning and Housing, without voting for 60 days of the Bill No 590 / XV / 1. a (CH) — Amend legislation with a view to strengthening the safety of buildings against earthquakes. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] The bill goes down to 6. the Commission under those conditions. We will now vote for the Resolution Project No. 469 / XV / 1. a (CH) — Establishment of a possible parliamentary committee to ensure and prevent abusive political interference in the Portuguese banking system. [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, the CFP, the BE and the L, votes against the CH and the IL and abstentions against the PSD and the NAP.]] Then we will generally vote for Bill No. 558 / XV / 1. a ( PS ) — Establishs the composition, organization, operation and status of the Climate Action Council. [[Put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of PS, PS, BE, PAN and L, votes against the CFP and abstentions of CH and IL.]] The bill goes down to 11. the Commission. We will generally vote on the Resolution Project No. 436 / XV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Recommends that the Government develop and implement the Strategic Plan for Cinema and Audiovisual. [[Put to the vote, it was adopted with votes in favour of PSD, IL, PCP, BE, PAN and L, votes against CH and PS abstention.]] The vote on draft resolution No 328 / XV / 1. a ( PAN) — Recommends that the Government adopt measures in respect of the populations of boar in Portugal. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, CH and PCP were rejected, votes against the NAP and L and abstentions against IL and BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-03.u371	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-03.u372	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-03.u373	Mr President, it is to announce that, on this vote, we will present a declaration of vote in writing.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-03.u374	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. We continue with the vote on draft resolution No 349 / XV / 1. a (PAN) — Recommends to the Government the creation of a legal regime for animal life shrines or shelters and accommodation spaces, in accordance with the provisions of the law. [[The vote was taken with votes against the PS, the PSD and the PCP and votes against the CH, the IL, the BE, the PAN and the L.]] We then proceed to the vote on draft resolution No 386 / XV / 1. a (CH) — To facilitate the implementation of the Rural Development Funds and to publish on the Transparency Portal all the funds allocated. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of the PS, the CH, the IL and the NAP and abstentions of the CFP, the BE and the L.]] We will now vote for the Resolution Project No. 438 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Recommends to the Government the construction of the Hydraulic Circuit of Vidigueira and its water block. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PSD, the CH, the IL, the PCP and the BE and the PS, the NAP and the L.]] We turn to the vote on draft resolution No 384 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Consecrates on January 31 as National Sergeant Day. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and the PSD were rejected, votes against the CH, the IL, the PCP and the L and abstentions against the BE and the NAP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-03.u375	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-03.u376	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-03.u377	Mr President, it is to inform me that I will present a written statement of vote on this vote on behalf of the PS bench.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-03.u378	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. We shall proceed to the general vote on draft resolution No 370 / XV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Recommends that the Government develop, update and approve the Territorial Planning Programmes ( PROT ) in order to establish concrete strategies for the prevention and mitigation of adverse and exceptional weather phenomena. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PSD, the CH, the IL, the PCP, the BE, the PAN and the L and the PS abstention.]] We now vote on the assumption by the plenary of the indicative votes held in the speciality, within the Commission. [[The vote was taken unanimously.]] We now turn to the overall final vote of the final text, presented by the Committee on Public Administration, Planning of the Territory and Local Power on draft resolutions Nos 325 / XV / 1. a ( PAN) — Recommends that the Government approve support measures for municipalities affected by full situations in December 2022, 333 / XV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Recommends that the Government act on the Municipal Emergency Fund and ensure the necessary support for the repair of the damage caused to municipalities and in-municipal communities due to the full situations in December 2022, and 370 / XV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Recommends that the Government develop, update and approve territorial planning programmes ( PROT ) in order to establish concrete strategies for the prevention and mitigation of adverse and exceptional weather phenomena. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-03.u379	Mr President, I beg your pardon, will you allow me to speak?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-03.u380	It's a statement of vote...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-03.u381	No, Mr President, it is only in order to correct that in the vote, in the specialty, i.e. in the assumption by the plenary of the indexary votes held, in the specialty, in committee, the meaning of the PS vote was also in favour.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-03.u382	All right, the harmony of the motions rests, so it was unanimously approved the taking of the indexary vote and then the result of that assumption. Let us now proceed to the final overall vote of the final text, presented by the Committee on Economics, Public Works, Planning and Housing on draft Law No 410 / XV / 1. a ( IL) — eliminates the obligation to explain « Call for national fixed network » and « Call for national mobile network » on telephone lines for consumer contact ( first amendment to Decree-Law No 59 / 2021 of 14 July ). [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of PS, PS, IL and PAN and with abstentions from CH, PCP, BE and L.]] We will now vote on a request by the PSD for a vote by the plenary on the speciality of its proposed amendment to draft resolution No 414 / XV / 1. a ( PS ) — Recommends that the Government ensure the necessary conditions for the collection by the municipalities of revenue in the context of the economic exploitation of the hydroelectric uses in them. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] So we will now have a period of two minutes, if I recall, for a statement, before we move on to the vote on the proposal. Mr Adam Silva has the floor by the PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-03.u383	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The PSD brings this issue back to debate because, within the Committee on Budget and Finance, it presented two proposals that added substance to the draft resolution of the Socialist Party. And what two proposals were these? The first was that it could be recommended to the Government to urge the Tax Authority ( AT ) to charge the taxes due to this millionaire business of EUR 2, 2 billion between EDP ( Energy of Portugal ) and Engie. The second proposal was that this money, or part thereof, in particular as a result of the seal and IRC tax (tax on the income of the public) could be allocated to a solidarity fund, to be managed by the 10 municipalities where these dams were sold are located. The Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group, a majority, voted against and we find it wrong, we find it very bad.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-03.u384	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-03.u385	We feel very bad, because, of course, contrary to what Mr Sobrinho Teixeira and Mrs Berta Nunes said during the debate here, it is not planned, I repeat, any tax arising from this sale is not foreseen in the draft resolution. It's not planned! [[PSD applause.]] It is necessary to clarify to those who are not expected. You need to speak the truth! There is no provision for any collection of these taxes. In fact, it was not necessary, indeed, because the current law already allows this collection to be made. What the PSD was going to do was strengthen to force, urge, call on the Tax Authority to make this settlement and collect these taxes.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-03.u386	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-03.u387	But the PS continues to delay this matter. In the past, the government has also adjourned and continues to postpone at this time, in an exercise of sophism, of account. This, obviously, is an apology, not for bad losers, but for bad collectors. You don't want to charge these taxes! [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-03.u388	I can't miss the opportunity to ask Mr. Vice-President to finish...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-03.u389	I shall finish, Mr President, by saying the following: there are two aspects here, the prosecutor and the judiciary, and one does not avoid the other. Therefore, they cover taxes and courts, the Public Prosecutor's Office will do their work, in the name of solidarity with the transmountans. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-03.u390	To intervene, by the Liberal Initiative, Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-03.u391	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This PSD counseling is only one more episode in the tax novel that affects the property of dams, about the transmission of the property of dams. So let's go to more of this episode, which this time consists of a set of PSD amendments to a draft resolution presented by the PS, which was nothing more than that, Mr. Members, a sign of virtue, because the PS has been wrapped up, in this case, for months on the line—in good truth, because the Minister of the Environment himself at the time put them in that envelope—and then he presented here, in this House, a draft resolution calling for the application of the law, which is a funny thing, and calls for clarification of the law, as if he did not also compete with the Assembly to do so - but at the same time he votes against projects that have passed here, in this House, and that would clarify that law, that is, they appeal to something they themselves do not do. Only that the PSD also does little better, because it comes to appeal to more things: it comes to appeal to AT, comes to urge AT, says Mr Adam Silva, appeals and urges — attention! — and is dangerously close to starting to give instructions to AT,... [[Protests by PSD Member Adam Silva.]] ... as it is dangerously close to recording revenue, when it establishes, in paragraph 4, that it intends to add the creation of a fund of solidarity with the revenue to be obtained. That is, between the signation of virtue and these appeals, which should not exist, our position will be abstaining, because we do not align these signs of virtue. However, in order to make clear the IL's position on the matter of substance, we do not defend any more taxes—I think the House is already more than clear about this— especially those, as may be the case with these, which end up being paid by consumers, sooner or later, but the law, and starting with the tax law, is for everyone to comply, whatever form of transaction, whatever its status, whatever its size. It's about compliance! And the law, right now, requires you to pay taxes both in the transmission, or in the arrest of these dams. In conclusion, I would just say that it is with some sadness that I note that in Portugal there is still a need for draft resolutions to appeal to law enforcement. This says a lot about the state in which the PS left the country. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-03.u392	Mr Mariana Mortágua, from the Left Block Parliamentary Group, now has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-03.u393	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, there are two issues in question. One thing is the business of selling dams, where the government should have prevented EDP from selling the dams to Engie, knowing that a scheme was being created to escape taxes. The Government has been warned, has not prevented the sale, has not availed itself of its rights, and now all that can be done is to wait for the Tax Authority to invoke a general anti-abuse clause to attempt to deconstruct a tax scheme that was set up by EDP and Engie. It is therefore up to the Tributary Authority to resolve these problems. I must say that whoever defends the arbitral courts very much will realize that they almost always decide against the Tax Authority and in favour of companies such as EDP, harming the State, as we shall see in this case. The second issue is IMI (municipal property tax ). IMI has nothing to do with the dam sales business. The IMI should already be charged, and it should be charged in future, to companies that are in possession of dams. There are two ways to charge the IMI. The first is to make a legislative intervention to clarify the law. This was the option of the Left Block, but the legislative amendment was rejected by the Socialist Party to clarify that the IMI had to be paid. Second way of charging: the Tax Authority decides to charge. It's the second form. There are only two ways to change the law or charge the IMI, understanding that the law already allows that charge. In none of these cases a draft resolution will solve the problem, neither that of the Socialist Party, nor the changes of the PSD. We have an absolute awareness of that! We will not vote against, we want everything that can be done, but we are fully aware of what is at stake here, how it can be solved and how these draft resolutions will not solve the problem of the IMI of dams. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-03.u394	Mr Berta Nunes of the PS Parliamentary Group now has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-03.u395	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr Adam Silva, I suppose you well know that if AT collects this tax, at a time when the case is being investigated by the Public Prosecutor's Office, you will suspend the investigation process. And, with regard to your concern that this process is not eternal, that charge will exactly question the progress of the process in the Public Prosecutor's Office. We therefore consider it unwise to be now recommending that taxes be paid when this process is under investigation in the Public Prosecutor's Office. What we expect, as Mr President hopes, is that soon the Public Prosecutor's Office will be able to move forward and we will reach a conclusion. On the other hand, if AT collected, it is clear that EDP, as it did before, would place the case in the administrative court and if, in fact, there was no tax charge, it would mean that the State would have to return the interest value. So we don't think it's a good solution. We are in favour of the collection of sales taxes—we have already said so here—and we are also in favour of the return of this levy to the territory. But I also want to say that, fortunately, the honourable Member and the PSD acknowledged the mistake they made, when they proposed for the 2021 budget, a fund resulting from the transfer of the concession, which also included municipal taxes. in this fund, instead of being the authorities to receive the taxes directly, as they are due, they would go to a fund that would then be managed in a professional form, potato, as the proposal states, and in these taxes would be the incomes. I want to come back here saying that EDP does not pay the incomes that have been due for many years, we are following the process that is being triggered in this sense,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-03.u396	Mrs. Deputy, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-03.u397	... by the Association of Low-Savour Municipalities, and we will continue to follow you, because EDP does not pay the rent, it did not pay the IMI, but it will also pay the IMI for the last four years. Now, you are correcting the mistake and putting only the sales taxes, which we also find much more prudent and, therefore, we will be here to approve this fund, if and when, as we hope, taxes are charged. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-03.u398	Mr Duarte Alves of the CFP now has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-03.u399	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Let us begin by saying that we will follow the PSD proposals, recalling, and it is important that this be clear, that we are talking about a draft resolution and nothing more than that. We will therefore vote in favour, but it is only a draft resolution, that is what it is. With regard to this EUR 2200 million business and the concern that the PSD here brings, that it is not tax-free, we recall that there would be a way of ensuring that it was not tax-free, that it would have approved the proposal that the CFP presented to prohibit the State from resorting to private arbitral tribunals, because it is always in the arbitral courts that the public interest is damaged. Look, in the case of the interpretation of AT, which by 2015 considered that dams should pay IMI, this change was made where? Within the framework of an arbitral procedure. In the case of the Fridão dam, another appeal brought by EDP and, once again, the State was harmed, because it resorted to this form of private justice. Therefore, we can even change the law, there may be changes in the office by the Secretary of State, we can approve draft resolutions, but as long as the State can resort to private justice, which are the arbitral courts, what will happen is that the economic interests, the interests of EDP and Engie, in this case, will always prevail.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-03.u400	That's the one!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-03.u401	That is the problem that you did not want to solve, when the CFP presented its proposal, because you know that, as much as it changes, that is why you can ensure that the business of 2200 million is not tax-free. Once again, we continue to insist that the government should have used the prerogative it had to not allow this sale.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-03.u402	Sure!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-03.u403	And it is once again clear that it was a mistake to move from the National Energy Networks to EDP at the time of Minister Manuel Pinho ; it was a mistake to privatize EDP, decided by the PSD / CDS government ; and it was also a mistake the government did not prevent this business, when it could have done so, either in the face of the problem that this represents, from the point of view of the national electrical system, either in the face of the business that was being set up, in which it was evident to everyone, that there was a tax escape scheme. The government could have stopped the business and didn't stop it. And it was not due to lack of CFP draft resolutions at the time to recommend that the Government use this prerogative, which was lacking in the PS and PSD vote to approve these measures. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-03.u404	We shall then proceed to the vote, in the speciality, of the proposal submitted by the PSD, on the addition of paragraphs 3 and 4 to draft resolution No 414 / XV / 1. a ( PS ). [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of the PS, the CH, the CFP, the BE, the NAP and the L and the abstention from the IL.]] We shall now vote on the final text submitted by the Committee on Budgets and Finance on draft resolution No 414 / XV / 1. a ( PS ) — Recommends that the Government ensure the necessary conditions for the collection by the municipalities of revenue in the context of the economic exploitation of the hydroelectric uses in them. [[Put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the PS, the CFP, the BE, the NAP and the L and with abstentions from the CH and the IL.]] We are now considering an opinion of the Committee on Transparency and the Statute of Members, which will tell us Mrs Palmira Maciel.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-03.u405	Mr. President and Mr. Members, the request of the Public Prosecutor's Office — Public Prosecutor's Office of the Republic of the Republic of Visa — Section de Moimenta da Beira, Inquiry : 94 / 22.8T9MBR, the Committee on Transparency and the Statute of Deputies decided to issue an opinion to authorize Mr José Rui Cruz ( PS ) to provide written testimony as a witness within the framework of the said cases.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-03.u406	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let's vote. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-03.u407	Mr President, I beg your pardon, will you allow me to speak?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-03.u408	Please, Mrs Catarina Rocha Ferreira.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-03.u409	Mr President, I just wanted to request that the PSD vote be rectified in respect of draft Law No 518 / XV / 1. a (PAN) because we had voted against, but our sense of vote is abstention, which changes the outcome.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-03.u410	Does that mean that the NAP is gaining another victory? Oh, my God! [[Pause.]] And who benefits from the NAP's victory? The boars? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-03.u411	The right to vote, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-03.u412	Oh, very good! The citizen's participation! We are thus at the end of our work. The next plenary session will take place on Wednesday at 3 p.m. and will have the following agenda: thematic debate, required by the PSD, on domestic violence; joint discussion of Petition No 128 / XIV / 2. a ( Ramons Vaz de Menezes ) — Achigan ( Micropterus Salmonides ) a species to be protected from Bill No 331 / XV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Amendment to the legal regime for the prevention and control of exotic species applicable to recreational and sports fishing in inland waters and to the Resolution Project No 427 / XV / 1. a ( PAN) — By maintaining the Acquigan in the National List of Invasive Species listed in Annex II to Decree-Law No 92 / 2019 of 10 July; joint discussion of Petition No 342 / XIV/ 3. a ( Maria José Pinheiro Cruz ) — Creation of a public veterinary hospital and of the Resolution Projects Nos 374 / XV / 1. a ( BE) — Recommends measures to reduce the number and mitigate the effects of abandonment of pets due to increased inflation, 387 / XV / 1. a ( PAN) — Recommends to the Government the creation of a network of public veterinary services and the construction of a public veterinary hospital, and 391 / XV / 1. a (CH) — For the encouragement of the establishment of primary medical and veterinary care networks. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the sitting is closed. [[It was 13 hours and 23 minutes.]]
