ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-03.u1	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, good morning. We have quorum and all parliamentary groups are represented, so we can start our work. [[It was 10 hours and 5 minutes.]] I'm asking the ladies. Authorities please open the galleries to the public. Thank you very much. We will begin the agenda with the first item, which is the general assessment of the Bill No 48 / XV / 1. a ( ALRAM ) — Resets electricity, natural gas, butane and propane, as well as introduces the provision of Internet access services in List 1 — Goods and services subject to the reduced rate of the Value Added Tax Code. To speak in the debate, Mr Pedro Pinto, of the Parliamentary Group of the Arrival, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-03.u2	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Gas, electricity and Internet services are indisputably essential services for society, being fundamental to the dynamization and realization of daily activities, as well as being factors to guarantee well-being for human life. This initiative of the Legislative Assembly of the Autonomous Region of Madeira, which says that — I quote — « the measures recently taken by the Government of the Republic to minimize the impact of the financial crisis that is being generated are insufficient because they do not follow the price rise rate, increasing the vulnerability of families and certain branches of the business sector », goes against what has been defended by the Czech Republic, in particular in the Draft Law No 264 / XV / 1. if it is our understanding that correspond to essential public services that must be taxed as such, i.e. at the reduced rate, it is urgent to take advantage of the current adversity to correct structural problems and not act punctually in the face of problems that have long been identified, setting itself as remedies with little impact for Portuguese families. According to Council Directive ( EU ) 2002 / 542 of 5 April 2022 amending Directives 2006 / 112 / EC and ( EU ) 2020 / 285 as regards value added tax rates ( VAT ), Portugal, as well as any other Member State of the European Union, may reduce gas and light VAT to the minimum rate without having to apply for authorisation from the VAT Committee. It is incomprehensible that the State continues to raise budgetary surpluses and high levels of tax revenue without progressing with effective and consistent measures that promote the reduction of VAT to 6 %, when it has recorded an exceptional increase in VAT collection. We shall vote in favour of this proposal. However, the same could refer to other points. For example, in August 2022, the Madeira Regional Government indicated that the interaction with Madeira's electricity company would initiate the installation project of 126 000 smart meters up to 2025, whose investment will be carried out under the Recovery and Resilience Plan ( PRR ), in the order of 12 million euros. Since this project envisages the installation of 70 000 smart meters in 2023 and the remaining up to 2025, it would be interesting to see in this Bill a reference to the project that the President of the Regional Government of Madeira himself said was a very important step towards the modernization, greater reliability and better monotorization of the supply of electricity in Madeira, as well as to ensure the best clarification of the consumer in relation to its consumption and expenditure. This bill also does not refer to the drama of energy poverty, recognised as existing in the Madeira archipelago, which affected a significant fringe of the Madeiran population in 2022. We must bear in mind that, in the specific case of the Autonomous Region of Madeira, 24, 2 % of the population is at risk of poverty or social exclusion. On the other hand, if it is crucial to apply social tariffs for energy and the Internet to various types of beneficiaries, such as those who have social income for insertion, special scheme disability pensions or social pensions for old age, among others, it is shown priority, in a comprehensive way, to return essential income to Portuguese families and businesses, through the proper implementation of structural solutions, as explained by this bill. In the specific case of thermal and electrical energy needs in Portugal, our country is 5. that of the European Union at greater risk of energy poverty, according to data provided by the European Commission in November 2022, far above the average of the European Union, with the increase in the cost of living that occurs, the increase in energy poverty will also increase, and these are already the European Commission's warnings to our country. In Portugal there are currently nearly 700 000 people living in a situation of energy poverty, which means that they belong to family members in a situation of poverty whose energy expenditure represents more than 10% of total income and who accumulate the situation of monetary or economic poverty with the impossibility of maintaining their homes in adequate conditions of lighting and thermal comfort, and the Autonomous Region of Madeira is one of the regions where this inequality is most felt by the population. on our part, we will be here to help the Madeirans face the difficulties and demand that these fundamental services for the population have the minimum VAT rate. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-03.u3	I wonder if any parliamentary group wants to participate in the debate or if we move on to the next item on the agenda.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-03.u4	Mr President, IL wants to participate, more specifically Mr Bernardo Blanco.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-03.u5	Mr. Bernardo Blanco, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-03.u6	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : I would like to first of all to welcome the Madeira Legislative Assembly for giving us the opportunity to discuss here, once again, the urgent reduction in energy VAT, which almost the whole of Parliament has been defending a year ago, except, unfortunately, the Socialist Party. At the time we entered a time of inflation, it was up to the Government to take a very simple decision to lower VAT on essential goods and services. This is what, for example, Spain, next to it, did last summer, with regard to the bill of energy and recently also with regard to the billing of food goods. We remember here once again, for those who accused the Liberal Initiative so much that they want to benefit the richest in the IRS, that it does not move in VAT penalizes, especially the poorest.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-03.u7	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-03.u8	There is a limit from which one cannot simply ask people to heat less their water or their homes. It happens, yes, that there will always be those who will be able to pay whatever they want, cost the VAT whatever it costs, while others will be more and more crushed by the bill at the end of the month. The Socialist Party well knows that for the richest people it is indifferent, but that this decline, for the poorest, would make all the difference, a much greater difference than that, for example, that the Minister of Finance made in the VAT of electricity, which neither for a coffee gives. But we already know the Socialist Party very well and, therefore, if it is taxed, it doesn't matter that it benefits the richest or the poorest, what matters is that it goes to the state. This is why we have to finish, because, in an inflation age, we cannot have the State charging more tax revenues while the Portuguese continue to lose purchasing power. That's why, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen, here we are again, against the PS and the Portuguese, defending the reduction in energy VAT. I end with a final note concerning the Legislative Assembly of Madeira, in which it challenges the parties represented in the Regional Assembly, which is not yet our case, to initiate a legislative process for the amendment of the electoral law, so that all Maderians can vote in advance and in mobility. This was possible in the presidential, national, European and regional elections of the Azores. It is only necessary to do the same in Madeira because everyone must have the right to vote. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-03.u9	To speak on behalf of the CFP Parliamentary Group, Mr Duarte Alves has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-03.u10	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: On behalf of the CFP Parliamentary Group, we welcome this proposed law of the Legislative Assembly of the Autonomous Region of Madeira for the reduction of energy VAT to 6 %. in this Legislative Session, the CFP Parliamentary Group has already brought this issue to the debate in the Assembly of the Republic, with a proposal identical to that discussed today and which has been rejected, with the votes against the PS and the abstention of the NAP. It is not our position on energy VAT now. over the years, since the PSD/CDS Government has increased energy VAT from 6 % to 23 %, the CFP has repeatedly presented this proposal and never changed the sense of vote, as the PSD did when its vote could have served to approve this measure.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-03.u11	Exactly! Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-03.u12	Even before this brutal increase in taxes by the Government of Passes and Doors, the PCP already argued that it would end with the inconceivable exclusion of the stock gas from the reduced VAT rate. Mrs. Members, the unbearable increases in the cost of energy have served to increase the millions of profits of the parasitic economic groups such as EDP ( Energies of Portugal ), Galp, Endesa, Iberdrola and others at the cost of living conditions. The margins of oil and energy increase with the opportunistic use of the international context. these margins result in profits as seen long ago and those who pay are the Portuguese people, subject to one of the highest energy invoices in Europe. The Government has instruments to intervene on the margins, has at least all the instruments it has requested from the Assembly of the Republic. Mr. Minister for the Environment and Climate Action said he did not intervene only because he was dependent on ERSE. Yeah, but it was the government that wanted that dependence to stay in the law,
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-03.u13	There he is!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-03.u14	... because there were proposals, in particular the CFP, to allow the Government another type of intervention. It also says the government — and it is right — that the country is more protected than other European countries, because we have protective mechanisms like regulated tariffs. We well know what it cost to extend the rates regulated in electricity, and even we know that, even in May, the PS and the whole right had rejected the PCP proposal to allow the return to the regulated gas tariff, as later the government has come to implement and today makes hundreds of thousands of Portuguese benefit — see! — price control.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-03.u15	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-03.u16	The question remains: if this mechanism of regulated tariffs is a mechanism that protects us, why does the government insist on maintaining its transitional character? Why do you refuse to make this permanent mechanism? And now, why do you want to place Portugal and the Iberian Peninsula on the European energy market, with much higher costs than what is paid on the Peninsula? It is necessary to lower the VAT on electricity and gas by taxing energy as the essential good it is, and this measure will have an impact, because energy is a regulated sector. But you need to go further. It is necessary to call into question the multi-millionaire profits of the energy groups, with courageous measures that face great interests. That's also what you've missed. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-03.u17	Mr Rui Tavares of the Free House is still speaking.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-03.u18	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: Good morning to all and to all. The discussion on the reduction of VAT in energy has been a discussion, not only in Portugal as in other countries, long and detailed and whose concrete results are impossible to know until it is experienced. Now, Portugal is not a federal state, it is a unitary state, but it has a margin of manoeuvre in regional autonomy that allows us to see and control on the ground, also through our agencies, such as ERISE, not only following what is done abroad, the effects of this kind. Therefore, as for the Republic as a whole, where there has been government resistance to adopt a measure of these, it can also be rejected today, I am sorry because it would be appropriate to give the flexibility needed to the Autonomous Region of Madeira so that this measure could be implemented and that we could see its effects.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-03.u19	Mrs Mariana Mortágua, of the Left Block is followed.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-03.u20	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : We greet the Legislative Assembly of Madeira for bringing this proposal to plenary. For years the Left Block has been defending the reduction of the VAT rate of energy — and this is a structural position that we have, which does not depend on the inflation period, nor even on the pandemic we live before — which is related to a basic issue: it is incomprehensible that, in a country where energy poverty is widespread, where it dies of cold and wages are so low, energy is taxed as a luxury property. It's incomprehensible! It is incomprehensible and it is regressive, because this rate, equivalent to a luxury property, weighs much more on the budgets of those who earn less. Therefore, VAT alone is a regressive tax and tax at high rates of essential goods makes VAT an even more penalizing tax for those who have less income. None of the ways so far found by the Socialist Party and the Government of the Socialist Party to turn the matter around has solved the problem. They made the invoice more complex, reduced a fixed part, then reduced the contracted power, then passed half of the consumption to a lower rate and, last time the government announced a large measure of the reduction of electricity VAT, it did not give for a coffee per month. So it did not solve the problem, it did not solve the weight that has the cost of energy in family budgets, in the budgets of the different citizens. In the previous legislation, I remember, we were a little bit able to achieve the reduction of electricity VAT and VAT only did not fall because the PSD changed position at the last hour. It is regrettable that this happened, the PS did not then have an absolute majority, so it would have been possible to solve this problem and today the Portuguese would be paying the VAT of gas and electricity at the minimum rate, rather than the current rate they pay. It wasn't possible, I repeat. Now there is an agreement in Parliament to lower the VAT of electricity, but the PS, which has an absolute majority, can prevent this proposal from moving forward. We maintain our coherence, defend energy income control, defend the taxation of astronomical profits and the profit margins of electricity and energy companies, also defend the reduction of energy VAT to 6 %. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-03.u21	Mr Hugo Costa of the PS Parliamentary Group is still speaking.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-03.u22	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : We understand the importance of mitigating the inflationary effects as a result of the war in Eastern Europe, as well as of the covid-19 pandemic, but the proposals must be clear, possible and have real effect on people, which is clearly not the case, even understanding the goodness of the principles that led to their presentation. Nor does it fail to be real that the Regional Government of Madeira has its own mechanisms to lower VAT and did not present them, unlike other outermost regions, which presented a higher VAT rate than others. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-03.u23	I'd like to leave some notes. According to the text of the bill, this would enter into force at the time of the entry into force of the State budget for the year 2023, since of course it would have enormous budgetary implications. However, this initiative was admitted to the Assembly of the Republic on the same day as the overall final vote of the State budget. When the proposal was discussed in plenary, the State budget was already in force 35 days ago and the same diploma says that VAT reduction would enter into force with the State budget for the year 2023. That is why, of course, this diploma was not to be approved. The proposal aims to subject electricity supply, natural gas supply, propane gas supply and internet access services to the reduced VAT rate. This debate should have been held in the context of the budget. And now, in some specific cases, this proposal violates Community directives, hence the need for their authorisation. We can make all kinds of proclamations, but in reality in a country of the European Union, in the context of VAT as a Community tax, there are obligations. With regard to electricity, it is noted that the Government has already taken down VAT, applicable to the supply of electricity under Law No 19 / 2022, providing for the application of a reduced rate of VAT to the supply of electricity in respect of the lowest contracted powers. However, as far as electricity is concerned, the social rate of electricity and natural gas remains in force, which enables the consumption of the most vulnerable families to be supported. It is good to remember that in the times of the troika consumers were encouraged by the bureaucracy not to move forward with this measure, also that of the Socialist Party, which, with an automatism created in 2016, allowed to move from less than 80 000 families to about 800 000. With regard to this mechanism, Parliament has done a crucial job. Former Secretary of State Jorge Seguro Sanches, current Member of the Assembly of the Republic, also led this procedure in the Government which allowed from 80 000 families to 800 000 families. The Iberian Mechanism allowed a reduction in electricity tariff by more than 31 %, Iberian Mechanism which was criticized, for example, by the PSD when it was created. I also stress the reduction in network access rates which in 2023 will become negative at all levels of consumption. Yes, the Ministry of Environment and Climate Action has presented responses, as well as the Ministry of Finance, to combat the price of energy. I would like to remind you that any reduction in VAT must be approved in Brussels as it is a European tax. As regards the supply of propane and butane gas, essential for 70 % of the population, the Annex to the Community VAT Directive prohibits and does not allow it to be placed at the reduced rate, so the proposal, if approved, would be totally ineffective. thus, also on botija gas, I remember that the deprived families already benefit from the support of the Solidary Bilha Program, with a reinforcement in the Budget for this year. On natural gas, the Government has already introduced several support measures, such as the possibility of transition to the regulated market, with great impact on Portuguese families, as well as extraordinary support for gas for 2023, the Gas Support Programme and still a generation of 20 %, within IRC, of the costs with natural gas of companies. Finally, as far as Internet services are concerned, it is not clear from the Community directives that VAT should be passed and everyone in the Assembly who knows the Community VAT directives know that this is true. The Government and the PS are closely monitoring the increases in electronic communications, but it was also the Socialist Party that approved the social tariff of the Internet. In short, they rely on the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group to work on balanced proposals, possibly technically realistic, and which have real capacity and not proposals which, if approved, violated VAT annexes. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-03.u24	I now give the floor to Mrs Sara Madruga from the Costa, from the PSD Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-03.u25	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The initiative under consideration, by the authorship of the Madeira Parliament, aims at restoring VAT to a reduced rate for electricity, natural gas, propane and butane and covering the provision of Internet access services. It considers that the measures taken by the Government of the Republic to minimize the impact of the financial crisis and the war in Ukraine are clearly insufficient to deal with price escalation and that it is necessary to reduce VAT in these essential goods to return income to families and businesses. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we could not agree more on the failure of government measures to deal with the current situation and the urgency of returning income to businesses and families, especially those of the middle class. The debate on the reduction of VAT in these goods, especially in electricity, is not new, but it is a debate that is current and that should deserve the best attention of this Parliament, given the energy crisis and the effects of inflation. By the way, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we recall that the PSD brought this debate three years ago to this Chamber and that at the time the PS and all the other parties refused to approve our proposal which would now allow the reduction of VAT in electricity. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, it is also said that, strangely, with regard to the initiative under consideration, the PS in Madeira did not vote against, but, yes, in favour of this initiative,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-03.u26	What about the PSD? Stay away from me!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-03.u27	... which does not cease to be curious and paradigmatic, certainly increasing our suspense on what will now be the sense of vote of the Socialist Party. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, will the PS maintain or not, here in the Republic, the same sense of vote you had in Madeira?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-03.u28	PSD has abstained!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-03.u29	Soon, we will see for sure what the Socialist Party's sense of vote will be. Inconsistencies aside, ladies and gentlemen. Members, we believe that, in the context of the difficulties and the crisis we are experiencing, all the measures I repeat, all the measures necessary to help minimize the costs of families and final consumers in relation to essential goods are welcome. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we have long defended the low tax burden, in particular the reduction of VAT to the minimum rate in electricity, gas and fuel. The PSD programme provided for the reduction of VAT on electricity and gas from 23 % to 6 % and the relief of the average class tax burden considerably higher than expected by the Government. The PSD programme, Ms. and Mrs. Members, he was more ambitious, more friend of families with lower incomes and also much more friend of middle-class families than the Government Programme. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, in addition to the reduction in VAT, a measure which is quite positive, we advocate more robust, structural measures and which guarantee greater stability, in particular with regard to the provision of Internet access services. We believe that the structural options of the various such services offered can have a greater impact on the reduction and should be considered first, without prejudice, of course, to the reduction of VAT. Structurally, the measures that have a greater impact are those relating to the plans and packages of services of operators or rather to the reduction of VAT, not permanently affecting the advantages of the consumer. The way must be through the creation of solutions and offers of more competitive internet services and more structural, lasting and permanent measures than the reduction of VAT. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, despite these particularities which we now point out, we will not make the initiative of the Madeira Parliament unfeasible. As we have mentioned, all measures aimed at minimizing the costs of families in relation to essential goods are welcome. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-03.u30	Mrs. Members, having completed the debate on the first item on the agenda, we move on to the second item, which consists in the assessment of Petition No 251 / XIV / 2. a ( Fernando Miguel Silva Gonçalves et al.) — By reviewing the technical careers of the DGRSP and creating the unique career of technician/ the reintegration career, together with the Resolution Projects Nos 67 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ) — By creating the career of reintegration technician, Directorate-General for Reintegration and Prison Services, 305 / XV / 1. a ( L) — Recommends that the Government review the careers of professional social reintegration technician, senior social reintegration technician and higher education technician from the Directorate-General for Reintegration and Prison Services, and regulate their progress and remuneration, 352 / XV / 1. a ( BE) — Review of technical careers and creation of the single technical/reintegration career within the framework of the Directorate-General for Reintegration and Prison Services ( DGRSP ) and 390 / XV / 1. a (CH) — By reviewing the technical careers of the DGSP-Directorate-General for Reintegration and Prison Services - and creating the unique career of reintegration technician. In order to intervene in the debate, and to present the CFP initiative, Mrs Alma Rivera has the floor, which requires everyone to wait 43 seconds for the text of her speech to be printed. [[Pause.]] You have the floor, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-03.u31	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, we want to welcome the petitioners who give us the opportunity to discuss this important issue here. As the law defines, they are general objectives of criminal policy to prevent, suppress and reduce crime, promoting the defence of legal property, the protection of victims and the reintegration of crime agents into society. The Directorate-General for Reintegration and Prison Services is the body responsible for criminal prevention, enforcement of sentences, social reintegration and management of protective, educational and prison systems. Within the framework of the Directorate-General, they perform technical functions, social reintegration professionals, senior social reintegration technicians and higher education technicians, integrated in the different organizational units. These workers of the Ministry of Justice perform functions of primary importance, which are essential for the prevention of crime and social integration of adults and young offenders or at risk of delinquency. These are complex and demanding functions, of indisputable responsibility, that pass through counseling to the courts until the development of criminal and juvenile prevention projects. The functions of a social reintegration technician involve the design, development of plans for the implementation of measures decreed by the courts, the supervision and control of compliance with obligations, rules of conduct and tasks or work for the community, the execution of pre-sensential expertise in the areas of the social reintegration of offenders and criminal prevention, as well as the monitoring and enforcement of sentences deprived of liberty. Professional technicians are responsible for monitoring electronic bracelets and for, in case of alarm, checking the reason for alerting at any time of day or night, being the first line of intervention in crisis situations, ensuring psychosocial follow-up of the monitors and driving service cars. Moreover, they must have permanent availability for the provision of work whenever requested and the special risk inherent in the nature of their duties, which requires specific experience and training. However, despite the successive promises made by the Government, which once again makes promises, their career as a special career has not been, to date, reviewed or regulated as a special career in the field of Public Administration, although this need results from the law itself. Mrs. Members, these professionals are absolutely essential, but they are largely insufficient for the needs, to achieve the objectives of the reintegration policy and are abused, badly paid, they are devalued. These workers earn a value equivalent to the minimum wage and there are those who have been earning about €900 for over 30 years. Now, this is an absolute disrespect for those who work. In order to value professionals, to qualify and make justice and the social reintegration system more effective, it is absolutely unacceptable to create the unique technical career of the Directorate-General for Reintegration and Prison Services. The replacement and creation of new careers of the Public Administration, according to the specificities of each particular function, is the most basic of justice, in the perspective of valuing professional careers and workers and improving the public service that is provided to the people in the different social functions of the State. That is why the CFP proposes and urges the Assembly of the Republic to adopt this initiative so that the Government, already - may! — initiate and develop collective bargaining processes with the representative organisations of workers with a view to creating a unique special career of reintegration technician, considering the specificities and responsibilities of the tasks performed, ensuring the development of the careers of these professionals which both give the country, its progress and its consequent remuneration. It's time to make a difference! [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-03.u32	Mr Rui Tavares has the floor to present the initiative for the Book.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-03.u33	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The reports of the Committee on Monitoring and Monitoring of Educational Centres, which accompany the operation of these centres, alert each year to the urgent need for the framework of professional professionals for social reintegration in their own career and to review their remuneration situation. This is indeed an old and very fair claim. The absence of these measures compromises the attractiveness of the career, which has a shortage of professionals, compromises the educational model that is intended to continue, and thus compromises the functioning of educational centres and the application of the Educational Guardian Law. There is great mobility, because pay conditions are largely at the minimum wage level, i.e. lack of retention capacity. And because they are not part of a career, these technicians have no progress and supplements and bonuses are added that do not count on casualties, holidays or retirement. These reports describe a situation of neglect and neglect and leave us with a situation of perplexity in the face of the status quo. The competitions opened in recent years for the filling of seats for this career, insistently, have tried, without success, to capture the sufficient number of technicians to meet the real needs of the centers. The Ombudsman has alerted each year to this situation and cited what he heard, i.e., that is an abandoned career. Dear and Dear Colleagues, the Livre calls for regularization of progress and remuneration positions and the review of careers of professional technician in social reintegration, superior technician in social reintegration and superior technician in education. We do not manifest ourselves in relation to the type of career to be created, i.e. if a general career, if a special career, if two careers, if a unique career with two parallel categories, that of technicians and superior technicians, because this should result from discussion with trade unions and representative organizations. What we are asking, and that is the question that needs an urgent answer, is the following: how can we abandon careers with this degree of importance?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-03.u34	To present the initiative of the Left Block, Mr Pedro Filipe Soares has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-03.u35	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: There is no justice in a democratic society without thinking about the social reintegration system, because otherwise we are, in fact, leaving the people we wanted to see solutions in society, brought to society by a way that would ensure that their integration was complete. Therefore, when we talk about the techniques and techniques of social reintegration, a term that is, as we perceive, diffuse, without a career, without respect for its rights, we are talking about an obligation that the state in a democratic society must comply not only with these professionals, but also with a justice system that is just and that guarantees this social reintegration. Thus, when we fail to comply with human resources for this purpose, when we fail to guarantee working conditions for that purpose, we are failing in the justice system. So, first of all, on behalf of the Left Block, I wanted to thank the technicians and social reintegration techniques, which, when they fight for their career — and it is a fair struggle — are fighting for better justice in the country, and that is even more important. Secondly, I wanted to give some examples of what we are talking about, not repeating the previous interventions that have already summarized them, but asking some more important questions for those who do not know the area to understand what is at stake. At present, we have about 142 techniques and techniques of social reintegration to respond to the 4290 people who are accompanying, and work 24 hours a day, 7 days a week, in 8 hours a day, which means — simply to do the accounts in a very simple way — that it is not possible to do a serious job with this lack of people, this lack of human resources and this number of cases to follow. These technicians often have difficult answers, expose themselves to risk situations, are responsible for electronic surveillance, and we know that when they are not available, because someone fails, because it is not possible with this number of people to respond to concrete situations every day and at all times, there is a distance response and we know how the distance response works, that is, often fail. If we want to think about their rights, which are legitimate, if we want to think about a system of justice, we must ensure that there is a properly thoughted, properly structured career that does not deny them any progress or a horizon for their labour rights, with a system of justice that does not put the social reintegration in the drawer in the background. When we heard the Minister of Justice in this Parliament last Wednesday, saying that it was only now that I was going to start thinking about the career of social reintegration technician, we realize how bad it is. The Socialist Party Government has been in power for seven years, the Minister is in charge of the Minister of Justice for almost a year and only now, on such an important subject as social reintegration, is that she says she is going to start studying to start negotiations in 2024. This is unacceptable to us and therefore what we are proposing to this Assembly of the Republic — what we are looking at with the techniques and techniques of social reintegration — is to require the Government to do what it should have done in 2023: to guarantee rights, to guarantee a career and to deal seriously with social reintegration, starting with its professionals. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-03.u36	To present the initiative of the Parliamentary Group of the Arrival, Mr Bruno Nunes has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-03.u37	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Petitioners: The unique career of reintegration technician is what the Arrival proposes and which brings the discussion today. It is not just a career of importance, and we all know — today have been listed — many of the functions that these professionals perform. And the draft resolution of the Arrival comes following the petition, which we greet, which has as first subscriber Fernando Gonçalves. We have just heard that the government has done absolutely nothing seven years ago. This was said by the same ones that for six years approved the budgets of the Socialist Party,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-03.u38	False! False!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-03.u39	...and they were next to the Socialist Party: the extreme left and the left, which did nothing for these people. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-03.u40	False!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-03.u41	This draft resolution could, however, be called « Armando Vara project », and I will explain why. We look at the 2015 news and read: « Armando Vara is already home with electronic bracelet. Do not keep on seeking. ” Possibly, some of the technicians who are here had to visit Armando Vara to do their job. It says the judgment of the Court that Armando Vara receives more than twice the vital grant, approved by VV. Ex., than the value that is public. Armando Vara receives €8551 monthly for technicians to control him and understand if he is at home and if he is in good health. Professional social reintegration technicians with 35 years of career receive 900 € per month. Armando Vara is worth 10 reinsertion technicians per month, when it is closed at home and these people continue to work. [[PS Member Protests Eurico Brilliant Dias.]] It would be appropriate to ask, Mr. Eurico Brillante Dias, whether or not he is ashamed of what the Socialist Party has done to these technicians.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-03.u42	I have, I have...!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-03.u43	Are you or are you not ashamed of what these professionals are doing, who have no recognition? In the news you can read: « Young reinsertion technical farm. » Do you know why, honourable Member? Because the technicians go alone, because they have no support, because they have no respect for the government that has been in office for seven years, supported by the left and the extreme left, which was called management. It is a government that does not respect technicians and that now says « we will create the career, we will finally recognize them ». [[Congrats from the CH.]] These are the technicians who when they do not have to go out and get to work in their own places are prevented from using the bathroom for lack of water! [[PS Member Protests Eurico Brilliant Dias.]] It is these technicians, who are in the galleries, that you do not respect the whole line. Now, they say that they want to come to talk about them, that they want more social justice and that they want to do a lot and a good job with them, but anyway, when they go to the street they claim what happens is that they are the target of disciplinary processes. This was the freedom which they brought with them on 25 April and which prevents these people from manifesting themselves and demanding their rights. [[Congrats from the CH.]] [[PS protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-03.u44	Don't you want to hear?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-03.u45	Let's talk about our proposal. The proposal of the Arrival is the one that makes the recommendations temporarily defined and specified in the criteria that those women and those men need. The PCP and the Left Block, as we are used to, say that nothing has to do with management, that management is not theirs, but they kept the Government of the Socialist Party, who voted their budgets and never fought for the recognition of career.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-03.u46	False!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-03.u47	But now we hear you say that the important thing is social reintegration and that you have to deal with prisoners.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-03.u48	Sure!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-03.u49	Yes, we have to deal with it, because, in fulfilling your sentence, the prisoners must return to freedom, but we have to understand in what terms. We look at the measures of the Socialist Party and, in recent years, according to the latest information we have, what they do inside the prisons is teach the prisoners to be well-being. It is to prepare them, certainly, for, when they have a confrontation with you at the door of the house, they have a good reception! ...What is this? It's a shame for those men and women who are working! [[Congrats from the CH.]] We are, in fact, very concerned about what is happening in Portuguese prisons, how prisoners are returned to society, but, above all, we are concerned about those who face the state and, consecutively, the government and the country. We are much more concerned with them and it is for them that we present the draft resolution and ask for respect and dignity for the profession. [[Congrats from the CH.]] [[Meanwhile, he took the presidency of Vice President Editi Estrela.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-03.u50	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, good morning to all. We now turn to the intervention period and give the floor to Mrs Patrícia Gilvaz of the Liberal Initiative Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-03.u51	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : I would like to begin by greeting the more than 8500 subscribers of this petition, which makes us discuss a topic that is of greatest relevance and which, in the view of the Liberal Initiative, deserves a serious, comprehensive and extended approach, since we are talking about a profession that develops a central role in the prevention of crime and in the social reintegration of adults and young people who are furnished with the system. In recent times, it has become evident that one of the most pressing needs is to review the careers of the Public Administration, something that the Government has pushed with the belly, while trying to convince us to turn from the page of austerity. In the words of the Minister of Justice, social reintegration technicians will see their careers already revised in 2024, which I think is unlikely — that is, of course, if the government gets there. But besides the review of careers, what can these professionals expect from this so promised reform? Will the State be able to cope with the increase in the cost of living? Will the State be able to make the career of social reintegration technician an attractive career and that sets professionals of excellence? Will the career review be sufficient to solve the problem of lack of human resources? These are the issues that are on the table and these are also the problems that occur in other professions protected by the State. from teachers to health professionals, passing by justice officers or registries workers, the professionals of the Public Administration are, in fact, the most affected by socialist austerity. It is almost 8 years of stagnation and demotivation that can only be attributed to the PS.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-03.u52	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-03.u53	In the case of the prison system and the social reintegration system, the paradigm and the consequences of the socialist government are particularly serious, forcing the prison guards — who also demand the review of their career — to hand over an already extended strike and to alert to the chaos in which the prison system can become in the coming years, the result of the reform, which will happen, of more than 1000 professionals in this career. The system and the prison park are dated and it is necessary a serious reform of the building, much of it already a hundred years old and inadequate to the purposes of the present penalties, thus preventing the work so important and precious of social reintegration technicians. Mrs. Members: The Liberal Initiative realizes the urgency of the review of certain careers and therefore we will not make the draft resolutions that are under discussion today, but we do not believe that the review, as it is now promised by the government, will solve the needs of state professionals. We will therefore remain vigilant with regard to all that is approved in this House today and will continue to examine the action and promises of the Government. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-03.u54	For an intervention, Mrs Sofia Matos of the PSD Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-03.u55	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, as I could not fail to be, I address a compliment to the 8627 petitioners of this citizen initiative, as well as to those who are representing these professionals today. I would, of course, like to give you a word of solidarity: the PSD is at your side and is watching over government activity. Ladies and gentlemen. Members: Today we are discussing the review of the careers of technicians of the Directorate-General for Reintegration and Prison Services. Although, over the years, these professionals have been taking on increasingly complex and increasingly complex functions, for almost 15 years social reintegration technicians have been waiting for a career review. We are talking about professionals who take the minimum wage, but who perform tasks of enormous responsibility, with great impact on maintaining constitutional order, as well as on preventing crime and on the social integration of young people and adults. This is absolutely unacceptable and disproportionate. After almost eight years of socialist governance, it seemed that they now wanted — at last! — to resolve the matter by taking into account, in the agreement concluded with the public administration unions, the review of special careers until the end of January 2023. However, the news could not be worse. In fact, last Tuesday, the unions came in shock from the meeting with the government. After all, the government, which had been available to review the careers in January, will send these careers to the calendars by 2024. But this can also mean that, in fact, only in 2025 is that these workers can see some light at the bottom of the tunnel. In fact, the Minister of Justice has already confirmed it here before. However, as the unions have already publicly admitted, the agreement with the Government was signed on the expectation of careers as we are discussing here today cannot be pushed into the calendars. It is therefore clear that the multi-annual wage valuation agreement which the Government has not been able to propagate, to propagate as a single fact, was concluded on the basis of the creation of high expectations for workers and trade unions. [[PSD applause.]] Expectations that, at the moment of truth, are completely frustrated, revealing that the government was, from the beginning, of a negotiating evil, indeed, as we have anticipated. In view of all this — and as it could not be — the PSD Parliamentary Group will vote in favour of the initiatives being debated today, alongside the demands of these professionals and, of course, giving a red card to the Government of the Republic. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-03.u56	For an intervention, Mrs Inês de Sousa Real has the floor of the PAN.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-03.u57	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I would first of all like to welcome the thousands of petitioners who call on us to discuss the injustice to which they have been subjected, and to remind us — because it has indeed been forgotten — the centrality of the action of these justice professionals, whether in the prevention of crime, in the monitoring of the execution of sentences or even in the intervention in the reintegration into society, which is a fundamental issue in our rule of law. On average, today, each social reintegration technician is accompanied by at least 30 cases due to the necessary surveillance functions. We often talk about situations of domestic violence, which reinforces the importance of the performance of these professionals. However, their working conditions have not, in fact, been followed: these professionals, for example, make hundreds of miles a day without adequate means. This adds to the lack of recognition and appreciation of careers, even in view of the time announced by the Minister of Justice and which, in fact, does not meet their needs, or the lack of human resources. Perspectives, whether of career progression or of remuneration conditions, in the view of the NAP, should also be reviewed, new competitions should be opened to address the shortcomings and shortcomings that have been evidenced and the government cannot continue to place on the back of these workers a function that is fundamental to justice in Portugal. That is why we will be with these professionals, voting in favour of all the initiatives that have been presented here today.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-03.u58	For an intervention, Mr Francisco Oliveira of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-03.u59	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: From now on, I greet the petitioners for the review of the careers of social reintegration technicians. The Directorate-General for Reintegration and Prison Services « is responsible for the development of policies for criminal prevention, enforcement of sentences and measures and social reintegration and the joint and complementary management of educational and prison protection systems, ensuring conditions compatible with human dignity and contributing to the defence of order and social peace», as set out in its organic law, Decree-Law No 215 / 2012 of 28 September 2012. The Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group and the Ministry of Justice recognise the importance of these technicians, who perform functions of primary importance for the prevention of crime and the social integration of criminal citizens or at risk of delinquency, functions, which are particularly complex and demanding. in this sense, the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group accompanies some of the demands of these technicians, in particular that of the review of their careers. In fact, they perform the functions of workers such as professional technicians of social reintegration, superior technicians of social reintegration, superior technicians of school and social orientation, integrated in the different organizational units that, due to their characteristics, deserve a particular analysis. For this reason, the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group and the Government, through the Ministry of Justice, are engaged in the review of careers, as defined by the Government for Public Administration. The Minister of Justice has therefore visited various prisons and educational institutions in the country since she took possession, in order to be able to understand the most pressing needs and shortcomings of these professionals, so that, in a sustained and planned way, they can ensure not only the demands of the present but also those of the future. In fact, these workers are subject to demanding functional duties and the training required, due to the complex nature of their duties, is of particular necessity and interdisciplinary nature. The complexity and requirement of all these functions and activities increases the permanent availability for the provision of work, where requested, in particular when travelling to the source, involving strict observance of safety rules that require specific experience and training to ensure the success of the criminal prevention and social development actions assigned to them. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Ministry of Justice has been working with the representative trade unions of these professionals in order to carry out some of their claims. The Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group shares these concerns and has the notion that the Ministry of Justice is on the right track, in order to provide the conditions for these institutions to ensure better functioning and, in particular, for the human resources that compose them and are the essential pillar of them to be resolved, for the future, the issues that they have been demanding for several years, and which include the various social reintegration technicians who provide services in the Directorate-General for Reintegration and Prison Services.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-03.u60	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-03.u61	In fact, such a wish was even stated by the Minister of Justice at the regimental hearing held on 1 February, in which she made a commitment that this claim would have its review process completed in the course of 2024. This is the path that the PS has come to develop and will continue to develop, in the sense of unlocking and revising careers, always with enormous sense of responsibility, so that it can encompass all those who need to see their improved conditions, political, that which has revealed their fruits, allowing excellent economic results, even after a pandemic and in the middle of a war with disastrous economic consequences. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We'll continue side by side with the Portuguese. Together we're going and we're going! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-03.u62	Mr Pedro Filipe Soares, of the Left Block Parliamentary Group, spoke for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-03.u63	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Mr Bruno Nunes insisted on two ideas which, because of their falsity, deserve an answer. One first is on the votes of the State budget. Just a simple consultation — simple! — to Parliamentary history to realize that the Left Block voted for the last time in favour of an Annual State Budget of the Socialist Party in November 2018. You will certainly be able to make accounts—I hope, at least—if not, ask for help.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-03.u64	Girginance!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-03.u65	A second is about what he says about vital subsidies. I wanted to remember something simple: when the Left Block, in this House, proposed to end vital subsidies, the Arrival had a spokesperson — Sousa Lara — who received them. This makes it clear who's on either side. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-03.u66	Oh!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-03.u67	That's why he's been away!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-03.u68	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen of the coming Parliamentary Group... [[CH Member's Protests André Ventura.]] Mr Ventura, I would like to thank you for setting up conditions so that we can continue our work and interventions.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-03.u69	You have to say that to the other Members, it is not just enough!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-03.u70	For an intervention, Mrs Alma Rivera of the CFP Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-03.u71	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The question is whether or not we want justice not only to be paid, but to be focused not only on punishment, but also on reintegration. This is all that is at stake today. So we have to make rapid commitments, and we do not continue to delay. We also need to know whether we want justice for those who work in justice. In fact, this is a question which arises here today in the face of the various careers involved in the area of justice. We are talking, for example, about juvenile justice, about educational centres where there are no technicians — and will continue without, if there is no career appreciation — to accompany young people, to allow these young people to be effectively inserted into society and to develop a different life project. We are also talking about domestic violence: how many times do you hear here about domestic violence, about cross-sectional concern about domestic violence? For, then, they also worry about the victims, since the electronic bracelets do not currently have technicians who accompany them, as they should be much less to rehabilitate the individual as well and prevent there from recurrence. I have also heard here, and this is an absolutely lateral issue in this debate, because we should be concerned, yes, to ensure that today...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-03.u72	I would ask you to conclude, Mrs Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-03.u73	I conclude, Madam President. As I said, we should be concerned, yes, to ensure that what comes out of here today is a serious and immediate commitment to the review of careers, but we also heard about responsibility. It's good to remember that careers...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-03.u74	Mrs. Deputy, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-03.u75	Madam President, let me just finish. It is good to remember that the careers were destroyed in 2008 and, meanwhile, three governments passed.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-03.u76	In 2008!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-03.u77	Maybe you didn't say anything, because they were from the government party and we didn't hear them at the time. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-03.u78	For an intervention, Mrs Sara Madruga da Costa, from the PSD Parliamentary Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-03.u79	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, I would like to address the petitioners and to thank the courage and resilience they had to bring to this House a claim that is of the most justice and that it takes time to be resolved by the government, namely: the review of careers. As we have seen in this debate, most parties are on your side in defending the revision and regulation of this career. Unfortunately, who « has the knife and cheese in his hand », which is the government, continues to do everything to push with the belly the resolution of this matter, which is urgent and cannot wait any longer. This week, here in Parliament, the Minister of Justice postponed the resolution of the problem, which is urgent for 2024. Repeat : for 2024! As far as possible, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, would you like to postpone for another year a problem which is considered urgent by all? Oh, my God! It's not just the PSD that says it's urgent, ladies and gentlemen. Members, it is also the report of the Committee on Monitoring and Monitoring of the Educational Centres referred to in this report. This report denounces a number of situations and constraints which are extremely serious and which demonstrate the necessity and urgency of this career review. This adds to the enormous deficit of these professionals, an unacceptable shortage which compromises the implementation of a series of measures provided for in the law. We have a little bit of everything, ladies and gentlemen. Members: from a technician to control about 500 electronic bracelets; numerous calls in relation to domestic violence that remain unattended, due to lack of technicians; technicians to administer medicines instead of nurses; private security to carry out the surveillance of juvenile offenders in educational centers. All of this adds up to the fact, ladies and gentlemen. Members, if they are badly paid and have to perform their function in degraded infrastructure, to put water, with moisture and other deficiencies. Ladies and gentlemen. Members: The reality of these professionals is serious — I would say, very grave! — and calls for urgent measures by the Government to address this situation in the educational protection system. It is urgent, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, there is reinforcement of these technicians. It is urgent to review and regulate the career in order to make it appropriate to carry out its duties. Ladies and gentlemen. Members: The urgency of this situation does not, I repeat, sympathize with the delay in its implementation by the Government of 2024. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-03.u80	Thank you very much, Your Honor. We therefore conclude the debate on Petition No 251 / XIV / 2. the, so I use to greet the representatives of the petitioners who are present. We move on to the third point of the order of business, which is that of the assessment of Petition No 310 / XIV / 3. a ( Eduardo Bernardino et al.) — Nurses - By the right of access to reform at least 55 years of age, together with, in general, Bill 496 / XV / 1. a ( BE) — Creating a status of risk and penosity for health professionals and 501 / XV / 1. a ( CH) — Recognizes the profession of nurse as a rapid wear and anticipates the retirement age and with Resolution Projects Nos. 323 / XV / 1. a ( PAN) — Recommends that the Government set up a working group to amend the legal framework for rapid wear and tear, which sets criteria for the allocation of this qualification and identifies an example list of such professions and 396 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Definition and regulation of a specific employment and retirement scheme for nurses. To submit Bill No. 496 / XV / 1. a, from the Left Block, has the floor Mr Pedro Filipe Soares.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-03.u81	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, on behalf of the Left Block, I would like to congratulate the ladies and gentlemen. Petitioners who brought this debate to the Assembly of the Republic. During the last two years, the work of health professionals has become much more visible. The pandemic brought to the televisions the importance of what they did and what they continue to do. We saw how endless shifts and work days unfolded, as they did evenings and weekends to ensure continuity of care, as they were exposed to risks, when the population sought to protect themselves, as many have abdicated from being with families so as not to be a source of contact. We watched all of this during the pandemic, but this is the daily life of the workers of the National Health Service (NSS) all year round, all year round. Nurses, superior diagnostic technicians, operational assistants, pharmacists, doctors, this is the life of all of them. They make more than 20 million extraordinary hours a year and it's not for value, because the value is low, and often they're not even paid. It's because these workers know that the SNS can't stop, that users can't get out of care. They make shifts behind shifts, many emergencies, many nights, even when the law already exempts them from such services. And they continue to expose themselves to various risks — all those that exist, in addition to cowardice — because, after all, those who deal with the disease know that they are always at a worse risk of becoming ill. During the pandemic, the government advanced with a risk allowance, which excluded more than it included. It was only for very little time, very little time, and arrived to few workers, even very few. The question is simple: if these situations are permanent, if they always exist, if the workers who face them every day, in their work, know that this is their daily life, why is this not recognized? Oh, my God! If your profession has an increased risk and penosity, why not recognize and repay that? Oh, my God! There is no reason, except, of course, for the government to save, at the expense of the rights, working conditions and wages of the workers of the National Health Service. What the Left Block proposes is that all SNS professionals have a status of risk and penosity. If the draft resolution we bring the debate is fulfilled, this statute will complement the careers of the workers of the SNS and will ensure a series of compensatory rights of this risk and penosity inherent in their functions. What rights do we want to establish? A remuneration supplement, a mechanism for faster career progression, increased rest days for working years, reduced weekly workload for working years, early retirement age without penalty, among other matters that are agreed with the representative structures of the workers concerned. If the workers and the workers of the SNS ask themselves so much and so much, the minimum we can do is to recognize them in proportion to what they give us every day. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-03.u82	To submit Bill No. 501 / XV / 1. Mr Jorge Galveias.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-03.u83	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Arrival wants, first and foremost and publicly, in this House, in the person of Mr. Eduardo Bernardino and all petitioners, to thank nurses and all health professionals for their daily efforts in defending the common good, taking care of all those who seek health care when they need it. Ladies and gentlemen. Members: To recognize the profession of nurse as a rapid wear and to anticipate the age of reform is of the most elementary justice. For this reason, the Arrival presents today, in this House, Bill No. 501 / XV / 1. a, to this end. In such fair matters that overcome any ideology, there can be no ideological blindness, so the lead of our proposal would be a shame for this House. The Government of António Costa, accompanied by the benches that support it, praised, applauded, praised nurses, doctors and other health professionals. However, selective socialist forgetfulness quickly abandoned these heroes. But not the people! The people don't forget them!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-03.u84	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-03.u85	Nurses are subject to a workload and emotional burden that causes rapid wear that cannot continue to be ignored. Unfortunately, to this wear inherent in the performance of the nursing profession, we have to add another type of unnecessary wear, caused by the chaos that lives daily in the National Health Service, the responsibility of the various governments of the Socialist Party. [[Congrats from the CH.]] The health units are almost transformed into campaign hospitals, as a result of the disinvestment and disorganization in this sector. Nurses and other health professionals are confronted with thousands of stories like Mr. José's, a real story that yesterday a desperate family member brought me here, and that I read. "My father, 86 years old, went to the health center to which he belongs, where he described symptoms with indication for the prescription of colonoscopy. After going through three clinics in Lisbon, he got an agenda for October 4, 2023, that is, nine months later. Mr Deputie, nine months for the diagnosis of a disease that could be fatal and where the intervention window for healing is fundamental. Please help me save my father. Do not keep on seeking. ” I would like to draw the attention of the honourable Members. Members for the fact that the three clinics referred to are located in the capital, where the installed capacity for complementary diagnostic and therapeutic means is the highest in the country. Unfortunately, we can add thousands of situations like this, which cause feelings of helplessness, frustration, anger, pain and sadness, particularly to all professionals who have sworn to save lives. These emotional states are responsible for increasing situations of depression, leading some health professionals to suicide, a matter that nobody dares to talk about. Mr. Eurico Brillante Dias, the time has come for your bench to draw a red line to the incompetence of the Socialist Party Government and solve the problem of thousands of people like Mr. José. Stop protecting Fernando Medina and António Costa. It is time to join the arrival in the defense of nurses and all other health professionals, as well as people, especially the poor, who do not have money for health insurance or private hospitals and who are condemned to seek help in health units, which most seem campaign hospitals. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-03.u86	To present draft resolution No 323 / XV / 1. a, of the NAP, has the floor to Mrs Inês Sousa Real.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-03.u87	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin by greeting the nurses who have mobilized so that the right to early retirement would be the subject of this discussion here in the plenary. Because they care for us and for the sacrifices they have made during the pandemic, and that they continue to do every day, nurses deserve not only more respect as working conditions and more rights, namely the classification of their profession as rapid wear, with the right to early retirement. What they received from the government was palms, a league of champions, and nothing more! The NAP supports nurses' demands and, therefore, today, proposes that a working group be set up to establish criteria for this profession to be classified as a rapid weariness and for them to be given the right to early retirement. We believe that this instrument will provide, with justice, this qualification for nurses, but also for teachers, doctors, shift workers, pickpockets, cabin crews and so many other professions that have been making this claim to Parliament for years. This NAP proposal can bring significant changes in people's lives in terms that guarantee budgetary responsibility, technical rigour, proportionality and justice. Its approval, in addition to being a decision to establish common sense, especially in this context, will be proof that we are a Parliament attentive to civil society, to its demands and needs, but above all that we do not allow vain words to be the mantra of « leaving no one behind».
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-03.u88	To present draft resolution No 396 / XV / 1. a, from the PCP, has the floor Mr João Dias.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-03.u89	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I would like to congratulate the more than 11 100 petitioners who have signed this petition and who ask the Assembly of the Republic for access to the reform of nurses with at least 55 years of age, as a compensatory measure for the wear inherent in the profession. Nursing is the most representative group in health institutions that, due to the characteristics of the profession, takes a high risk of work accidents and penosity. Nurses read and experience suffering, death, disease, the high degree of responsibility, decision-making, shiftwork. There are numerous risk factors to which nurses are exposed: biological — from exposure to microorganisms, such as bacteria, viruses and infectious contagious material, among others; physical — such as noise, vibrations, radiation, extreme temperatures, abnormal pressures, humidity, inadequate lighting, etc. ; ergonomics and mechanicals—such as lifting and transporting of weights, errors in the design of routines, services and furniture; chemicals—such as handling of gas and anesthetic vapors, antiseptics, dusts, etc. ; and psychosocial, Mrs. Members, of which are highlighted the burden arising from contact with the suffering of patients, with pain and death, night work, shift exchanges, double shifts, accelerated pace. Finally, it is a whole set of risk factors and penosity that can happen in isolation or in combination, which clearly subject the nurse to numerous risk factors that can cause damage ranging from work accidents to occupational diseases, without forgetting fatigue, early aging and job dissatisfaction. Mrs. Members, the risk and penosity of the nursing profession are well-identified and recognized. The question that we should ask is the following: is it possible to eliminate the risk and penosity associated with the exercise of the nursing profession, particularly with regard to working hours, occupational safety and health or occupational risk prevention? The answer is: no, it is not possible to eliminate these risks. So we must put another question: is it possible to minimize this risk, since it is not possible to eliminate it? The answer is: yes, it is possible to minimize it, particularly through the compensation of the risk and penosity inherent in the profession, especially through special retirement conditions.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-03.u90	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-03.u91	It is not a need to recognize the risk and the penoness of the profession, only it is not recognized by those who do not want it. What matters is what is done with this recognition, because if it is to do the same thing that they did with the palms that they struck during the pandemic, more than a disappointment, it is a revolt.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-03.u92	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-03.u93	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The conditions in which nursing care is provided today should concern us all, not just nurses. In addition to the duty to protect the health of these professionals is also the safety and quality of care that is being provided. That is why the CFP advocates the definition and regulation of a specific employment and retirement scheme for nurses. It is a struggle of nurses and also of health professionals. You can count on the PCP to take her forward and beat her! [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-03.u94	We move on to the intervention stage. The Bureau had registered with Mr Rui Tavares, who is not present at the moment and so we are going ahead and has the floor for an intervention, Mr Rodrigo Saraiva, of the Liberal Initiative Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-03.u95	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin by greeting the more than 11 000 subscribers of this petition asking for access to the reform of nurses with at least 55 years of age, as a compensatory measure for the wear and tear of the profession. I reaffirm here today, on behalf of the Liberal Initiative, appreciation, consideration and enormous thanks to all nurses, for their inexhaustible work, almost always under exhausting conditions and great pressure. Often, they have the lives of the patients in their hands. Nurses, yes, like doctors and all other health professionals. And it is precisely because we understand that all health professionals deserve the same respect that we consider unwise to discriminate positively against each other. Structural reform in public administration is urgent. And this reform requires a coherent approach to the various professions, because there are other professions that also deserve the status of risk and penosity. There must be an overall view of the various professions in the field of health, but not only that they respect the specificities of each one and do not allow positive or negative discrimination. This process has, above all, to be conducted with the utmost responsibility. Has the government fulfilled what it has promised health professionals about the dignity and appreciation of careers? No, you don't! The reform of these careers must be carried out urgently, but it is not to legislate in a vague and isolated way on every profession that Parliament will restore the justice that the government insists on neglecting. More: by doing so, Parliament — which does not have the power to promote collective negotiations — in an attempt to improve certain careers, is at risk of creating greater inequalities and thereby jeopardizing social peace and further improving the access of all citizens to health care. The most irony of all is that, in these various projects, the best, and with which we agree, is that of the NAP, which suggests to the Government the creation of a working group to deal with this issue. Yes, a working group becomes a good proposal, because the government does not do what it deserves. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Parliament does not serve to disresponsibly blame the government, quite the contrary. The review of the careers of all health professionals, and of the Public Administration in general, has to be done in a fair, coherent and harmonized manner in negotiations with the structures of the sector. If Parliament were to legislate, it would only be doing the government a favor and freeing it from that charge, and with that we cannot compact. It is almost a janja vu: the government promises, it does not comply; Parliament takes the 'game expenses' and the 'promising' makes beer and threat. We've seen this movie. Let us remember the beginning: the government has promised and failed to do so. Nurses rightly complain, such as doctors, teachers, police, military, farmers or Portuguese without a family doctor. The blame is on the PS, which does the same always: promise and fail to comply. The Prime Minister excuses making new threats. Hit the door! Every day more with the PS government is worse for Portuguese. If the government does not want a structural reform of the Public Administration, then get out of the way, because there are those who have the courage to speak truth and do what is necessary here. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-03.u96	Mr Rui Tavares has the floor now for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-03.u97	Mr. President and Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that for everyone, nurses, in fact, perform a fast-wearing profession. And it is even faster to wear because the working conditions are at present beyond what they should be. Therefore, as political decision makers, the State, as a politically organized form of our Portuguese Republic, has to look at nurses and or give them better working conditions, so that the profession is not worn out as quickly as possible, or will have to be forced to recognize, further, that the decrease in the age of transition to reform has to be done. I don't know if it's for the 55s, if it's for the 60s, if it's for another age, but the more weary the profession is now, the lower, of course, this fair decrease in retirement age. I don't think it's fair to say what we just heard here, i.e. that because there are other rapidly worn-out professions, while we don't solve everyone's problem, we don't solve nobody's problem. On the contrary, solving someone’s problem means that other professions that are worn out quickly can follow the example. To say that it is necessary to solve the problem of everyone in order to correct one's injustice is usually a way of delaying the resolution of the problem and correcting the injustices.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-03.u98	For an intervention, Mrs Joana Barata Lopes, of the PSD Parliamentary Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-03.u99	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Again, we speak again about nurses in this Assembly of the Republic and, once again, for their own initiative. this time, in a petition with more than 11 000 subscribers, we talk about a claim of right of access to reform with 55 years, which has to do with rapid wear and tear professions. And, in this debate that we have here today, there are two orders of reason. The first has to do with nurses themselves and with the relevance of the fact that we have discussed the profession of nurse several times in recent months, in recent weeks, not only with regard to the issue of rapid wear, which is today the central theme, but with other claims we already know, which we have discussed here and which concern the defreezing of careers, the need for wage valuation, the correction of injustices between individual nurses' employment contracts and public employment contracts,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-03.u100	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-03.u101	... some of which we have already proposed, several times, as is the case with wage valuation, at the state budget, and were plunged by the Socialist Party. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-03.u102	This is the point of the constant relevance of the nurses' coming to this Assembly of the Republic. Today, it adds to this point of relevance the question of rapid wear and tear professions. Indeed, it is not true, Mr Rui Tavares, that wanting to have some homogeneity is a way of not resolving the matter. It is that what we are discussing here — and there is indeed a draft NAP resolution on this issue — is that creating a working group is to guarantee the Portuguese, all of them, including nurses, who understand, clearly and seriously, which criteria the government — which governs or, at least, should govern — sets out to create a table of rapidly worn-out professions. That doesn't exist, but it's not right now either, ladies. Ladies and gentlemen. It is not now and it is worth asking, then, because it has not yet happened. And in this, a bit of historical might be worth it. In May 2020, here in this House of the Republic, on the basis of a request from cabin crew members, I believe that if I am not mistaken - the CDS Parliamentary Group has proposed to set up a working group in the Government to discuss this matter. What happened? Of course, the Socialist Party has plummeted. At the time, we also said that this was important, because it was important to confer reliability. And it is not interesting to come here only when it does, to please the groups of professionals who come here with their needs and their concerns, but, of course, we can all propose, because the PS, then, will fall. After that, in December 2020, the Socialist Party went back to saying—and this is the argument—that there was no need for a working group. And why? Because in May 2020 the Government was developing an internal legislative work—Mr. Hugo Oliveira of the Socialist Party said—to create this same inter-ministerial working group, which was already in operation. And he said to Mr Hugo Oliveira: "We shall soon be discussing this. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-03.u103	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-03.u104	Mrs Cristina Mendes da Silva of the Socialist Party in December also said: "Well, it's almost there. It's just that we had a pandemic, but we have to have this working group. Do not keep on seeking. ” Now, we are in 2023 and there is no table or justification on the part of the Socialist Party about what he wants or does not want. [[PSD applause.]] So, Mr Rui Tavares, that is not meeting the needs, because we are here in expectation that the government — because the Socialist Party has come to say repeatedly that it was going to do so — and in fact there was not the creation of the working group. In fact, the Social Democratic Party has already handed over, in this House of the Republic, here, for discussion, the proposal for a recommendation to the Government for the establishment of a working group with these same powers. The need for clarity also ensures that there are no injustices and dualities of criterion. In fact, this is not just a problem of nurses, it is of several professions. And we, in the construction of a society, cannot, one day, say one thing, because it seems easier to please those who are making the claim,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-03.u105	Of course!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-03.u106	...and the next day, say the opposite. Therefore, the PSD is where it has always been: what is serious is to create this working group. It is also true that as early as December 2020, we have still made it possible for the proposal on rapid wear and early reform which the CFP presented here. That's not what's at stake. What we want is a larger scope, because what the Portuguese ask us is that we legislate with responsibility, for everyone, and not casuistically, when it does. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-03.u107	For an intervention, Mrs Eurídice Pereira of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-03.u108	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, we welcome the subscribers of the petition that we now appreciate and thank, with appreciation, the initiative. The petition in question, stressing that « nurses are a profession of rapid wear and high risk», requires that the Assembly of the Republic legisle in order to recognize the right to reform nurses with at least 55 years of age as a compensatory measure for the inherent wear of the profession. Although the object of the petition is not limited to the public sector—insofar as, covering the profession of nurse, it is also directed towards the private sector—with regard to the National Health Service, we must not fail to point out that what is being requested is the consecration of a special reform regime for nursing workers, in the sense that it is the same when the worker reaches the age of 55, regardless of his contribution career of 36 years of work. On this subject, it should be recalled that, in 2005, there was a harmonisation of the rules for the formation of rights and the allocation of benefits between the subscribers of the General Pension Board, irrespective of careers, and also the approximation of the rules in the general social security system, by repealing the legal provisions relating to different special careers, which provide specific retirement and reform rights and include, for what is important here, a legal rule establishing a right to retirement for nurses who were 35 years of service and 57 years of age. To the limit, a measure of this nature, in order now to establish a more favourable and differentiated regime for these professionals, without adequate evaluation and weighting, could imply a significant decrease in the number of professionals needed for health care, contrary to the policy of strengthening human resources which has been taken over and also claimed by the opposition, and obviously raises issues of equity in the field of health—and also in other professions— which requires, it is reaffirmed, rigorous appreciation. This petition dragged four initiatives which were, however, presented, which address the issue of early retirement, as I have already mentioned, and add to the debate other aspects, such as risk and penosity and rapid wear. What I mentioned earlier is in response to the initiatives of the Czech Republic and the CFP. The bill of the Left Block points to the regulation of risk and penosity matters for health professionals, about a status that they want to see approved, with various associated benefits. The scope of the initiative applies indiscriminately to all professionals and services of the Ministry of Health, without a prior and exhaustive analysis and evaluation of not only financial impacts, but also in terms of the organization and operation of services. Professionals who support us in health deserve to continue to guarantee better working conditions, with mitigating measures of the negative impacts of their professions, especially in their physical and psychological health, and not that health is changed by supplements or pay supplements. On the part of the NAP, there is a recommendation that a working group should be set up for the legal framework of the rapid wear and tear professions, which has already been mentioned by other parliamentary groups. However, it is important to say that, by decision of the government areas of Labour and Social Security, it is already a working group that has an important task in this area, i.e. the study of the professions of rapid wear, its characteristics and ways of mitigating risks and penosity. The objective is that, by the end of this year, a final report will be concluded with opinions and recommendations on this dossier. The group is led by the Directorate-General for Employment and Labour Relations and is set up by the Labour Conditions Authority, the Institute for Employment and Vocational Training, the Institute for Social Security and the Directorate-General for Social Security, and the Directorate-General for Health ( DGS ) has yet to be added. Therefore, dear Members, this claim is satisfied and we hope that the end of the year will come to have the results of this work. In conclusion, it is important to say that the increase in income by public administration workers — obviously, including health professionals, from the outset nurses — is a plan of the government that collects the support of this parliamentary group and has to be done with fair dialogue and with commitment to possible balances. This position applies to the subjects under discussion and the steps taken must be sustainable in the future, because we do not want any further setbacks. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-03.u109	Mr John Dias of the CFP Parliamentary Group has the floor for a short speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-03.u110	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I just want to leave a reference in this debate. Much has been said about the rapid wear of the profession, but what matters and interests to evaluate well is that these professionals are subject to risk, pessimism and insanity, associated with working conditions, Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen. It is to this situation of physical, intellectual and emotional risk that health professionals are subject in most, as a whole. In the case of nurses, these conditions of penosity have already been recognized, even by the anticipation of the reform that was considered in Decree-Law No. 437/91. The Legal Nursing Career Regime is 1991, when a nurse could retire at 35 years of service or at 57 years of age, but the PS withdrew this in 1998. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-03.u111	Ladies and gentlemen. Members, I am pleased to announce to the House the presence, in the diplomatic gallery, of the President of the Parliament of Galicia, Miguel Ángel Santalices Vieira, and of his delegation, who are in the Assembly of the Republic on a working visit and whose presence is very honored. I would ask for a warm greeting from the ladies and gentlemen. Mr President of the Galician Parliament. [[General applause, stand up.]] Mr Jorge Galveias, from the Parliamentary Group of the Arrival, has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-03.u112	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, I only reiterate what I said earlier: nurses were praised, applauded and praised, however, what we saw was the normal bla-bla-bla-bla-bla-Bla-Bla-Bla-Bla-Bla-Bla-Bla-Bla-Bla.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-03.u113	Respectful is very beautiful!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-03.u114	I ask this question: will you or will you not approve our proposal? [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-03.u115	For an intervention, Mrs Joana Barata Lopes, of the PSD Parliamentary Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-03.u116	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Mrs Eurídice Pereira, what she told us was that at the end of 2023, we will finally have to run the working group that was announced in May 2020.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-03.u117	I didn't say that!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-03.u118	Isn't that it? Oh, my God! So it is another working group, because the one that was announced in 2020 and which, in December, the Socialist Party guaranteed that it was working, which is why it could not approve the proposals that existed to enable the working groups proposed by the Assembly of the Republic, did not work either. Therefore, what is interesting to realize—of course, it is the government and the Socialist Party's bench, because here it is the spokesperson of that government, which is responsible for responding to this—is what we have to say not only to nurses, but also to all those who, claiming that their profession is recognized as a rapid wear, because of the consequences of their function, need to know whether the Socialist Party will continue to announce working groups, even though it will add new nuances on whom it is composed, without ever presenting them.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-03.u119	I would ask you to conclude, Mrs Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-03.u120	It is, I say again, that we are where we have always been, but respect for people and for Portuguese is not to deceive them. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-03.u121	At the conclusion of the third item on the agenda, I greet the petitioners... [[Pause.]] According to me the Bureau Secretariat, Mrs Inês de Sousa Real signed up for an intervention before I announced that we had completed the third item on the agenda. Therefore, Mrs Inês de Sousa Real has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-03.u122	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Mrs Eurídice Pereira, we have returned to the policy of « now is that it is ». But, in fact, throughout all this time, we had a phantom working group, which did not exist or was not operational, and when finally a political force such as the NAP brings to this House a proposal for the creation of a working group, so that it can be answered not only to nurses, but also to thousands of workers who are subject to rapid wear, risk and penosity, as has already been mentioned — and we follow this concern — this proposal is rejected. from the point of view, it is now that by the end of the year, the government has to bring us something. It is regrettable that the lives of these workers are suspended — and also those who may be the wear they all wear — because this should be more respected, with immediate measures, by adopting the proposals brought here.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-03.u123	Now, at the conclusion of the third item on our agenda, I welcome Petitioners No. 310 / XIV / 3. we then move to the fourth point of the agenda, with the appreciation of Petition No 280 / XIV / 2. a ( Sonia Patrícia Barros de Sousa et al.) — Covid-19- Against the mass vaccination of children and young people, and, in general, of the Resolution Project No 392 / XV / 1. a (CH) — Recommends to the Government the assessment of the psychological impact of the pandemic on children and young people of school age. To present the Resolution Project No. 392 / XV / 1. a ( CH ), Mrs Rita Matias has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-03.u124	Madam President, I would like to begin by congratulating you and the ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. I leave a greeting to over 9000 petitioners — mothers, parents, men and women — who bring a fair concern to the most vulnerable group and who, in fact, have had and will have more impact throughout their lives, due to the period we face during the shelter-19 and the political options taken: children and young people. In fact, the arrival follows the concerns expressed in this petition and regrets above all that there has not been a wide and free debate on the options taken. There was no opportunity to speak openly about the benefits or consequences of the choice, and we say that, indeed, it should have been a choice and not an imposition, except for alarmism, terror generated and freedoms that were suppressed to the Portuguese and that could only be reconquered by taking a vaccine or presenting a certificate. [[Congrats from the CH.]] It's serious too, ladies. Members, we have seen the freedom to think suppressed, because indeed, anyone who dared to question and think critically was automatically categorized as « negationist », « chalapa », « mado antivacinas », only because he wondered about risks and benefits of what, I repeat, should have been a conscious choice of health. [[Congrats from the CH.]] We saw social networks banish speeches, police posts, a permanent censorship, and this house remained silent. Eventually, I believe that parents and mothers here were afraid and wondered whether their children should or should not be vaccinated, but did not have the courage of verbalizing for fear of being cancelled or censored. Now, this should lead to a reflection. What democracy is this? Oh, my God! What dictatorship of sanitary hygiene is this, which limits freedom of expression? Oh, my God! More: what health dictatorship is this, which maintains vaccine contracts to be published on the BASE Portal? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-03.u125	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-03.u126	What health dictatorship is this, which leads the committee of inquiry for the verification and evaluation of the covid-19 period presented by the Arrival? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-03.u127	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-03.u128	After all, Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, what is there to hide about this period? Oh, my God! So, yes, the arrival is concerned about the episodes of myocarditis and other adverse events that have not yet been studied and whose real impact we have not yet been able to understand, especially in the medium and long term.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-03.u129	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-03.u130	But in the role of harmful consequences are also the social and psychological damage, which will leave marks in this generation of young people and children, who lived forced confinements, who was deprived of physical contact, who was subject to distance classes, who saw their learnings and their experiences of life hardly recoverable. A recent WHO study (World Health Organization) tells us that Portuguese adolescents are increasingly unhappy, and one in four says that they are not happy. More: one in six has already been automutilated. These are data that has to make us tremble — they have to make us tremble! More than that, they should make the Socialist Party tremble, because, in the Learning Recovery Plan, in view of this period, almost neglected mental health. More: at the headquarters of State Budget, the proposals of the Arrival on the check-psychologist and on the strengthening of psychologists in schools,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-03.u131	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-03.u132	... with the support of the abstention from PSD, IL, PCP and the Free. But arriving comes the game again and actually calls for a widespread mental health screening of our children, to realize the real impact of this pandemic;... [[Congrats from the CH.]] ... that these children are not deprived of the extended follow-up that may be necessary; that there is the necessary number of psychologists in schools; and that, when public services fail and are not sufficient, one can look at the private and the social sector as strategic partners. It remains to be known who really wants to defend the children. [[Congratulations from the CH, having Mr Pedro dos Santos Frazão applauded standing.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-03.u133	We moved on to the intervention period. To that end, Mrs Cláudia Bento of the PSD Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-03.u134	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : We discussed Petition No 280 / XIV / 2. the, through which approximately 9100 citizens manifested themselves against the mass vaccination of children and young people against covid-19. This petition, although submitted in August 2021, only now met the conditions to be appreciated in this Plenary. Contextualizing this development, the Assembly of the Republic was dissolved, there was a break in the work and, when the petition process was resumed, it was up to me to be the rapporteur, a function for which I was appointed in June 2022, having heard a delegation of representatives still in that month, which I take advantage of to greet. At the time, I had the opportunity to reaffirm the importance of vaccination, in which I firmly believe. We also know that the Portuguese National Vaccination Programme is internationally recognized and that Portugal is one of the countries that has the highest rate of vaccination coverage, which contributes greatly to the reduction of maternal-child mortality. With regard, in particular, to covid-19, although it is a disease that continues to require research, vaccination is known to have played a prominent role in its fight. Vaccines are safe, effective, which has greatly contributed to reducing morbidity and serious illness, especially in older people. Regarding the vaccination of children and young people, this occurred only after technical and scientific studies, as well as after the implementation of technical and safety measures, evaluated by the various technical vaccination committees. On the other hand—it is appropriate that this should be remembered and emphasized—the vaccination against covid-19 was never compulsory,... [[Protests by CH Member Pedro dos Santos Frazão.]] ... was only recommended, being in each individual sphere the freedom to be vaccinated or not. [[PSD applause.]] [[Protests by CH Member Rita Matias.]] I understand the concerns and concerns of many regarding innovative processes in the scientific field, but we must also rely on international and national science and guidelines and recommendations carried out by health authorities. Having said this — knowing well that the context in which this petition has been submitted is, fortunately, generally exceeded, with regard to vaccination — I would like to express, on behalf of the Social Democratic Party, the conviction that further knowledge on this disease needs to be deepened, in order to have more effective therapeutic terms and in order to avoid complications and adverse effects associated with covid-19. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-03.u135	For an intervention, Mrs Anabela Rodrigues of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-03.u136	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin by greeting the petitioners and thanking them, on behalf of the Socialist Party Parliamentary Group, for their attitude and civic participation, for making use of the right to petition and for making us reflect on this issue. It is 9046 that subscribe to this petition and are in disagreement with the administration of vaccines against covid-19 in children and young people up to 25 years of age. I also welcome the Parliamentary Group of the European Union's initiative. First of all, it would be important to reflect on how we came to this discussion. I recall that the Covid-19 was reported for the first time in December 2019 in China, later spreading throughout the world, leading countries to take all efforts in the implementation of preventive measures. No pharmacological measures for prophylaxis or treatment of the disease were approved by the European Medicines Agency by December 2020 which would approve conditional use of a vaccine. Vaccination has played a central role in the preservation of human lives, becoming a fundamental element in the fight against disease, changing the course of the pandemic in different countries. According to international estimates, vaccines have saved about 20 million people worldwide. In Portugal, the vaccination programme formally started with a taskforce, which quickly implemented a robust, effective and safe vaccination plan. The Directorate-General for Health is responsible for defining the target populations of vaccination, supported by the Technical Commission for Vaccination against Covid-19. Pharmacovigilance activities have played an essential role in the continuous monitoring of their safety profile. The Technical Commission on Vaccination against Covid-19 has always kept track of the epidemiological situation, scientific evidence and recommendations on vaccination by the World Health Organization and the Member States of the European Union. The recommendations for vaccination of children and young people have been based on opinions such as that of the European Medicines Agency and that of the FDA (Food and Drug Administration ). We must not forget that children are not only susceptible to infection and may have symptomatic disease of different severity, as they have the ability to transmit infection to individuals from different age groups. The time elapsed from the beginning of the vaccination of children and young people to the present moment strengthens confidence in vaccine safety. It will also be important to say that, in Portugal, vaccination is not compulsory, respecting the autonomy and freedom of individual choice. The World Health Organization has issued opinions that recognize advantages that go beyond direct health benefits, namely to minimize disturbances in education, which is because, due to the impact of the covid-19, the school context—one of the main pillars of development and the promotion of well-being—was highly limited, depriving young people of their learning and social interactions. Regarding the draft resolution submitted by the Chega, which recommends to the Government the evaluation of the psychological impact of the pandemic on children and young people of school age, it will be important to recall that the Ministry of Education has already requested a study and has already submitted a report, which aimed to collect psychological health indicators in Portuguese schools, in view of the design of intervention proposals. I would also like to remind you that, in order to ensure the success of the return to present classes, after the period of confinement, personal, social and community development plans were implemented, which strengthened the number of psychologists in schools. [[Meanwhile, President Augusto Santos Silva was re-elected.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-03.u137	Madam Member, excuse me for interrupting it, but, as there is much noise in the Chamber, I just wanted to ask the colleagues to make as much noise as possible, so that we can hear the honourable Member. Please proceed, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-03.u138	Thank you very much, Mr President. I said that in five years, we spent 700 to 1700 psychologists in schools, and the ratio meets the recommendation of the Order of Portuguese Psychologists. We are concerned not only about the impact of the pandemic on the mental health of the younger, but also, above all, about the importance of creating new responses to mental health in childhood and adolescence that promote a multidisciplinary work, in conjunction with other sectors of the community where children and young people are included, such as schools and kindergartens, among others. in this sense, according to the National Program for Mental Health, the community mental health teams are created, with 40 new teams at national level: 20 for the adult population and 20 for the population under 18 years of age. The Hospital Reference Network of Child and Adolescent Psychiatry now extends to almost all of the national territory in a total of 37 structures. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the creation of these kinds of responses to the mental health of children and adolescents shows the priority that the government has given to this area. This is the way, this is the model that, according to the good practices underway in Western Europe, better ensures the detection, referral and intersectoral intervention in the area of childhood and adolescence. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-03.u139	To speak on behalf of the Liberal Initiative Parliamentary Group, Mr Bernardo Blanco has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-03.u140	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin by greeting the petitioners. « Discussion», « evolution» and « correction» are concepts that are part of science and today three years after the pandemic, we already know that a lot of information has become questionable which, at certain times, has been sold as absolute truth. The vaccines were no exception and, in the face of the pros and cons in question, we must welcome the government's decision — although it has been wrong in unnecessary restrictions and certificates, to which we have always opposed — not to impose compulsory taking of the vaccine, as other countries have unfortunately done. The decision is voluntary, depending on the freedom of choice of families, in the case of younger children, which, as it is consensual, is very rare to develop any kind of problems arising from the cover-19. On the vaccination of children—which is the subject of petition— it is to mention, on the one hand, that there are reported cases of myocarditis and pericarditis after vaccination. DGS itself, two months ago, in December 2022, called for attention to the symptoms of these cases. On the other hand, it is also necessary to say that these adverse cases are, themselves, very rare. Also in December 2022, European Union data were made public : in 50 million vaccinated children only 1007 cases were recorded. In general, the data seem to indicate that vaccination is positively associated with lower risk of infection and fewer hospitalizations of children and young people, although, I repeat, these rare cases of adverse reactions and although it is known—it also seems important to emphasize — that children are practically not affected by complications resulting from covid-19. The most important thing is that this voluntary character of vaccination continues, that Portuguese families can choose and do so with more and more information. During the pandemic, the Government's communication has often been wrong, but now there is no excuse: there is no pressure, no media, no health, the government has an obligation to correct itself and always to communicate rigorously with the Portuguese. Finally, saying that we will vote in favour of the project of the Arrival, which recommends to the Government the evaluation of the psychological impact of the pandemic on children and young people of school age. The mental health problems are, unfortunately, well present in our schools, largely due to the restrictions imposed by the Socialist Party, which harmed learning and mortgaged much of the future of our young people. In schools, it is also time to start fighting this silent pandemic. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-03.u141	To speak on behalf of the Left Block, Mr Pedro Filipe Soares has the floor. I'm asking for as much silence as I can in the room.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-03.u142	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Left Bloc considers that, as far as health is concerned, it is not the political decision-makers who should replace the technical decision-makers. for our part, we follow the decisions that led to the distribution of vaccines for the mass vaccination of the population, including the younger ones. We recognize that they have been important acts to respond at such a difficult time as those we have faced in the past two years. When we look at health professionals, social reintegration professionals, all those and all of them, of the various sectors of activity, who kept the country in action, who ensured that nothing was missing in its normal functioning and that they waited for a vaccine to arrive that could respond to the need for public health, we should only say: "Thank you to all of them and to all of them! It is in respect for them and for them that we should say: "I'm glad the vaccines have arrived, although they have been distributed to all and to all in our population! Do not keep on seeking. ” Fortunately, in our society, we have an ultra-minoristic minority that distrusts vaccines, and we distance ourselves from this mistrust. This does not mean that there is no possibility of side effects because there are no side effects in the administration of any medicine. From this point of view, the only scientific reason that can prevail is between the ratio of benefits and the ratio of harm that occurs in the approval of medicines. We do not distrust this approval and reject the reasoning substrate that says it is because of the vaccine that there are, for example, mental health problems in society or schools. We reject this idea, which is actually the one that comes along with this initiative: for a topic of debate on vaccines, it brings us a degree on mental health in schools. It is not the same thing and, I insist, it is not a consequence of vaccines the problem of mental health in schools.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-03.u143	Nobody said that! Didn't you hear? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-03.u144	If you want to insinuate it, it is to please such «society slippers»,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-03.u145	You're the scarf! It's you!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-03.u146	...but we know that it says more about coming up than about reality, or even about the scarves. from the Left Block, we recognize that there is a need to strengthen the plan to combat mental illness and to strengthen prevention in relation to mental health. That is why we have so often stood by the Government of the Socialist Party to ensure the implementation of this plan. Unfortunately, for so many times, the Socialist Party has been more on the side of opposition than on the side of construction. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-03.u147	BE's proposals, nothing!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-03.u148	Mr João Dias of the PCP Parliamentary Group is still speaking for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-03.u149	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I would like to congratulate the more than 9000 petitioners who speak in the Assembly of the Republic against the mass vaccination of children and young people. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, too much recognition is given for the earnings of vaccination. In fact, it is even a civilizational conquest, either from the individual point of view, of individual protection and prevention of diseases, or in terms of public health, even achieving group immunity. In fact, in Portugal, with a National Vaccination Program that is now almost 60 years old and that has allowed to eradicate diseases such as poliomyelitis, diphtheria and seizure cough, we practically stopped having many of the diseases that so many lives would reap. at this time, we cannot underestimate the importance of vaccination in terms of health conditions, well-being and also the sustainability of the National Health Service, because it is with this investment in vaccination that we prevent diseases and thus the costs with diseases. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, there is no medicine, not even no vaccine, that is completely harmless. The truth is, there are always risks associated.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-03.u150	Exactly! Tell that to Pedro Filipe Soares!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-03.u151	Remember, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, what was the surprise for so many and so many people have to stay 30 minutes after taking the vaccine waiting for immediate side effects that could happen. This should be done for this vaccine and for all vaccines, or for any injection. You have to wait. Immediate effects, including anaphylactic effects, should be guarded and treated if they occur. However, scientific knowledge should be taken into account. In the case of covid today, we know how the disease behaves in children, especially in children with comorbidities, children who also need to protect. We also know the harmful effects that confinements had in this age group, in children, opening the way for serious diseases. Still, confinements adversely affected children in learning and mental health, which were quite harmful. But we can say that vaccines have certainly been an advance, particularly because they are safe and effective, not preventing disease, but preventing serious disease. That is why we must address this issue and the decision to be taken, in particular, by the public health authorities. Mrs. Members, we must respect the decisions of the public health authorities. When we hear of decisions by DGS, this represents tens, if not hundreds, of experts, professionals, researchers, epidemiologists, who investigate pro bono and who make their scientific contribution. That is why all reflection and standards of clinical guidance result. But we must also respect the parents' decision to vaccinate or not to vaccinate. What we should not promote is distrust of vaccines. in this sense, when questions are raised in this House whether the political decision should prevail in relation to the technical decision, what we say is that the political decision on the technical decision should not prevail, but if the political decision is preventing the application of the technical decisions, this House must decide. That's what we're defending, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-03.u152	To speak on behalf of the NAP, you have the floor of Mrs Inês de Sousa Real.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-03.u153	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin by congratulating the petitioners who bring us to this debate, which calls us to some reflections. From the outset, the first reflection is on the importance of the vaccination plan in the field of public health, global health, in particular of the most vulnerable people and those who were at the front of the fight, for their exposure to risk. On the other hand, the second reflection is on the principle of non-discrimination, which the NAP, from the very first moment, defended. In other words, provided that there was a certificate that, in fact, testified that the person was not positive for covid-19, it should not be the fact that he is not vaccinated that he should impose restrictions on the restriction of his movement. In addition to this principle of non-discrimination, we should also strengthen the importance of information, which should have had a greater focus, so that parents, mothers and parents could be informed about the vaccination plan for their children and young people. That information was absolutely essential. But information must necessarily be technical and non-political, so we follow the proposal regarding the study of the impact of covid-19 on young people, especially taking into account the dimension of mental health and isolation caused by this generation. In addition, what we can do at this time is to thank all the health professionals who were in the front line, for the impact that this had on our global health, so that many more people would die because of the coward 19 or even with other comorbidities. These professionals were absolutely essential to ensure the well-being of all.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-03.u154	To speak on behalf of the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mr Inês Barroso has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-03.u155	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The draft resolution presented by the Party of the European Union — and we highlight the theme of the resolution — calls on us to reflect on a very serious matter. On this draft resolution, the PSD immediately identifies two previous points: the first is that the PS, as in so many other areas, in relation to children and young people, cannot have effective measures to mitigate the real problems; the second is that the Party arrives seems somewhat incongruent to us, because it bases this draft resolution with excerpts from the text that is in the summary study on psychological health and the well-being of the young people who were sent by the Ministry of Education. [[CH protests.]] These are the two points, but let's focus, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, in the cruel data that several studies report to us. A greater incidence of mental health problems among young people is confirmed, aggravated by the pandemic of covid-19. Almost half of the students present signs of psychological suffering that require attention. Applications for assistance to INEM ( National Institute for Medical Emergency ) for young people between the ages of 10 and 19 show an increase of more than 50 %. We have about 5,000 young people on the waiting list for the first consultation. The latest WHO report highlights that 25% of Portuguese adolescents aged 11, 13 and 15 have already been injured on purpose at least once. The affect of psychologists to schools, although it has evolved, still does not correspond to desirable patterns. International recommendations point to 1 psychologist for every 5000 children and young people; Portugal has 1 for every 10 000. The SNS ratios are only 7 psychiatrists for 100,000 children and young people, 1 psychiatrist for 700 students of basic and secondary education and 1 psychiatrist for 3200 students of higher education. See how screaming these numbers are! And the average price of psychiatry or psychology consultations is around 83 € in private. Anyway, it's dramatic the national landscape! Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the PSD regrets that the Socialist Party's compressive role has led to the proposal for an institution of the psychologist-checker, which aimed to increase access to health care in psychology, reduce inequalities, correct territorial asymmetries and enhance timely intervention in mental health. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, they are our children, our grandchildren, our children and the young people of our country, and they can't wait any longer. It is time for the Government of the majority and the PS that supports it to solve the problem. The PSD will continue to fight for this cause, for the greatest cause: children and young people in our country. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-03.u156	It is Mr Rui Tavares, who has not yet spoken in this debate.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-03.u157	He doesn't want it!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-03.u158	That's how he's fine, little fella!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-03.u159	Mr Rui Tavares has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-03.u160	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I greet the petitioners for the civic gesture of presenting this petition to this House. Even in disagreement, it must be received with respect and democratic humility. This petition provides a list of 10 reasons why children should not be vaccinated and then, in conclusion, says there is no medical basis for mass vaccination. They are, of course, two different things and there is a certain leap of logic between them. In reason 6, perhaps the most important thing of this petition is said: "Having children at risk to protect adults is anti-ethical. In absolute terms, everyone would agree, but this is without assessing what the dimension of risk is, because, of course, putting someone in the face of a minor risk to protect someone from a much higher risk is not only anti-ethical, as is the basis of vaccination itself. If it was simply anti-ethical to vaccinate someone to protect a third party, then no vaccination would be ethical, since the time the vaccine was invented against the smallpox, which is a disease that killed perhaps 500 million people in the history of humanity and which has been eradicated for a few decades. Without covid vaccination, we would probably have had 10 times more mortality than we had. [[CH protests.]] We would have had what we had with the pneumonia flu in 1918: 10 times more mortality and 4 times less human population. So, of course, very much thanks to the vaccination plans, to whom you decided them, and to the scientists. It is false to say that there was no public debate, no studies. Even more serious is to say that there is no democracy, "what democracy is this? Oh, my God! », when there are these vaccination plans. It is democracy that we have that allows us to discuss all this.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-03.u161	Sir, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-03.u162	You can go on! Four more minutes!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-03.u163	I think who sails in these cloudy waters of ambiguity, to be able to mix two very different things, which are the vaccination and mental health of children... [[CH Member's protests Filipe Melo.]] All Members in this Chamber have to deal with the so-called "compressor roll" of the absolute majority. I still have to deal with Mr Filipe Melo's "compressor roller" and his voice mail! [[CH protests.]] [[PSD Members' laughs.]] But this will allow the CL to end me at the same time. As I was saying, who makes this mixture is that I should be ashamed. Thank you very much, Mr President. [[Mr Pedro Pinto's protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-03.u164	I do not know what the revised Rules of Procedure will say, but the current Rules of Procedure are very clear: all Members have the right to be heard...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-03.u165	But you have no right to exceed your intervention time!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-03.u166	...and the only one who has the right to interrupt the word is me.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-03.u167	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-03.u168	Mrs Rita Matias now has the floor to speak on behalf of the incoming Parliamentary Group. I ask silence to hear the honourable Member. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-03.u169	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I do not know if everyone has worked to read the petition, but perhaps if they had, they would realize that it brings a set of truths that cannot be denied. Are there no safety data on vaccines and the notion of their harmful effects in the medium and long term? Oh, my God! They're missing. Do we lack data that proves to us why is there an exceptionally high rate of adverse effects of this vaccination against others? Oh, my God! Yeah. Is it antiethical to vaccinate children to protect adults? Oh, my God! Yeah. Is it unethical to use children for laboratory experiences? Oh, my God! Yeah. To affirm this is to establish justice and it is always legitimate to question in democracy. What is not legitimate is to see Mr. Members will call petitioners of « chalapas». [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-03.u170	He's the chalupa!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-03.u171	What's not legitimate is we'll see the gentlemen. Members of the Left Block, who have not read the proposal of the Arrival and therefore do not understand why we speak of mental health, come to make a Russian salad of ideas to then devert what was said from the rostrum. [[Laughs from BE MP Joana Mortágua.]] Mr. Pedro Filipe Soares, if you have only five elements in your parliamentary group and if you do not have enough advisers to do your work, that is your problem, but do not lie to the Portuguese. [[Congrats from the CH.]] [[Protests from BE MP Joana Mortagua.]] Then say that vaccination was optional and voluntary is a lie. People lived in house arrest,... [[PS laughter.]] ... they could not access restaurants, leisure spaces, hotels, sports groups, if they were not vaccinated or had no digital certificate. Therefore, it is legitimate to question whether, indeed, the choices were made with freedom. In conclusion, saying that more than ever, it is essential to safeguard and defend the right of children, because in Portugal a child in the womb can die; in Portugal, a child can be exposed to social experimentalism in schools, with perverse engineering and ideologies that are attacked by the identity of children; and in Portugal, by the way, children can be subjected to laboratory experimentalism! Children aren't lab rats! [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-03.u172	Mr Pedro Filipe Soares of the Left Block Parliamentary Group now speaks for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-03.u173	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Rita Matias, with regard to truth and lies, her recent intervention gave a whole treaty,... [[Mr Rita Matias's laughs.]] ...because the amount of scientific enormities that you just said, in retrospect, are giants. We understand: it linked the cassette of negationism and the cassette of the extreme right, which calls into question science, and curiously passes, in the same intervention, the defense of absolute freedom for the defense of absolute censorship. That's the inconsistency of arrive. I just wanted to say — and that is why I asked for the word — that I did not call the petitioners « chalapas». [[CH protests.]] I had fun with them in almost everything they wrote, but I didn't call them « chalapas». What I did was use the same term that Mrs Deputies used, in her speech, when she spoke abstractly from a group of people to whom she wanted to please. And, yes, these are scarves, Mrs. Member. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-03.u174	Have you read the project?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-03.u175	We are thus at the end of the debate on this point and we are going to start the voting period.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-03.u176	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-03.u177	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-03.u178	Mr President, I would like to take the floor to make a complaint about the fixing of the agenda in accordance with Rule 59. that of our Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-03.u179	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-03.u180	Mr President, today Parliament will vote on an opinion from the Committee on Transparency and the Statute of Members for the possible lifting of the parliamentary immunity of Mrs Catarina Martins. This opinion is in the ballot box, with the name « Entries / 2022 / 7452 ». Mr President, we want to tell this House that the opinion we are going to vote on violates the principle of constitutional equality, the principle of the separation of powers between Parliament and justice and, above all, the principle of equal treatment, which we all deserve in this House. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-03.u181	The Committee on Transparency, whose President is Mrs Alexandra Leitão, Member of the Socialist Party, agreed to lift immunity from almost all of the seats of this House. The argument not to raise immunity to Mrs Catarina Martins is because the statements she made were in the context of political-party activity. All the Members of the House who have seen their immunity lifted, Mrs Inês de Sousa Real, who has also seen her immunity raised and other Members of this House who have seen her immunity raised by sentences said in political television debates will be ashamed today. The investigating judge asks for the lifting of Catarina Martins' immunity and this House will prevent this uprising. [[Congrats from the CH.]] It's the biggest confrontation with justice we can have. The Left Block party, which calls for justice for all, asking for justice equally for all, received this reply from Mrs Catarina Martins: « I do not accept the lifting of my parliamentary immunity. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-03.u182	That's a lie!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-03.u183	It's not a lie, no! You're here, Mrs. Deputy!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-03.u184	The honourable Member is clearly not submitting his complaint.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-03.u185	Yeah, yeah.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-03.u186	The complaint that you said you would submit was about setting the agenda, which is up to me, but you are referring to the vote on an opinion of 14. the Commission. You are discussing the content and the basis of that opinion and, therefore, is not making a complaint about the fixing of the agenda.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-03.u187	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-03.u188	If you would like to make a request for the vote of the opinion to be preceded by a period of speeches from all parliamentary groups, I personally do not object to this request, but it is up to the House to approve it. Now, the honourable Member has filed a complaint to myself. This complaint is very simple. You do not seem to want the opinion to be voted on today and I see no reason why it should not be included in today's votes. So I have already told you that if this is the complaint, she has no provision. If you wish to appeal to the plenary, it is your right. But you are already speaking more than a minute ago about the content of something that you do not want to be appreciated and voted on today. So, you have to agree with yourself.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-03.u189	That's hard!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-03.u190	It's typical! It's not bad. It's ugly.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-03.u191	You have the floor, Mr. André Ventura.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-03.u192	Mr President, this is how we intend to remove this item from the agenda. And, Mr. President, it's not because I don't agree with myself, it's because... [[PS laughter.]] I know, ladies. Ladies and gentlemen, it was you who made this opinion, which should be ashamed of you. You should be ashamed! Compared to others, you should be ashamed!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-03.u193	Mr...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-03.u194	It is very simple, Mr President, to withdraw this item from the agenda for flagrant violation of the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure, that your Bureau has a duty to guarantee, because it is in Rule 26 of the Rules of Procedure. It's not enough for you to have that duty.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-03.u195	He refuses to raise his voice.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-03.u196	It is your Bureau that has the duty to carry out this inspection. So what we ask for is simple: this item is withdrawn from the agenda by shocking violation of the principle of equality. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-03.u197	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-03.u198	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-03.u199	It is about the conduct of the work, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-03.u200	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-03.u201	Mr. President, I would like to focus on four aspects, if I may. The first for not realizing what the regimental space for this mini-commission Mr André Ventura wanted to do now in the plenary.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-03.u202	He's going to study!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-03.u203	You're going to study the Rules of Procedure!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-03.u204	It is up to the Bureau to conduct the work and that is why I am doing exactly what the rule of law does for this purpose, if it does not recognize it. The second aspect is to restore the truth in relation to Mr André Ventura, in which he referred to the content of the opinion and the reply of Mrs Catarina Martins. Anyone who reads the opinion and the content of the reply will know that what is said is that within the framework of Article 10. the and interpretation of the same, it is considered that its application leads not to the lifting of immunity. At no time did the Member, as is her panagio, state that she did not intend or refuse to lift immunity.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-03.u205	I mean, I mean! He's here!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-03.u206	Thirdly, the answer of Members and Members to this kind of question is irrelevant to the decision taken by the House. [[Ah!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-03.u207	It's not, no! You're wrong!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-03.u208	Fourthly, this decision was taken and is proposed in this opinion, in absolute agreement with the previous opinions which have been examined in this House.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-03.u209	You should be ashamed!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-03.u210	Finally, we do not take any kind of constitutionalism lessons from a Member and a parliamentary group that cannot even pass the statutes of the party on to the Constitutional Court. [[Congratulations from BE and PS Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-03.u211	You should be ashamed! He's an instructive judge asking for this!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-03.u212	There are more requests for the use of the word, so we will apply the rules that bind us all. Any Member may file a complaint on the decision of the President of the Assembly. That's what Mr. André Ventura started by trying to do. There are no statements on this claim. I have already told you that this complaint has no provision. If you understand, then there is room for intervention. The honourable Member has clearly moved forward and has already made the necessary intervention to justify his appeal.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-03.u213	I didn't, no!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-03.u214	Mr Pedro Filipe Soares, in the form of an appeal to the Bureau, did the same. Therefore, the other parliamentary groups who wish to take a decision on the appeal concerning my decision not to accept the complaint made to me will be able to do so. However, Mr Ventura does not agree with this interpretation.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-03.u215	Mr President, I do not agree, it is the Rules of Procedure that do not agree. It's not me. It is that Article 59. It's very clear. Moreover, I have not yet submitted the appeal because Mr President has obliged me first to make a complaint and no appeal can be filed before a complaint.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-03.u216	It's twisted!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-03.u217	Mr Eurico Brillante Dias, it is nevertheless called law and regulation. Mr President, the House does not oppose the fact that the lies of the Left Block pass and therefore we let them speak, having here the answer of Mrs Catarina Martins, whom I shall now read. But, irrespective of that, Article 59. or... [[BE's protests.]] Let me talk about the Rules of Procedure, it's just a little bit. I know they might not read it much, but it's just a little bit. Article 59. The Rules of Procedure... [[Protests from BE and PS MP Eurico Brilliant Dias.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-03.u218	I ask for silence so we can move forward. Mr. André Ventura, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-03.u219	Article 59. the Rules of Procedure, which relate to the agenda, does not even give the other parliamentary groups the possibility to pronounce themselves, is the applicant. So let's see if, once and for all, we start to know what a role is...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-03.u220	Oh, you want to talk to yourself? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-03.u221	No, no, the honourable Member has already spoken and is still fine, because he has told so many lies that he has buried himself. But in relation to others, I think they should be able to talk. Article 59. it is very clear: it says that the applicant has 2 minutes to use the word and that there is no room for any debate. It's a resource. And, Mr President, I'm sorry, but you should know more about the Rules of Procedure. [[Congrats from the CH.]] [[PS and BE protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-03.u222	Mr. Pedro Delgado Alves is asking for the floor. I assume you also want to discuss Article 59. o
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-03.u223	No, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-03.u224	Is it for an appeal to the Bureau?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-03.u225	Yes, Mr President, it is an appeal to the Bureau to put a question to Mr President and to the House because I did not hear — and I think I should have listened — the invocation by Mr André Ventura of Article 27. the Statute of the Deputies. This article is the norm that states that when a Member has a particular interest in a matter he must first declare it before using the word in the plenary. And this is not irrelevant, because the complainants in the criminal complaint against Mrs Catarina Martins are the 12 Members of the Parliamentary Group of the Arrival. [[PS, PCP, BE, and L applause.]] [[CH protests.]] So, honourable Member, it seems to me that this shows two things. First, you don't know the Statute of Deputies, you don't know you're intervening... [[CH Member's Protests André Ventura.]] Mr President, I have listened very carefully to you. I'm asking the same thing.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-03.u226	Mr. André Ventura should know the Statute of Members!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-03.u227	Mr. André Ventura does not know that he is intervening directly in his own case, in a judicial action which he has tried against Mrs. Catarina Martins. Secondly, with regard to this opinion which is voted on here today, after it has been unanimously approved by all other parliamentary groups — with the exception of those concerned — I would like to say that the reason why it is not possible to lift immunity is because this is the demonstration of what you are doing to satiety.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-03.u228	What about the other cases? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-03.u229	... in front of the House and before the country, which is to be using a criminal process for political and partisan purposes to do exactly what cannot be done. [[PS, PCP, BE, and L applause.]] [[CH protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-03.u230	It's the little diner! That's a lot of money! Holidays in the Bahamas!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-03.u231	The situation in Brazil is not enough! The situation in Argentina is not enough! They never learn again!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-03.u232	I have the information that Mrs Emília Cerqueira also wishes to make an inquiry to the Bureau. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-03.u233	Mr President, my request to the Bureau — indeed, in the wake of all that has been done — is to say that we cannot really invoke the Rules of Procedure in accordance with our interests at the moment. And Article 27. the Rules of Procedure, in fact, has to do with what has already been discussed here, the question of being with itself. On behalf of the Committee on Transparency, the honourable Member who discussed the matter felt he was in a position, even though he was one of the complainants himself. And, therefore, inconsistencies and the Rules of Procedure used a la carte, when appropriate, cannot be. The Rules of Procedure should be used consistently for all situations. As far as consistency in the decision is concerned, it is another matter. And the PSD has always been consistent, both in this situation and in previous. Mr President, I should like to remind you that, as a result of this House, when it was the opinion of Mrs Inês de Sousa Real, the PSD alone, isolated, voted against. [[PSD applause.]] And we voted in this way because we understand that, even if we disagree deeply about the statements in the political struggle, we have the right to say. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-03.u234	And it is this defense of the institution of the Assembly of the Republic and of democracy that makes us, when it comes to political opinion and political combat, even if we are at all confrontation, we understand that we have the right to say. We thought you had the right to tell Mrs Inês de Sousa Real. So we thought your immunity shouldn't have been lifted, but it was. All parties voted in favour, except the PSD, who voted against this uprising of immunity, alone, but in coherence with our intransigent principles of defense of this House and democracy. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-03.u235	There is only democracy for some!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-03.u236	in the same way and in the same consistency, we voted in favour of not lifting the immunity of Mrs Catarina Martins,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-03.u237	Two weights and two measures!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-03.u238	... because, whether or not we agree with what it says, the right to assert is not at stake, the right to say. We must defend the freedom of expression of a Member as such, regardless of what he says. Therefore, the PSD will always be on the side of the defence of democracy, of freedom of expression and of the rights of each one of us, of the rights to be able to express ourselves freely, regardless of what we think about it. Today, as we were in the past with Mrs Inês de Sousa Real, we are in the same place, always in coherence. [[PSD applause.]] [[CH protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-03.u239	What is at stake here is the appeal for a decision on the fixing of the agenda. Mr. André Ventura is asking for the floor. Do you want to make an inquiry to the Bureau?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-03.u240	I would like to appeal, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-03.u241	The honourable Member wants to make an appeal, i.e. to appeal to my decision not to amend the agenda. Is that it, sir?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-03.u242	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-03.u243	Please, Mr. Deputy. He's got two minutes.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-03.u244	Mr. President, I will be very quick. I understood perfectly the arguments the Socialist Party wants the PSD here to defend. I remind everyone that I was called to the court by a complaint from another Member who is sitting here in the same political-party debate, called Mariana Mortágua. I didn't take refuge in any immunity! I went by my foot to the Public Prosecutor's Office, I answered the court what I had to answer without fear and, when the Transparency Committee asked me what I had to do, I said « raise immunity immediately! » because no one is afraid of justice here. Let's face it, let's go to court, because we believe in institutions. And there, Mr President, where was the political-party debate?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-03.u245	It wasn't in the debate!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-03.u246	When Mrs Mariana Mortágua filed a complaint that a journalist had asked for explanations of acts involving her, where was the consistency of the PSD? Where was the PS coherence there?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-03.u247	Tell me what you want!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-03.u248	There, they forgot. Why? Because it was the Arrival that was in issue and not the Socialist Party. [[Congrats from the CH.]] A complaint from another Member. There are two pesos and two measures that embarrass the separation of powers: if it is to protect Members of the Left Block, the PS and PSD are here; if they are Members of the Arrival, there is no one anymore. [[Protests by PS member Eurico Brilliant Dias and BE Member Joana Mortagua.]] But I wanted to remember, Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, who asks for Mrs Catarina Martins' immunity to be lifted is none of the complainants present here. Who asks for the immunity of Mrs Catarina Martins is the Portuguese Public Ministry, with an instruction judge to validate and request the immunity of Mrs Catarina Martins. And to that the PS, the PSD, the Left Block and the PCP say: "No, we will not allow Mrs Catarina Martins to answer, as the Members of the European Parliament have done, before the only ones in Portugal who can do justice, who are the courts. Do not keep on seeking. ” This is a blockade of justice! It is a violation of the separation of powers and undue protection to those Members who do not deserve such protection, because we are all equal in Portugal. All of them! [[Congrats from the CH.]] [[Protests by members of BE Joana Mortagua and Mariana Mortagua.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-03.u249	Your time is up, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-03.u250	I will finish, Mr. President. Mrs Emília Cerqueira said that the PSD is always consistent—it is always consistent, except when the Members of the European Parliament arrived. Look, Mrs. Member, we are too. Whenever we get a request to be heard in court, do you know what we do without even looking to the side? Raise immunity and let us be heard in court. That's what everyone in this house should do. [[Congrats from the CH.]] [[BE's protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-03.u251	As the appeal is presented, we shall vote for it. [[Subject to the vote, the PS, PS, IL, PCP, BE, PAN and L were rejected and votes in favour of the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-03.u252	You've only been bad with me before!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-03.u253	Let us then start the voting period. I ask the services to activate the quorum verification register. [[Pause.]] I wonder if any Member or Member has not been able to register. [[Pause.]] Ladies and gentlemen, Alexandra Leitão and Isabel Moreira have not succeeded. I ask the services to close the quorum verification and present the results. [[Pause.]] We have quorum. We shall proceed to the vote. We begin with the Vote Project No. 252 / XV / 1. a ( submitted by PAR and subscribed by PS, PS, CH, IL, PCP, BE, PAN and L ) — Not to mention the death of Luís Moita. I ask the Secretary Maria da Luz Rosinha to read this draft vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-03.u254	Mr. President and Mr. Members, the draft vote is as follows: « He died last January 28th, at the age of 84, Luís Moita, a civic and moral reference of several generations, before and after April 25th, and figure summit of the Portuguese academy. Born in Lisbon, in 1939, Luís Moita graduated in Theology, Gregorian University, Rome, and doctorate in Ethics in 1967, from Lateran University, also in Italy. Catholic priest, Luís Moita was one of the protagonists of the Rat Chapel, in 1972. The active opposition against war and dictatorship led to his imprisonment in Caxias. After 25 April, he joined the V Provisional Government as State Secretary of Emigration. His anti-war civic intervention also manifested itself in academic activity, where he distinguished himself in the study of armed conflicts and the culture of peace, as well as international relations, discipline that he taught throughout a brilliant career in different institutions, such as the Faculty of Economics of the University of Coimbra, the Military University Institute and, in particular, the Autonomous University of Lisbon, where he was a professor, director of the Department of International Relations and a member of the Scientific Council, having been vice-director between 1992 and 2009. In recognition of his life and work, Luís Moita was decorated in 1998 with the Great Cross of the Order of Freedom and in 2005 as the Grand Officer of the Order of Stella della Solidarietá italiana. The Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary session, expresses its deep regret at the death of Luís Moita, conveying to its family and friends, to the scientific community in general and to the Autonomous University of Lisbon, in particular, the most sorry condolences. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-03.u255	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall vote on the deliberative part of the draft vote that has just been read. [[The vote was taken unanimously.]] I welcome the presence of Prof. Luís Moita's wife and other family members, as well as representatives of the Autonomous University of Lisbon, to whom the most sympathies of Parliament address. I ask everyone to follow me in the minute of silence. [[The House kept, standing, a minute's silence.]] The vote on the Draft Deliberation No 10 / XV / 1. a ( PAR) — Extension of the period of operation of the Possible Constitutional Review Commission. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We now vote on Parliamentary Inquiry No 6 / XV / 1. a (CH) — Parliamentary Commission of Inquiry into the management of the TAP and the use of public funds allocated to it, including the payment of bonuses and compensation to holders of management and management positions of the company. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and the CFP were rejected, votes against the PSD, the CH, the IL and the NAP and abstentions against BE and L.]] We proceeded to the vote on a proposal for an addendum submitted by the CFP to the Parliamentary Inquiry No 7 / XV / 1. a ( BE) — Possible parliamentary investigation committee for the political protection of the management of TAP. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, CH and BE were rejected and votes against the PSD, the IL, the CFP, the NAP and the L.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-03.u256	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-03.u257	Please, Mrs. Emilia Cerqueira.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-03.u258	Mr President, the PSD will make a written statement of vote on this last vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-03.u259	All right, Mrs. Deputy. We then voted on Parliamentary Inquiry No 7 / XV / 1. a ( BE) — Possible parliamentary investigation committee for the political protection of the management of TAP. [[Put to the vote, it was adopted with votes in favour of the PSD, the CH, the IL, the BE, the PAN and the L and with abstentions from the PS and the CFP.]] We shall generally vote on the Bill No 56 / XV / 1. a ( GOV ) — Establishs the scheme for startups and scales, amends the scheme for taxation of options plans for startup workers and innovation companies and strengthens the system of tax incentives for research and business development. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, votes against the CFP, BE and L, and abstentions against the PSD, CH, IL and the NAP.]] The proposal goes down to 5. the Commission. We now vote, in general, the Bill No. 503 / XV / 1. a ( PAN) — Amendment to the Statute for Tax Benefits, with a view to deepening transparency mechanisms. [[The vote was taken with votes against the PS and votes against the PS, the CH, the IL, the PCP, the BE, the PAN and the L.]] We then generally vote for Bill No. 506 / XV / 1. a (CH) — Encourages the return of emigrants and the recruitment of qualified young people. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and the CFP were rejected, votes against the CH and the IL and abstentions against the PSD, BE, PAN and L.]] We turn to the general vote on the Bill No 48 / XV / 1. a ( ALRAM ) — Resets electricity, natural gas, butane and propane, as well as introduces the provision of Internet access services in List 1 - Goods and Services subject to the reduced rate of the Value Added Tax Code. [[Put to the vote was rejected, with votes against the PS, votes in favour of CH, IL, PCP, BE and L and abstentions from the PSD and the NAP.]] The general vote on draft resolution No 67 / XV / 1 is hereby followed. a ( PCP ) — By creating the career of reintegration technician, Directorate-General for Reintegration and Prison Services. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of the PS, the CH, the CFP, the BE, the NAP and the L and the abstention from the IL.]] We will generally vote on the Resolution Project No. 305 / XV / 1. a (L) — Recommends that the Government review the careers of professional social reintegration technician, senior social reintegration technician and higher education technician, the Directorate-General for Reintegration and Prison Services, and regulate their progress and remuneration. [[Submitted to the vote, it was adopted with votes in favour of PSD, CH, PCP, BE, PAN, L and PS Deputies Bruno Aragão, Catarina Lobo, Cláudia Santos, Joana Sá Pereira and Marta Temido and abstentions from PS and IL.]] This project goes down to 1. the Commission. Mrs. Susana Amador is asking for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-03.u260	Mr President, with regard to the draft which we have just voted on, a statement of vote will be sent on behalf of the Socialist Party Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-03.u261	Thank you very much, Mrs. Deputies. We will generally vote for Resolution No. 352 / XV / 1. a ( BE) — Review of technical careers and creation of the single technical/reintegration career within the framework of the Directorate-General for Reintegration and Prison Services ( DGRSP ). [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of the PS, the CH, the CFP, the BE, the NAP and the L and the abstention from the IL.]] We now vote in general on Resolution No 390 / XV / 1. a (CH) — By reviewing the technical careers of DGRSP — Directorate-General for Reintegration and Prison Services — and by creating the unique career of reintegration technician. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of the PS, the CH, the BE and the NAP and IL, the PCP and the L.]] We then generally vote for Bill No. 496 / XV / 1. a (BE) — Creating a status of risk and penosity for health professionals. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of the CH, the CFP, the BE, the NAP and the L and abstentions of the PSD and the IL.]] We proceed to the general vote on Bill No 501 / XV / 1. a (CH) — Recognizes the profession of nurse as a rapid wear and anticipates the retirement age. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, PSD and IL were rejected, votes against the CH and the NAP and abstentions from the CFP, BE and L.]] We now vote in general on Resolution No. 323 / XV / 1. a (PAN) — Recommends that the Government establish a working group to amend the legal framework for rapid wear and tear professions, setting out criteria for the allocation of this qualification and identifying an exemplary list of such professions. [[The vote was taken with votes against the PS and votes against the PS, the CH, the IL, the PCP, the BE, the PAN and the L.]] The general vote on draft resolution No 396 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Definition and regulation of a specific employment and retirement scheme for nurses. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of the CH, the CFP, the BE, the NAP and the L and abstentions of the PSD and the IL.]] We turn to the general vote on draft resolution No 392 / XV / 1. a (CH) — Recommends to the Government the assessment of the psychological impact of the pandemic on children and young people of school age. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of the PS, the CH, the IL, the BE and the NAP, and abstentions of the CFP and the L.]] We shall now vote, in general, in the overall specialty and in the final vote, on Law No 50 / XV / 1. a ( GOV ) — Includes new psychoactive substances in drug definition. [[The vote was taken unanimously.]] Then we vote on draft resolution No 368 / XV / 1. a ( PS ) — Recommends that the Government ensure an extraordinary package of support in the face of severe floods and floods. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Let us now vote on a request submitted by the PSD, requesting the discharge of the Committee on Public Administration, Planning of the Territory and Local Power, with no vote in general for 60 days of the Draft Resolution No 370 / XV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Recommends that the Government develop, update and approve territorial planning programmes ( PROT ) in order to establish concrete strategies for the prevention and mitigation of adverse and exceptional weather phenomena. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We proceed to the vote on draft resolution No 360 / XV / 1. a (CH) — Recommends to the Government the promotion of training actions to educators and teachers, which contribute to the social and school development of students with autism. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of the PS, the CH, the IL, the BE and the NAP, and abstentions of the CFP and the L.]] Let us now vote on an opinion from the Committee on Transparency and the Statute of Members, which I would like to ask Mrs Maria da Luz Rosinha to read.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-03.u262	Mr. President and Mr. Members, the request of the Judge of Law of the Central Criminal Court — Judge 1, Case No 3829 / 22.5T9LSB, the Committee on Transparency and the Statute of Deputies decided not to authorize the lifting of parliamentary immunity of Mrs Catarina Martins ( BE ).
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-03.u263	Shame!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-03.u264	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the opinion is under consideration. [[Pause.]] If there are no requests for a word, we shall vote for it. [[The vote was taken and voted in favour of the PS, the PS, the IL, the PCP, the BE, the NAP and the L and votes against the CH.]] We're here, so... The members of the CH stood up and displayed posters containing a photograph of BE Deputy Catarina Martins and the word « Impunity », while beating with their hands at the tops of the benches.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-03.u265	Shame on you!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-03.u266	I consider the gesture that we are now deeply offensive and unacceptable in a democratic Parliament. [[PSP, BE, PCP, L, stand up, and PSD Members applauded.]] The Bureau recorded the registration of the Members. Mr Rodrigo Saraiva and Mr Inês de Sousa Real. I wonder if you want to address petitions to the Bureau?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-03.u267	I am sorry, Mr President, but I have asked for a statement of an oral vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-03.u268	Do you want to make an oral vote on which to vote?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-03.u269	With regard to the vote on this last opinion by the Transparency Committee, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-03.u270	All right, just wait a minute. Mr. Rodrigo Saraiva wants to use the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-03.u271	Mr President, there were two votes in which we changed our sense of vote and we would like to correct it.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-03.u272	So, let's start over here. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-03.u273	Mr President, these are both draft resolutions: in draft resolution No 496 / XV / 1. a ( BE), I think we shall have voted abstention and our sense of vote is against ; and in draft resolution No 501 / XV / 1. a (CH), we will have voted against and our sense of vote is abstention.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-03.u274	For registration purposes, for draft Law No 496 / XV / 1. a ( BE), the Liberal Initiative voted against and in relation to Bill No 501 / XV / 1. a ( CH), the Liberal Initiative abstained. None of these amendments change the outcome of their votes. I am sorry to inform Mrs Inês de Sousa Real that there is no possibility of oral explanations of vote on opinions.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-03.u275	Mr President, I beg your pardon, will you allow me to speak?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-03.u276	Mrs. Deputy wants to challenge my interpretation... you have the floor, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-03.u277	Yes, Mr President, Article 87 (1). that of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly of the Republic states that, after each vote, each Member, or parliamentary group, has the right to make a statement of vote, precisely to clarify his position. I do not understand why it does not apply to the opinions, even more so, given that, in the context of the debate around the appeal, in which it was not possible to make interventions, I have been mentioned several times. Now, considering the matter here, I therefore ask Mr President and, if necessary, the other parliamentary groups, in fact, to give me the floor for an oral vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-03.u278	All right, Mrs. Deputy. The honourable Member has the right to make a statement of vote in writing. [[Pause.]] What is the Rules of Procedure that you are invoking?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-03.u279	Article 87 ( 1 ). the Rules of Procedure, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-03.u280	in this issue, read: « Each Member, on a personal or parliamentary basis, has the right to produce, at the end of each vote, a written declaration of vote clarifying the meaning of his vote ». That's your right.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-03.u281	Mr President, I beg your pardon, will you allow me to speak?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-03.u282	Mr Pedro Delgado Alves also wants to invoke an article of the Rules of Procedure... You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-03.u283	Mr President, I just want to clarify what has been the usual interpretation. Article 87. the Rules of Procedure give each Member the right to make a statement of vote, not specifying whether it is written or oral. On the contrary, it is presumed whenever it is written, because the Rules of Procedure expressly admit statements of oral vote in Article 155. the, but only in relation to the legislative procedure.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-03.u284	The gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen are missing Fridays that end too late... [[Laughing.]] Mrs Inês Sousa Real, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-03.u285	Mr President, I would like to reinforce what you have said, asking Mr President, like what has happened at other times in this House, that I should be given the right to speak, if necessary, with the consent of the parliamentary groups.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-03.u286	All right, Mrs. Deputy. This President has the feature — I do not know whether it is an advantage or a disadvantage — that he is not a jurist and, therefore, tending to read literally what is written. Article 87. the Rules of Procedure give the honourable Member the right to make a written statement of vote. I do not see, in the article in question, any margin for making an oral vote. However, ladies and gentlemen, I am still trying to take advantage of my non-legal status and because of this being a Chamber of a political nature, if no parliamentary group opposes it, I will give you one minute to present your arguments, and we will not continue here in a debate. [[Pause.]] There is no opposition, but the honourable Member has one minute to present his arguments. You have the floor, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-03.u287	Mr. President and Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, although the NAP has voted in favour of maintaining the parliamentary immunity of Mrs Catarina Martins, it makes a statement of vote, not because it disagrees with the Commission's fundamentals, quite the contrary, but because in fact it cannot fail to register here that does not understand how this House systematically has two pesos and two measures.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-03.u288	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-03.u289	Parliamentary immunity is not just a personal prerogative of all of us, which we are members of this Assembly as Members of this sovereignty body. I recall precisely that when an action was put on my part by the veterinary doctor Joaquim Grave, who is a witness in this same action—that integrates the ProToiro association, that the NAP has repeatedly faced in its political action, by calling for the abolition of the Tauromachia— and I did not offend anyone at all, merely saying that there were those who had the intellectual honesty to acknowledge that the animals suffer, this House, with the exception of the PSD, decided everything by lifting my parliamentary immunity. I have no fear of going to court to defend what I believe, quite the contrary, and I have even entered an action, for slanderous denunciation, against the veterinarian Joaquim Grave. What I cannot accept is that the precedent which has now been opened, in view of the earlier lifting of parliamentary immunities, calls into question the functioning of this sovereignty body, because there are no first- and second-deputies Members. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-03.u290	We are all equal in our rights and duties! [[Congrats from the CH.]] [[PSD protests and CH counter-protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-03.u291	We are thus at the end of our work. The next plenary meeting is on Wednesday,... [[Continued PSD protests and CH counterprotests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-03.u292	Mr President, I beg your pardon, will you allow me to speak?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-03.u293	Mr. Pedro Delgado Alves, do you intend to use the floor after I have finished our work?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-03.u294	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-03.u295	Sir, please, but I must warn you that my patience is not infinite, only the universe.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-03.u296	Mr President, I had tried to signal to the Bureau earlier, I apologize if it was not visible.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-03.u297	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-03.u298	I shall be very synthetic, Mr President. I would just like to ask that they be distributed to the House — taking into account the timetable for the plenary session and the fact that there is no debate here, because it is not the place itself, the committee itself is interested in these matters — the two opinions in question, which obviously have different grounds and facts, which justifies that the parliamentary groups have voted differently. [[We always vote in favour!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-03.u299	I don't want to open the debate, Mr President, I was just asking for this to be recorded,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-03.u300	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-03.u301	...because, obviously, the House debate seems that they are discussed and have different foundations and texts.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-03.u302	It's not just two opinions, it's several!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-03.u303	Thank you very much, exclamation point!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-03.u304	Mr. President, if I may...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-03.u305	Mr Pedro Filipe Soares also wants to request the distribution of documents? Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-03.u306	The debate is over!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-03.u307	Mr President, yes, I would like to request the distribution of a third opinion, which was recently voted in the Assembly of the Republic, in order to lift the parliamentary immunity of Mrs Mariana Mortágua. It is therefore rejected the idea that there are two weights and two measures, up to the validation of the various opinions.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-03.u308	Mr President, may I take the floor?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-03.u309	Mr Ventura also wants to circulate a document?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-03.u310	Mr President, since we are dealing with the distribution of documents, I would also like to ask for the distribution of all opinions concerning Members of the House to whom parliamentary immunity has been raised, some of whom are mentioned in television debates and others in statements made about other Members, and that the House and the PSD, in such cases, have agreed to vote in favour of the survey. By the way, we are going to distribute all the opinions, because we realize where there are two weights and two measures. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-03.u311	As is the rule, the gentlemen. Members have asked for the distribution of documents that are public, so anyone who wants can access them. I will then try to end the session. I warn you, I refuse to talk to people around the hall, and I have a lot of time.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-03.u312	And very well! [[Pause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-03.u313	The next plenary meeting will be held on Wednesday, 8 February, and the agenda shall begin with the preparatory debate of the European Council, with the participation of the Prime Minister under Article 4 ( 1 ) ( a ). the Law of Monitoring and Pronunciation by the Assembly of the Republic in the process of building the European Union. We shall also proceed to the joint assessment of Resolution Projects Nos 395 / XV / 1. a ( PS ) — Recommends that the Government create conditions for the development of the voluntary carbon market in Portugal, 212 / XV / 1. a ( PAN) — Sets out the rules on the composition, organisation, operation and status of the Council for Climate Action, in accordance with Article 12 ( 4 ). the Basics of Climate Law, approved by Law No. 98 / 2021 of 31 December, 378 / XV / 1. a ( BE) — Recommends to the Government the end of perverse subsidies and profits in the field of carbon trade, 405 / XV / 1. a ( PAN) — Recommends that the Government comply with the provisions of the Basics of Climate Law adopted by Law No 98 / 2021 of 31 December and carry out the procedures in this respect under its competence, and 406 / XV / 1. a ( PAN) — Recommends that the Government implement a voluntary carbon market and encourage the use of greenbonds in Portugal. We will also, together, appreciate Law Projects Nos 367 / XV / 1. a ( IL) — Amend the Civil Procedure Code, clarifying the revision of foreign administrative decisions, and 499 / XV / 1. a (L) — Admits the divorce and separation of property to non-resident foreign citizens married under Portuguese law and whose national law does not recognize this marriage. Finally, draft Law No 464 / XV / 1 will be the subject of joint assessment. a ( PCP ) — Revoking the decreed increase in toll rates and limiting its update to the value corresponding to 2022, Resolution Projects Nos 355 / XV / 1. a ( CH) — Recommends that the Government revise the terms of the Lusoponte PPP, with a view to reducing toll rates and 356 / XV / 1. a ( CH) — Recommends that the Government freeze toll rates and draft Law No 502 / XV / 1. a (PAN) — By renegotiating public-private partnerships contracts in the road sector. Good afternoon to all and good weekend. [[It was 13 hours and 6 minutes.]]
