ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-19.u1	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. We have quorum, so we can start our work. [[It was 10 hours and 8 minutes.]] I would like to ask the honourable Members. Authorities please open the galleries to the public. We've got some, uh, little files. To read it, I give the floor to Mrs. Maria da Luz Rosinha.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-19.u2	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, have entered, and have been admitted by Mr President, draft resolutions Nos 704 / XV / 1. a ( CH ), which falls to 13. the Commission, and 705 / XV / 1. a ( PAR ), on the extension of the deadline for the operation of the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry into TAP Management Policy Protection ( Portuguese Air Transport ). That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-19.u3	Our agenda begins with the discussion of Bill Nos 71 / XV / 1. a ( GOV ) — Approves measures under the More Housing intervention plan, and 77 / XV / 1. a ( GOV ) — Authorizes the Government to reform and simplify licensing within the context of urbanism and spatial planning as well as draft Law No 451 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Extraordinary regime for the prohibition of penhora and execution of permanent own housing mortgages, 510 / XV / 1. a ( BE ) — Bans the sale of houses to non-residents, 673 / XV / 1. a ( CH) — Strengthens incentives for stability in lease contracts for own and permanent housing by reducing autonomous tax rates, 738 / XV / 1. a ( CH) — Creates a mediation commission in Decree-Law No 80 -A / 2022, 744 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Housing Protection Measures, 747 / XV / 1. a (L) — Creates the Mission More Housing, Better Housing, equipping the Institute for Housing and Urban Rehabilitation, IHRU, I.P. , of technical and financial capacity capable of ensuring 100 000 new fires for housing, in 10 years, 755 / XV / 1. a ( BE) — Provides a quota of 25 % of the housing product for conditioned income, 756 / XV / 1. a (BE) — Income control to defend the right to housing, 757 / XV / 1. a ( BE) — Alter the Statute for Tax Benefits and the Tax Code on the Income of Single Persons, and 758 / XV / 1. a ( BE) — Assigns to the Tax Authority competence for the identification of devolved autonomous buildings or fractions, buildings in ruins and land for construction likely to exacerbate the municipal property tax rate, and still of the Deliberation Project No 11 / XV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Independent study to assess the effects of changes to the urban lease regime in the last 10 years, and of Resolution Projects Nos 184 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Strengthening of the Urban Housing and Rehabilitation Institute, and 628 / XV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Recommends to the Government the approval of a special scheme of residence permits for investment activity ( golden visas) for autonomous regions. To present the Government's initiatives, Mr. Minister of Housing, Marina Gonçalves.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-19.u4	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : We are presenting today the third part of what is the legislative package of the More Housing programme. This More Habitat programme is a programme of measures, but above all it is a programme for people. We have all been called as a country, as a parliamentary group, as a government, for a debate that is effectively requested by so many Portuguese people. More than one request, it is indeed a real need, to which we also have a duty to give an answer. It is a problem that must be everyone's, and it is a strategy that must be as consensual as possible, for everyone's sake. In essence, we call on the country to achieve a final goal: to ensure that people have access to a decent home and that families have access to a quality housing, so that they can live their lives in full form. This is not a new way. We started this path in 2015 when we presented housing as one of the political priorities. We strengthened this commitment in 2018, with the new generation of housing policies and with the Housing Bases Act itself, which was adopted here in this Parliament. We further strengthened and mobilized public investment for housing, when, in 2021, we prioritized housing in the Recovery and Resilience Plan ( PRR ). But we know that more steps need to be taken, we know that more responses need to be reinforced, in a more immediate, contextual way, in the face of the most immediate needs, and also with some structural measures aimed not only at giving greater speed to what is already in progress, but also at creating new partnerships and new ways to create housing for all. Today we know that we need to go further and that is why, on February 16, we presented the More Housing programme. The More Housing program aims to solve problems, to respond to families and to find effective solutions. That is what we are asked to do, and that is what we are also asked here in Parliament: that we can continue this work of looking at the objective, finding measures and making them effective in fulfilling this objective.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-19.u5	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-19.u6	We launched ideas and put forward proposals, mobilized public discussion and mobilized political discussion. We are engaged in a broad debate, where many have participated, in a sectoral way, with those who are part of this sector, very collectively, with so many and so many contributions that have allowed to evolve in what was the initial proposal. Evoluing does not mean looking at the goal and diverging into the goal. Evoluing is looking at the measures that we build, the objectives and the concerns, and we realize how they are effective in their purpose. That is what should move us and make the debate, which is fundamental: it is to understand how these measures solve a specific problem of our society, that is, access to a decent housing. [[P.S.'s applause.]] in this work, it is effectively necessary to make choices, and making choices is often difficult, but these choices are necessary and this is also our responsibility. When we look at such a plural society with so many dimensions, it is necessary to understand how they coexist, as is the balance of everything that is so important to our society. This often involves making these choices. But choices must also look at the dimension of the problem we have to answer. This was the exercise that was done, with the difficulty associated with the debate that we do, but with the responsibility to know that many of them are fundamental to making what we should once again move: ensuring that families have a decent home. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The consensus implies a balance and involves commitments between all of us and, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, this is the first message I want to leave here. This is a programme which is now being discussed in Parliament, but it is also a bill that has had its debate, it has its discussion and we will certainly continue this debate here in Parliament. There are many proposals on the table, there is a lot of debate that needs to be done, and they also count on the government to be able to improve this debate in favour of this last objective I have mentioned. We have several priorities, ensuring that these choices we have made are useful for a debate that is, in abstract, interesting, but that meets concrete challenges. Prioritying housing requires prioritising public investment in housing and setting an example as a State. We did it over the years with programs like 1. the law and affordable lease, and with priority in the PRR. We also do so with a set of incentives to mobilise private ownership for the State, with the exemption of more value on sale, with the simplification of the integration procedure and with the mobilization of more soils, to reinforce the priority response, which is more public housing. Prioritying housing also requires mobilising and giving confidence to the private. That is why in the past we have been improving incentives and creating new incentives for rental at affordable prices on the market. That is why this More Housing also brings a set of measures to mobilize new housing projects for those who promote them, at affordable prices and compatible with the ultimate goal, which is able to safeguard access to housing,... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ... with the transfer of buildings, with a robust set, with a substantial reduction of the tax burden, with the simplification of the licensing, with the improvement of access to justice, with so many measures that aim precisely to ensure that we are all part of a common process and a collective life. Prioritying housing also requires creating collaborative and intergenerational models. That is why we have already made an initial way of articulation with cooperatives, but we want to go further, with the present state, the municipalities present in the articulation, to create a new generation of cooperatives and a third way of intervention in the housing market, once again, to reach the families. Prioritizing housing is supposed to mobilize existing housing heritage. And the existing housing heritage is very vast and has many dimensions. We must be able to understand how we redefine the use that is given to dwellings, together, in dialogue, realizing what the objective is and making these measures effective. Prioritizing housing implies, ultimately and at the highest level, giving hope to those who need housing, confident that the State and the Country have not abandoned them. This presupposes not only all of the measures I have mentioned here, but also a set of support, a set of responses, extraordinary income support, strengthening the responses to younger people, creating new responses to income-loss situations, state partnership situations and authorities with the private sector, the lease programme to sub-loans and the conditions for those who have broken income to be able to have the guarantee of the State that it maintains its housing or that it can access a decent housing. That's what's moving us, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. This is what is in this More Housing programme. This is the goal of the More Housing program. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mrs. Members, the debate will continue in this Parliament. Certainly, the diplomas coming out of here will be reinforced in the objective. I leave this appeal to everyone, not only for the debate, but for the work that follows, of what must be our great objective not only in the debate we make, in the proposals that we present, but above all in the law we leave here: it is to create more housing, to create more housing compatible with the incomes of families and to be able to collectively, with the possible consensus, to ensure that families have access to the one who is a pillar of the social state, which is housing, an adequate housing, a housing worthy for all. That must be, and that is, our design as a government and that must be the design of Parliament. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-19.u7	And the presentation of the RPPs (saving-reform plans)? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-19.u8	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-19.u9	Mrs. Member, ask for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-19.u10	Mr President, it is for an appeal to the Bureau on the conduct of the proceedings.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-19.u11	Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-19.u12	Mr President, that is to say: there are two proposals for government law and we want to see only if both have been presented at this time—because of course we want to use the regiment figure of questions to the Government—or if only one has been submitted and then another will be presented, and if this one is the Bill No 71 / XV / 1. a ( GOV ) or the Proposal for Law No 77 / XV / 1. a ( GOV ). [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-19.u13	From what I heard, it seemed to me that this was the Bill No 71 / XV / 1. a ( GOV ), but the Minister can confirm whether my understanding is correct. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-19.u14	It's like houses!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-19.u15	Mr President, the More Habitat programme is a comprehensive programme and has all these dimensions, so this presentation is obviously generic, but we will have an intervention, above all, on the issue of land licensing ahead, so that we can also focus on this dimension. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-19.u16	The presentation was clear!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-19.u17	With this further proof that the Bureau listened carefully to the interventions, we then moved to the stage of requests for clarification. The Minister has eight requests for clarification and has informed the Bureau that she intends to respond to them in two groups of four. To make the first request for clarification on behalf of the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mrs Marcia Passos has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-19.u18	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Madam Minister, prioritise and make choices, as I said, means involving everyone. I have many doubts that this is Mr.Minister's concern to resolve the crisis in housing, because, when it is, we hear, we involve political agents and civil society, and we articulate paths with those who are fundamental to finding them, which are the municipalities. This is what the PSD did before presenting to the country, before the government, the measures for the new path to housing in Portugal. [[PSD applause.]] That's all Mrs. Minister didn't do. In good time the PSD marked the difference. Instead of trying to force municipalities to practice acts that violate fundamental rights, such as forced rent—yes, force, Mrs Minister, because the Minister tells municipalities that, if they do not comply, she withdraws the revenue from the IMI (municipal property tax) — the PSD has introduced measures to create a supply shock in the country. And this supply shock must begin with the State itself to repair your home, to identify the returned buildings, to rehabilitate them and to target them to whom it needs the most. Ms. Minister, it is not suspending local housing permits ( AL ) and forcing municipalities to renew under the conditions that the Government wants. The Minister is presenting a measure which withdraws power from the municipal chambers and places a group of persons, condominiums, to decide to terminate a licence issued by a public body. [[Protests by the Minister of Housing.]] Mr. Minister, this is the same thing as putting a condominium withdrawing the driving licence that was assigned by the IMT ( Institute for Mobility and Transport ).
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-19.u19	Ah!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-19.u20	This is so ridiculous that you don't even think you've done something like this! But, now, does the decision of a group of people, without passing through a court, have the power to annul a decision of a public body? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-19.u21	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-19.u22	Do you know what you're doing, Minister? Oh, my God! Even if such measures served to create more housing, we could still understand. But no! Mrs. Minister knows the lease for tourist purposes, which could be for 10, 15, 20, 30 days, what do people want? Do you think today who has a local accommodation will not, after being forced to suspend it, rent for tourist purposes? And everything will happen next to the Tax Authority. We're all going to lose, Minister. I ask you, Minister : is the government available to focus, in a serious way, the debate on housing? Is the Government available to approach the measures that the PSD has put forward and, in fact, to present and cause a real supply shock in Portugal? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-19.u23	With those measures, no!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-19.u24	For a request for clarification on behalf of the Left Block Parliamentary Group, Mrs Mariana Mortágua has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-19.u25	Mr. President, Mrs. Minister, Mrs. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Ladies and gentlemen, I am at risk to make a pre-monitoring summary of this debate, taking into account the intervention of the PSD: it is a debate in which the right does what the Government wants, while the Government approves the measures which the right enjoys. In fact, nothing will change substantially in local housing or compulsory rent, but it's only about what speaks right,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-19.u26	And you guys don't? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-19.u27	... moreover, diligently fulfilling the task assigned to you by the government, which is the task of making this package seem a great radical project. The Government presents a number of incendiary measures that will not have any consequences in reality, the right only speaks of these measures, the Government makes it appear that the package is radical and, indeed, little changes in housing. In fact, basically, as regards the More Habitat package, the right is in agreement with the Government.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-19.u28	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-19.u29	As for more tax benefits, the right is in agreement with the Government. As for incentives for real estate business, the right is in agreement with the Government. As regards facilitation in construction, the right is in agreement with the Government.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-19.u30	More taxes!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-19.u31	The right one wants to build more, and he only talks about building more, because he doesn't want to play in market rules. Mrs. Minister, there is only one question that matters today: what will you do to bring down housing prices in Portugal? It is not for prices to grow less, nor is for prices to stagnate: it is for prices to fall. And don't tell us, please, that people will live from state support, income and service, until the miraculous day of 2090, in which all the houses promised by the State will finally appear built. Do not tell us that city centers are condemned to speculation and gentrification, while the people who work are sent out of the cities, to peripheries built for workers, while the centers are reserved for tourists and citizens with more money. Don't tell us that quietly licensing works or suspending new local housing licenses will solve the problem, because it won't solve the problem. So the question is simple: what will you do to bring down the price of housing tomorrow? It's not in a decade, it's not in 20 years: it's in the time of our lives. Tomorrow! [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-19.u32	Mr Ventura has the floor for a request for clarification on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-19.u33	Mr President, we already have Mrs Mariana Mortágua speaking on the left, on the right and on everyone else. But on the right, he speaks the right, and no, Mrs. Minister, the right does not agree with this package More Housing! I'll tell you why you don't agree. Local accommodation represents 42 % of sleeping in the whole country, I repeat, 42 %. Men and women are outside today, at the door of this Assembly of the Republic, protesting against your government. It's about 60 000 families and this is not a date to forget. This cannot be a charter programme, as Mr President of the Republic said, or a programme that will not give anything, as the Head of State himself emphasized. But there is one thing, Mrs. Minister, that we already realize is the pattern of the Socialist Party's action: for any problem, new taxes are created; for any problem, it comes with the tax over people. Yes, Mrs. Minister, such as the new extraordinary contribution on the local accommodation and the worsening of the IMI of the local accommodation. It was you who, in the face of a problem, decided to raise taxes! When these people invested their savings to save the Portuguese economy and to rehabilitate our cities, the government said "very well", but what did it give them? Nothing! He only said « very well». Now that they need their homes, it is up to them to carry them, to take their houses out, to force the licenses to expire and to lay them on top of them. [[PS Member Protests Eurico Brilliant Dias.]] As for this, Mrs. Minister, one thing is different: it is not to rule; it is to extort, to extort Portuguese! [[Congrats from the CH.]] But it wasn't enough to extort, the government had to threaten. I'm going to read a sentence to see if you know who said this: "If municipalities fail to exercise the forced lease mechanism, stop applying the worsening rate of IMI. Do not keep on seeking. ” It was your government, Mrs. Minister, that threatened the municipalities: if they do not, they will withdraw IMI revenues. This is threatening local power, it is eliminating the autonomy of municipal chambers to decide whether or not they have the conditions to do so. More! It is to use local power to continue the instruments that the Government wants to pursue. Therefore, thanks to God, many right-wing authors from the whole country have already said that they will not accomplish what the government wants to do. That is why it is challenging for the Minister and her Government to go to court, to see who is right, if they are the autarchs, if it is the government, in the unconstitutional measures they want to adopt. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-19.u34	But I couldn't stop asking you two questions, Mrs. Minister. First of all, I'd really like you to answer. Are you comfortable with the increase in taxes for these men and women? Do you not recognise the work they have had in urban rehabilitation and in the financial crisis that we all had to overcome a few years ago? Do you or do you not recognize that this segment, these men and women, have done a lot? Mrs. Minister, sleep well at night, when do the owners and the private have to keep their houses in order and rent them?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-19.u35	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-19.u36	And the state is the first to set the worst example, with houses abandoned by the whole country, without a single look from the chambers and the central state of the Minister. [[Congrats from the CH.]] I ask you — and I would really like you to reply, Mrs Minister — if you sleep well at night in private extortion, when the government does exactly the opposite, in the worst example of'vesselisation' we have in Portugal.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-19.u37	Ehhh!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-19.u38	Do you know what reassures me, Minister? Honestly, this government won't last long anymore. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-19.u39	Don't sleep well, it's full of eyes!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-19.u40	For a request for clarification on behalf of the CFP Parliamentary Group, Mr Duarte Alves has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-19.u41	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Minister, the question we have to ask you is why the Government insists on considering housing as a commodity rather than a right. Why does it insist on this model, or rather, why does it deepen to this subsidised speculation model, which is the model we have for housing in Portugal and which is not solving any of the problems? Beyond everything that has been brought up on the table, when we look at the bottom of what is in this program, what do we see? We see that the Government maintains the main instruments that have promoted speculation, particularly the regime of unusual residents, which, in addition to a huge tax injustice, contributes to the worsening of the situation on the real estate market, because we cannot compete — with our wages, with our pensions — in order to have housing. It also maintains the «Cristas law», the law of urban rent, which does not give stability to rent and which has damaged and increased income in a very significant way. Neither does the government face any interest from the bank. Tell me a single measure that brings into question the profits of the bank, which still recently showed EUR 2500 million, at the expense of people who have credit for housing. There is no measure for the bank, on the contrary: the only measure they have is even to subsidize the bank and its profits. Then there are more tax bills for real estate funds and for large owners. This tax benefit model as a solution to housing problems is the model we currently have. There are already this set of tax benefits and liberating rates. This set of mechanisms exists today and is not working. That was the situation that led to the problem we have today in housing.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-19.u42	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-19.u43	So why does the government insist on deepening this path of tax benefits, tax bills, as a solution to the problem of housing? He insists on this path, instead of realizing that, if this is the problem, if this is not solving any problem, then what it is necessary to reverse this path and, on the contrary, to bet on measures that confront the interests of the bank, that face the interests of speculation and that promote public housing effectively. So, Minister, when will the government turn to housing as a right and not as a commodity? [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-19.u44	Don't talk about speculation, or you still offend your colleagues on the side! Local accommodation... speculation...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-19.u45	To reply, you have the floor of Mrs. Minister of Housing.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-19.u46	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, in my initial speech, I have tried to mark the Government's tone in this debate, which is actually to find a solution for families. We came here with proposals, with the opening to discuss proposals, but never losing sight of what should move us all: finding solutions for families. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The debate is very important. The heated debate on 'no one has done and the right is what he does with the measures on the right' and 'the left is what he does with the measures on the left' is important, but it is important that we can also take measures that are enforceable and reach families. No, sir, I often do not sleep at night, because there are so many families that have no roof to sleep on, which do not have a decent housing. That is why, when I say that governing involves making choices and involving difficult choices, it is because, when we look at the country, we see that a solution does not come to solve the problems of the country all and there is no single solution to solve the problems of the country all.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-19.u47	They're charging more!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-19.u48	There's a balance. We need to look at our society and realize the problems and the social emergency we have in housing, what we need to do and what we have to do. It is not saying that we are diabolizing or ending something to create another, nor is that the objective that is present here. That is why our proposal, from the very first moment, has evolved, because we want to ensure that activities that were fundamental to urban rehabilitation, as you said, that were fundamental to investment, for our tourism and for our economy, remain. But the proposal is balanced, Mr President, with all the openness to continue this dialogue in Parliament. The proposal is not to exclude one from the other; it is to ensure that we can mobilize homes, houses, houses that are on the market today, available for housing, for those who do not have a roof where to sleep. Yes, that takes away my sleep, Mr.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-19.u49	What about the state?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-19.u50	As regards the measures on the table and the fact that we have the More Housing programme, which is a 'new programme', Mrs Marcia Passos, we did not present here a new programme. We, unlike the PSD, started this work some time ago. [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-19.u51	They only have no results!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-19.u52	Where was the PSD, in 2015, when the election was presented?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-19.u53	At home!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-19.u54	I wasn't!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-19.u55	Did you prioritise housing? I don't remember, Mrs. Member. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Where was the PSD in 2018 when this House approved the Housing Base Law? I was not in that debate either, Mrs. Where was the PSD in every debate we had in this Parliament with many proposals? Where was the PSD? I wasn't, Mrs. Member. [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-19.u56	Where was the left? Oh, my God! That's the one!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-19.u57	That is why I have already said this in the last debate and I would like to stress again: welcome to the debate! It is important that we all have this debate. But, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it is not us who comes late with proposals that is the only one who has just started this debate. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We continue to prioritize public investment, we continue to prioritize public housing—we have no doubt about that. We can only debate the measures in Parliament and we will certainly never have the cross-sectional version of what is being done. We are investing in public housing, we have all the municipalities mobilized for public housing. This is the priority, this is the structural response that will allow the State to solve the problem, because it is, yes, the responsibility of the State. To ensure the coexistence of the private market with the public market, yes, it is necessary, and that is where the answer is. But we can't look at this answer, which takes time to build, and we don't think we have to do anything else. We don't look at this answer either, thinking it's the only one. We have private promoters who want to be part of the solution. Well, we create solutions to be part of the solution: with tax incentives, with faster licensing, with land mobilization, with faster justice, with a set of initiatives so that they are also part of that solution, because they want to be part of that solution. The cooperatives also want to be part of the solution and want to have accessible responses to families. Well, let's create solutions for this to happen. We don't mean that it's one at the expense of the other, that it's one against the other. We're all important. It is our confidence to give the owners and tenants strong proposals, in which the State is a party, to guarantee the right to housing that moves us, and that is what is in this proposal. Mrs Mariana Mortágua, said that we have put on forced lease measures, limits to local accommodation, limits to the golden visas, as a form of, in the background, presenting measures that will be discussed and, after that, there is our concession. Mr Member, but I do not remember to support these measures in this debate. Where was the left when these measures had to be defended?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-19.u58	But when? Oh, my God! Years ago!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-19.u59	It is that the left has not defended these measures. On the other hand, the left and the Left Block even vote against some measures to end tax exemptions as well. And why? Certainly, you will have a reason, an argument to do so. Well, ladies and gentlemen, we do not defend a single measure. We believe that there is a way to limit some of the pressures that are created on housing, but we also think that we need more partnerships and that private and cooperatives can be part of these partnerships, without ever disregarding that which is our priority and which continues to be our priority: strengthening the public park. [[P.S.'s applause.]] I'm done, ladies. Ladies and gentlemen, speaking of the authorities. The authorities have been, are and will continue to be a fundamental part of this work and in the partnership we do. They're partners from the very first moment. The local housing strategies, which all municipalities are doing, are the municipalities that are doing them, and the state enters with the construction of the instruments and with public investment, with the financing of 100% of these housing, as never before, there was never in this country, with the priority of public housing, with strategies defined by the municipalities. Also here, Mrs Deputy, since she talks about the municipalities, we forget that what we have had so far, and we still have, is debate. We have no closed action; we have a debate on measures, policies.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-19.u60	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-19.u61	That is why, from the very beginning, we have put the proposal into public discussion. That is why today's proposal is a different proposal, without ever losing its objective.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-19.u62	So excuse me for changing policies!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-19.u63	That is certainly why they can also rely on the Government to continue to improve proposals for the objective during the discussion in Parliament in order to ensure that families have access to a decent home.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-19.u64	Say a measure to the bank!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-19.u65	That, yes, is what should not make us sleep. We need measures for people, public housing and partnerships to ensure that families have access to decent housing. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-19.u66	Work, it's good, it's quiet!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-19.u67	To make a request for clarification on behalf of the PS Parliamentary Group, Mr Hugo Carvalho has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-19.u68	Mr. President, Mrs. Minister, Mrs. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members, today we are discussing the Bills Nos 71 and 77 / XV / 1. a ( GOV ), but the More Habitat package started long ago. It began with the presentation of the general lines, in a process of public discussion, after what has been incorporated contributions and it is with these contributions that this debate is being made here.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-19.u69	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-19.u70	But what I saw today, by some parties, is that the narrative is the same as the initial day. of the two, one : or have not read the documents and proposals under discussion—which already incorporate contributions, which are not the general lines initially presented, but already have practical specifications of their application— or want to create smoke curtains not to discuss them. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, either option is serious, when we want to solve a problem that is important to the lives of Portuguese people. Mrs. Members, the reality in the country, with regard to access to housing, is obviously different from the interior to the coast, is different from north to south. But there are common denominators throughout the country: there are difficulties in access to housing, and we do not hide that.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-19.u71	That's all they don't hide!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-19.u72	That is why we say here that the choice we have to make, in the debate of this important and serious legislative package, to which we want to give centrality and importance, seriously, is clear: either we want to be on the side of access to housing or we want to be on the side of the housing business.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-19.u73	And why aren't they compatible? Are they incompatible? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-19.u74	And it is in relation to this commitment, to these answers, that all parties have to say what they are committed to. Mrs. Minister, I would like to ask you these questions: is it possible, or is it not possible, to solve the problems in access to housing without regulating the sectors that divert housing for people to live? Is it possible to solve the problems of access to the housing market without creating rules for those who use houses to promote money and not for housing purposes? Is it possible to create better conditions for access to the rental market if we are not able to have a robust and sufficiently capable public park, so that the State can have direct intervention on the market? Is it possible to place more houses on the lease market without having municipalities as partners in finding solutions? So, Minister, my question is very simple: is it possible to make this debate without seriously looking at all the speakers taking our political options and having a face here and outside on the street, or is it possible to say what you want in cosmetics here and forget that ruling is much more than the policy of the case on a case-by-case basis? [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-19.u75	If it's not case by case, it's from house to house!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-19.u76	To make a request for clarification on behalf of the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mr Alexandre Poço has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-19.u77	I would like to congratulate Mr President, the ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Madam Minister, in this More Housing programme, taking an obvious measure, which did not need to be included in this macro initiative, there is nothing for young people. But neither does it scare us, because, when there is, reality always turns out to contradict any plan or even the famous houses on paper. Therefore, Madam Minister, the question that the PSD Parliamentary Group has today to ask is whether, with regard to the purchase of the first house — a legitimate ambition of many young people in our country — the Government of the Socialist Party, since it had no initiative in this area and cannot develop initiatives that put the lease market to work for the new generations, will be able to shake hands and accept a proposal presented by the PSD in this discussion. I am talking about the proposal to create a guarantee, such as in the system of mutual guarantee for companies or for the credit of higher education students, which allows young people in our country to buy their first home and to allow it, above all, for young people who do not have rich parents and who, therefore, will probably never be able to access the procurement market. [[PSD applause.]] Mr. Minister, as you know, there's something different about us. We do not enter this debate to find guilty, to find those who are our victims in the political debate.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-19.u78	For good reason!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-19.u79	For us, anyone who needs housing is the priority of the PSD and therefore we consider proposals for renting, but also for acquisition. Therefore, Mrs. Minister, if you do not want to give your hand to the PSD, you have a good example, because a government that does not do well can manage to copy well.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-19.u80	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-19.u81	The government may not want to give its hand to the main opposition party, but may be inspired by its comrades in Spain.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-19.u82	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-19.u83	You can look at the example that, last week, the public came through the Pedro Sánchez government, and take a good example from there, because also the socialists in Spain have already realized that we need to have an answer for the young people who want to buy their first house. Madam Minister, with all the clarity of the world, it is available or not at the end of this discussion to enable the PSD proposal and create an innovative new but secure initiative! — for young people who want to buy their first home in this country and, above all, to ensure — and I finish — that we are not the country of Europe that later sees their young people leave their parents' homes? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-19.u84	To make a request for clarification on behalf of the Left Block Parliamentary Group, Mrs Joana Mortagua has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-19.u85	Mr President, Minister, the prices of houses in Portugal are absurd, I repeat, are absurd. They are absurd, from a proportional point of view, regarding our wages, but they are also absurd from an absolute point of view, compared with other countries in Europe and even the world. The Minister did not respond how the Government would lower house prices, and did not respond because the Government had given up lower house prices. In addition, rental support, lease allowance is a confirmation of this failure, in the same way as support for housing credits paid by all taxpayers is a confirmation of the failure to compete with the bank and its profits. So I am not going to ask the Minister how she's going to lower house prices when it's obvious that the government doesn't want to. What I'm going to ask is how the government will implement the few measures it said it would implement to control house prices. The Government's strategy is the same as that old maple history strategy in the water pan. If you put yourself in the water to boil at one time, it scares you; if you increase the temperature, it will end up being cooked to death at the same time, but without giving it. House prices are rising slowly, and that is what the government wants. But what the government did was to announce, six months in advance, a set of measures that had a perverse effect. The perverse effect of this permanent advertising policy is that it is a pre-warning, i.e. the government now says that, at some point, forward, it will control the rise of income. Conclusion, every month, between the announcement and the realization, income rises. Every month the income rises, every month the speculation increases,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-19.u86	What shows the effectiveness of government measures! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-19.u87	...because of the government's advance notice of what I was going to do. This has already been the case with the vissgolds, so it is with all the policy of the advance notice. What I ask you is simple, is whether it is through perversity or naivety that, with this policy of notice, the government ends up promoting the measures and policies it says it wants to control. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-19.u88	To reply, you have the floor of Mrs. Minister of Housing.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-19.u89	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr Hugo Carvalho, indeed, when we present here this More Housing programme, we present a very broad set of measures. We do not only have one measure or one solution to the problem, because the problem of housing, of the need for more housing responses, is not solved by a measure nor is it resolved immediately and tomorrow we will not have the problem.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-19.u90	There's no solution!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-19.u91	It's a continuous response. This is, in fact, the great dimension and the great difference in what we are doing, not now, but since 2015.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-19.u92	That's going well!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-19.u93	It is a structural reform of how we look at housing, because today we place housing at the heart of public policies. With the investment, with the growth of our country, with the pressure created in housing, with the lack of construction, with the lack of rehabilitation, with the lack of public answers, what would be if, instead of the Socialist Party — with a structural response and with visible public investment on the ground — others just wanted to let the market work? [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-19.u94	What would it be? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-19.u95	That is why, Mr President, we do not think there is a single dimension of intervention, but we do believe that there is a priority in the work that the Government has to do together with the municipalities which is the strengthening of the public park. This is the structural response to solve housing problems. There will certainly be Members here who, day after day, built houses, rehabilitated homes... [[Protests by IL Member Patrícia Gilvaz.]] There would certainly be magic solutions, but we don't have them. Building, rehabilitating, planning, ensuring that the quality of housing are present in what we do implies time, Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen. [[Protests by PSD MP Jorge Salgueiro Mendes.]] Creating a home implies time.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-19.u96	That must give to build a building!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-19.u97	If you think that there are better housing solutions, which combine quality, we are always available to work on them, but I can assure you that they do not exist. They take time, but this should not rob us of the objective and that is why, for the first time, we have a Recovery and Resilience Plan in which a huge amount of investment goes to public housing, because we believe that it is the responsibility of the State to guarantee a response to whom it needs. And, no, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen, it is not worth having this debate as if we were replacing this investment and that priority with new priorities. They're still happening. Now, we see parties, like the Left Block, who think that public investment is no longer necessary.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-19.u98	That's no longer a party!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-19.u99	They also believe that the problem is no longer the law of lease, that the problem is now the pressure on the existing market by the golden visas. We solve this problem, but now it's no longer the golden visas, it's the local accommodation. There will certainly be other situations. We think we need to take action in these fields, we think. We believe that there is a coexistence with difficult choices that need to be made, and that is why we have these measures here. But we don't have only that, sirs. Members, we have a set of public investments, we have a set of incentives for private and cooperatives, we want to strengthen this dimension of cooperatives and we want to continue working on all these dimensions.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-19.u100	And the taxes? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-19.u101	No, the problem of housing is not solved only by market regulation. No, the problem of housing is not solved only by means of support. On the contrary, support must be replaced in the medium term by the existing housing response. That's the way that needs to be done. So far we have two choices: either we don't do anything or we try to find answers for families.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-19.u102	They're trying, but they can't find!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-19.u103	Well, I'm trying to find answers for the families, sir. Ladies and gentlemen. The support we're talking about here is an answer to an emergency of families. Support for existing leases, strengthening of Gate 65, creating income breakdown support, renting underlaying, the Rent Support Programme, all this is support for families.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-19.u104	Support for rent has decreased!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-19.u105	Mrs. Members, tell those who today receive support from Porta 65, and did not receive in 2015, tell a 27-year-old who lives in Lisbon there, and who could not in the past rent a house and have the guarantee of support, that our support does not serve. And say there to a family that is now housed in a decent home under program 1. the right, financed 100 % by the PRR, that our measures do not work. And say there to a family who is on the lease under the Rent Support Programme, with a tax exemption given to the landlord, to the private owner, because he wanted to be, and that is part of the solution that our measures do not work. [[PSD MP Protests António Topa Gomes.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we can discuss whether we can go further in the measures, and that is an important debate to be done here, that is what we want.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-19.u106	He's not responding to anything!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-19.u107	But the measures are here, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the measures reach families, enable them to respond to the problem of families and ensure a dignified housing response. That is the debate we should be discussing, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. That is what we are doing on the ground and we want to continue to do so. The measures that are in our proposals and in some of the projects that are on the table must meet a collective challenge. When we look where we want to go, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen, we cannot guarantee that a young person wants to buy a house, or not, we must ensure that the young person has access to a home. Many measures can compete for this and the debate can be done in this sense, but what the young person wants is to get a house, self-reliance.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-19.u108	A house of yours!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-19.u109	And we should want that, too. [[Protests by the Member of the BE Isabel Pires.]] Fortunately, Gate 65 is very different today than it was in the past. Fortunately, today, many younger people are able to access these programmes because the government has made many changes to ensure that Port 65 would move from about 8000 to 13 000 approved candidatures and that the investment would go from EUR 13 million to EUR 31, 3 million — investment that was consumed, all in support of the lease. I hope that in the medium term these support will be replaced by a market is that it will respond for itself, with robust public housing, with a cooperative sector that works and with a private market that also works for families. That is what really needs to move us and that is what must be within our intervention and, I hope, this discussion. On the question of the price of the houses and whether I have not answered the question of the Member of the Left Block, we indeed have proposals to lower the price of the houses, all of them.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-19.u110	That's why they're coming up!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-19.u111	It's not one, all of them! Since 2015, since the work we have done together to bring down the price of houses.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-19.u112	And have they gone down? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-19.u113	So far, with the measures we are presenting, with the end of the IMI exemption in historic centres, which we have approved with the Left Block next to us.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-19.u114	But prices keep rising! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-19.u115	We've made that whole path, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, we're still doing it. It was not these measures and the path would certainly not be that. Do you need to do more? That's why we're discussing the More Habitat program. It is not because the government does not want to do so, because the government believes that more action is needed. Let us therefore have the utmost consensus to ensure that what goes out of here is measures for the functioning of this market. But we really have to be part of that solution. [[PSD MP Protests António Topa Gomes.]] We cannot just do the political debate and say that nothing works, that the government does not work and that is in time and then, in the end, it is not part of the solution.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-19.u116	Whoever said it was in the long run, it was Mrs. Minister! No one else said it!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-19.u117	The challenge I'm leaving, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we can actually be part of the solution, because if we are not, if we are only doing this debate and if at the end we really want the programme not to work — because, at the end of the day, the aim is only to put the debate to a stop to certain measures — we are not doing our work or taking on the responsibility for which the Portuguese elected us, or you have been elected. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-19.u118	So, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, there is full willingness on my part to, within the parliamentary debate, look at your proposals, look at their feasibility, look at our proposals too, and, as a result, realize how we have made them effective for families.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-19.u119	Trust me, believe me!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-19.u120	This without any concern about the possibility of finding alternatives. Let me make this debate with you that there are better alternative measures to achieve the goal. We shall hold this debate together.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-19.u121	I'd like that!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-19.u122	What we must never forget is that the government has brought more measures here and that these measures are on the ground and reach families. Let us be able to improve this work and know that they are counting on the government for that to happen. We cannot lose sight of the one who is our goal.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-19.u123	Oh, yes! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-19.u124	That's ours!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-19.u125	I believe!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-19.u126	This objective is to ensure that families have access to a decent housing. This should indeed be the objective of all those who are here with these proposals. All these measures, from licensing to land use, tax benefits, the transfer of public land, the mobilisation of returnees, the creation of measures regulating the market, the limits to certain investments in tourism activity, all of this must compete for the final purpose of ensuring decent housing. That's why, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen, it is for this debate that counts with me and that is why we are here presenting this More Habitat programme. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-19.u127	To present the initiatives proposed by the CFP, Mrs Paula Santos has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-19.u128	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: It is necessary to carry out what the Constitution determines. Housing is a right to live and not a commodity to speculate. Housing performs a social function and is an essential asset. It is the basis for the organization of personal and family life. The current situation requires solutions to ensure access to housing at costs compatible with family incomes and the protection of the housing of the household, whether in a rented situation, or for those who have hired a housing loan, so that no one will be left without their home. in this sense, the CFP presents its proposals for this legislative debate, with draft laws and resolutions, in which it proposes a wide range of measures to protect the right to housing, regulate prices, extend the supply of public housing and combat speculation and the impacts of rising interest rates. We propose the creation of a special tenant protection regime which limits the value of the new contracts, which ensures the stability of the lease, which eliminates the clearance counter and restricts the clearance situation. We also propose the creation of a special housing protection scheme that places the bank's profits to support the increase in interest rates by reducing the profit margins of banks resulting from a set of costs and charges associated with housing credits. We also propose that the medium-term renegotiation of credit contracts to housing be ensured, allowing the extension of the term of depreciation; the application of a capital moratorium in the payment of the loan; the settlement in effect, considering the outstanding debt; the conversion of the loan into lease, with the possibility to resume the loan. We also propose the extension of the public housing supply by mobilising public housing assets, prohibiting their alienation, support for non-profit housing programmes, the creation of a line of support for the recovery and rehabilitation of returned housing and the creation of a simplified system of administrative possession by the IRHU (Instituto da Habitação e da Rehabilição Urbana) of returning property, when the owners do not use this mechanism for the provision of rent in the conditional income regime.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-19.u129	Ladies and gentlemen, allow me to interrupt. I do so because the noise level in the room is preventing me from listening to it and I would like to hear it. So, I'm silent and I'm sorry. Please proceed, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-19.u130	Thank you very much, Mr President. We also propose the end of the favourable tax systems, in particular the end of the tax system for non-standard residents. We also propose that the IRHU be clearly defined as the body of the State promoter of public housing and dynamiser of urban construction and rehabilitation policies, for the guarantee of constitutional right to housing and equipped with the necessary means, technical teams with project development capacity, planning, programming and investment execution. Finally, we referred to the proposal to protect the home itself and permanent, eliminating the possibility of penoring or execution of mortgages on housing, when there is no income sufficient to ensure the survival of the executed or their family aggregate, including in the context of tax enforcement procedures. These are urgent and necessary solutions to protect housing and extend the supply of public housing, to respond concretely and decisively to the urgent problems that people face in the right to housing in Portugal. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-19.u131	The honourable Member has a request for clarification. To put it forward, Mr José Pedro Ferreira has the floor on behalf of the PS Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-19.u132	Mr President, Mrs Paula Santos, the difficulties of access to housing are a real problem for many Portuguese families, particularly those of lower incomes, in view of the insufficient number of rental houses and consequent speculation of prices.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-19.u133	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-19.u134	The PCP bench states that the measures announced in this More Housing package do not respond to existing problems, do not contain real estate speculation, do not face the financial real estate sector and refuse responsibilities in offering housing,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-19.u135	Truth!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-19.u136	... maintaining a vision of mercantillization of housing.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-19.u137	Well, well! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-19.u138	Madam Member, the More Housing package, under discussion, is a muscular response from the Government to short, medium and long-term housing needs, through a variety of measures that need to be worked together, due to the need and the multidimensional nature of the housing problem and the difficulty of obtaining houses for immediate rent. The strengthening of investment in the construction and rehabilitation of buildings, including state-owned buildings, the encouragement of cooperativeism, investment in matters such as support for municipal chambers through the PRR fund, for the construction of accessible public housing, and the strengthening of the investment of programme 1. Is law not a stimulus to market incentives? The fixing of incomes under the AAP ( Accessible Rent Programme ), the guarantee of State payments to landlords, the limitation of income from new contracts and the protection of tenants with older leases do not constitute protection measures for families and the most disadvantaged, particularly the elderly, and a fight against real estate speculation? I question only what the availability of the Portuguese Communist Party for the debate and for the presentation of improvements to this programme, within the framework of the Working Party on Housing, such as what they did through the Draft Resolution No 184 / XV / 1. the, which proposes strengthening the means of the IRHU, which we accompany, in view of the need to strengthen this public entity promoting housing policies and the implementation and monitoring of housing programs. This despite the recent reinforcement of 85 superior technicians, which will still be clearly insufficient. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-19.u139	The problem is that « will be ». It is always 'will'! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-19.u140	In reply, Mrs Paula Santos has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-19.u141	Mr President, I am grateful for the question put by Mr José Pedro Ferreira. Sir, do you know what the problem is?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-19.u142	It's the PCP that exists! Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-19.u143	The problem is that the Government presents a set of measures, the purpose of which, in its intervention, it referred to: the incentive to the market. We really need a direct intervention by the government to make more public housing.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-19.u144	Just listen to half!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-19.u145	This incentive to the market, with more tax stamps, which he referred to, does not flinch 1 mm in the interests of the bank, of the funds or of the large owners.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-19.u146	That's the one!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-19.u147	Do you know what you are going to do about these measures that you have mentioned here? They're going to lead to more speculation, they're going to lead to higher prices. What we need is exactly the opposite. We need government intervention in order to have public housing and to face these interests. Is or is not the Socialist Party available for this? [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-19.u148	To present the initiatives of the Left Block, Mrs Mariana Mortágua has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-19.u149	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: House prices continue to rise and serve very little comfort that rises less or even stands in some areas, because an astronomical price stagnant remains an astronomical price. This is because if the minimum wage or the average wage do not pay a house today, it will continue to pay tomorrow, even if prices stand. Prices need to drop. But for this, the government has no solution. There is nothing in this package that forces the prices of the homes to come down. The government has been building houses for four years. Why don't prices go down? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-19.u150	Why would it be? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-19.u151	Let me give you the example of the Accessible Render Programme, the City Hall of Lisbon: last programme, 64 available housing, 6900 applications. There are billions of euros wasted on real estate tax benefits. Why aren't prices coming down? There is already a suspension of local accommodation in certain areas of the city, such as Lisbon. Why aren't prices coming down?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-19.u152	Exactly! Why would it be?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-19.u153	The government knows that past measures will not solve the problem. And, therefore, it is swinging between new proposals, which have both incendiary and inconsequential, and income support announcements. Since prices will not come down, the only solution is to channel public money to subsidize income and benefits to the bank that are incompatible with our country, with our wages, with our lives. It is in these debates that the Socialist Party normally likes to display its left-wing words, moving away from liberalism that transforms people's lives into a jungle. [[Protests by IL Member João Cotrim Figueiredo.]] The question, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, is it: if the market has to be regulated, then why don't they regulate it? If the Socialist Party wants a regulated market, then why not regulate it? They approve the proposal of the Left Block...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-19.u154	Is that a request? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-19.u155	... to establish maximum income ceilings, suitable for each type of house, to each locality, following the criteria that already exist for Gate 65. It is the only measure that can bring home to bearable prices tomorrow. They approve the introduction of a quota of 25 % for housing the conditioned income in all new buildings. Only in this way can we prevent what is already happening, that is, that new constructions focus on luxury ranges that no one can afford. Approves the end of tax incentives to speculation, such as real estate exemptions or the unusual resident regime. How can the Socialist Party continue to support a tax regime that allows non-residents to install part of the year in Portugal and pay a flat rate of 20 % for labour income, with a loss of tax revenue of EUR 1000 million. Come on, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the Block's proposal that the penalisation of the devolved houses be effective and not the exception, in the taste of each chamber president's will. Regularizing the market is this, this idea is so radical that our people's lives are worth much more than the fantastic profits of speculation and real estate business. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-19.u156	The honourable Member has two requests for clarification. To make the first request for clarification on behalf of the PS Parliamentary Group, Mr Pedro Anastácio has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-19.u157	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the government has done and put into practice this great reform, which consists of mobilisation, and construction, of the large public park, to deal with the problem of housing—in fact, it is already welcome the time when the Left Block exactly cried out by the public park. But now that the Government has taken additional measures to meet the housing challenge, the Left Block has rapidly devalued. And we know why the Left Block did this: it was because, when it was confronted with measures that, if ever it was government, it could do, it needed to say that they were insufficient, exactly because the government did. I speak of a better regulation of local accommodation, a greater balance between housing and local accommodation, the end of the golden visas, a definitive solution for incomes that have not passed to the NRAU (New Urban Rent Scheme) — and now have a definitive solution! — including fair income for new contracts and even a new generation of housing cooperatives. The Left Block, at the same time which devalues all these measures, also joins its voice to the right to devalue the set of tax incentives. Finally, it seems that it prefers 'the worst, the better' in order to justify its proposals. But we know that we are the balance party and are exactly the criticism of the Left Block and the criticism of the right that gives us the assurance that we are on the right path. BE makes this devaluation of our proposals, knowing that, in addition to the protection of housing, we also have measures that serve to protect income. But now it also devalues these subsidies for the protection of this same income, it already believes that we do not find this path brilliant either, but it is a path, in an emergency situation, that protects people's income and lives. BE is already devaluation. In fact, the proposals that the Left Block brings today are not proposed to solve the problem, are proposals that make you think where the PS is not going. And do it for an affirmation of ideological purity. We understand, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen, we have not diminished. To the plates of purity, we always respond with a safe path and without dogmas. And it's because we don't have dogmas that we mobilize all the instruments in this housing package. So I want to ask the Left Block whether it is available to, in the specialty, take this path, to think about the housing challenge and not to think where the PS is available to go to, with this, affirm its existence and its political solution. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-19.u158	For a request for clarification on behalf of the Liberal Initiative, Mr Carlos Guimarães Pinto has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-19.u159	Mr President, Madam Member, said in the speaker's rostrum that the local accommodation had already been restricted and that the prices had not yet fallen. Why would it be? Because maybe that wasn't the problem.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-19.u160	It was bankruptcy!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-19.u161	Perhaps this flag, which has been waving for so long, was not the real problem of housing. But the Left Block and the PCP also always have this narrative that liberalism in housing, the housing market that caused the problem.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-19.u162	By the way, they were right.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-19.u163	Interestingly, housing prices were stagnated by 2015. Until the Left Block and the PCP supported a government solution, housing prices were stagnated 10 years ago and began to increase precisely in 2015.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-19.u164	With the troika here!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-19.u165	So, say there what neoliberal measures is that the Left Block and the PCP supported from 2015 onwards?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-19.u166	Is that a BES?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-19.u167	But I already know what they're going to say: "We didn't support any of them, because the government we supported didn't launch any of them. These all terrible measures had already been launched before 2015 and had only effects from 2015 onwards. Do not keep on seeking. ” But if housing is such an important issue and if these neoliberal measures already existed in 2015, why didn't they require them to be reversed? I have here the agreement that the Left Block signed with the PS, which had more than 30 measures for the labour market, revisions, privatizations, but about housing, nothing. of these neoliberal measures that, supposedly, were already there in 2015 and that caused increased housing prices, did not put any in the agreement that they made with the PS. Is it because these measures did not exist or because the Left Block was too incompetent to identify them? [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-19.u168	For the last request for clarification, Mr Alexandre Simões has the floor on behalf of the PSD Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-19.u169	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, today the Government has finally presented its proposal for a law on housing. It took six months this year when the housing crisis reaches unacceptable levels, so I thank the Bloc proposals and confess that in tax matters they are even moderate when compared with government proposals. Does it propose, as it would be expected, the elimination of the tax benefits of real estate investment funds, but my question is how do they appear in the government proposals that have even actively supported them for five years? [[PS Members' laughs.]] We see that the Government says, in the explanatory statement — and even the fulfilment of the attitude — that the 21st Constitutional Government, therefore the Government of the PS, Antonio Costa and your management, has given an express impetus to the right to housing. But what did you do? He appointed a Secretary of State for Housing and passed a basic law.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-19.u170	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-19.u171	PSD has been against!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-19.u172	It adopted a resolution in 2018, but what about in the middle? Still, it had time to approve the National Habitat Programme. Here it is — amazing! — this is the government's reformist dynamics in the area of housing, which the government itself has confessed, in the advance of its diploma, and which you have supported. [[PSD applause.]] And the government, filled with these facades, at the end of seven years, what does it present now? He insists on leadership and State authoritarianism. I am only going to pay attention to the tax measures of the More Housing programme, because it puts down the resale deadline, for the purposes of exempting IMT (municipal tax on onerous property transmissions) from three to one year, and then becomes considered a devolved property if it is not resold at the end of one year. at the level of tax benefits—it goes away! — ensure the exemption of IRS (tax on income of natural persons) and IRC (tax on income of legal persons) in the alignment of buildings, but to whom? to the state and local authorities! Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the biggest lords in Portugal are, precisely, public entities — it is the state! — showing the greatest difficulties in managing real estate that they own. Even today, the President of the City Council of Lisbon recalled that. Just getting out of a cabinet! In fact, we well know that it is difficult today to leave a ministerial office and that extraordinary things happen in the offices of this government, but what is the logic of this option, I ask. There can be only one, that of the ideological blindness that it is important to pursue owners and have the state everywhere. So, to that extent, what the honourable Member was asking is whether this proposal from the Government does not cause you a certain nostalgia? It is because this bill can only be an inheritance of that time, of the time of management. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-19.u173	In reply, Mrs Mariana Mortágua has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-19.u174	Mr President, Mr. Carlos Guimarães Pinto, if a parish has a local accommodation corresponding to 60 % of the houses available and if the local accommodation is frozen in 60 % of these houses, this freezing does not solve the problem.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-19.u175	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-19.u176	Because there's no construction!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-19.u177	Housing prices do not rise by decree, rise because the market is working to raise housing prices. If the answer of the honourable Member and his parliamentary group is to let the market work and make people emigrate because they cannot live, that is only the market that works. So that's the answer you have to give to people, none more. It is funny, because the Socialist Party, with the strength of its absolute majority, leads all the proposals that arrive here, but then candidly asks the other parliamentary groups: "Will they accompany the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group in the debate in the specialty? Do not keep on seeking. ” You lead everything, everything that appears here, with the absolute majority's compressor roll, and then ask whether the other parliamentary groups are willing to discuss the specialty. The translation of this is: "Do you have the availability to approve our proposals in the specialty? » No, we do not, because we have a critical position that says that the construction of public housing is important, but does not bring results today, brings results in 20 years. [[Protests by the Minister of Housing.]] We want results today and we have proposals for it. How many are you going to approve? [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-19.u178	To present the Bill No. 673 / XV / 1. a and 738 / XV / 1. Mr Filipe Melo has the floor now.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-19.u179	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: On the day when we discuss and vote on another worst programme of this government, we heard miraculous proposals from the ultra-extreme-left,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-19.u180	Ultra?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-19.u181	... how to prevent non-residents from buying housing in Portugal, housing that will serve to place on the lease market, because it does not pass from an investment. instead, they don’t want these immigrants, they don’t want this foreign investment, but immigrants who don’t have housing and who will live on the street and say, “Come and come to the mountains, which are needed here! Do not keep on seeking. ” [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-19.u182	Have a judgment!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-19.u183	Uncontrolled inflation, for which the Government has not found a solution, naturally forced the European Central Bank to intervene in the management fees, which has a very significant impact on the Portuguese housing credit. The excessive bureaucracy, with regard to the licensing of construction, and the gradual withdrawal of incentives for the private construction of these successive socialist governments killed the construction in our country, leading to this tremendous lack of housing in our country. No, sir. Ladies and gentlemen, it is not the social housing that will solve the housing problem. It is the construction by privates that will solve the problems of housing in Portugal. [[Congrats from the CH.]] The arrival presents a solution that improves the conditions of the lease, which is to reduce the autonomous tax rates. for lease contracts of less than 10 years, the reduction of 18 points at their autonomous rate applies; for contracts equal to or greater than 10 years is 23 reduction points at their own autonomous rate. Still in this matter, the arrival proposes that one finally begin to have a heavy hand with the bank, not on the question of rent, but on the question of self-inhabitation and permanent. And in this regard it presents another project, the Bill No. 738 / XV / 1. a, which aims to create conditions for families who want to negotiate their own and permanent housing credit contracts at the moment of despair, to find no successive obstacles on the part of the bank, which aims to use rhetoric as it is now renegotiating, one day later will have difficulties, will not be able to access new credits. Is this true? No, sir. Members, this is a lie that the bank wants to impose, because it has no interest in renegotiating, has an interest in extracting as much profit from its customers as possible. It is these customers that we have the obligation, the right and the duty to protect, because they are the Portuguese and they are whom we represent. [[Congrats from the CH.]] So these two proposals aim, above all, to improve the quality of life of our Portuguese. And I am now also launching this challenge here from the rostrum to the Minister: since she is so ready to debate and listen to the proposals of the other parties, Mrs Minister, give the example to her Government and to her bench and be the first to approve a proposal from the Arrival. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-19.u184	She doesn't even vote!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-19.u185	To submit Bill No. 747 / XV / 1. Mr Rui Tavares.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-19.u186	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government: Something between the end of the last century and the beginning of it, the essence of governance and politics has changed. Governance is no longer doing things, it has become cutting or, when much, reverse cuts. With this, we have lost the connection to democracy and our citizenship, which is to make governance a way to give people who are objects of political desire. The house is the largest of these symbols and therefore we have reached where we are: at a time when we have a huge crisis in housing in Portugal. The country is attractive, it is the country in the European Union that attracts millions more, but it cannot give houses to its middle class, to its young, to its lower class. The country thinks — at least part of it, the right and the government — that this is resolved by linking the simplex to the private and the complicometer to the public contract. The Free is proposing something which is based on the tradition of politics until recently on our continent, not only. The government must have as its mission to build houses to increase the public housing park—and they are not few, they have to be many. And that has to have a sufficient size for market intervention. We cannot discuss housing here in this closed room of what is the current political moment. Every minute the country is in the news for the worst reasons, where governance is in the news for the worst reasons, it will be many months or even years to recover and so that we can be in the news for the best reasons. And if you give us that, dear and dear members of the government and Mr. Members of the PS Parliamentary Group, what have you promised us in the last elections? An absolute majority government that would be equal to a government that did not have an absolute majority. If they gave us that, then maybe there would be a way out. It is not appropriate for a government to be in a dead end. Even worse is being in a dead end and proudly alone. That is why the Free House proposes, for this debate of housing, the creation of a mission assigned to the Institute of Housing and Urban Rehabilitation to build 100 000 houses of mixed type for various categories of income—it is not strictly social housing. It is a programme that, by building 10 000 houses per year, over 10 years, with the budget allocation for this, can be self-sustainable, and then these houses will have a transmission regime, either for rent or for purchase, conditioned to the permanence of controlled income and costs that people can pay. What we're presenting here is nothing new. It may be new to the kind of governance we have today, but it was not new during the years when states, particularly in Europe, knew that one of their main missions was to build houses for people. Let's hope we can get back to those times before it's too late.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-19.u187	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-19.u188	Madam Member, would you like to make a request for clarification?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-19.u189	Mr President, I really wanted to make an inquiry to the Bureau because I wanted to request the distribution of a document. Mr President, I never thought to repeat, eight years later, the agreement that the Left Block made, at the time, with the Socialist Party, but I just wanted to note that, in addition to a safeguard clause of IMI, this agreement has the guarantee of the protection of the family home in the face of tax executions and penhoras, in addition to a working group on housing policies, real estate credit and real estate taxation.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-19.u190	What neoliberal measure was it?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-19.u191	So in the light of 2015 it seems to me that it is not fair to say that there was no reference to housing and I ask that the document be distributed. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-19.u192	Was that a deal you guys made?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-19.u193	All right, by bringing the document to the Bureau, the document will be circulated by the various parliamentary groups. Mr Rui Tavares has a request for clarification, not having time to answer. In order to make this request for clarification, Mr António Topa Gomes of the PSD Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-19.u194	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, let me say, firstly, on behalf of Parliamentary loyalty, that we do not oppose the draft of the Free. I will therefore make a number of comments to which you may respond or which you may consider in the debate on the subject. In the second point, I would like to stress that there are, in fact, significant ideological differences between the Free and the PSD. The main thing is that we actually look at the private market as a partner of public policy, and that naturally makes a difference. But this Parliament is also here to discuss ideology, this is the very place to discuss ideology. As far as housing is concerned, the problem is that ideology alone is not enough, it is necessary to build houses and the Free is proposing that 100 000 houses be built in 10 years. I believe that in proposing this, the Free House is aware that we will be talking about a value of EUR 15 or EUR 20 billion in 10 years. So the first question we ask is where we are going to look for this money—which is the same order of greatness as the PRR, purely and simply. I must also say that I think it is a reasonable proposal, because the Minister wants to build 180 000 houses. It is nothing populist, even because the Minister says she will double it, so she wants to spend 30 to 40 billion euros in public housing. [[PSD applause.]] The second aspect that I note positive in the project of the Free is that it speaks clearly of the planning of the territory and speaks of the need to build houses with territorial diversity. It is an addition to the debate because, in fact, the ordination of the territory almost never arises in the government's conversation, and I do not understand how good public policies are made without it. A third and final note has to do with this and with the need to build houses — it seems that most agree with that. In Portugal, however, we make about EUR 4 billion per year of public housing, and the number of residential buildings is similar. at this moment, this constructive capacity virtually exhausts everything that is PRR, Portugal 2030 and so on. So I must also ask you, Mr President, whether we want to build more with which companies, with which people we can increase our constructive capacity by 50 %.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-19.u195	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-19.u196	It seems to me that we have a problem there. This is because it is not enough to make paper houses, it is really necessary to make houses and the government is not doing them. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-19.u197	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-19.u198	You've run out of time!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-19.u199	Mr Rui Tavares, would you like to speak to the Bureau?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-19.u200	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-19.u201	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-19.u202	Mr President, it is only so that there is no confusion with the numbers which can be harmful for the conduct of the work and for our debate here.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-19.u203	What is the regimental figure? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-19.u204	I know that it is not proposed, because Mr.António Topa Gomes read the project, as demonstrated by its intervention, but in the project, which is distributed, there is a limit of 0.5% of the annual GDP (gross domestic product) for the budget allocated to this mission.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-19.u205	This is an intervention!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-19.u206	That's not an interrogation at the table!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-19.u207	You've spent twice as much of your time, and you still want to talk? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-19.u208	Mr. Deputies, all banks have the projects and initiatives that are presented and therefore all can read and interpret. To present the Draft of Deliberation No. 11 / XV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Independent study to assess the effects of changes to the urban lease regime in the last 10 years has now spoken to Mrs Márcia Passos.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-19.u209	Now let's explain what we're doing!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-19.u210	The explicator!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-19.u211	Mr. President, Mrs. Minister, Mrs. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: For the PSD, the crisis in housing is faced with responsibility and also resolved with a stable, safe and reliable lease market, a lease market that provides responses to families and respects contractual freedom. The lack of fiscal stability, security and predictability has affected the number of homes available to rent over the last few decades. There are no lords, no tenants, no investment that survives constant changes to the lease law. [[PSD applause.]] Now there are minimum terms for the contract, now there are no more. Now you can freely renew the contract, now you can no longer. Now a transitional regime is set for five plus two years, as was done in 2012, now changes to eight plus five, as was done in 2017, now after all there are ten plus five, as was done in 2020.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-19.u212	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-19.u213	Now it is said that everything is suspended, as the Government did in 2022, now it is said, after all, "no contract passes to the new regime", as does the proposed law of the Government which is now being presented. It looks funny, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen, it is dramatic, and it is dramatic that every government that takes possession of it wishes to leave its mark in the lease regime. For eight years, such brands of the Socialist Party have been the worst and only create instability and increase conflicts. [[PSD applause.]] This is because the desire for change is enormous and it is so because no correct diagnoses are made. We do not want any more studies like those which the government announces, but which no one knows — nor the ministries themselves which are supposed to be involved in the elaboration of them.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-19.u214	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-19.u215	This Government presents us with two proposals for legislation, without any studies or opinions. The only study that seems to exist and that will have been interministerial, after all, no one knows. [[PSD applause.]] After all, how many housing leases exist in Portugal? What are their deadlines? When did they start? Before 1990 or later? How many new contracts have been concluded and how many have ended in recent decades? What's the value of the rent? They are answers to these and other questions, which will allow to rethink the legal regime in a structured way, in order to create security for anyone who wants to rent a house, whether rented or landlord. So, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the PSD proposes that the Assembly of the Republic should, firstly, urgently and until the end of the first half of 2024, conduct an independent study on the impact that the successive legislative changes introduced since 2010 had on the lease market, on the quantity of houses available and on their price.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-19.u216	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-19.u217	Secondly, this study is carried out by a team of independent experts, hired by the Assembly of the Republic and approved by the Conference of Leaders by a qualified two-thirds majority, and which, Mrs. Members, either the UTAO(Technical Unit for Budgetary Support) to define the assumptions on which it will develop. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, we find no reason why this draft PSD deliberation should not be approved unanimously. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-19.u218	The honourable Member has a request for clarification. Mr Ivan Gonçalves of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor to make it.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-19.u219	Ah! [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-19.u220	The right, for years, has devalued this issue. Moreover, when it was government, what it did was to contribute to the deregulation of the housing market. [[P.S.'s applause.]] What we are now proposing is that we study what they did not study when they decided to apply the "Christian law" when they were government. Therefore, it is also fair to acknowledge that since 2015 the Socialist Party has placed housing at the top of priorities and political debate. [[Protests from PSD Members.]] From then on, with the empowerment of the housing folder, first with the creation of the Secretary of State of Housing and then with the creation of the Ministry of Housing; with the creation of a Housing Base Law; with the creation of a new generation of housing policies; with the increase in the number of public fires; with the creation of incentives for the private to place more houses on the long-term lease market; and even with the placing in the PRR of the largest unit for housing than any country in Europe — that is, Portugal is the country that invests its PRR in housing. [[P.S.'s applause.]] over the past few years, we have had new challenges — greater economic growth, increased private investment, the success of tourism-related services, and these challenges have had a positive effect, particularly on urban rehabilitation, but also had the negative effect of increasing housing prices, which has been aggravated by pandemics, war, inflation and rising interest rates. Therefore, the Government and the Socialist Party recognise that further action is needed. That is why we have presented and have come forward with a set of proposals to improve the lives of Portuguese people, particularly in this sector. So what I ask you, Mrs. Member, is that you disagree in practice. Is it the interest rate bonus for housing? Is it the reinforcement and expansion of Porta 65 Young? Is it income support measures? Is it tax incentives to promote rent? Is it from the incentive to transfer homes that are in local accommodation so that they can be made available on the lease? Or is it this proposal that disagrees with the simplification of licenses? Mrs Deputie, calling for the responsibility which she has sought to transmit to us from the rostrum and the responsibility to be asked for the PSD as a party to the alternative of government — because, on the other hand, we know that the only thing the Liberal Initiative wants is to give us to the market and, from the end, we also know that no serious proposal comes —... [[CH's laughs.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-19.u221	It's just reading!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-19.u222	... I ask you whether, on these issues, which deserve an extended consensus, it would not be good for the PSD to also be able to consensualize with the Socialist Party, so that measures can be implemented which improve the lives of Portuguese people and which implement the right to housing. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-19.u223	To answer, you have the floor to Mrs Marcia Passos.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-19.u224	Mr President, Mr Ivan Gonçalves, I did not understand whether you were going to vote against or in favour of the PSD deliberations project that was presented because no question has raised us about it. He came to tell us about the Christian law, and I think he was badly chosen.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-19.u225	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-19.u226	It was poorly chosen, because there was one day, that was May 17, 2011, when then Prime Minister José Socrates signed a memorandum that said it was mandatory to provide for an extrajudicial clearance procedure for breach of contract, in order to shorten the layoff period for three months. [[Well remembered!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-19.u227	And you are now talking to the PSD about the Christian law? The Christian law began there, Mr. Deputies, with you, with the Socialist Party and with an imposition which then Mr. Prime Minister of the Socialist Party signed. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-19.u228	You were about 10 at the time, Ivan!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-19.u229	The PSD is available—and I ask you if the Socialist Party is available! — to do a serious study, not studies that no one knows. Nobody knows!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-19.u230	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-19.u231	Not even Mr. Minister of Economy, whose Ministry has participated in the study, knows this study, not even the Secretary of State for Tourism. This is something that doesn't seem to be happening, but it's happening! Therefore, what the PSD wants is to make a correct diagnosis, because the lease market deserves respect and people deserve it too.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-19.u232	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-19.u233	Only with this correct study and diagnosis is that it is possible to legislate in a serious way and not have a blanket of flaps in the lease, as we currently have, because this does not help anyone, does not create houses, does not encourage investment and does not help families. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-19.u234	To present the Resolution Project No 628 / XV / 1. a, from the PSD, has the floor of Mrs Sara Madruga from Costa.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-19.u235	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government: The Government has decided to put an end to the golden visas and to open an exception for the autonomous regions and for the interior. However, this exception lasted a little longer than a year, although the same assumptions continue to exist and the same need for foreign investment is maintained in these territories. On the other hand, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we do not understand how, now, just over 365 days ago, the Government decides, without any justification, without any study to extinguish a regime and instrument that is crucial to the development of these regions, especially for Madeira. But this mistake, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it is time to be amended and corrected. It is enough for the Government to have the will of the socialist majority to prolong this regime and approve a transitional regime. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the maintenance of this regime is in your hands, but I must tell you that my hope is very small, because the PS, as we all know, has constantly come to the fore all the initiatives that are important to Madeira. Soon, we will certainly know which side the PS is on again in relation to this matter. We are almost certain and we can almost guess, that once again, he will not be on the side of Madeira, which is regrettable and shameful. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-19.u236	Mr. Secretary of State for Digitization and Administrative Modernization, Mário Campolargo has the floor now. Quiet request to the House, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-19.u237	Mr. President of the Assembly of the Republic, Mrs. and Mrs. Members: Following a very exhaustive consultation process, with listening to stakeholders in the sector, the academic environment, public and private entities, we are presenting today this proposal for legislative authorisation on the simplification of licences. The proposal has a very broad meaning and extension, justified by the government's ambition in this area, and is properly based on a draft authorized decree-law, also significantly detailed. There has always been a clear concern throughout this process in considering contributions and suggestions concerning the first version of the legislative authorisation, which was presented in February this year. Thus, as an example, we have deciphered and clarified the application of previous controls, reassessed responsibilities in urban operations and re-evaluated the temporal targets, particularly in terms of digitisation. Thus, the main intervention axes were clear, where urban simplification and spatial planning were found, the simplification and harmonization of technical standards and the simplification, deburocratization and modernization in the processing of procedures. With regard to urban simplification, let me highlight eight particularly emblematic changes. Firstly, the elimination of licences and the creation of new exemption cases, such as when there is already a detailed plan, a batch operation or an execution unit containing urban design.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-19.u238	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-19.u239	We also bet on the simplification of procedures, which is an example of the elimination of the emission of construction alvará. Thirdly, the clarification of the municipal cognition powers with regard to the exercise of prior control procedures, avoiding, for example, ineffective duplication of tasks where there are declarations of conformity by competent technicians. Fourthly, and in the context of the de-updating of a particular set of technical requirements of the RGEU ( General Regulation on Urban Buildings ), 1951 law, the elimination of excessive and / or dated requirements such as the obligation to install bidet or bathtub. As a fifth measure, I stress the importance of simplifying the procedure for obtaining the authorisation of use — which gives green light to the housing of a house at the end of its construction — which consists of a mere prior communication or a prior communication in time. We also simplify the procedures relating to specialty projects and avoid unnecessary authorisations when connections to electricity, water, telecommunications or gas networks are made by companies certified by dealers. In the seventh place, let me mention the simplification of urbanization processes, avoiding, for example, excessive costs with the issue of new bank guarantees. Finally, allow me to highlight the end of the requirement for the technical housing card and the authorisation of use to conclude a purchase and sale contract, thus speeding up the sale of houses and consequently making life easier for new residents. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Allow me, now, to focus particular attention on the area of digitization. One of the great advances will be realized in the application of the BIM (building information modeling), a working methodology that uses a three-dimensional parametric model to represent and manage information about a building or an infrastructure throughout its life cycle. This methodology brings improvement in quality and efficiency in construction, reduces costs, decreases deadlines, allows efficient management of the maintenance of buildings, also ensuring interoperability between data and among all stakeholders. Only truly adopting these methodologies and corresponding digital tools and investing heavily in the training of proposers and municipalities will we be able to respond to the challenges of the present and future housing in Portugal. This is also why, in the same sense, an electronic platform of urban procedures is provided which simplifies and uniforms procedures and documents required and, at the same time, allows online applications, consultation of the state of proceedings and deadlines, obtaining certificates of exemption from urban procedures and notification of notices. As regards the measures relating to the spatial planning, let me highlight two: firstly, the simplification of the process of reclassification of rustic soil in urban soil, a procedure which is essential to increase the availability of land for the construction of housing at controlled costs; and also the clarification of the requirements that the implementing units have to have to create conditions for the exemption of urban control. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, this long-term measure, this'simplex' measure, is essential for achieving the objectives of the More Habitat intervention plan. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Meanwhile, he took the presidency of Vice President Editi Estrela.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-19.u240	Thank you very much, Secretary of State. Good morning, compliance with all and all, in particular the remaining members of the Government. Mr Secretary of State, the Bureau records five entries for requests for clarification. How do you want to answer?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-19.u241	Together, Madam President.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-19.u242	Thank you very much. To make the first request for clarification, Mr Jorge Paulo Oliveira of the PSD Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-19.u243	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Secretary of State for Digitization and Administrative Modernization, all measures that can contribute to the simplification and reduction of the timeliness of assessment of urban licensing processes are obviously positive. But, Mr Secretary of State, there are limits, there are borders, there are other interests, there are other concerns which must also be considered. And all this requires time, reflection, weighting and auscultation, of the entities most directly involved. It is a great deal of this that is lacking in the proposed law under discussion, Mr Secretary of State, and we have also lost an opportunity to implement a reform in the area of urbanism and the planning of the territory which would, from the outset, pass through a process of legislative codification. Unfortunately, the Government has chosen to move forward with cuts on the blanket that represents the legislation in force, scattered, as you know, for more than 2000 diplomas, to which Mr. Secretary of State adds the very doubtful real need for so many legislative amendments.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-19.u244	It's true, it's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-19.u245	Absolutely true!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-19.u246	But, Mr Secretary of State, our main criticism is another: it is the government that has gone wrong to simplify the processes of urban licensing at any cost.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-19.u247	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-19.u248	It's funny! Coming from the PSD, it's funny!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-19.u249	A simplification at any cost, which shows us the incompetence of a government that confuses previous communications with licenses... [[PSD applause.]] ... and introduce manifestly contradictory amendments to the legal standards that remain, that is, just to give two examples. A simplification at any price, Mr. Secretary of State, which questions the safety of persons and goods, as denounced by the Order of Engineers. Simplification at any price, Mr Secretary of State, which removes competence from local authorities, which removes management capacity, which reduces their ability to collect revenue and clearly compromises them, the ability to plan the territory. In the midst of this revolution which does not solve the basic problem, which is the lack of housing, namely the lack of housing at affordable prices, what we ask Mr. Secretary of State is whether he is able to tell us where the security of people and goods is and where the so-called respect for the autonomy of local power remains. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-19.u250	To make a request for clarification, Mrs Mariana Mortágua, of the Left Block Parliamentary Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-19.u251	Mr President, we have often talked about corruption, and the construction, licensing and urbanism are at the heart of most cases of corruption in Portugal — we have the most recent cases of Gaia and Espinho to prove it. And they're in the center because there's always a good duck that wants to go over urban management rules, land management rules, environmental protection, in the name of your business, or your negotiation, better saying.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-19.u252	It's Robles!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-19.u253	My question, Secretary of State, is whether this is what you want to do. Do you really want to facilitate the license? Do you even want to allow construction in rustic and natural reserve soils, which are, as everyone knows, the most desirable product for these bare ducks and which usually gives rise to these corruption processes? [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-19.u254	To make a request for clarification, Mr Tiago Monteiro of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-19.u255	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, Mrs and Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would like to thank the Secretary of State for the serene and clarifying way in which he mentioned a large part of the amendments to this PPL (proposal for a law) in the area of administrative simplification. In fact, I do not understand the antagonism of our oppositions, both on the left and on the right, and I do not understand much of the noise they propagate, since it seems that no one has paid attention to the detail and no one has actually given the job of reading the PLP. [[PSD MP Protests António Topa Gomes.]] But the Socialist Party, as a moderate and loving party of our democratic system, has read the PPL and has read in detail our law and all the rules that are set out from the point of view of administrative simplification. Our oppositions, including the PSD and the Liberal Initiative, speak of reducing bureaucracy, and the Government responds with the exemption of leave in works that do not increase the number of floors, with the sole time of notification to the applicant or with tacit referral. Our oppositions, particularly to the right, talk about faster licensing procedures, and we respond with mandatory procedural conferences of a single act for projects of potential national interest. They then speak of good management of resources and transparency, and the Government comes, in part concerning the ambiguity of municipal regulations, to list, taxively, what regulations may include, what regulations cannot include and place the obligation on the agenda to be published in the Journal of the Republic. In the end, particularly the Liberals, they come to talk about the single licensing portal.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-19.u256	Well!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-19.u257	What does the government do? It will precisely create a single licensing portal, or a single licensing platform, throughout the legislature to ensure the speed of these processes. At the end of the day, the conclusion is very simple, Mr Secretary of State: noise and form, we respond with legislation and content. That's exactly what this PPL comes up with. And we all conclude that we need more housing, we need better housing and more quickly. And how do we guarantee housing faster? Providing more soils, ensuring that rustic soils move to urban soils, giving up land for housing construction, Mr. Secretary of State. This is what we are going to do in the domain of housing and this is what will ensure faster housing and more housing for all and all Portuguese. [[PSD MP Protests António Topa Gomes.]] So, Mr Secretary of State, the question is very simple: how will this future national licensing portal transform and deburocratize the entire licensing and administrative simplification process in our country? [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-19.u258	To make a request for clarification, Mrs Paula Santos of the CFP Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-19.u259	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr Secretary of State, the Government does not bring any proposals to simplify procedures. What the Government brings is a blank letter to feed the real estate business and speculation and withdraw powers from the authorities.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-19.u260	Exactly! All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-19.u261	Let us see: who benefits from this set of changes? It is the real estate funds, it is the great owners, it is those who gain speculation with housing and who no longer have to comply with a set of established rules on urbanism, land planning, which may even call into question the safety, health and quality of construction itself. What is intended with this proposal is to encourage and promote speculation, to give more guarantees to the businesses of large private real estate promoters. They come with the argument that there are delays in deferral of the processes, placing responsibility on the municipalities, but there are few times when the delays are the responsibility of the promoters, because the processes that give entry are not in a position to be approved,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-19.u262	That's true! It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-19.u263	... because they lack corrections, such as at the level of architecture, because they have errors in the specialties, because they do not respect the building targets. Whose responsibility is it, then, and what is the purpose of this proposal in particular? The problems I have mentioned here are not related to the procedures themselves, they have to do with non-compliance by the promoters, and what the government wants is in fact to make life easier for these promoters who do not comply with what they must do. The extension of previous communication situations serves primarily the promotion of real estate with financial and investment capacity, removing municipalities from the ability to intervene in the public space, in the creation of quality urban spaces. The question is whether or not you want to promote housing and guarantee its quality, or whether, in fact, what the government wants to do, is to contribute to those who have the whole situation and who are responsible for the situation to which we have come, to continue to win speculation. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-19.u264	Mr Ventura, from the Parliamentary Group of the Arrival, has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-19.u265	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, I first heard him say, in his speech, "we help ourselves with opinions, studies, we heard the scientific, academic community" and I would like to ask him why they did not do the same in relation to local housing. It is that there is no study, there is no opinion, there is no indication that there is a relationship between local accommodation and lack of housing. So, I'm sorry to insist on this subject, but look, unlike others, here, I don't have any local accommodation and, therefore, I'm willing to talk. [[Congrats from the CH.]] I don't have any local accommodation. The only thing I have about local accommodations is that I like to go there! That's all, and I don't think this opens any conflicts of interest. Now, I would like you to explain to us the study that the government has to show that the problem is local accommodation. It was good to make it available to this House, because so we could discuss and understand the problem, because so far we have not been able to understand. In fact, I wanted to say one thing, that the petitioners even identify well, and rightly: the local accommodation should even pride the Socialist Party, because, in addition to saving the Socialist Party's face at the time of the housing crisis,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-19.u266	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-19.u267	...is of the few business in which men and women are in total equality, or almost total, of opportunities. More than 50 % are detained by women. But no, now it is no longer important to speak of man or woman, nor to speak of anything; now it is to destroy, destroy, destroy and destroy. [[Congrats from the CH.]] Mr Secretary of State, you welcome any measure to simplify licensing — any measure! — and to which the Government presents good and original things, but good things are not original and originals are bad, they are bad.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-19.u268	That's from Paulo Rios!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-19.u269	Does the Secretary of State know — it is an honest question — that the delays in licensing often have nothing to do with the authorities? They have to do with external opinions to the authorities, as is the case with opinions from the Institute for Conservation of Nature and Forests and the Portuguese Environment Agency. So I ask, Mr Secretary of State: will the government also pay fines when they are late?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-19.u270	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-19.u271	Will the government also pay fines when these entities do not make opinions and licenses cannot move forward? Will the government also pay fines for this, or is it just sanctioning municipalities, local housing and the rest? And then, with regard to facilitating licensing, opening up everything and doing itself in any way, the Secretary of State knows, as we know, that corruption is one of the major problems in our country. We are still being bombarded every day with issues that involve construction and permitry in construction. What does this initiative require more scrutiny? Nothing. There's nothing more monitoring. And the municipal chambers have asked the gentlemen. How will government members strengthen their supervisory teams, and with what budget! Do you want to add more gasoline to the fire of corruption in Portugal? We need surveillance! What measures does the government have for monitoring? And then Mr Secretary of State, I do not know whether he is a lawyer, if he is not — honestly, I do not know — but I find it a little strange, I confess, to make this change without, in fact, making the big change to the building code, which was what we needed. It is that they are more than 2000 legal diplomas — they are more than 2000 legal diplomas, I repeat — and the government, instead of wanting to reorganize, does a great deal of action to speed up and show any results. It is a bad way, Mr. Secretary of State, it is the way of the swamp, it is the way of destruction of the dwelling, and not the way of more housing. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-19.u272	To respond to these requests for clarification, Mr. Secretary of State for Digitization and Administrative Modernization, Mário Campolargo. Please, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-19.u273	Mr President, the questions that have been raised here clearly do not have been carefully read the proposal that has been put forward. I draw attention to the fact that today we are focused on simplification and that the government is obviously doing all the work on the building code — it is more than obvious — but one thing does not imply the other. As far as Mr Ventura's question is concerned, I am obviously not referring to the aspects of local housing, but I want to say that, in fact, many of the banks have talked about corruption, transparency, clarity in the procedures is what prevents corruption. Predictability is very important. Freeing people who, in the municipalities, are doing tasks that are not absolutely essential, because they are guaranteed by proper entities, it is freeing people to make more supervision. When we suggest, in this proposal, the use of more digitisation, we are giving more transparency; when we are able to propose that there are tacit deviations, we are taking responsibility for all the entities in the chain, in the process of the life cycle of submission and authorization, we are making predictability on the part of the promoters and that housing is made available in more timely time. This is a simplification proposal that guarantees all security, which is the result of very extensive consultations, which is based on the responsibility of each of the actors, who pushes those who have responsibility and, in some way, ensures that, when the entities do not comply with the deadlines, there is a tacit deferral. It is very important that we have this notion of predictability and it is very important that we do not bet on simplification without purpose. All the simplification that is proposed here has been evaluated in terms of the concrete implications; it is a very balanced proposal, which will transform the process of building and urbanization in Portugal. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-19.u274	For an intervention, Mrs Maria Begonha of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-19.u275	Madam President, Mrs. Minister, Mrs. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members: Yesterday, we heard the biggest opposition party, the PSD, claim in this House that the PS was quick in 2015 to destroy everything the PSD/CDS government had built on housing.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-19.u276	And it's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-19.u277	Mrs. Members, as the country knows, from 2015 onwards, we finally started building a housing policy, because looking back, as the right insists, is only useful to learn from the mistakes of the past. [[PSD MP Protests António Topa Gomes.]] Returning to the liberalized market or to wild freezings and thawings, Saudiers due to low interest rates that do not return, instead of implementing the urgent reform of the increase of the housing public park, condemning housing to a marginal portion of the State budgets, is to repeat the past; and thus surely there are no answers to the challenges of the present and the future.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-19.u278	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-19.u279	It is necessary to respond in the present to the many who wait for a state house, to the many who cannot find or pay an accessible house, to whom they are confronted with increases of incomportable loans, to the many who are expelled from their cities. There are even many for whom housing today represents a real obstacle to their life and happiness projects, whether to stay in their communities, leave their parents' homes, become a family, or simply pay less to live better. These are the real, concrete, urgent problems that mobilize us and motivate us to support, without reservation, all the efforts and measures of this package, navigating the controversy and conflict without losing its focus: fighting the housing crisis, improving people's lives. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We took great pride in the legacy of the last seven years, in which we led the creation of a new housing law and a new generation of policies, and we see strangely some desert this common effort to the left, because they materialized the rupture with a dogmatic vision that the market would solve the problems of housing, a rupture with the ideological prejudice that the State cannot intervene and that housing would always be the poor parent of the social state. We assume, with responsibility and commitment, once again lead the political agenda in housing with this new set of measures, without thus providing new solutions that contribute to respond to the housing crisis. It is that this debate, which will continue, cannot be carried out without overcoming our differences on the way, for which the PS deserved confidence to implement its programme and its reforms, and it cannot be carried out without the ideological confrontation that we know exists in the vision on housing, or without this confrontation of ideas. But it must also not be done without finding convergence between us and the various stakeholders and partners in the housing sector. All the reforms and measures presented respond to a national and structural design for our collective life, which is to ensure a good housing, accessible to the incomes of families, young people, pensioners, those who live in their work—but also those who do not work or cannot work—of communities that suffer greater discrimination, of those who have never had a decent home and also of those for whom this was the first year of their lives in which they were confronted with the difficulty of paying the house. It's not a privilege, it's a right! All the measures presented today respond to the housing crisis that we live on several fronts in a combined way, with a sense of balance, with the deliberate choice to protect those most accurate of the State's intervention, to increase and improve the partnerships and incentives that the State must promote — mobilizing the private, cooperative sector, municipalities, tenants and owners — and to introduce balance in unexplained control, far beyond the effect of increasing inflation on housing costs and the supply crisis that exists. The Government has acted to protect the most precise, including the middle class, with support for income and credit in force, on which, inexplicably, criticisms have been added about the welfare state, which we reject, because they are entirely fair and absolutely necessary in the difficult phase of families going through. We need to protect those who need the most, limiting the increase in the value of income. It is necessary to protect those who need the most, ensuring that tenants with older contracts, mostly elderly, have their frozen incomes and that the State assumes its responsibility to compensate the landlords. We must defend the right to housing, fighting speculation, with the guarantee of fair income, with the end of the visasgold, with the compatibility between the activity of local housing and access to housing. [[Protests by CH Member Pedro dos Santos Frazão.]] On this subject, I should like to make it clear, ladies and gentlemen. Members, which is not the right to housing that will have to adapt to the continuous and unregulated growth of local housing. It is not the local accommodation—which we support and which continues to operate—or the tourism that is in crisis. It is indeed the right to housing. And it is also not all the local accommodation, in all territories, that causes pressure on the right to housing. This diversity should be taken into account in our debate. However, political responsibility leads us to recognize that we are regular and limiting, unlike so many cities that have done so before, late. Reasonableness is that we should be aware of the fact that this regulation is now even more vital for a balance in the areas of greater pressure. [[Protests by PSD MP Jorge Salgueiro Mendes.]] It is also necessary to protect those who need the most, ensuring that, when there is clearance, the State ensures the renting of the tenant, but does not leave those who need no social responses. All, I repeat, all measures to protect tenants and families are accompanied by confidence measures for owners. There is no legitimacy of criticism on the right hand side, which joins anyone who wants to create a scenario of fear and mistrust, stirring up the dangers of landlords withdrawing houses from the market, seeking to turn owners against tenants and vice versa, always choosing only one side or a trench,... [[Protests by PSD MP Jorge Salgueiro Mendes.]] ... asking the State to act when it comes to protecting the rights of the owners, but to leave the front when it comes to protecting tenants. In order to combat the housing crisis, the Government also proposes to increase and improve state partnerships and respond to the urgent need to mobilize the available heritage, with the private, through a new generation of cooperatives, providing more public soils and buildings for construction and rehabilitation. It also proposes to mobilize the returned public heritage, mobilizing returned houses for more than two years to rent, buying directly to the owners to make available at affordable prices, thus attacking the problem of supply gap on many fronts with multiple solutions, because we need to respond to many people. I conclude by saying that when Parliament starts the debate process on this package of measures, we must not forget that an unusual period of public and media scrutiny and debate has already taken place, with thousands of contributions in the public consultation — which has mobilized the most varied stakeholders, entities and activists in the sector — to which the PS understands that we will be able and must add ideas and proposals, always complementing the reforms under way, without the demagogic sending of summarizing the entire debate of housing to one or two measures and without distorting that the goal is even, without losing focus, that of fulfilling the right to housing. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-19.u280	For an intervention, Mrs Inês de Sousa Real has the floor of the PAN.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-19.u281	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Government Members : The Government's Most Housing programme was born wrong and clearly never addressed, either in terms of the size of the proposals that bring us to housing, or in terms of licensing, which, more than an administrative'simplex', is more a license to build and destroy, including environmental values. We end up being faced with more misleading advertising, as is the case with this law, which will not bring any more housing, nor will it solve the structural problems of housing in Portugal. More: we have a heavy state bureaucratic machine in which people can't access accessible housing, they can't access support, even at social level, and we have a handful of measures that won't get out of the paper. Just think about the question of the expropriation of returned homes to realize this, because, as the authors have already said, they will not comply with this measure. And no one even believes that the government itself, which has so far failed to invent its public heritage, will make houses available for affordable housing. What nobody can be indifferent to at this time, being absolutely essential and urgent, is that they have to have a home to live. However, in a preconceived way, one of the solutions that is being brought is the attack on local housing, forgetting the impact it has, above all, on small owners, but not on large hotel groups, not on real estate funds, and for that reason the government does not bring any solution. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Government members, in the specialty, the NAP will contribute with a package of 17 measures, 17 amendments, for families with leases, to protect credit to housing, to promote young housing and, above all, to correct this injustice in relation to local accommodation, which leaves out hotel units.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-19.u282	Mr Carlos Guimarães Pinto of the Parliamentary Group of the Liberal Initiative.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-19.u283	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Government members : The increase in housing prices here, as throughout Europe, has resulted from the expansionist policy of the European Central Bank, but today, in Portugal, above all, is due to a problem of lack of construction. the last time the house prices were at this level, 100 000 houses were built in one year, which contributed to stabilize the housing price and give the opportunity to have home to hundreds of thousands of people. At present, there are just over 20 000 houses and therefore prices continue to rise. If you don't believe it, we can look at the countries of Europe where housing prices have already begun to fall in 2022. Four are Germany, Denmark, Finland and Sweden. And no, it wasn't because they banned the purchase of foreigners. It was not because of any new imposition on local accommodation. They didn't do any of the things that the most radical parties recommend. What do these four countries have in common? As a percentage of GDP, 30 % more was built in Sweden, 55 % more in Denmark, 85 % more in Finland and 90 % more in Germany than here. This is the difference between countries where housing prices have already begun to fall and Portugal, where they do not stop growing. The problem of lack of construction does not only fuel the rise in prices, but makes houses increasingly older and less conditioned. We're the 6th. the country of Europe where the coldest passes inside the house. We're the 2nd. the country of Europe where houses have more infiltrations. To continue without building new houses means to pay more and more to have more and more older homes with less conditions. If the price of the houses is bad, the rental market is even worse and it works worse and worse. How could it work well, with the history of the State's intrusion? Anyone who puts a house on the market today to rent cannot know what will happen to this contract, because there is no legal certainty. Will the government freeze rents? Maybe. Will it prohibit evictions, even if the lodger doesn't pay? Maybe. Can the landlord resort to justice if the tenant destroys his house or refuses to leave? You don't know. In the face of such uncertainty, many never place their homes on the market to rent and those who place them set prices that protect them from all these future possibilities. in other countries, investors seeking stable long-term returns build to rent to the middle class. In Portugal, this almost does not happen and responsibility lies with those who have not been able to provide legal certainty. The lack of construction and uncertainty in the rental market take houses from the market, take opportunities to live people. To create more opportunities, we need to facilitate licensing, to provide more soils for construction, to reduce construction costs, to free the returned buildings of the state, to give certainty and stability to the lease market. Some of these steps are given in the latest projects. We welcome that some of the ideas presented by the IL have been incorporated into the latest proposals, from the single licensing portal to the provision of soils and the provision of state returns, going through smaller things, such as the end of archaic construction rules with the obligation of the bathtub and bidet.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-19.u284	Preposterous legislation!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-19.u285	After the expected approval, we will work as a specialist to improve some of these measures. However, we will never be able to approve these projects, because they still have many gaps. More than gaps, they introduce dangerous mechanisms to violate property rights. It is true that these mechanisms were designed only to please the most radical fringes in the PS. It is true that these mechanisms will most likely be inconsequential. But these mechanisms, however inconsequential, send a very bad image out there: the image that Portugal has a government capable of expropriating to please the most radical fringes of its party. With the local accommodation, it's even worse. They present abusive, disproportionate and persecution measures. They introduce an extortional rate and prohibit new local accommodations, even in places where they almost do not exist today. They completely blow up with the legal certainty of whom you invested. What the government is doing with local housing is the opposite of what it has done with the bank and with TAP. With the bank and with TAP, the message that is sent is: « If you run well, you get the profits. If it goes wrong, we pay the losses. » With the small owners of the local accommodation, it was exactly the opposite. If it had gone wrong, they would have paid. As it went well, they have an extraordinary fee. Permission with the strong, extortion to the weak. The incompetence of the great with the sweat of the small is paid. [[Applause from the IL.]] This is not capitalism. This is not liberalism. This is not even socialism. This is something new that was invented. This is parasitism! [[CH's laughs.]] They prohibit small entrepreneurs from opening new local accommodations, while allowing hotel chains to continue expanding in the same urban space.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-19.u286	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-19.u287	Look at the galleries! Look at these people—but look at them! — and tell me if they see what they are accused of being there. Tell me if you see disgruntled capitalists there. Say, look into those people's eyes and call them evil speculators, as you've done here. [[Congratulations from the IL and from the PSD Members Alexandre Poço, Alexandre Simões and Antonio Topa Gomes.]] Tell them if they see evil speculators there, or if they see people at risk, who have sacrificed themselves, who have worked, who have created jobs and who now see the fruit of their work at risk for your radicalism. Apart from bad politics, this is ingratitude. The same government that prides itself on growth at the expense of tourism puts, in a violent way, those who have contributed most to that growth. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, against the policy of resentment, we will always defend growth policy. Against populism, we will defend liberalism. As much as the speech of envy is easier, however populist it is to blame foreigners, to blame small entrepreneurs for our problems, we will continue to fight against this easy and petty speech, because we do not sell ourselves, we do not give up and we do not leave our country. [[Congratulations from the IL and from PSD Members Alexandre Poço and Antonio Topa Gomes.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-19.u288	Mr Duarte Alves of the CFP Parliamentary Group spoke for one speech. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-19.u289	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government : As the Secretary-General of the CFP has pointed out in a recent statement...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-19.u290	Look, you started talking, they left! Nobody wants to hear you!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-19.u291	... this More Housing program could well be called « more transfers», more transfers to the bank and also more transfers to the great real estate interests, because in this program, what is truly significant are more tax bills to reward the speculators. The government wants to lower the autonomous tax on real estate income without any distinction about the value of income. Where is the PS who came to have the compulsory enclave in its electoral programme? Another measure: all local accommodation that passes into housing—and may even be luxury housing—is free from IRS and IRC until 2030.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-19.u292	And you pay? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-19.u293	Another measure: exempt from taxes, i.e. from IRS and IRC, any sale of assets to the State, even if it benefits from speculative valuation, even if it is a palace of millions. They put the Tax and Customs Authority to charge rents in favour of the landlords, as if the tolls were no longer enough. [[CH Member's protests Filipe Melo.]] As for this extraordinary contribution on local accommodation, it is necessary to say that local accommodation is not all the same and that no one has yet realized what it applies to. What's 20% about, after all? And is there any reason for the hotels, which occupy entire blocks of the cities, to stay out of this measure? Mrs. Minister, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretarys, in particular the State Secretary for Tax Affairs, if there were any tax measures to be taken, it was to revoke tax regimes... [[Meanwhile, President Augusto Santos Silva was re-elected.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-19.u294	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-19.u295	...in absolute disrespect for the colleague you're talking about. It is perfectly possible to make the conversations that we have to make, so that we do not interrupt others. Mr President, I am sorry, on behalf of the House, and please proceed.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-19.u296	Thank you very much, Mr President. Indeed, Mr. President, Mr. Members, I spoke of a series of tax measures which the Government has submitted to bring more benefits to speculation and which are clear in the Government's proposal. What we say is that, if there was any tax action to be taken, it was to put an end to the tax system of privilege, which benefits, in particular, unusual residents and also digital nomads. This was the fiscal measure that was required to end speculation, not measures that will reward speculators. On this, the Government has no proposal, no action. What has is more benefits for speculators and that we cannot accept. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-19.u297	You are the largest real estate in the country! Get on the market! You have more houses than RE / MAX! [[Mr Pedro dos Santos Frazão's laughs.]] [[Protests by PCP Member Duarte Alves.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-19.u298	You now have the floor for an intervention by Mrs Patrícia Dantas of the PSD Parliamentary Group. I ask, too, for her due attention. Please, Mrs. Patrícia Dantas, and I ask for silence to the House.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-19.u299	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister : The debate on centralism, by the omission of initiatives that favour the interior and autonomous regions, or by the inadequacy of proposals for regional autonomy, is old and very meaningful in Madeira and Porto Santo. The More Housing package, despite some corrections made, feeds and negatively affects this debate. For example, it is unacceptable that the Madeiran entity responsible for implementing public housing policies does not have access to the same measures as the fellow-generations of the continent and that this entity is excluded from the measures to support affordable lease, a faculty that is given, for example, cooperatives, municipalities and mercy. It is a situation which the Members of the Madeira PSD have long denounced. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-19.u300	Only in the State budget this year, one third of the amendments aimed at correcting such discrimination. [[PSD applause.]] It is interesting that neither the PS nor the Members of the PS Madeira voted in favour of them, which, of course, must be assessed by the people of Madeira and Porto Santo at least. And this is a good year for that. In the fiscal part, we also want to correct shortcomings in the PS proposal to Madeira reality, in terms of the exemption of IRS and IRC, but also of IMI and seal tax, for economic housing at controlled or affordable rental costs, when promoted by public housing entities. We will not accept the application of the extraordinary contribution on local accommodation in autonomous regions,... [[PSD applause.]] ... in the same terms as the application of the compulsory lease and the suspension of new AL licences in these regions has been avoided. Finally, we propose the creation of an exceptional regime which calls for the extension of visasgold for another nine years in the interior and in the island regions. Ladies and gentlemen. Members - the discrimination is corrected, the country's integral development is stimulated and the autonomy is practised, which is for everyone in this House and, in particular, for the Socialist Party, which holds the majority. The 250 000 Madeirans, in particular, will be attentive to the discussion and vote in the specialty and will be able to make their assessment this year. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-19.u301	You now have the floor for an intervention on behalf of the PS Parliamentary Group, Mr Salvador Antiga.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-19.u302	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In the recent document submitted by the PSD entitled A New Path to Housing, it appears that the aim of public housing should not be to put people living in a state house and much less to dream of a certain percentage of the public housing offer, since the public housing park should be directed only to deprived and low-income families. The PSD also argues that the State should provide people with the possibility of buying their homes, in particular through financial support to own capital, with the public guarantee to ensure 100% financing in the acquisition of their housing, which is no more than the return to unified credit for new contracts. In the background, the PSD argues that public housing is only for the poorest and that the middle class should maintain the path that led the Portuguese families to start the most indebted in Europe, promoting the bonus that inflation prices, promoting over-indebted families and hindering their mobility in search of employment, being their benefits, in fact, collected by real estate agencies, builders and banks, increasing demand and speculation. From 1987 to 2011, housing support in the form of subsidies exceeded EUR 7 billion, representing 73, 3 % of public investment in access to housing for the same period, more than three times the investment the Government is making in the public housing park with the aim of building 26 000 homes up to 2026. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-19.u303	If the idea is to have a new path to housing, I just have to leave you the following question: when will they realize that they cannot expect different results, when they do everything the same? [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-19.u304	To speak on behalf of the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mr Jorge Mendes has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-19.u305	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Today's plenary concludes a long period of presentation, debate and vote of the various legislative initiatives of the parties with parliamentary seats on housing, or rather, on how to solve the serious housing problems affecting the generality of the Portuguese. The PSD projects, the new path to housing, present, among other virtues, a set of measures for housing by housing, i.e. to solve the serious problems of housing of Portuguese without questioning other sectors, in particular local housing and external investment, captured in the context of applications for residence for investment. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, Minister Marina Gonçalves, at the opening and during the debate, launched a challenge and presented a proposal. It has presented a challenge for all parliamentary groups to agree on the measures they contribute to creating more accessible housing and housing for Portuguese families. Ms. Minister, the PSD, responsible party, is available for debate and seeking consensus, free from prejudices and ideologies, far from populism and demagogy, with an attentive look at the current housing crisis and with a maximum concern for people and their future. from the government, we wait for faith in his words, which does not apply to the maximum of Friar Thomas: « Do what he says, do not do what he does. Do not keep on seeking. ” [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-19.u306	For an intervention on behalf of the PS Parliamentary Group, Mrs Jamila Madeira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-19.u307	No need!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-19.u308	Mr. President, Mrs. Minister, Mrs. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members: After several failed opposition initiatives in attempting to anticipate today's debate, in some way seeking to obscur it, here we are promoting a discussion on the work of the government that started back there with the Housing Basics Law. This is a relevant work, which began from the first hour, when we arrived as a Socialist Party to the Government, and which sought to answer one of the issues that concern the Portuguese most: housing. That is why, since the first hour, the PS government has been alert and never, never let it be just the signs of growth in housing prices or the needs of middle-income families to mobilize it, in the face of some more recent issues, which, in fact, mobilize only and now, the enthusiasm of the opposition. It was from the first hour that the PS government drew strategies. It has drawn up strategies, because the answer to the problem of housing is not, nor can it only be, about a market problem, in a neoliberal perspective. What we know is that our neighbouring countries, such as Spain, Italy, France and Austria, have a robust public park, since the end of the 19th century and early 20th century, see! In Portugal, giving objectively note of this concern and need, already in 1. the Republic, in 1918, is created the first legislative instrument specifically dedicated to the incentive to build economic homes, where there were tax advantages to individuals and cooperatives. These initiatives, which lasted until the ill-fated year 1933, were replaced by the launch in 1938, by what the Government of that time called « detachable houses », based on the figure of the lease. Yes, demountable houses, built to accommodate displaced populations, which led to what we all know as the creation of structurally temporary solutions, but which lasted, lasted, and which resulted, in their large majority, in large canal neighborhoods, around the big cities. Yes, the Revolution of Claws made a difference. Even there, a new approach was again placed in the perspective of housing. This new phase of democracy not only underlined, as it emphasized that the first right of the Constitution is housing and, by the hands of architect Nuno Portas, designed a housing policy program. [[P.S.'s applause.]] in this, it was clearly said that there was a housing shortage, left by the dictatorship, and that there were no 531 000 fires. See: a number as emblematic as expressive. Yes, it was at that time that the answer to the problem began. Several programmes were designed: partnership programmes, own development programmes, housing cooperative programmes, private-initiative programmes. Yes, this motherfucking tool, sirs. Members, listed in the 1975 programme, see, served public housing policies for almost two decades and, in the post-study, allowed, together with the relocation of all those Portuguese returning from the former colonies, to respond to the housing problem in Portugal. [[Protests by PSD MP Jorge Salgueiro Mendes.]] Then came the market. The market came because these were the results that the right sought to promote. And these answers, for two decades, gave rise to the creation of numerous SAAL neighborhoods ( Local Support Ambulatory Service) in Lisbon, Porto and Algarve. They would come to provide solutions that allowed the eradication of dams in Lisbon, ending with areas of urban degradation, such as the district of Musgueira, or realising neighborhoods as well known in my region as the 28 September district of Vila Real de Santo António or the so-called Neighborhood of Fishermen, in Quarteira. It was then the market that came with alternative and decisive policies to say that individual support measures and incentives were needed for the construction of free prices by the private sector, with support until 2002 for the subsidised credit. Let me say it, I remember that well. I remember well because in 2002 I was the Secretary-General of JS ( Socialist Youth ) and promoted the greatest public petition, so far, for the right to housing. The right, the right in power, said: « No, the market solves, the market settles, the market solves ». [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Mr Pedro Pinto's protests.]] at that time, the right hand in power also created the decree-law that allowed, in the urban rehabilitation of historical areas, real estate speculation. More recently, the famous "Cristas law" resulted in the closure of lease contracts without any guarantee for tenants, giving rise to unbearable values for tenants.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-19.u309	Come on, let's repudiate her! Let's repudiate her!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-19.u310	But, yes, as the Minister said today, we do not reject anyone for this debate, even though the history of the right is not, as you see with this review, particularly brilliant in support of young people, workers, working families, all those who need housing. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-19.u311	Look at Cavaco! Look at Cavaco!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-19.u312	Yes, if you come well, you are welcome to this debate. Yes, if they come for good and have proposals for people, for the economy, for students, for workers and for companies that have no place to house their workers, they are welcome to this debate. Yes, sir. Members, the housing policies that the socialist government is promoting have started back there.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-19.u313	Back, it's true! It's always back!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-19.u314	Yes, we want to provide, with the EUR 2700 million, new dwellings, but, as has also been said, none of this comes from one day to the next. Protests from PSD Deputies Antonio Topa Gomes and Jorge Salgueiro Mendes and from CH Member Pedro Pinto. Therefore, exceptional emergency measures have been used to support interest growth. Yes, new instruments are now being created with these proposals of law that allow us to speed up this answer. But yes, we also live in a tourist country. Tourism represents 17 % of its GDP and, no, we do not want to put against each other. No, we will not fail to respond to the biggest problem the Portuguese have in their hands, putting ourselves against each other. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We are here to find solutions to develop the country and to find a future for our country. All those who are available to come to this debate and build solutions side by side with the PS, giving response to people, responding to the economy and responding to businesses—as our history shows—know that we are here to, with you too, build these same solutions. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-19.u315	To close the debate, you have the floor of Mrs. Minister of Housing, Marina Gonçalves.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-19.u316	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: When the debate is over, it is now time to look at the proposals and build them for people. That's how I started and this is the message that it's important to pass. After this debate, I was not sure about the word or the message we wanted to talk about. I do not know if we wanted to pass a message that we are really against each other and that no one is part of a collective life where we all have to look at the concerns of the Portuguese people, in whose work we all have a role to play.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-19.u317	No sectarianism!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-19.u318	It seemed to me that in the debate we really wanted to contradict society by saying that we are not all welcome in solving problems. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I really wish we were all very welcome in solving the problems.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-19.u319	Tell that to the PS parliamentary leader!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-19.u320	Yes, what is being presented here in the More Habitat program is the guarantee that families have access to housing, and today there are many families that do not. [[Protests by PSD MP Jorge Salgueiro Mendes.]] I have no problem assuming that there are many families that do not have access to housing. I have a problem with thinking that a debate on measures to resolve something structural, a fundamental right, is a political debate...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-19.u321	But this is a political debate!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-19.u322	... in which we just want to say and emphasize that nothing has been done, where we want to disrespect the families who have access to housing, the municipalities that have worked so hard, the contractors, the designers who work and who, even on Friday, said that they are mobilized and that it is so good to be part of a common strategy, of community, for access to housing. It is important not to devalue what has been done, the families who have already had access to a worthy housing in Vizela, Porto, Oeiras, Lisbon, Braga, Loulé, Évora, Sixal — so many municipalities where families had access to this housing. It was not just the government, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen. It was the municipalities, it was the whole community that joined to create these housing responses. This is what's on the ground, that's what's happening. Let us be able to make this debate in this House, to look at the proposals, to understand where they can be optimized according to their objective, to find alternatives, if it has to be. We must realize that a home should be to live, especially when we have a social scourge such as what we have in access to housing. Let us be able to realize that there is a way to make everything compatible. There is no contradiction here or opposition to owners or real estate promoters, who, in fact, have done this work with us to promote affordable lease—and we want to continue to do this work. There is no opposition to tenants, there is no opposition to who licenses or to who presents the project in a municipal chamber. We want everyone to be part of this process. There is no opposition to tourism because we talk about housing and we want to prioritize housing. A balance is needed and since day 16 we have heard all of us and have tried to make that balance so that things can be compatible.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-19.u323	Yes, yes! It's been a while!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-19.u324	Things should be compatible, without ever losing sight that a house—which is what we are discussing today and what is in fact in concrete measures—should be to live. That must be the premise of what we are working here. We must safeguard that all of us — everyone is the whole society, they are the Portuguese! — we have access to housing. [[P.S.'s applause.]] As long as it is not possible to do so, we are not doing our job well. Mr President, I am really finishing up and I mean that the structural response is the public park. This is what is already in progress and will continue, but it is essential that we present and approve this More Housing programme with conjunctural measures, some also structural measures, to be able to respond to people in a balanced manner and with the possible consensus in this Parliament. I am sure that this consensus will be possible, within the scope of the work in particular, for which they also have us. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-19.u325	We shall therefore end the debate and we shall proceed to the voting period. I ask the services that open the quorum verification mechanism. I'm asking the ladies. Members to register. [[Pause.]] I wonder if any Member or Member has not been able to register. Everyone was able to register, everyone was able to hear my insistent questions. [[Pause.]] We shall then proceed to the conclusion of the quorum verification period. [[Pause.]] We have quorum, we are going to vote. The first deliberation is the Voting Project No. 338 / XV / 1. a ( tabled by Members of the Parliamentary Group of Amizade Portugal-Israel ) — Greetings by 75. the anniversary of the State of Israel. With the consent of all the benches, the President of the Parliamentary Group of Friends, Mr Alexandre Poço will read the vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-19.u326	Mr President, once again I welcome the ladies and gentlemen. Members and then I read the vote: « In 2023, 75 is celebrated. the anniversary of the State of Israel. Following Resolution No. 181 of the United Nations General Assembly, adopted in November 1947, the independence of the State of Israel would be proclaimed on May 14, 1948, fulfilling the aspirations to restore a Jewish home in the land of Israel, where its roots date back to at least 35 centuries and where the Jewish national, cultural and religious identity was formed and its physical presence maintained through centuries, even after many had been forced into exile. Portugal, within the framework of the democratic regime established on 25 April 1974, established full diplomatic relations with Israel on 12 May 1977, during the term of office of the I Constitutional Government. Assured the institution and vitality of a national state, however, it must conclude the plan of peace in the region by resolving the Israeli-Palestinian conflict on the basis of the two-State solution, in line with the relevant resolutions of the United Nations Security Council, and also ensuring the Palestinian people's self-determination, peaceful coexistence and cooperation among all communities. Thus the Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary session, welcomes 75. the anniversary of the State of Israel and expresses its friendship by the Israeli people. It also expresses its support for all efforts to ensure its recognition, to extend the circle of peace in the region and to safeguard the national aspirations of the Israeli and Palestinian peoples through the resolution of the Israeli-Palestinian conflict on the basis of the two-State solution, in line with the relevant resolutions of the United Nations Security Council and previous agreements signed between Israelis and Palestinians. Finally, it also reiterates the importance of joint cooperation in the economic, cultural and social fields for the benefit of areas of mutual interest between Portugal and Israel. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-19.u327	We shall then proceed to the vote on the deliberative part of the vote that has just been read. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of PS, PSD, CH and IL, votes against the PCP and BE and abstentions against the PAN, L and PS members Isabel Alves Moreira and Paulo Pisco.]] With regard to this vote, statements of vote were announced in writing on behalf of the seats of the Left Block, the PCP, the Free Party, the PAN party, Mrs Isabel Alves Moreira and Mr Paulo Pisco. Is there any other statement of vote?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-19.u328	Mr President, I would like to inform you that, on my behalf and on behalf of Mr Robão Rodrigues, Mr Miguel Costa Matos, Mr Ivan Gonçalves and Mr Jamila Madeira, I will present a statement of vote on this matter.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-19.u329	I welcome the presence of Mr. Ambassador of Israel in the diplomatic rostrum. [[Upstairs, PS, PSD, CH and IL.]] We will now move on to the Resolution Project No. 705 / XV / 1. a ( PAR) — Extension of the deadline for the operation of the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry into TAP Management Policy Protection. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Then, and without opposition, we will vote together on the demands, put forward by the proposers, asking the Constitutional Affairs Committee to be discharged, Freedoms and Guarantees rights without voting for 60 days on the following legislative initiatives: Bill No 762 / XV / 1. a ( PS ) — amends the system of attribution of the name itself by promoting self-determination of identity and gender expression; Draft Resolution No 678 / XV / 1. a ( PS ) — Recommends that the Government take measures to ensure the automatic, informal and free updating of the various registrations in public records following the change of sex in the civil register and the consequent name change; Draft Resolution No 679 / XV / 1. a ( PS ) — Consecrates the national day of trans visibility; Bill No. 765 / XV / 1. a ( L) — Self-determination in the right to the recognition of the legal identity of trans persons in the birth seat of descendants and in the marriage seat; Draft Law No 767 / XV / 1. a (PAN) — ensures gender neutrality in the civil register and strengthens the rights of trans, intersex and non-binary persons by amending the Civil Registration Code and the Regulation on the Eligible Regulations of Registers and notaries; Bill No. 783 / XV / 1. a ( BE ) — Strengthens the promotion of gender self-determination by amending Law No 38 / 2018 of 7 August and Decree-Law No 131 / 95 of 6 June; Draft Resolution No 687 / XV / 1. a ( PAN) — Recommends that the Government create the national day of trans visibility; and Draft Resolution No 697 / XV / 1. a (IL) — Recommends that the Government establish free amendments to the citizenship card. [[After the vote, they were adopted unanimously.]] We therefore jump to page 7 of the vote script and move on to the general vote of the Bill No 71 / XV / 1. a ( GOV ) — Approves measures under the More Housing intervention plan. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, votes against the PS, CH, IL, CCP, BE and abstentions of the PAN and L.]] Low to 6. the Commission. We shall then, in general, vote on the Proposal for a Law No 77 / XV / 1. a ( GOV ) — Authorizes the Government to reform and simplify licensing in the context of urbanism and spatial planning. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, votes against the CH, the CFP, the BE, the NAP and the L and abstentions against the PSD and the IL.]] Low to 6. the Commission. We now proceed to the general vote on Bill No. 451 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Extraordinary regime for the prohibition of penhora and for the execution of permanent own housing mortgages. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, PSD and IL were rejected, votes against the CFP, BE, NAP and L and the abstention from the CH.]] We will now vote, in general, on Bill No. 510 / XV / 1. a ( BE ) — prohibits the sale of houses to non-residents. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, PS, CH and IL were rejected, votes against the EB and abstentions against the CFP, the NAP and the L.]] The Free House shall inform the Bureau that it will present a written declaration of vote on this last vote. The general vote of Bill No. 673 / XV / 1. a (CH) — Strengthens incentives for stability in lease contracts for own and permanent housing by reducing autonomous taxation rates. [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, the CFP, the BE and the L, votes against the CH, the IL and the NAP and the abstention from the PSD.]] We now vote in general on Bill No. 738 / XV / 1. a ( CH) — Creates a mediation commission in Decree-Law No 80-A / 2022. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, PSD and IL were rejected, votes against the CH and abstentions against the CFP, BE, PAN and L.]] We proceed to the general vote on Bill No. 744 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Housing protection measures. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, PSD and IL were rejected, votes against the CFP, BE and L and abstentions against the CH and the NAP.]] We now proceed to the general vote on Bill No. 747 / XV / 1. a (L) — Creates the Mission More Housing, Better Housing, equipping the Institute of Housing and Urban Rehabilitation, IHRU, I.P. , of technical and financial capacity capable of ensuring 100 000 new fires for housing in 10 years. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, the CH and the IL were rejected, votes against the PSD, the BE, the PAN and the L and the PCP abstain.]] The PS informs the Bureau that it will make a written statement of vote on this last vote. The general vote of Bill No. 755 / XV / 1 is hereby followed. a (BE) — provides for a quota of 25 % of the building product for housing the conditioned income. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, PSD and IL were rejected, votes against the CFP, BE and L and abstentions against the CH and the NAP.]] Then we will generally vote for Bill No. 756 / XV / 1. a (BE) — Control of income to defend the right to housing. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, PSD, CH and IL were rejected, votes against the CFP, BE and L and abstention from the NAP.]] We proceed to the general vote on Bill No. 757 / XV / 1. a ( BE) — Alter the Statute for Tax Benefits and the Tax Code on the Income of Single Persons. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD and IL were rejected, votes against the CFP, BE, NAP and L and the abstention from the CH.]] We now vote in general on Bill No. 758 / XV / 1. a (BE) — Assigns to the Tax Authority the competence to identify devolved autonomous buildings or fractions, buildings in ruins and land for construction likely to exacerbate the municipal property tax rate. [[When put to the vote, votes against the PS and the IL were rejected in favour of the CFP, BE and L and abstentions from the PSD, CH and the NAP.]] The vote on the Draft Deliberation No 11 / XV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Independent study to assess the effects of changes to the urban lease regime in the last 10 years. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of the PS, the IL and the NAP and abstentions to the CH, the CFP, the BE and the L.]] We continue with the general vote on draft resolution No 184 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Strengthening of the Urban Housing and Rehabilitation Institute. [[When put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the CFP, the BE, the NAP and the L and with abstentions from the PSD, the CH and the IL.]] Low to 6. the Commission. We turn to the general vote on draft resolution No 628 / XV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Recommends to the Government the approval of a special scheme of residence permits for investment activity ( golden visas) for autonomous regions. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, the IL, the CFP, the BE, the NAP and the L were rejected, votes against the PSD and the abstention from the CH.]] We now vote in general on Resolution Project No 519 / XV / 1. a ( CH) — For the urgent and immediate repair of the system of behaviors next to the river Pranto in Figueira da Foz. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of the PS, the CH, the IL, the BE and the NAP, and abstentions of the CFP and the L.]] We then generally vote on draft resolution No 589 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Recommends to the Government the intervention in Maria da Mata and the protection of rice production in the region of Lower Mondego. [[The vote was taken with votes against the PS and votes against the PS, the CH, the IL, the PCP, the BE, the PAN and the L.]] We will generally vote on the Resolution Project No. 627 / XV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Recommends the urgency to the Government for the completion of the Lower Mondego hydro-agricultural work, in particular in the urgent repair of the system of housing by the Pranto River. [[The vote was taken with votes against the PS and votes against the PS, the CH, the IL, the PCP, the BE, the PAN and the L.]] We continue with the general vote on draft resolution No 691 / XV / 1. a ( PS ) — Recommends that the Government carry out the necessary procedures with a view to the urgent construction of a new structure of the existing units at the Pranto River. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Down to 7. the Commission. We proceed to the general vote on draft resolution No 598 / XV / 1 (PAN) — It recommends that the Government close the quarries in the Natural Park of Arrabada and renaturalize them. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, CH and IL were rejected, votes against BE, PAN and L, and abstention from the CFP.]] The general vote is followed by draft resolution No. 694 / XV / 1 ( PCP ) — Safeguarding the natural values of the Natural Park of Arrábida. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, the CH and the IL were rejected, votes against the CFP, the BE, the NAP and the L and the abstention from the PSD.]] We will now vote for the Resolution Project No. 605 / XV / 1. a (L) — Recommends Portugal to sign the European Cycling Declaration and to prioritise cycling mobility. [[Put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the PS, the CFP, the BE, the NAP and the L and with abstentions from the CH and the IL.]] We shall now proceed to the comprehensive final vote of the final text presented by the Committee on Economics, Public Works, Planning and Housing on draft resolutions Nos 415 / XV / 1. a ( PS ) — Recommends that the Government provide better access conditions for animals in mobility services, 472 / XV / 1. a ( PAN) — Recommends that the Government guarantee the right to mobility of pets and 603 / XV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Transport of pets. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We move on to the final overall vote of the final text presented by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees on Bill No 45 / XV / 1. a ( GOV ) — Determines the cessation of law published in the context of the pandemic of covid-19, and the Bill No 240 / XV / 1. a ( PSD ) — The third amendment is made to Law No 1 -A / 2020 of 19 March which approves exceptional and temporary measures to respond to the epidemiological situation caused by the coronavirus SARS-CoV-2 and the disease covered-19. [[The vote was taken by votes to PS, PS, CH, IL and PAN and with abstentions from the CFP, BE and L.]] Finally, we shall proceed to the overall final vote of the final text submitted by the Committee on Labour, Social Security and Inclusion on draft resolutions Nos 529 / XV / 1. a ( PS ) — Consecrate on May 10 as the national day of the person with intellectual disabilities, 553 / XV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Institution of the national day of the person with intellectual disabilities; and 578 / XV / 1. a (PAN) — Consecrate on May 10 as the national day of the person with intellectual disabilities. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We have come to the end of the vote. Our next plenary session will take place on Wednesday, for 3 p.m., and there are three items on the agenda. The first point is the current debate required by the PSD on « Rural fires ». the second point is the general discussion of the Bill No 58 / XV / 1. a ( GOV ) — Review the legal regime for explosives and dangerous substances. In the third point, the Resolution Project 624 / XV / 1 will be appreciated. a ( CH) — By the creation of the national water network, together with, in general, Bill No. 773 / XV / 1. a ( PAN) — Ensures the legal framework and adequate funding of the National Action Programme for Combating Desertification, amending the Water Law, and with Resolution Projects Nos 313 / XV / 1. a ( PSD ) — To complete the Special Public Water Albueira Programmes and 564 / XV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Agenda for Action for Water in Portugal. Very good weekend to all. The session is closed. [[It was 13 hours and 7 minutes.]]
