ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-25-extra.u1	I welcome again all the ladies and gentlemen. Members and other guests who honor us with their presence, beyond, of course, the President of the Republic. I declare open the Solemn Commemorative Session of the XLIX Anniversary of 25 April. [[It was 11 hours and 32 minutes.]] We've come to hear the speeches. To speak on behalf of the Free Party, Mr Rui Tavares has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-25-extra.u2	Mr. President of the Republic, Mr. President of the Assembly of the Republic, Mr. Members of the Government, Military Heads, Presidents of the Superior Courts, Leaders of Parties, Mr. President of the City Council of Lisbon, Excelences, Faces and Dear Colleagues Members: Someone must say so on this date and someone must say so from this place. So let us not waste time, I will say-CL - it will open the debate: our democracy is not only guaranteed as the moment of greatest risk to its existence since the post-revolutionary period. The 50th anniversary of 25 April will be the occasion to celebrate all that we have acquired together. These 49 years should serve as a warning to all that we can lose. It's not unpublished. No democracy is complete or perfect. All democratic regimes have their enemies, more or less competent, more or less intelligent, more or less assumed. Depending on the circumstances and will of power that they never lack, agitating and evacuating a democracy is not even difficult. We do not seek consistency in the new authorities, except the will to send. Any coherence would, in fact, be a barrier to that same unsolicited will to command. They call themselves the most conservative of the conservatives, but they end up invading the Capitol and defecating in the Three Powers Square. They claim to be patriots, but do not disenfranchise their country by trying to hump the country of others. They show that they are unable to accept the slightest criticism, including here in this House, but have on the street posters in which they mix suspects of common crimes and politicians and in which they insinuate, more or less openly or, I would say, more or less blatantly, the elimination of opponents. If one day there is a more or less twisted hand that passes into the act, they will deny any guilt. But we will also have had one, which is to have kept silence while this happened. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-25-extra.u3	Let us not be bound, however, by the most spectacular cases, the most discreet are that we will have to worry. I have known well, because of duty, one of these cases, of the most competent authorities, of the most intelligent. Today, in that country, there are radios, newspapers and televisions that have been closed, universities that have been expelled, thousands of opponents who are outside the country. All the independent courts and authorities were captured and, despite the anti-corruption speech of the beginning, or perhaps because of him, the son-in-law, the brother, the father and even childhood friends of the Prime Minister became the richest men in the country, from the moment he was in power, on account of the European funds we all paid. By the way, the President of that country, whom this Prime Minister chose without passing the popular vote, visited this Parliament a few weeks ago. No one has protested and everyone has been able to respect, because the patriotic sense of responsibility and state, for the vast majority of us, is not yet optional. The main risk to democracy is not in the authorities, who will always be a minority. He's in those who want to give them a hand. What is needed is that everyone knows, and that everyone in here knows, that both authoritarians and those who give their hands to the authorities, will forever be swept away in the history of the country and will lose the respect of the people. The main risk to our democracy is to accept the intimidation and domination of the agenda by the authorities. So let us try to dissuade that risk, now and today and always. This afternoon, they will be on the Avenue of Freedom, certainly with less media attention, many more thousands of defenders of democracy on 25 April than the number of their enemies in our country. There will always be more Portuguese defending freedom than defending authoritarianism. We can trust our people. We know how to trust our Democrats, who have conquered democracy with harsh sorrow and who are far more than their enemies. We know how to trust them and receive their trust. I am proud to belong to a people — to belong to a people — who will say whenever necessary: « 25 April always! They won't come back! Do not keep on seeking. ” [[PSP, standing, BE, PAN, PSD and PCP Member Manuel Loff applauded.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-25-extra.u4	For an intervention on behalf of the NAP, Mrs Inês de Sousa Real has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-25-extra.u5	Mr. President, Mr. President of the Republic, Prime Minister and other members of the Government, Illustre Entities, High Authorities and Distinguished Guests, Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the Assembly of the Republic, Mr President of the Assembly of the Republic : Allow me, first of all, to solidarity myself with every word of your speeches in the previous session. We share the same embarrassment in the face of the disrespect shown here by some of our brothers, the Brazilian people, represented here by their President. [[PSP, PCP, BE, L and PSD Members applauded.]] When we mark 49. the anniversary of the Revolution of Cravos, we have the particularity to coincide with the year of the centenary of Natália Correia, woman of April and an unmistakable name of Portuguese culture, which I cannot help but recall. Having returned 49 years of democracy, Portugal is still a country with « undernourished dreams», of which Natalia Correia told us in her poem still written under the yoke of dictatorship. in a country where the right to childhood continues to be denied to children and young people marked by the scourge of abuse or domestic violence and in which we cannot speak of the same opportunities of life, we continue to have « undernourished dreams ». in a country where we continue to have overwhelming numbers of domestic and gender-based violence, in which we continue to struggle for the eradication of multiple forms of discrimination or in which hatred continues to speak higher than tolerance and respect, even in this House of Democracy, and there is not even an alternative solution, we continue to have « undernourished dreams». in a country where, easily, the State provides million wages and compensation for top positions, but in which the newly-licensed have to pass all tests and tests to achieve a minimum wage of €1000, almost always without effective link or without having to dream of having their own home, we continue to have « dream sub-food ». in a country and in a world where the pandemic and war pushed even more people to vulnerability and to an unproductive cost of living, in which families continue to fail to break the cycle of poverty, to go cold in their own homes, in which we failed to eradicate the barracks or to guarantee a public housing park and condition, we continue to have « dream sub-food». in a country where pensioners and pensioners receive pension values that oblige them to choose between eating or paying the medication, we continue to have « dream sub-foods ». in a country that lives obsessed with the deficit, even if it is on account of the asphyxiation of families, which does not invest in health or other essential public services, we continue to have « dream sub-nourished ». in a country that, even in an inflation crisis, always arranges public money to finance the bullfighting, nor does the PRR ( Recovery and Resilience Plan ) have to resort if necessary, but in which there is no money to socially support families holding pets or for animal protection, we continue to have « dream sub-fooded ». in a country that spends millions of euros of public time on tax bills for those who are more polluting and profit and who, on the other hand of the currency, do not invest in preserving nature and biodiversity, even if, at the time we celebrate April, we are 6 years and 88 days from reaching the point of non-return, we continue to have « dream sub-food». Ladies and gentlemen. Members, Excellencies, Distinguished Entities present here, at the threshold of the 50th April, what is missing for a true social and environmental revolution is not a historical revisionism of a model and governance that we all know and that April has collapsed—very contrary. We need a development model that respects the well-being and happiness of all people and, in addition, promotes the environmental transition that the climate challenge demands. What is missing for us to stop having "sub-foods of the dream"? We are undernourished with the freedoms that April desired. Not by dream, because the aspirations and desire for paradigm change are clear and the democratic direction that all of us — or at least most of this Parliamentary House — intend to define is also clear. Let us therefore be impatient in the revolution and in the freedoms that are to be fulfilled because, as Natália Correia said, this greatest name of Portugal, was « the impatience that freed us ». Let us make dreams through the power that we have to change the law and with it the life and direction of people, animals and nature. If there is reason why we celebrate this morning here and this outside world, it is this anxiety, this hunger impatient by the dream and by the force of change made reality, made April. Long live April 25th! Long live Portugal! [[P.S., BE, L and PSD Members applauded.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-25-extra.u6	To speak on behalf of the Left Block Parliamentary Group, Mrs Catarina Martins has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-25-extra.u7	Mr. President of the Republic, Mr. President of the Assembly of the Republic, Mr. Guests, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: « The party was nice, Dad », Chico Buarque sang in 1975. «The party was beautiful», celebrated the Camões Prize, finally handed over, now that Brazil has freed itself from its carrasco president and returns to the celebration of culture, the world and human rights. «The party was beautiful», this feast opened by the courage, intelligence and generosity of the Captains of April and by whom, with them and before them, fed the anti-fascist struggle, which was also anti-colonial struggle. That is why today, 50 years after his murder, the celebration of 25 April will also have to be the honor of Amílcar Cabral. [[Congratulations from BE, PCP, L and PS Members.]] Today we recall the revolutionary courage of all who, on the longest night and without knowing when and if they would be victorious, risked everything to defeat the dictatorship and won, on 25 April 1974! «The party was beautiful» and extended hope to the world and where it was most precise: on the other side of the border, in Spain, still under the Frankish dictatorship, or on the other side of the ocean, in Brazil, which would suffer the military dictatorship after 11 years. "The party was nice" and the party was from the people. It was hope, it was determination. The Revolution was what followed the coup that brought down the regime. It was people's days on the street that decided about life. It was the end of the war, it was the occupation of the factories and the fields, it was to build what fascism states. It was the power of the people against the corrupt and brutal state apparatus and against the vicious game of predatory and rentist economic power. The women went to the street standing on their heads and their fists closed. It was the struggle for wages, the building of houses, the requirement to have doctors to use, a school to learn. It was a torrent that wanted equality and freedom all over. The Revolution was not a statement, it was a construction. If nothing has been the same — and still well — in these almost 50 years' journey, only dishonesty can deny what remains to be done, what has been abandoned, the retreats to which we have also witnessed: the wages that are not enough to live and the homes with prices that wages cannot afford; the transport that is not coming and the justice that is not going; the runaways who take access to health and care to the older or the lack of teachers who deny education to the younger; the new forms of precariousness, exclusion and even forced work. To the refusal of all that is to be done joins democratic retreats that we should not ignore. It is not worth saying that today's indicators are unlike those of 50 years ago — that the world is so sad, that of living in the past. Democracy is built on solving the problems of the present and its oxygen is the horizon of a better life. Without hope, define. « They already slaughtered your party », Chico Buarque lamented in 1978. « They have bitten your party, pa/ But certainly / They have forgotten a seed/ Somewhere in the garden. It is from this seed that we take care of, even because, if it is true that the smell of baffle is felt in so many corners of the world, that the fungi of hate spread in the dark cellars of social networks, that there may even be bourish spots in a democratic Parliament, and if it is true that hopelessness contaminates and hurts democracy, it is no less certain that these fungi can be defeated and that the baffle disappears under the same sun that sprouts the seed. It doesn't have to be the future what's done from the worst past. We know how to take care of April's seed. [[Congratulations from BE.]] The greatest danger of April celebrations is that they become funeral ceremonies: repeated words, forgotten nails in the chest, phrases made, antifascist declarations in inflamed tone and without any concrete translation, empty evocations of past struggles that are denied in the present. Nothing worse than the people made a lapel pinnacle and the Revolution well closed on the pages of the encyclopedia, as to make it clear that the times of the people grasp their destiny to build a life that can already be proud there go. Nothing worse than this resignation to a country in which the story is postal for tourists, in which you can not aspire more than the gorjeta or then emigrate, so perhaps one day, as in Capicua's poem, to be able to pay for the bites of « Hostel da Mariquinhas ». Nothing worse than this insidious « wriggle» of « get used to », that grandchildren will not have access to the rights that grandparents have built or that crises can justify all government misery, as if the government in democracy was not precisely to solve crises on behalf of the people. Nothing worse than that mud that contaminates all the debate, which makes the argument for all things afraid—if not so, it can be worse, if it is not us, it can be worse. The antidemocratic baffle, the pulsar of hatred and salvation are those who can make themselves feel around the world are invariably fed by this mud of despair and fear, which transforms politics into an empty debate and denies the answer to the concrete of life. Politics is a choice and it is only a democratic choice when it is a source of hope, when it feeds the collective construction of a dignified present and a future for which to yearn. Caring for April's seed is to have the breakdown of hope and the courage of confrontation with the powers that grow in the shadow to diminish popular sovereignty. Caring for April's seed is to make this choice: wages instead of abuse, the house instead of speculation, the doctor instead of the disease business, a planet to live instead of extractive power. A government that hides itself in the victimization with the pandemic or war, which turns into an advertising agency and PowerPoints in which no one already believes, for many nails that stick to the chest, does not take care of the April seed. Whenever the fascist scoundrel makes itself feel in Parliament as well as in life, we will be together without hesitation to fight it. We strongly reject the sub-alternisation of all substantial political debates to the extreme right. [[Congratulations from BE, L and PS Members.]] We want a democracy that will cause the seed of April to sprout. We refuse to drown her in the form. Fortunately, there is a whole people who take care of this seed, who water it, who keep it alive and want it to grow. This seed « sends again / some alecrim smell». It is from this seed that they care for the teachers who leave the street, the thousands who demand housing, health and dignified life, who march for equality, who occupy the climate. How beautiful is this party, which fills streets and avenues, which resists and proposes, where we meet and we will find. That is the seed and the commitment of the left. It is from this seed that the political, popular alternative will be born, which is built every day. « Sings spring, man. » Let's celebrate today. Long live April 25th! [[Applause from BE, stand up, and from L.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-25-extra.u8	To speak on behalf of the CFP Parliamentary Group, Mr Manuel Loff has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-25-extra.u9	Mr. President of the Republic, Mr. President of the Assembly of the Republic, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Presidents of the Supreme Court of Justice, the Constitutional Court and the Supreme Administrative Court, Captains of April, Mrs and Mrss. Guests, ladies and gentlemen. Members : « Liberate Portugal from dictatorship, oppression and colonialism represented a revolutionary transformation and the beginning of a historical turn of Portuguese society. This is how, in the preamble to the Constitution of the Republic, what was described on 25 April. unlike the vast majority of the democratizing processes that were contemporary to him, from Greece, Spain and even Latin America, the liberation of Portugal, in 1974, of the long fascist dictatorship of 48 years, was not more or less a transition to iron from within a dictatorship in a degenerative phase, but a revolution. It was exactly how the great political changes of modernity are described, precisely because in it it was definitely broken with the past, the doors were opened to the years of greater political and social participation that the Portuguese have ever lived and because it came out of one of the world's most bold democracies in which, simultaneously, it was broken with centuries of bloody imperial illusions and of social and political oppression. The Portuguese Revolution that we are celebrating here today, however, is not simply made of memory, quite the contrary. When we say « 25 April always», we are saying that we will not give up on every day what has been achieved in April: rights, freedoms and civic guarantees that we will never again accept to be restricted; social rights such as education, a national health service and public social security, to ensure the well-being of all and not just some, as will continue to happen if we fail to comply with what we agreed when we adopted the 1976 Constitution. [[Congratulations on the PCP and BE.]] We will not renounce the right to publicly defend our rights as citizens and workers, to express ourselves freely to do so, to the right to defend peace against war today, as 50 years ago, to the right to say today, as then, « Fascism never again». To take back the memory of one of the most extraordinary and generous revolutions of history and to resume the memory of resistance and of what it allowed to achieve today has a very practical role in 2023. It strengthens the ability to resist and demand for change, because, if it was already possible to achieve what most of the 50 years ago thought it was impossible or unviable to achieve, it means that you can get back to what the new single thought of our days wants us to convince you to be impossible to perform. Almost half a century after 25 April and the best hopes that have been placed in it by millions of Portuguese, millions of Democrats all over the world who have felt our Revolution as theirs, democracy is under threat. In all places, starting with Portugal, where they repeatedly fail to meet the natural and fair expectations of those who expect democracy to always be accompanied by well-being and social justice, universal rights to health, education, housing, work with rights and guarantees, wages and decent pensions, the right to a happy childhood far from the spectrum of poverty, to an old age with dignity and quality of life. Whenever any of these rights, or all of them, if they do not come true in our lives, they feed on disbelief in democracy and it will always be threatened. Where employers' authoritarianism imperils the lives of those who work and blackmail workers to prevent them from unionizing, defending and exercising their legitimate rights, democracy, more than threatened, is attacked. We cannot regret low electoral participation and pretend not to understand what it is due. It cannot, who has government responsibilities, commemorate April 25, the Revolution and Democracy, and at the same time allow the living conditions of the Portuguese to be degraded, after having buried countless public resources in support of the large economic and financial groups or captivating money of the state, of all of us, to achieve the so-called right accounts, the same as they will never be true, without conditionally ensuring the functioning of the public services that democracy is done for all of us every day. Democracy has been threatened again for years by fascism, from which we were judged to have been released all over the world for 80 years, or just 49 years in Portugal. It is illusory to judge that the assault that the far-right fascist is making on power leaves democracy inconceivable. The example of the struggle that the Brazilian Democrats had to wage to, thanks to the extraordinary human persistence of President Lula da Silva, who was present here this morning, defeating what was the greatest, absolutely real threat to Brazilian democracy since the end of the civil-military dictatorship says well about the dangers that the extreme right represents: violence and threat on political opponents, attack on social and civic rights, murder of activists. It is important, therefore, that, when democracy and freedom are celebrated, the significance of this threat is not underestimated, that lies, manipulation, racism, the whitening of crimes and fascist and colonial violence of the past are not trivialized, that open opportunism in pretending to defend itself today, which in the past has always been rejected. [[PCP, BE, L, PAN and PS Members applauded.]] They allow me to address directly to everyone and to all citizens in my country and to all people who, regardless of their nationality, build their future here. April 25 was made for all of us who are here 49 years later. It was done by the April military, tired of war and to whom we owe the founding act of this country's rescue of dictatorship, war and colonialism. It was done by generations of resistance and communists, first of all, who gave the best of themselves and so many times their lives to achieve freedom and rights, a just society with the values that the Constitution of April consecrated. On 25 April it must now continue to be done by us, by whom we believe in these values, who remain, today we know better than ever, the solution to the structural problems of our country. The crowds leave for these days on the street, as this afternoon will also happen, to celebrate the Revolution. They do so with the inexhaustible strength of the April values. They do so by recalling that there is no democracy without social justice. They demand respect for the rights of workers, women, young people, of all, regardless of their ethnic origin and gender identity, of the reformers, who have worked for the well-being of the generations that followed them and who today have the right to solidarity with those who work and to respect the State. The Grandola of Zeca Afonso, the land of fraternity where the people are most ordered, must be each of our cities and villages of a truly democratic country. Long live April 25th! [[PCP, BE, L and PS applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-25-extra.u10	To speak on behalf of the Liberal Initiative Parliamentary Group, Mr Rui Rocha has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-25-extra.u11	Mr. President of the Republic, Mr. President of the Assembly of the Republic, Mr. Prime Minister and other members of the Government, Mr. Guests, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We are now 49 years old since Portugal dawned on 25 April 1974. The age of countries may be in years, but countries do not necessarily have to grow old over time. Portugal of 14 August 1385, defeated the invader in Aljubarrota, was much younger than Portugal on the eve. Portugal of 1 December 1640, recovered independence, was again new, much younger than Portugal of the previous decades. And in April 1974, Portugal became new again. As radically young as it had been radically old the Portugal of Salazar. [[Congratulations from the IL and from Mr Pedro Filipe Soares.]] On 25 April 1974, we had in hand the infinite power of the child of the poem of Ruy Belo: « And everything was possible only to want». Mr President, that means that if Portugal appears to be darker today than what we wanted, more sader than what we deserved, more narrower than what we dreamed, it is because someone has not done enough. If we have nearly two million poor people today, if our young people continue to emigrate, if their birth is threatening, if the wages are not static, if the country depopulates, if the justice is late, fails or prescribes, if the houses do not arrive, if the transport is delayed or does not even appear, if there are more than one and a half million teachers in school, if there are Portuguese without a family doctor, if Portugal shrinks, it is because there was someone who didn't want enough or wanted anything different than what he should have wanted. Mr President, we conquered freedom by pulse, first with the founding moment of 25 April 1974, then on 25 April 1975, with the building of the rule of law, then on 25 November, with the reaffirmation of freedom and then on 25 April 1976, with the birth of political democracy. All this was possible because we wanted to. We long for our country to dawn on 25 April 1974 and then not to fall again. Mr President, April 25th has no owners. If I had, it would not be the initial will to return the country to all Portuguese. That is also why we will march today on the Avenue of Freedom, even against the will of those who wanted to prevent us from doing so. [[Applause from the IL.]] And because April 25 is for everyone, here I want to express the desire for freedom for the peoples who live under oppression. Freedom for China, subject to a single party regime which abolishes essential rights and threatens with iron hand the survival of Uighur ethnic groups and the freedom of Taiwan. Freedom for Iran, where an impious theocracy does not hesitate to arrest, torture and murder. Freedom for Afghanistan, where the barbershop is slaughtering the people, with special cruelty for girls and women. [[IL, PAN, L and PSD Members applauded.]] Freedom for Cuba and Venezuela, where tyranny condemns the population to poverty and oppression. Freedom for Russia, subjugated by Putin's dictatorial hand. Freedom for Moldova, who lives permanently with the sword of Russian expansionism on his head. And freedom, yes, freedom for Ukraine, which has suffered the atrocities of a war imposed by the imperialist empire of Moscow 15 months ago. [[IL, L and PSD applause.]] That is why, Mr President, President Lula da Silva should not have been received in the Assembly of the Republic on this day. The defense of our freedom is not compatible with the whitening of the tyrannys of the world. Who, like Lula da Silva, Bolsonaro or Salvini, is on a collision course with freedom does not deserve to be in the House of Democracy on this day. [[Applause from the IL.]] And because freedom is for everyone, this is also the day to condemn all forms of discrimination aimed at Portuguese, wherever they are, and all forms of discrimination and xenophobia aimed at foreigners who want to live or work in Portugal. The speech of those who accuse foreigners of stealing our jobs is unacceptable, as the speech of those who accuse foreigners of stealing our homes is unacceptable. [[Applause from the IL.]] It is in the name of freedom that we will resist all the drifts that threaten it. The Liberal Initiative affirms freedom of expression as an ineligible value, against all attempts to rewrite History, against the revisionism of the stories contained in the books, against all the impulses that attack art and forms of cultural expression, against all kinds of controls, censorships or cancellations that constitute totalitarian conceptions of language and thought and against identity policies that subjugate individual freedom. And because freedom is for everyone, we will continue — alone, if necessary — to defend rights, freedoms and guarantees. This was the case in the pandemic, when we said 'no' to the abuses of the State and the disproportionate interference of the State in individual freedoms. This is the case with our opposition to coercive lease, saying 'no' to all intents to make a rough board of property rights. This is the case with the constitutional review, if PS and PSD want to open the door for administrative confinements. However, Mr President, in the same way as we say 'no' to all attempts to tighten freedom, we say 'yes' to the country. The diagnoses are made, about the long cycle of socialist decadence that condemns the Portuguese to impoverish and emigrate. But where the alternative is really built, it is in the affirmation of solutions that oppose trust in fear, hope for conformism, the requirement for facilitation, excellence to mediocrity, the urgency of action to neglect, economic growth to stagnation, the seat of the future to atavism, the opportunities to nepotism and social determinism. Mr. President, in democracy there is always an alternative and the wind of change has begun to blow in Portugal. Mr President, that is what we are celebrating here today. Mr. President, April 25th always! Freedom always and alternative always! [[IL applause, stand up.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-25-extra.u12	To speak on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Arrival, Mr André Ventura has the floor. [[At the moment, they have left the Chamber the MEP of BE Joana Mortágua and PS Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-25-extra.u13	Mr. President of the Republic, Mr. President of the Assembly of the Republic, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Members of the Government, Civil and Military Authorities, Ladies and gentlemen. Invited : Again, here we are and, once again, we applaud, for the Portuguese people to pretend that they have seen and to pretend that we are happy. Claws, celebration and party, one of the blackest moments in the Portuguese. They know that today, while we're celebrating with nails, they can't put food on the table. But I would not be well aware if I did not tell the President of the Assembly of the Republic and the President of the Republic the tremendous mistake that the previous ceremony was and how it took place. Yes, Mr President, because normalizing corruption and whitening it, for us, will never be a solution. This House cannot be a circus of corruption. This House cannot be a applause to those who were convicted in three instances and were saved by the friendly hand of those who appointed. So the thousands who are out there today, the thousands who are making themselves heard at the doors of this Parliament, well know what I am saying. Democracy yes, corruption never again. [[Congrats from the CH.]] [[PS Members are raising red nails right now.]] But it is also the day to remember that the same Portuguese authorities who sent military material to Ukraine, who heard Zelenskyy in this same picture above me, received here today a President who attacked the European Union for military aid to Ukraine. What a shame and a tremendous hypocrisy of two national leaders who hand over Zelenskyy during the day and hand over Lula and China during the night. What a shame of national leaders! [[Congrats from the CH.]] But this is a good day to talk about Lula da Silva, because, yesterday, we knew that José Socrates would probably not go to trial. And I would like to say this here, on 25 April: José Socrates, who is suspected of stealing Portuguese in millions and millions of euros, will certainly not go to trial. They fill us with nails, distribute us to the Portuguese, take us out there and get us in the pocket. Tell them that whoever stole millions while he was nailed to his chest stays with the millions in his wallet. It's a good day to remember that. [[Congrats from the CH.]] And so I wanted to leave here our enormous applause, pride of sense and admiration for the courageous judges, the valiant prosecutors and the valuable inspectors of the Judicial Police who, even with all the conditioning, even with all the bites that the government wants to put in justice, were not afraid and, at the most difficult time, stood up to say that the thief's place is in prison. [[Congrats from the CH.]] But April 25 was about to end elitism. The great night that ended and the clear and noble morning that came to our day. Alexandra Reis must think exactly the same. That clear and noble morning, in which she received 500 thousand euros of compensation from TAP ( Portuguese Air Transport ), must have been a clear and noble morning in which she put the nail to her chest and said: « 25 April always. Fascism never again». And the same for many others who, while we celebrated April, were putting money in their pockets, from the taxpayer's safe. These who are seeing us now and whom I ask if they preferred nails distributed in the pen or that all those who stole money from the state had to return, because that money belongs to us.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-25-extra.u14	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-25-extra.u15	It has been paid with taxes and with the sweat of our work and our life and it is ours, just as our Portugal is ours. Today is a good day to show this contrast from Country. And I'd like the House to look at this country contrast. [[At this moment, the speaker displayed photocopies of news from the newspaper Correio da Manhã.]] « A fireman injured in Pedrogão is entitled to an invalidity pension of 267 €. » I would like the Portuguese and all the authorities here to look at this: €267 for a fireman from Pedrogão. Today, we know that the former President of the Competition Authority is entitled to a subsidy of €7934. This one, tell me if it's April Country. This, tell me if it is the country we want — the clear and noble morning, in which some, wounded in combat, have €237 and others, hidden in the cabinets, have €7900, every month. [[Congrats from the CH.]] Is this the clear and noble morning of April? Mr President, it is worth celebrating April, if we do not achieve what the Portuguese most expect of us: that justice really reaches this country, but it takes so long, so long that many have already lost faith and hope. We have to return to Portugal. The millions who today are not on the beach, nor on the car, nor on a trip are seeing us and know that we are no longer worth celebrating this, if the account does not reach the supermarket, if, when they go to court, they lose the order to pay legal costs and if, when they arrive at the end of the month, they have the Tax Authority asking for taxes, but see that others, who pay nothing, have all the benefits and benefits of the State. And you want them to celebrate April? Do you want them to sing and say « fantastic this morning, which gave me 297 €, while others fill with the money that is from everyone»? This should make us think April. And what do you think April is this, which has forgotten the millions returned and stripped of the overseas, to whom we never gave the dignity they deserved? [[Congrats from the CH.]] For them, for these millions that are seeing us, who came from an abandoned and forgotten Africa, where many have their families buried and where many have left the burden of their children, we leave here the word that, if this alternative ever comes, our first priority will be for these men and women, for these millions of families who, while seeing others steal everything, have lost nothing in Portugal. [[Ch's applause, stand up.]] Nor was it expected that April would bring this traditional word and Portuguese subservience. Yesterday, Prime Minister António Costa said: "What I really liked, and I am sorry, is that Portugal did not speak with the Brazilian accent." This was said yesterday by the Prime Minister of this nation, this nation with eight centuries of history, who rules us. We have a Prime Minister who says he would rather not speak with the accent of the Port, Braga, Alentejo, Azores, Madeira or Coimbra. I'd prefer the Brazilian accent. Mr. Prime Minister, then do us a favor: pack your bags, join your friend José Socrates and leave for Brazil at once, because it was the best he did to Portugal. [[Congrats from the CH.]] We are, Mr President, in a country that has moved from an immigration country to an immigration country. And Portugal has this historic duty to welcome well, because others also welcomed us well, but ours, who went to work and who went to integrate and there became a family, well know the sacrifice of being an immigrant. What we ask of this country is that it welcomes well, welcomes with rule, but does not allow itself to be invaded by manifestations that are not yours nor can they ever be. For us, Portugal is a Christian mother, and this is always the way it should be, during its secular history. For us, it doesn't make sense to give to others what we don't have for ourselves. That is why, Prime Minister, we will never get along with consciousness, while we give subsidies and homes to those who arrive and the injured from the bank still do not have a word from the Portuguese State. [[Congrats from the CH.]] I shall finish, Mr President, by saying this: today we spoke of the 50 years of April. And what's left of the 50th of April, what will we celebrate for the year? It is the memory of a Minister here present, Pedro Adam and Silva, who, before being Minister of Culture, presided over the entity who will coordinate the celebrations of 25 April and who has therefore won 4500 € per month—I repeat, 4500 €! — four years ago, for a party that was going to happen four years later. This is the Splendor Country of April, which pays bad wages to organize parties and has no money for teachers to have their time of service, for doctors to have a decent career, for police to work with dignity, for judges and prosecutors to have working conditions and for justice officers to work. [[Congrats from the CH.]] This is the country of April and it is the country that we do not want to repeat in Portugal. Despite all this and despite all this truth, it is and will continue to be alone in this Parliament. Mr President, nothing is more proud of us, me and this parliamentary bench, when they are all—but everyone, even in this House! — against a group which defends the Portuguese of good and the Portuguese who truly work. one of St. Paul's most famous letters to the Romans, he said... [[Oh!]] [[Oh!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-25-extra.u16	one of St. Paul's most famous letters to the Romans... [[PS and PSD protests.]] I think, if we can hear Lula da Silva, we can also hear S. Paulo. I think it's the least. [[Congrats from the CH.]] in one of St. Paul's most famous letters to the Romans, St. Paul said: "In the face of this injustice, what can we do? If God is for us, who will be against us? » If the Portuguese people, if the Portuguese good are for us, you will not be against us. [[Ch's applause, stand up.]] [[At the moment, the member of BE Joana Mortágua and PS members returned to the Chamber.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-25-extra.u17	To speak on behalf of the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mr Joaquim Miranda Sarmento has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-25-extra.u18	Mr. President of the Republic, Mr. President of the Assembly of the Republic, Mr. Prime Minister and members of the Government, Mr. Guests, ladies and gentlemen. Members: 49 years of the day ended with the New State and began the path that allowed Portugal to have a pluralist democracy, parliament and Western inspiration. Today, as every year in the past and in the future, we honor those who risked everything and who, on 25 April, ended with dictatorship and oppression. [[Congratulations from the PSD, BE, L and PS Members.]] But today we also honor those who, in Ukraine, fight for freedom, in the face of the Russian aggressor,... [[PSD, PAN and PS Members applauded.]] ... undoubtedly on which side we are on : on the side of Ukraine, Europe, NATO ( North Atlantic Treaty Organization ), the West and democracy. [[PSD applause.]] in these 49 years, Portugal has changed a lot. It consolidated a democracy with an alternance of government, with the election of executives with parliamentary and other minorities. He created a free, pluralist society, with freedom of the press and association, in which no one is arrested or harmed by what he thinks and says politically. He welcomed and integrated communities from all corners of the world. It has developed economically and socially, approaching more conditional standards of living and recovering much of the delay in infrastructure. He has taken remarkable steps in education, health, especially in maternal-fetal, and in culture, among other areas. He abandoned a vision of empire and embraced Europe. It incorporated the European project in 1986 and joined the single currency in 1999 in the front platoon. But the Portuguese today wonder: what is done of this country? What is done of the country which, in 1974 and 1975, placed its hope and ambition in the creation of a democracy, like the other countries of Western Europe? What is done in the country which, from 1976 onwards, has placed its hope and ambition at the entry into Europe? What has been done in the country since 1986, with its entry into the European area, put its hope and ambition in economic development, improving the living conditions of the Portuguese and achieving the standard of living of our partners? What is done in the country which in the 1990s put its hope and ambition to converge to the richest in Europe and be on the front of the euro? [[PSD applause.]] There's been no national design for 25 years. Since 2000 the economy has stagnated and we have not left the debate on deficit and public debt. We've been impoverished for 25 years. For 25 years we have seen the countries of East, which were all poorer than Portugal in 2000, overcoming us in wealth and well-being. We have been walking to the bottom of the table in the European countries for 25 years. For 25 years, income and wages have stagnated and we are poorer. For 25 years young people have had no other way but to emigrate and work outside Portugal. For 25 years we have not stopped increasing public and private indebtedness, seeking, with an increasing tax burden, to cover, with remedies, a state and public services that degrade at a dizzying pace and are on the brink of collapse. We have an increasingly poor and unequal country, an increasingly dual country: a minority with incomes that access to health and private education and the vast majority who live worse and worse in incomes and lack of capable public services. One of the designs of political, social, economic and cultural democracy is to resolve this duality and inequality, as Francisco Sá Carneiro said. [[PSD applause.]] But these 25 years of impoverishment are not fatal. They are a consequence of the wrong policies of a Socialist Party that has ruled 21 of the last 28 years, and the PSD must always govern in financial emergency. [[PSD applause.]] An increasingly unequal country generates more injustices. A poor country, in which the interior is increasingly deserted and abandoned. A poor country, where half the Portuguese earns less than 1000 €. A poor country, where three out of four young people earn less than 1000 €. A poor country facing a long demographic winter. A poor country, where four out of 10 Portuguese are at risk of poverty. A poor country, where 2 million Portuguese, even after social benefits, are poor. A poor country, where one in five Portuguese workers is still poor. A country where one in five children lives in poverty. The social elevator is broken and our young people have no hope for the future. But the Portuguese have to hope again in the future. [[PSD applause.]] to impoverishment is combined with a strong degradation of political life and the quality of institutions. The discredit of the institutions, with the serious cases that have taken place—and, in particular, in recent times, with the theme of the TAP—, the breakdown of the quality of politicians, the discrediting of politics, the loss of authority and the prestige of institutions and the state, as well as the phenomena of corruption, compassion and nepotism aim at citizens' confidence in democracy. The same is true of the discredit of justice, with the slowness and impunity in cases of corruption that affect powerful. It is felt that there are two justices in Portugal, one for the rich and powerful and one for the rest of Portugal. They are symptoms of the serious problems affecting the democratic regime. The impoverishment of millions of Portuguese people, the degradation of public services and institutions, as well as the lack of direction and design for the country lead to discrediting the political system and giving ground and margin for the growth of populisms and extremisms, either extreme right or extreme left. [[PSD applause.]] Economic theory shows that the deterioration of the quality of institutions leads to economic decline and economic decline leads to greater degradation of the quality of institutions. But the Portuguese need to believe. [[PSD applause.]] The democratic and moderate forces led by the PSD have a fundamental mission when the 50 years of the democratic regime are approaching. First, regain confidence in institutions, regenerating the political system. Only credible, dynamic and respected institutions can sustain full and complete democracy and mobilize Portuguese for economic and social development. But for this, politics must also be done in truth. Secondly, making national plans economic and sustainable growth and the creation of wealth and social capital to pay better wages and pensions, to have more resources for better public services and to create the conditions for future generations to have the freedom to define their future. That is the mission that appeals to all Democrats. Long live democracy! Long live Portugal! [[PSD applause, stand up.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-25-extra.u19	For an intervention on behalf of the PS Parliamentary Group, Mr João Torres has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-25-extra.u20	Mr President of the Republic, Mr President of the Assembly of the Republic, Mr Prime Minister and Mr. Members of the Government, High Civil and Military dignitaries, Mrs and Mrss. Ladies and gentlemen: If we are here today to recall 49. the anniversary of the April Revolution, to some, to many citizens who did not accept to be subjects of tyrants, we must. We owe it to the resilient Republicans and Democrats, to the anti-fascists of various order, to the insubmissive students, to the untrained workers and to the long generation of young people mobilized for the unjust colonial war. We certainly owe a lot to these men and women who, for 48 long years, have fueled the flame of freedom, criticism, resistance, who have risked and lost jobs and careers, families, dreams and who have felt the weight of batons or discretionary and without guilt. But «the morning that I expected», in Sophia's eternal words, is due to the determined, courageous and liberating action of the Armed Forces Movement. Thank you, Captains of April. [[P.S., BE, L and IL Mr. João Cotrim Figueiredo.]] Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, a year and six days before the Revolution, a handful of honourable men and women founded the Socialist Party. The major name of Mário Soares and his founding comrades of the PS have since established the political objectives which, by the will of the people, have materialized and transformed the country: European and non-imperial Portugal, the equal lusophony between peoples and states, a democracy of the Western model, with governments based on solid parliamentary bases and a semi-presidentialist regime which together respect and give balance to the separation of powers. In the year in which the 50 years of the PS are marked and the day in which we mark the 49 years of the Revolution of Cravos, we greet all Democrats. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Representative democracy would not be possible without the participation of the millions of Portuguese people who have become aware of their rights and civic and political duties, many of them militating in parties or with these sympathizers, striving to convince the squares, with arguments, and explain different alternative ways on the streets. We pay tribute to all Democrats who have experienced this civic dedication to democracy, with a verse Sophia dedicated to PS militants and who inspired Maria Helena Vieira da Silva to immortalize in colors the spirit of April: "That's why you always move forward and do not retreat with us poetry is on the streets. Do not keep on seeking. ” [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, today the attacks on democracy come to us, of course, through those who sit to the extreme right in this Chamber. They are used by old formulas, such as populism and demagogy, eternal allies of ignorance and political iliteracy, to sabotage belief in democracy, respect for pluralism, contract between representatives and representatives. They are those who try to create gaps in the wall of progress with a view to the most ghastly retrocesses, with racist policies, xenophobics, homophobics, misogynists, and inhumanes. But, as popular wisdom says, «so thief is what steals as he consents», so we should increasingly be concerned about the influence that populism exerts on the democratic right, a right that we have always respected, but for those who seem to have no limits or taboos when what counts is the vain lust of power by power, whatever it costs. [[P.S.'s applause.]] A good man said, and I quote, that "the answer to the extreme right is social justice. » Could have been Mário Soares, Jorge Sampaio, Salgado Zenha or António Arnaut. It could have been Francisco Sá Carneiro. But the phrase is current and Pope Francis is concerned about populism in political life. [[P.S.'s applause.]] With those who use democratic and civic freedoms and use them as an instrument for retrocessions of civil rights, whether in April or November, whether in another month, day or hour, of this or of the coming years, the PS does not compromise, the PS will not yield, the PS will not compromise. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the Portuguese have entrusted the PS with a parliamentary majority as a guarantee of political stability. At that time we were still far from imagining that we would have to support and defend Ukraine and international law with conviction, being faithful, consistent and loyal to the framework of democratic values and principles that we proudly follow in the construction of the European Union. Today, the PS shows itself firm and consistent with its future with history: in the first free elections, the PS adopted as a word of order « the will of the people». With governance, we are tracking a path of progress towards reducing inequalities, strengthening the social state in access to health, education and higher education, with more inclusion, with better articulation of territorial development and in respect of local power and regional autonomy. What matters, therefore, to the Portuguese is whether we fight climate change, if we lead the digital revolution, if we are in a position to create a better economy, as this government has clearly been able to guarantee. [[P.S.'s applause.]] What matters to the Portuguese is whether their work is protected, whether social security is secured, whether housing is accessible and whether the State responds to the hardships with the solidarity that is required, as this Government has promoted at all times. What matters to the Portuguese is whether their opportunities and expectations will improve, whether wages will rise, whether pensions will increase, as always happened and will happen to this government and contrary to what happened to the right in power. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Just as at that time the first traits of our young democracy and the outline of the Constitution that governs us today are the same message: yes, the PS is respecting and, yes, fulfilling the will of the Portuguese people. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, improving democracy is to respect popular will, stability, the mandates that the people give. To improve democracy is to ensure that political democracy and social democracy walk side by side, because populism is the result of exclusion and we must value the decency and sense of state. To improve democracy is to reject life as a field of mines, where everyone has passed, as they suggest and propose the neo and ultra-liberal views of society, anchored in individualism and the denial of equal opportunities. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, aware of the responsibilities of all of us in the face of democracy and its threats, I conclude with a vote of confidence in the future, with the motto that Jorge Sampaio created and displayed meaning for all Democrats: « 25 April always! Long live April 25th! Long live Portugal! Fascism never again. [[PS applause, stand up.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-25-extra.u21	Mr President of the Republic, Mr Prime Minister and other members of the Government, Mr and Mr. Presidents of the Superior Courts, other Civil, Military and Religious Authorities, Mrs. Ambassadors, distinguished Guests and Guests, Faces and Dear Citizens, Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Captains of April: April 25 saved us time. The future is no longer reduced to the repetition of the present, 'change' ceased to be a Malkist verb. Pervir has become open, available and declincable in various possibilities of evolution and transformation, and people have discovered themselves subjects of the future, citizens and citizens responsible for the choices that determine it. The revolutionary nature of the political process that followed on 25 April implied a radical acceleration of time. As Sérgio Godinho so well sang, « the seat of one waits only if it stagnates in the torrent ». Unfreezing history, overcome by fear, was as if 50 years of backwardness had to be resolved in an instant and circumstances could not be against the will to act immediately, in all aspects of collective life. The repressive apparatus was dismantled, political and social conflict was openly expressed in a vertigo that successive crises were fuelling, but was also contained and regulated by decisive advances towards democratic institutionalization, from elections to the Constituent Assembly on 25 November and 2. the MFA-Party Pact and the approval of the Constitution at the conclusion of the first major electoral cycle, with the suffrages for this Assembly, the President, the Legislative assemblies of the Autonomous Regions and the Local Authorities. So the democratic order stabilized, that the constitutional review of 1982 and the accession to European communities would still have to improve, the time, the central parameter of the transition, could represent itself as what it really is: a bundle of multiple events, rhythms, scales and durations, which leaves us open and invites us to think and do. Also, because you have shaken the immobilism and put the wheel of history in motion, we thank you, Captains of April! [[PSP, PCP, BE, L and PSD and IL applause.]] Time has been an essential marker of democratic collective life, as everything else, subject to the plurality and diversity of representations about it. But it will not be hard to understand us about some crucial aspects. Transistority is the basic element of democracy. Nothing is eternal, nothing escapes weariness, every context has its own moment. The republican logic imposes limits on the continued exercise of public functions, requiring renewal. The choices are by definition not definitive. The composition of Parliaments varies with circumstances: the majority today will be minority, today's oppositions will be the government tomorrow. Programs, policies, teams, leadership, all this is brief in democracy. Time is therefore a passage. It's also a great plasticity. Sometimes it speeds up, sometimes it slows down. Here the urgency predominates, there what makes sense is to stop a little to reflect. This time is to study and prepare, to act without delay, and to act may be to continue or to change, to consolidate or to break a certain state of things. Another structural feature of democratic time is 'cycling', its cyclical nature. The fundamental political choice, which is the suffrage, determines who represents and who governs, with which program, obeys the criteria of periodicity and duration. The election is periodic because no power is eternal, and people's will must be measured regularly. For example, legislative elections take place every four years, determine the composition of Parliament, and it is from this composition, and only from it, that governments and oppositions are formed. But this interval that the pendulum renewal delimits is also a duration. The hard time and this is essential in a democracy, so that the programmes are implemented, the policies applied and the results evaluated; so that the monitoring is carried out and different proposals are presented and discussed; so that new programmes, protagonists and coalitions are prepared and maturated; so that, so informed, people can, at their own time, compare and choose. Political times are differentiated and the various organs of sovereignty and other institutions are guided by various temporalities is one of the fundamental ingredients of the structure of powers and balances in which democracy rests. Thereafter, the pace of politics cannot be confused with the cadence of other relevant actors in the public space, such as social actors, media or economic interests, nor can it be subordinated to them. Political time is not indifferent to the complex and contradictory push of society, but it is the democratic institutionality that governs its development, and its main basis is the regular, free and sovereign choice of citizens. None of this is new, but perhaps it is appropriate to remember it here and now: here in Parliament which, in accordance with the Constitution out of April, is the heart of pluralistic representation and free debate and the centre of dialectic between governments and oppositions; now that a certain suffering threatens to spread itself, as a virus, in the public space, putting at stake valuable advantages of the solid democracy we are, as recognized internationally. [[P.S.'s applause.]] These precious advantages of Portuguese democracy are political stability, predictability of institutional behaviors, resilience to the volulability of opinions, the maturation of measures in results, the sense of responsibility in the words we say. Of course, in democracy, everything can be questioned. As I have already pointed out and I am asking again, democratic time is, by nature, transitory, plastic and differentiated and the regime has mechanisms to avoid perpetuating situations that become unsustainable. But democratic time is also cyclical, it has a certain rhythm and a certain duration. If the Assembly works, discussing, inspecting, investigating and legislating; if the government develops and implements its policies, with a correct variable, and enjoys parliamentary confidence; if the oppositions are going on the path of training and affirmation of alternatives; if the sovereign bodies cooperate, in respect of each other's competences, and if many are the problems of the people and the country, being primary responsibility of the different decision-makers facing them, then we must respect the time of each institution, without storms or precipitation. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We should prefer the paused breathing of a mature democracy itself to the typical drowning breathing of populist excitations. [[P.S.'s applause.]] This is for everyone's benefit, because if we all lose on the day when we accept that political dynamics must be insensitive to needs and the social environment and be guided solely by administrative and formal procedures, we will also lose on the day when we refuse to distinguish between localized, serious, and prolonged and systemic crises, and on the day when we accept that the life of a Parliament or a government, whatever they are, is dependent on the level of protest of this or that sector, the benefit of published opinion, the perception of media, the noise on social networks or the evolution of polls. [[P.S.P.'s applause, standing up.]] We are on a day of Biblical quotations, so one more goes. [[PS Members' laughs.]] As the entire world of Earth for the Ecclesiastics, democracy embraces a number of times. There is a time to analyze and there is a time to choose. There is a time to decide and another to execute. There's a time to perform and a time to evaluate. It does not happen to each other; its consistency is that it defines our circumstance, constantly subject to contradiction and debate, but also to the degrees of freedom that allow political actors to refer their action to the general interest, knowing that they are protected by the duration of the empire's demagogic requirement of the moment. The words, the words we say and the words we don't say count a lot. I therefore leave here a forceful defence of democratic time, which is the cycle of the environment and not the fleetingness of events. This is the only way we can continue all the work that we have all done as Country: continuing our permanent interests, consolidating, modernizing, changing what is necessary to evolve and progress, building the future that opened us on 25 April. [[P.S.P., standing, L.P., PS.P.D. and BE MP.J. Mortagua.]] You will now use the words of your Ex. the President of the Republic.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-25-extra.u22	Mr. President of the Assembly of the Republic, Mr. Prime Minister and other members of the Government, Mr. President, Mr. Antonio Ramalho Eanes, Mr. Presidents of the Superior Courts, Mr. Ambassadors, Mr President of the Association 25 April, I warmly welcome once again the April Captains, Ladies and gentlemen, Ladies and gentlemen. Members, Portuguese : We are entering today no 50. the year until April 25, 2024, time of evocation, time of critical reflection, time of hope, time of sharing. On April 25, 2024 we will talk about the time of the future, of the 50 years ahead. Time of evocation: we recall this unique moment in Portuguese history, at the end of the empire, at the end of the dictatorial regime, of opening the way for democracy and freedom. I say well, for democracy and for freedom, because for the overwhelming majority of Portuguese, freedom was not born in 1820, it was not born with the constitutional monarchy or 1. the Republic was born on 25 April and with democracy itself — a moment only possible, when and how it was, by the courage of the determined and valuable Captains of April. Beshajam! [[PS, PSD, IL, PCP, BE, PAN and L applause.]] But it is also time for critical reflection. Strictly speaking, critical reflection occurs every year, at least on 25 April, but at this beginning of 50. the year, there are more reasons to consider this reflection. There are many people in Portugal who feel that on 25 April it was incomplete, it became imperfect, it is to be fulfilled, it does not correspond to the dreams of the past or to the longings of the future. Some would have liked, strictly speaking, not to have existed on 25 April, because of what they lost here or in African territories, or because they have the image of the pre-25 April period which would correspond, if not to their dreams, to at least many of their expectations and longings. These, whose longing and nostalgia is respected, must be said that time does not go back, and what they see as having been on April 24, in many of its global traits, indeed, did not exist. It's a history refresher. Who as I could live the end of the empire here and in the depths of this empire, and observe not only from the outside, but from within the end of the dictatorship, knows that reality was another. That reality was an independence from Guinea-Bissau, recognized by many more countries than those few who supported Portugal. He knows that the political-military situation in Mozambique was extremely serious and then desperate in the last few years before 1974. He knows that the dictatorship was exhausted, he had not achieved, yet in salazarism, even the minimum of renewal. He failed afterwards in liberalisation. That's exactly what Francisco Sá Carneiro said when talking about blocked liberalisation. It has been a timid step towards development and trade agreement with Europe, but not towards full European integration. It continued, if it did not worsen, the repressive act and the sacrifice of freedoms, also because of the military situation. And, above all, its main blockade was that of having thousands and thousands of men, years without end, to carry out missions decided by others, missions that did not have a political future. This was the reality of the departure of the two most prestigious military leaders and the demands for the resignation of the head of government, more than one in recent times before 25 April. But there are those who consider that today's April 25 is not only imperfect, as it is frustrating, for reasons that are not tied to a return to an impossible past. It has to do with the 25th April that they dreamed, that the oldest dreams and that they did not come true, or that they only took place in part. They have some reason, because, in all revolutions, there was no revolution, there were several and these revolutions have experienced different successes in different times. The revolution of Antonio Spínola was or was different from the revolution of Francisco Costa Gomes ; the revolution of Francisco Costa Gomes was different from the revolution of Antonio Ramalho Eanes ; the revolution of Antonio Ramalho Eanes was different from the revolution of Vasco Gonçalves ; the revolution of Vasco Gonçalves was different from the revolution of Othello Saraiva de Carvalho or Ernesto Melo Antunes or many other Captains of April. Each dream or dreamt, at some point, during the revolutionary process, with a different April 25th. If we move on to the civil fathers of Portuguese democracy, 25 April and the Revolution of Álvaro Cunhal were different from 25 April and the Revolution of Mário Soares, different from the Revolution and 25 April of Francisco Sá Carneiro and different from 25 April and the Revolution of Diogo Freitas do Amaral. As in all revolutions or ruptures, there are some who succeed and others who fail, usually never in total. They're partially defeated. It is only natural that many of those who have formed or joined that national front to open the way for a new regime feel that their own vision has come true. The same will be said of the Constitution. One thing was the Constitution, which had the honour to vote like many others, in 1976 ; another very different was the revision of this Constitution in 1982 or 1989 or in 1997 — only to mention the deepest, two of which I have been very close to. It was the same Constitution in formal terms and in much of its substance, but it would be profoundly altered by the end of the political transition period in 1982, and even more in economic and social matters in 1989 and 1997. Some had won and others had lost. The same happened for each presidential election, for each parliamentary election, for each prime minister, for each regional or autonomous government president. Solutions varied. by varying the views of 25 April and, above all, its realisations, some won and others lost. There were right-wing presidents with right-wing governments and left-wing governments, left-wing presidents with left-wing governments and right-wing governments and winners and losers. The realization of the dreams of each electoral act, too, was a realization, which, often, was largely frustrated, in cases leading to the permanence of the legislature, in others, rarer, because heavier, to its reduction. He longed and hoped for even better democracy. More growth, more equality, more social justice, better education, better health, better housing, better social solidarity, more environment, intergenerational vision, the role of women, performance of young people and sectors excluded or ignored from society, less poverty and lack of social and territorial cohesion, this scourge that unfortunately marked all periods, even the periods of greater expansion of the last 50 years. We never managed to reduce the number of poor people to less than one and a half million. It was eager and eager because it is part of the logic of democracy and is imposed by the set of challenges that have taken place, the extremely accelerated pace, there are dreams, aspirations or just expectations and, in many cases, the non-fulfilment of those dreams, these aspirations and these expectations disillusioned, disappointed, frustrated the generations of 70 or 80, as perhaps even more those of the end of the century and of these 20 years of the 21st century. in cases, in the less young, for it seems like a lost life; in others, in the younger, for it seems like a life sacrificed at the beginning. But this is also a time of hope. Hope because freedom and democracy, even when they bring us many disappointments and the feeling of wasted time and delay, always give us hope that dictatorship will not tolerate, which is hope for change. In dictatorship or if it is by dictatorship or combats and overthrows the dictatorship. In democracy, there is always the possibility of creating different paths—always. They may take time to emerge, may be insufficient, may be imperfect, but they always exist, they have always existed over these 50 years. Freedom and democracy have allowed and allowed the overwhelming majority of this House, such as the Portuguese people, to support and support, without any hesitation or existential doubt, Ukraine and the Ukrainian people, barbarianly assaulted and in fundamental values and principles, but still there were voices, clearly, minority, dissonant. The same freedom and democracy allowed two parents of this democracy, Mário Soares and Diogo Freitas do Amaral, to march on the streets against the American position, our former ally, regarding intervention in Iraq.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-25-extra.u23	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-25-extra.u24	Yesterday, like today, there are those who agree and disagree in relation to internal or external positions and have manifested or manifest: 1, 100, 1000, 10 000, 100 000, 300 000. The real or dreamy number is not the essential one, that of those who appear and that of the millions who do not appear, but think differently, act differently, choose different, between themselves, this pluralism is crucial. It is part of the essence of democracy and in dictatorship there would never be. That is the reason for our hope. We know that, indeed, the supreme lord of 25 April, of freedom and democracy and therefore effective guarantee of stability has been called people for fifty years. [[PS, PSD, IL, L and BE MP Joana Mortagua.]] And the people are choosing with a sense of state, with good sense, with moderation and with good education, over time, April 25 that they want. And it's changing when you understand that you should change, or keeping if you understand that you should keep, or if you're going to regret how innovatory or you've kept some time back. But this is also a time of sharing. It is a time of sharing because this April 25 has of particular importance we may have had with us someone who represents the first of the first decolonizations of Portugal. This person was received, an hour and a half ago, in a Solene Session and is the President of the Federal Republic of Brazil, the symbolic representative of a sister homeland and not only, or above all, the holder of each historical moment. [[All right! It was also elected by those who had the right to elect it, the Brazilian people, and not other peoples or parts greater or smaller than other peoples.]] [[PSP, PSD, BE, PAN, L and PCP MP Manuel Loff applauded.]] What matters, first of all, is that we realized why the Assembly of the Republic lived today, here, such a happy coincidence, derived from the 523 years on April 22 that marked the first moment of Portuguese contact with the Brazilian territory. On 25 April it began to exist because of decolonisation. The April Captains understood that it did not make sense to maintain a war in which they carried out their mission, but did not realize what purpose, with what horizon, to what end. The end was drawn by others, by political decision-makers. So it makes all the sense today's meeting, which is a meeting of always, precisely because one of the nuclear components of April 25 was called decolonization, and makes sense we had this year among us who was a pioneer, who was a precursor in decolonization, 200 years earlier: Brazil. [[PS, PSD and L applause.]] This serves to look back, about Brazil, but it would also be possible for all colonization and all decolonization, and we fully assume responsibility for what we have done. It is not just to apologize — due, no doubt — for what we have done, because apologizing is sometimes the easiest thing to do. Apologize, turn your back and the function is done. No, it is the responsibility for the future of what, good and bad, we have done in the past. We did good. Let us take the case of Brazil, for example, among many other factors, language, culture, unity of the Brazilian territory, contrasting with the dispersion in the ancient Spanish colonies. So many strokes have been calling us. From evil, the exploitation of the original peoples, denounced by António Vieira, slavery, the sacrifice of the interest of Brazil and the Brazilians and even the arrogance, for a long time, of their almost ignorance, dazzling that we walked with other more oriental places and other riches. A worse than our presence we have to assume, as we assume the best of that presence. The same is said of the best and the worst, the worst and the best of our presence in the empire, throughout all colonization. Portuguese, the new postcolonial time has been and is a time when sharing has involved and involves, among us, hundreds of thousands of brothers of the language and, in the territories of their States, hundreds of thousands of Portuguese. Here, there are almost half a million women and men untiring in what Portugal has done in schools, hospitals, health centers, mercy centers, IPSS (Special Institutions of Social Solidarity ), as informal caregivers, at work, in agriculture, in commerce, in industry, in teaching. Brazilian brothers, Guinean brothers, Timorese brothers, Cape Verdean brothers, Angolan brothers, Mozambican brothers and others who live in other states, but have strong communities to speak Portuguese. [[PS, PSD and L applause.]] I think of joys, macaeans, so that we no longer speak in our exceptional communities scattered around the world. I cannot but extend to many others who have also come from outside, not speaking Portuguese, build Portugal, discount for social security, create wealth, contribute to our future by giving strength to our historical vocation, to our national design, national design that is not just growing economically anymore, which is important, or creating more equality or reducing poverty or lack of social or territorial cohesion. We are what we have been and are in so many unreplaceable cases: platform between oceans, continents, cultures and peoples. [[P.S., PS.D. and P.N.]] It is a great time for us to share on 25 April, thanking what we have received, hoping to give in so many cases even more, much more than we have given. I confess that I feel some emotion when I think my grandfather left for Brazil on that April 24, 1871, taking younger brothers, to escape the misery of the Basto Lands, in the deepest Mine, and then, much later, from Brazil to Angola still colonial. And that his story was the history of thousands and thousands of Portuguese and other Portuguese-speaking countries. The fact that he is perhaps the first President of the Republic who has, as a result of dual nationality, a Portuguese son who is also Brazilian and a Brazilian grandson who is also Portuguese, and relatives close to another country like Angola, as he has in homelands that are not of official Portuguese language, is nothing more than what happens to so many of our countrymen and nationals of these Portuguese-speaking or non-speaking Portuguese-speaking states. How can we, the homeland of emigration—that we must, in fact, be more sympathetic to the dramas of our emigrants—to be selfish in the face of the dramas of the emigrants who are of the others? [[Congratulations from the PS, PSD, PAN and L, standing, IL, BE and PCP Member Manuel Loff.]] May this 25 April, which is the beginning of April 25, 2024, be a moment of evocation of the democracy which he made possible; of the freedom which he allowed to be lived by a greater number of Portuguese; of steps in decolonization, and post-decolonization, late, is true, but that he imposed, and who have known high and low, success and failure; of the development, which he wanted to accelerate and which has had high and low, success and failure. With the last word in the people, with the people having the possibility — that only freedom and democracy exists, never in dictatorship — to continue to choose on 25 April that, even if they know that it is imperfect, that it will last only a short time and that it will fall short of expectations. With the certainty that April 25 is alive, because it was born to create ambition, to create dissatisfaction, to create non-accommodation, to create the growing, incessant and unstoppable requirement of ever greater and better. Long live April 25th! Long live freedom! Long live democracy! Long live Portugal! [[PS, PSD, L, standing, IL and PAN applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-25-extra.u25	This concludes the Solemn Commemorative Session of the XLIX Anniversary of April 25. Good April 25 for all. [[It was 13 hours and 13 minutes.]] [[The Republican National Guard Band again executed the national anthem, which was sung and applauded, standing, by the present.]] [[Members' presences and shortcomings at the plenary meeting.]] [[THE REDATION DIVISION.]]
