ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-17.u1	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. We are in a position to start our work. [[It was 15 hours and 6 minutes.]] I would like to ask the honourable Members. Authorities please open the galleries to the public. Thank you very much. For the reading of the dossier, I give the floor to Mrs. Maria da Luz Rosinha.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-17.u2	Mr President, very late for everyone. First of all, I have to announce the replacement of Mr. Ricardo Augustus Guerreiro Baptista Leite ( Lisbon electoral circle ) by João Carlos da Silva Bastos Dias Coelho, with effect from May 17 — today — even for a period of six months, i.e. until November 17 of 2023. Then I announce the withdrawal of Bill No. 487 / XV / 1. a ( L) and 785 / XV / 1. a ( IL). I also announce that they have entered the Bureau and have been admitted, several initiatives: Bill No 83 / XV / 1. a ( GOV ), which drops to 1. the Commission ; Draft Law No 763 / XV / 1. a ( PAN ), which falls to 7. the Commission, 765 / XV / 1. a ( L), 766 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ), which falls to 6. the Commission, and 767 / XV / 1. a (PAN) ; and Resolution Projects Nos 674 / XV / 1. a ( PSD ), which falls to 4. the Commission, 680 / XV / 1. a ( CH), 687 / XV / 1. a ( PAN ), which drops to 1. the Commission, 690 / XV / 1. a ( PSD ), which falls to 11. the Commission, 691 / XV / 1. a ( PS ), which falls to 7. the Commission, 692 / XV / 1. a ( PSD ), which falls to 9. the Commission, 693 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ), which drops to 1. the Commission, 694 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ), which falls to 11. the Commission, and 695 / XV / 1. a ( PS ), which drops to 6. the Commission. That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-17.u3	Let us then vote on the opinion of 14. the Commission on the replacement of Mr Ricardo Baptista Leite by Mr João Dias Coelho. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We will begin our agenda, which today is set positively by the Socialist Party, and in which we will proceed to the joint debate of the bills (generally) and the following draft resolutions: Bill No 762 / XV / 1. a ( PS ) — amends the system of attribution of the name itself by promoting self-determination of identity and gender expression; Draft Resolution No 678 / XV / 1. a ( PS ) — Recommends that the Government take measures to ensure the automatic, informal and free updating of the various registrations in public records following the change of sex in the civil register and the consequent name change; Draft Resolution No 679 / XV / 1. a ( PS ) — Consecrates the national day of trans visibility; Bill No. 765 / XV / 1. a ( L) — Self-determination in the right to the recognition of the legal identity of trans persons in the birth seat of descendants and in the marriage seat; Draft Law No 767 / XV / 1. a (PAN) — ensures gender neutrality in the civil register and strengthens the rights of trans, intersex and non-binary persons by amending the Civil Registry Code and the Rules of Procedure of the Registers and notary; Bill No. 783 / XV / 1. a ( BE ) — Strengthens the promotion of gender self-determination by amending Law No 38 / 2018 of 7 August and Decree-Law No 131 / 95 of 6 June; Draft Resolution No 687 / XV / 1. a (PAN) — Recommends that the Government create the national day of trans visibility; Draft Resolution No 697 / XV / 1. a (IL) — Recommends that the Government establish free amendments to the citizenship card. I also say that there will be no votes at the end of this debate.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-17.u4	Won't there be? But why? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-17.u5	To present the PS initiatives, Mr. Miguel Rodrigues has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-17.u6	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Today we celebrate the International Day against Homophobia, Transphobia and Biphobia. This day was born from the collective consciousness of activists, civil society agents, political agents and so many others, who understood that the discrimination that had been the target of LGBTI people + ( lesbians, gays, bisexuals, transgender, intersex and others) for so many centuries inevitably approached the end, not by divine will, but, above all, by the strength of themselves. It was centuries in which, by legal, religious or worship oppression, any deviations from the norm of sexual orientation or gender identity were suppressed, centuries in which homophobia, biphobia and transphobia were the rule rather than the exception. In Portugal, the journey that brought us here was also not linear. It is difficult to think of the existence of any civil rights during the New State period, regardless of the sexual orientation of those seeking them, and in this Republic, in this democracy in which we live, progress has also been slow, but correct. In 2010 we gave dignity and finally allowed marriage between people of the same sex. In 2016, the right to family constitution was won by adoption and co-ordination, and we also began the reflection on the constitution of another type of family by means of medical procreation assisted, in cases where one of the family members could be pregnant. In 2018, we took a pioneer step with the law of self-determination of identity and gender expression. In 2021, we stopped discriminating our fellow citizens in the blood donation, in this simple, simple right to help save the lives of others. In 2023, we advanced with the criminalization of conversion therapies and with the right to privacy, including in school. All these achievements must be celebrated today,... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ... on this day and not on another, and on them there are several common threads: on the one hand, the inexorable march towards full freedom, and that is the most important cause of all; on the other hand, I cannot but see that all these progress, without exception, took place during the administrations of the Socialist Party. [[P.S.'s applause.]] This set of causes should not, however, diminish the contribution of many other men and women in this House, of other forces, from right to left, which also contributed positively to them. And even if some people today claim that it is not urgent to discuss these causes, or that everything that was to be done is done, we well know that it is not so. Here, even within the European Union, governments and reactionary majority, such as Hungary or Poland, were quick to pass discriminatory and violent laws against these people. on the other side of the Atlantic, the main candidate for Republican primarys joined his supermajority in Florida, where he governs, to a law he called « Don 't Say Gay », inhibiting any degree of teaching on these subjects,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-17.u7	Well!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-17.u8	...as if ignorance in school could deny the identity of any American, European or any other young person. [[P.S.'s applause.]] In short, these progress are not guaranteed. And, yes, it is worth it, but it is always worth talking about them, not because it makes them more important or more valuable, but because the forgetfulness of progress is even the main weapon of extremist forces in Portugal and everywhere. This is therefore a day to reflect on what it is doing and what it is about to do and therefore the Socialist Party brings the debate three distinct projects: one that seeks to automate all the changes in registration with the Public Administration that change the name in the civil register; a second that seeks to eliminate the obligation of a name that is consistent with the given sex; and a third that establishes the national day on trans visibility. Also in these matters we move forward with significant steps, with a project that preserves the right to privacy already approved in this Chamber, but with many other evidence of commitment to these causes. For trans people, in particular—and about them I speak and address myself—the needs are not tied, we know well, with legal recognition, but rather with the appropriate material conditions to be fully realized in our country. For this reason, we have dedicated self-determination in recent years, but also a deepening of health care. Noting the difficulties of access to health at a centralized and unique location, at CHUC (Centro Hospitalar e Universitário de Coimbra ), in Coimbra, what so many people have waited for years without end, the government has advanced with the creation of three multidisciplinary teams, with a view to their appropriate training for medical, surgical and psychological intervention with this community, as should have been done since the beginning. The same was done, in 2021, in Porto and in 2022, in Lisbon, with a third unit in preparation in the Algarve and with a team at the Centro Hospitalar Universitário de Santo António already with surgical intervention capacity. This, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, this is really the progress we are committed to, and that is also what we are going to continue to do. [[P.S.'s applause.]] While there is a person who dies in a queue of waiting or who despairs in the craving for health care,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-17.u9	But that's millions!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-17.u10	...then it is not a promise of May 17 that is to be fulfilled, it is a promise of April 25 that is to be fulfilled, and that is unacceptable in our mature democracy. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Establishing a national day for trans visibility is an opportunity to reflect, each and every year, on what we can do more. The progress that we have made and that we have achieved cannot be left behind by the manifestos of the marches, it must have a concrete translation with whom we represent them. This is what we are promoting today: visibility for one of the most neglected groups by the state and citizens,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-17.u11	That's not true, what you're saying!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-17.u12	... whose difficulties of development and integration in the labour market, in school or in hospitals are daily, deserves our reflection. We therefore reflect today on what you are about to do. Because marches start today and will continue as long as necessary, but if we all do our part, the day may come when we no longer need to leave. When we only have the celebration left, then our work, truly, will be done. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-17.u13	The honourable Member has a request for clarification. Mr Paula Santos, from the CFP, has the floor to make it.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-17.u14	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Rodrigues, I would like to ask you some specific questions, and, in order not to waste time, I will go directly to them. These questions relate to the following: Law No. 38 / 2018 established the possibility of correspondence between the name and the sex declared in the register, even if there is no coincidence with the biological sex, but the initiatives now under discussion identify in that correspondence a problem and propose that there may be no correspondence between the name and the sex declared in the register. I would like to ask you the following: what has changed since 2018? Is there any problem with the application of the law requiring this amendment at the moment? How are the new rules now proposed for the Civil Registry Code compatible with those still contained in Law No 38 / 2018? Do the rules now proposed for the Civil Registry Code apply only to names to be attributed to birth or also to changes to the name in the situations provided for in that law? If a person wants to change the name only without changing the sex declared in the registry, can he do so using the new Civil Registry Code rule or must he continue to comply with the rule of Law No 38 / 2018? Does this guarantee equality in the exercise of the right to self-determination of gender identity? What conditions and criteria should be amended in the rules of Law No 38 / 2018 to ensure equality? And finally, how can you move forward with these changes without these aspects being properly guarded? [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-17.u15	Knock your hands!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-17.u16	To reply, Mr. Miguel Rodrigues has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-17.u17	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin by thanking you for the questions. What has been changed, of course, is that since we passed a law that rightly allows the assumption of a gender identity, or gender self-determination, more freely and more carefully, civil society organisations and activists realized that there were still obviously insufficient amendments. Of course — and that is not the debate we have here today, but it is a discussion that we have to have — we ask whether it continues to make sense, for example, the presence of the sex identifier on the citizen's card. And I think that's what's at the root of the whole problem. I do not think of the issues you have raised, that there is some degree of incongruence between the law that is adopted and the proposed amendment to the civil registration. But, if there is, and if, in the process of specialization, it is necessary to change one in order to have consistency with the other, of course, the Socialist Party is committed to the cause and to the changes that are necessary to guarantee all these people the right to their full self-determination. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-17.u18	Mr Rui Tavares is now speaking on the initiative of the Free House.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-17.u19	Have you forgotten the leaves?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-17.u20	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Dear and Dear colleagues, Dear and Dear Citizens today in the galleries,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-17.u21	The people of the galleries are not greeted, what a lack of respect!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-17.u22	... in particular those who are human rights activists and the cause of freedom and trans visibility: There is the idea, which is, at the same time, a wrong and justified idea—and you will already realize why I say it is both things—that, when we talk about trans visibility, we are talking about minority issues.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-17.u23	It is indeed a minority!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-17.u24	There's the idea that, because we're talking about trans rights, we're talking about fracturing causes. Justifiably, the trans population is not a majority either in Portugal or in any country in the world. But I say that it is justified and wrong at the same time because we are, yes, speaking of a minority, but at the same time, we are talking about values that are of all of us, of a majority. To speak of identity, of free expression of personality, of free development of personality, to speak of the basic thing that is to have documents that correspond to our identity, to speak of feeling safe, of not being treated aggressively or with bullying, of not feeling committed to suicide—as happens more in the trans population than in the non-trans population—is to speak of the causes of everyone. Speaking of freedom, speaking of individual autonomy is a cause for all, and it is an essential cause to defend in a democratic house in a country under a democratic constitution in April. That is why this debate we are having here today may be in relation to the rights of a minority, but the rights of that minority are human rights, and therefore they are rights that concern all, so even those who are not part of that minority can approach themselves, they can identify themselves with them and even appropriate themselves, when they realize how they would feel if they were with them, in relation to the identity they also carry, in relation to the name they also carry, in relation to the life course they also do. That is why the Free proposal, which we bring here today, is very simple: that a person alone, in the exercise of his individual rights, of his individual freedom and autonomy, who in the case has changed his or her sex and wants to verify in his or her documents his or her condition as he or she is able to do so and does not need to go through the humiliation of, being a full citizen, having to ask someone for permission to change his or her documents, to verify his or her condition in his or her documents. It's as simple as this. We can look at this from the prism of a problem that only affects some, but for those who affect, it affects a lot, and even a lot. That is why this House of the Republic must do something about it. We welcome those who have allocated the debate and hope that many will be able to support today's proposals to the Assembly of the Republic, which will shortly go to the vote. [[P.S. and BE's applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-17.u25	To present the NAP initiatives, Mrs Inês de Sousa Real has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-17.u26	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Members present here: I would like to begin by greeting all LGBTI + activists and human rights organisations of LGBTI+ people, especially those who accompany us today in the galleries. I also use to evoke the National Day against Homophobia and Transphobia, which today is celebrated and which illuminated this Parliament with the rainbow flag, thus noting that this House, the House of Democracy, is a secure port of human rights and is on the right side of history. [[P.S.'s applause.]] With this gesture, the Assembly of the Republic tells everyone and those who do not respect the rights of the LGBTI community + that homophobia, transphobia, interphobia and biphobia will not pass through Portugal. With the initiatives we are presenting today — and I also welcome the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group for bringing the issue to debate — we want to guarantee the right to gender neutrality of the name itself in the civil register. It doesn't make sense that civil registration continues to divide people, completely out of multiplicity, both biological and identity, so intrinsic to human beings. This is not a minor aspect, because the rigid division of gender in the civil register leads every day, trans, intersex or non-binary people to feel discomfort and discrimination, or even the wrong interpretation of the identity given by their name. We also propose that the no-sex name changes be free of charge, as has already been the case with some name changes. With this proposal we respond to the appeal addressed to us by the ex aequo network, because we do not accept that a non-binary person who does not want to change sex must pay 200 € to have a name that expresses what is his gender identity. Parliament has the power to guarantee this freeness and must do so, under the penalty of freeness, be subject to unacceptable discrimination criteria. Finally, we propose the consecration of March 31 as the national day of trans visibility, a day to give visibility to the rights of trans people, to make the balance and reflection, as already mentioned today, on the advances we have already made. In the country where Gisberta Júnior, whose memory I also evoke, died in the hands of homophobia and transphobia, this day is absolutely fundamental. [[Applause from the L and from the PS and BE Members.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I welcome once again this day and say that on this side of Parliament's human rights side, we will continue to work towards the progressive path of human rights defence, which is what is being debated today. [[Congratulations from BE, L and PS Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-17.u27	To present the Left Block initiative, Mrs. Joana Mortágua has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-17.u28	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The best commemoration of the International Day against Homophobia, Transphobia and Biphobia is to take another step in the consecration of a freer and fairer society. All people are born in a world they have not built. They feed, dress themselves, they start to exist in a society that is before them, with a pre-determined economic, social, political and cultural organization. But the story doesn't end there. People are not just heritage. People, individually and collectively, have a role in their own history, are not obliged to accept their expectations and roles. They are protagonists of their own life. The struggle of the feminist movement and the LGBTQIA + movement (Lesbians, gays, bisexuals, transgender, queer, intersex, sex and others) has made the whole society advance. Our country can take pride in the many achievements that have been achieved in combating homophobia and transphobia, in removing homosexuality from the Criminal Code,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-17.u29	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-17.u30	... passing through the right to marriage and adoption until recognition of gender self-determination. There were many marches, there were many fights. It was hard, but we've moved forward and we'll keep moving forward. So, what's to be done? Everything! From then on, having comprehensive sex education in schools, training professionals in various public services, progressing in access to health without discrimination. Change is not only in the law, where we have done so much, but in everything in society strengthens freedom and equality. We are discussing in Parliament today proposals that allow us to pursue this path, recognizing and celebrating the lives of trans people. Since 2011 more than 2000 trans women and men have seen their identity recognized in the civil registry. Trans women and trans men can already use, for all purposes, a name that is yours, and only they and they know the difference that makes them no longer have to present themselves at work, in a public service or in any commercial act with a citizen card with a name and sex marker that denies their identity.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-17.u31	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-17.u32	The society that we are today is the one that sees growing the first generation of trans children and young people who can affirm their identity from early on. We have recently passed the law which covers what is already practice in many schools: to respect these children and these young people. This is the way in which we are and it is in him that we want to move forward. As the movement of trans people says: “We exist and resist. Do not keep on seeking. ” On March 31, it was celebrated in Portugal, on the streets, the day of trans visibility. Visibility is important. Trans people want to be visible, to exist with pride and security. Physical, economic and psychological violence against trans people is a reality all over the world. This matter not only depends on the law, it requires that public authorities invest resources and take advantage of them. in this sense, we follow the initiatives of the Socialist Party and the NAP, which recommend to the Government not only the consecration of this symbolic date as well as the evaluation and progress of public policies, particularly at health level, to combat discrimination and promote the rights of trans people. We also follow the proposal made by the PS and the Free, so that changes in the various public documents of the trans people, as well as the proposals, of the NAP and of the IL, can be made faster and easier so that the changes in document are free. Today is also the day when we can extend the recognition of trans people to non-binary and diverse people. Society is more different than'man' and 'woman' identities, and I risk saying, society is more different than some would like. Democracy must adapt its rules to finally recognize this right to existence and identity. This is what the initiatives of the PS, the Block and the PAN, when the mandatory name corresponds to the identification of a sex. The Left Block initiative takes another step, and we think it is important, by enabling intersex, non-binary and gender-different individuals to require no identification of sex in their identification document. The citizenship card is a mandatory document, presented at many times of the day. It can't be an instrument of discomfort and anxiety for those who use it, it can't force anyone to fit into gender rules that don't recognize and which, being imposed, are violence. The citizenship card cannot recognize less than the diversity of identities that society, the Constitution and this Parliament recognize. I want to quote, to conclude, Hugo van der Ding, this morning: « Stop being homophobic, transphobic and biphobic, please. Thank you. Do not keep on seeking. ” [[Congratulations from BE, PAN, L and PS Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-17.u33	To present the initiative of the Liberal Initiative, I now give the floor to Mrs Patrícia Gilvaz.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-17.u34	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The third decade of the 21st century is, fortunately, a time when change is a constant, and political power must neither be a barrier to this freedom to change. It is to this end that the Liberal Initiative presents the draft resolution that brings the debate today. The citizenship card and the civil registration are the first line of identification of a person in the Public Administration, a Public Administration that must be flexible and adaptable and that must respect the needs and decisions of citizens. We believe that there should not be an economic barrier whenever, and when, the citizen wants any change to the data contained in his citizenship card. These changes, regardless of their nature or reason, should be trendly free of charge. We do not accept that the simple name change, something so individual and identifying, can cost more than one room of the national minimum wage. If we really want to promote individual freedom, particularly that of changing personal data, we must recognize that there is currently no true freedom to change these data, at least as long as the law requires the payment of large amounts for its realization. That is why the Liberal Initiative presents today this draft resolution, which is essential to ensure that all citizens have the right to change their individual data. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we can all agree that the payment of €200 for such a simple civil registration act is manifestly widespread. With this proposal we want to ensure that the people who decide to make changes to their data, in particular to their name—and there are several who do so—are not prevented or inhibited by the large amount that they will have to pay for these amendments. Simply put, we want the State, which for the first time has collected EUR 100 billion of current revenue, to abdicate a few hundred in favour of personal freedom, so that all are covered by the same criteria, thus ensuring equality for all before the law. [[Applause from IL and L.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-17.u35	For an intervention on behalf of the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mrs Emília Cerqueira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-17.u36	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I also honour all the organizations and associations that are present today in this debate, which takes place precisely on the International Day against Homophobia, Transphobia and Biphobia. Since equality, such as non-discrimination, equality of opportunity, individual freedom, something that the PSD values very much, I welcome all that changes have been with a view to the freedom of each being and express itself as it really is. That said, we focus on this debate, which has to do with various initiatives relating to gender self-determination, which we can divide into several parts. On the one hand, we have the draft laws submitted by the PS, the Left Block, the Free and the PAN, which relate precisely to the question of name changes in the civil register. These questions put before us two other fundamental questions, which may even be contradictory to each other. On the one hand, we have the question of self-determination of gender identity, which in our understanding is already resolved in Law No 38 / 2018, since this is in Article 7 ( 3 ). the, it has already been said precisely and I quote, that «the intersex person may require the procedure for changing the term of sex in the civil register and the consequent modification of his or her own name, from the moment he or she manifests his or her gender identity». So in 2018 this problem had already been solved, which was in fact a major disorder and a great discrimination for all people who went through this process of gender change, and also sex. So this part of the problem was solved. Now, there is another question that comes to us—and the data show us, either by the sex change procedures, or by the name modification procedures that took place at the conservatories of the civil register, which is as follows: from 2018 onwards, there were 399 people who changed their name on the citizenship card, and this procedure has been simple. Then we are asked here a question that has always been discussed. Mr PS said that there can be no person on the medical waiting list, and I regret to say this, but we are a country in which millions of Portuguese people are waiting at the doors of hospitals and emergencies for medical treatment, which often depends on their survival. [[PSD applause.]] Given, of course, the situation of trans people, the truth is that we have to look at the macro panorama and all Portuguese. Positive discrimination, so that there is no effective discrimination of people and so that they can live according to their self-determination, yes; now, prioritise this, at a time when this country is experiencing such serious problems, but as serious as inflation, poverty, lack of access to essential goods and food, with people in the banks of the Food Bank asking for food, every day... This is what should, in fact, be worrying more about the Socialist Party.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-17.u37	That's misogynistic! What an awful lot of intervention!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-17.u38	instead, he is concerned only with what is called « the great fracturing issues ».
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-17.u39	Ah! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-17.u40	And the big fracturing issues go through euthanasia on the one hand, and on the other, by changing, now, in a debate that takes us all day, the Civil Registry Code in an article, because that is what we are talking about.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-17.u41	We could not even make any legislative initiative!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-17.u42	He is also concerned about the payment of emoluments in one of these name-change processes, when we all know that the PSD is in favour of not paying emoluments, but for all Portuguese. We are a party that defends all citizens, not just a few citizens. [[PSD applause.]] We also see with some concern this very rapid PS adherence to so-called "wookist" culture, to woke culture,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-17.u43	Ah! We already know where that comes from!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-17.u44	They've got it in their heads!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-17.u45	... that, throughout the world, in the name of an inclusion and supposed freedom, has increasingly been transforming people into politically correct. under such inclusion, more and more are excluded. When we include trans, we're excluding gays, lesbians... everyone else is being excluded. [[PS and L protests.]] It's not worth making that air. Above all, we're excluding people from having all the same opportunities. That, for us, is very important: that everyone has the same opportunities. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, and also the Portuguese and Portuguese who are listening to us: the PSD is solidarity, yes, that all people can be, freely.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-17.u46	Shame!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-17.u47	We are not, as we have never been, because we make decisions to change, at every moment, free of charge and without any medical support—how, in fact, we defend already in 2018—the genre, making it something that has nothing to do with what is the real identity of people. More: In very early ages, sometimes we may be creating even greater problems than those we want to solve. I realized that the PS bench is very outraged, but "human rights" is not just what they think it is.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-17.u48	Ah! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-17.u49	Human rights, it means treating all people with dignity, and it's all of them. For PSD, all people have the same dignity. All persons must be treated with respect, dignity and inclusion; all must have access to medical services, as well as to transition processes, where appropriate; and all persons, young and less young, must be entitled to make their name change under the same conditions. All of them! Whatever they are, they have the gender they have and whatever their sexual orientation. We do not compartmentalize, we believe that all people — but even all — deserve the same dignity. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-17.u50	The Bureau shall record two entries to request clarification from the honourable Member, which I assume shall be answered together.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-17.u51	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-17.u52	All right. To make the first request for clarification, Mr Pedro Delgado Alves has the floor on behalf of the PS.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-17.u53	Mr President, Mrs Emília Cerqueira, I thank you for your speech — I think — at least part of it. The honourable Member said that there were potentially contradictory issues in the initiatives under discussion. What I saw potentially contradictory was the first part of its intervention and the second part of its intervention. The first part of your speech, I must say, goes in the right direction, even revealing, of some path that the PSD has made, although it has voted against the legislation that has allowed, at various times in Parliament's history, recently, to take steps in terms of both gender identity and sex change. I look to hear that the PSD agrees with the advantage that has been given to hundreds of people because of this amendment to the law. Therefore, the question that I had put to you before the register of problems and the echo of these problems that come to this bench and the others who have presented legislative initiatives — problems we want to solve, improving the law in force — had to do with whether the PSD would be willing to accompany us in the specialized work and to bring us to our attention what might be less successful in the proposals we have put forward. We humbly recognize that we may not have an answer to everything, and I would ask him whether he was actually willing to make this effort, because we have all the interests and will; and I think that everyone has the PSD as a party to fundamental rights and fundamental freedoms. It was the PSD that ruled in 1982, when homosexuality was decriminalized, and this is a medal that honors the chest of the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-17.u54	Sure!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-17.u55	But then the honourable Member arrived at the second part of her speech and, I must say, she ruined the positive things she had brought in the first because she gave us notice of the following: an agenda is to divide society. [[Oh!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-17.u56	Well, it would go through the head of someone from any bench if he got up on March 8th, when the PSD — and so on! — made an agenda on women's defence matters...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-17.u57	Sure! All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-17.u58	...and of domestic violence, and he said he was fractionating, working for a niche, working for just one section? Don't! [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Protests by PSD Member Emilia Cerqueira.]] Of course, this day has a very relevant symbolic burden, important for hundreds, for thousands of people in this country and outside the world, and we want to point it out with this debate, for which we didn't even have to bring any initiative. In fact, we want to stress the importance of this day and there are outstanding issues we want to resolve. Therefore, with regard to the second part of your speech, I will do well to forget about it during the rest of the afternoon and to value what you said first. [[PSD Member Emília Cerqueira's laughs.]] Will we focus on what is fundamental, and therefore leave the same question: does PSD have the willingness to help us improve the lives of hundreds of people? [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-17.u59	To request clarifications on behalf of the Left Block, Mrs. Joana Mortágua has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-17.u60	Mr President, Mrs Deputy, it has not been so many years since we could not remember her that a 45-year-old woman was killed, by 14 minors, between 10 and 16 years of age, in the city of Porto. She was beaten to death and stuck in a ditch. If this woman were not a trans person, the honourable Member would probably recognize that she would have been killed for being a woman and that there would be violence and gender discrimination after that death. And, as has already been said, defending women's rights would not divide society; on the contrary, it would be an inescapable urgency of our society to combat gender-based violence. This woman was transsexual and she was just another victim of a transphobic violence that kills. It kills in Portugal and kills in many countries. It kills, for example, in Brazil, which is the country that most kills transsexuals in the world. What I want to ask you is whether the honourable Member is unable to understand that this person was killed because he was transsexual, who was a victim of transphobic violence; and that, therefore, this matter does not divide society, but, on the contrary, it is a basic matter of human rights and of combating violence based on prejudice and hate speech. I would like to ask you: what does progress in the rights of trans people prejudice the right of anyone in society? [[Congratulations from BE, L and PS Members.]] What progress in the rights of trans people makes us, not a more just, more equal society and a society that fights more prejudice and violence? Finally, I would like to ask, not the honourable Member, but the PSD bench, if you feel represented, all of you in this intervention which has been made on the rights of trans. [[Congratulations from BE and PS Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-17.u61	In reply, Mrs Emília Cerqueira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-17.u62	Mr President, Mr Pedro Delgado Alves, first of all, I would like to thank you for the two questions. As to whether PSD is available to work, PSD has always been. In fact, as it was in 2018, when it presented proposals precisely for a medical assessment; the PS did not accept, along with the left, and lead all of the PSD proposals, which, in fact, is something that has been used to us over time. It is never the PSD that is not available—because it is, as it has always been—that is the PS that normally makes the table of those who are the positions of the PSD. Therefore, Mr President, I believe that this question is answered. As for the second question, I can't stop giving a note here either, because I said you're going to forget, but I don't want you to forget. And I do not want you to forget for a very simple reason, Mr, which is the following: what we are discussing is not the dignity of people, they are not human rights, it is not equality,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-17.u63	Oh yes, yes!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-17.u64	...not even people can live as they understand to live and have positive discrimination.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-17.u65	Oh yes, yes!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-17.u66	It is far from that, because, in the non-discrimination of people, the PSD has always been on the front line, as it is today. Therefore, Mr President, do not put into my mouth words which I have not actually said. And the PSD will always be on the side of people's dignity. Having said this, it would happen to Mrs. Joana Mortágua. Mrs. Member, if anyone here is messing up, it's certainly not me or the PSD. The case of Gisberta, who was the one to be referred to, is a case of violent crime and, of course, is a case of transphobia that led to the death of a person. And the PSD will always be at the forefront of condemning any kind of violence against anyone, especially against any trans person, but that is not trans.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-17.u67	To recognise their rights is that it is still!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-17.u68	To make it clear, we are against all kinds of violence against all people.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-17.u69	There are so many murders of people who are not trans!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-17.u70	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-17.u71	And it is almost unacceptable to ask this question to a bench such as the PSD, with the historical and democratic representation it has and has always had.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-17.u72	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-17.u73	So I can't understand it in any other way, Mrs. Deputies. [[PSD applause.]] What's different is that we're discussing here today, which has nothing to do with murder and violence, domestic violence, gender violence. That is not what we are discussing here, do not put the debate where it is not. I understand that today you like to make a great announcement here — even because this is a very agenda of the Left Block — and I realize that you have always done so, because you have always been on these agendas, but do not put words, guidelines and discrimination that clearly are not ours.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-17.u74	'What's this'!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-17.u75	I don't mean, with that, that we find everything the Block proposes, because, really, the Block goes almost always too far. This is one of the reasons why it is a radical party, and we are a responsible and government party. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-17.u76	But they always get there! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-17.u77	Primarily in dignity and rights! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-17.u78	To speak on behalf of the PCP, you have the floor of Mrs Paula Santos.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-17.u79	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Today, May 17, International Day Against Homophobia, Transphobia and Biphobia is celebrated. If it is true that, in Portugal, the steps taken to put an end to discrimination are enormous, with a number of advances in the legislative framework that have been made with the contribution of the CFP: gender self-determination, marriage and adoption, it is also true that in life there are still many discriminations that need to be tackled. In everyday life, transsexual and intersex people continue to experience multiple forms of discrimination at work, in the family, in society and in life. All citizens have the same social dignity and are equal before the law; and no one can be privileged, benefited, impaired, deprived of any right or duty due to descent, sex, ethnicity, religion, political or ideological convictions, education, economic situation or sexual orientation, as determined by the Constitution. It has to be a reality in life. The fight against discrimination based on sexual orientation or gender identity requires a change in attitudes in society, which eliminates practices and attitudes that offend human dignity. It demands legislation that respects its specific rights, on a path that has been built, but at the same time these citizens need a competition for economic and social policies that do not abandon them to their circumstances, to the social context in which they fall under the conditions that are provided to them; to guarantee them quality of life and the rights that they all enjoy. [[PCP applause.]] One of the questions that is put to us is civil registration. In recent years, there has been an evolution in the procedures to be adopted in the civil register. With the approval of Law No 7 / 2011, the procedure for changing sex and proper name in the civil registry became an administrative act. Until then, the only way to change sex and the proper name was through a judicial process, which constituted an intrusion into privacy, privacy, and disrespect. However, Law No. 38 / 2018 exempts treatment and surgical intervention for the change of sex and proper name in the civil registry, sufficient to submit the application to initiate the procedure for this purpose. The initiatives under discussion propose that the reference to the identification of the name with sex be removed, particularly at the time of birth — not in the law of self-determination of gender identity, but in the Civil Registry Code. There are several aspects that need to be taken into account in the consideration of these proposals. The civil registration is used to identify persons before society and such identification must be made in conditions to ensure the Republic of the information contained in it. The identification elements of the registration shall be limited to what is objected and verifiable in the identification of persons and their relevant legal relations in social terms — sex, affiliation, civil status, among others — and shall not include any element relating to social relations, family relations or others which are not relevant to what the registration is intended to attest. Even with regard to what it considers relevant, it may be questioned whether the information contained in the registration should be all transported to the identification documents. Considering the discussions that have been made on these matters, perhaps the way forward may even be to structure the civil registration so that it consists of the identification aspects of citizens who are biologically factual, allowing access to all or just a few of these elements, insofar as they are necessary in various circumstances of life, on the basis of specific objectives — in the health services, by the police or judicial authorities, in the public authorities, for example — by limiting what is contained in the identification documents to which it is strictly necessary and most often required for identification purposes. Without prejudice to this fundamental reflection, which it is necessary to do, the issues presented today in these initiatives are different and should also be assessed in all their scope and depth, and this evaluation must bear in mind the path made over time. In 2018, it was understood that in certain circumstances it should be excluded from the requirement of correspondence between the sex declared in the register and the sexual characteristics. at that time, it was understood that it should not continue to require the submission of transsexuals to pharmacological or surgical treatments as a condition of change for the purposes of the registration and it was admitted to change without these conditions, however maintaining the criterion of correspondence between sex and name. With regard to intersex persons, except for questions of proven risk to health, treatments and surgical, pharmacological or other interventions involving changes to the body level and the sexual characteristics of the intersex child should not be performed until their gender identity is demonstrated. The allocation of neutral names is a possibility, in particular with regard to intersex persons, but it is no longer appropriate to open the possibility — not taking into account the framework of the law of 2018 — that, in particular, at birth, if you can assign the name of a boy to a girl or a girl's name to a boy. In several respects, the proposals under discussion leave room for doubts that, in conscience, no one can devalue or ignore. The criterion of correspondence between sex and name, which is contained in the Civil Registry Code and which was also considered as the criterion for Law No 38 / 2018, is now called into question without the proper explanation of motivation and without precaution of all the contradictions that this solution may entail. As a matter of gender self-determination, why were no amendments to the law itself considered, improving its precepts, rather than changing the Civil Registry Code? It is also important to ensure that the proposed amendment does not conflict with what is set out in Law No 38 / 2018, which considers the change of sex and the change of name legal. What's going on? These are not side issues to the debate that can be disregarded. It seems to us that these are crucial aspects to be understood if what is going to be approved can even be applied or if, as has already happened in previous situations, it can be barred in declarations of unconstitutionality. For our part, it will be the answer to those questions which we shall ultimately decide on the position we will take. These are not simple issues and call on society to understand that self-determination issues are not linear processes and without doubts, changes, first for themselves. The role of the State is to promote a society that is better able to guard all these differences, allowing people to live their own self-determination processes in a more free and less conditional way, removing unjustified suffering from processes that are already difficult for those who cross them by definition. in this context, as at other times, the CFP does not steal from the deepening of the debate, the evaluation of the whole implications and intervention for the resolution of concrete problems affecting transsexual and intersex people, as well as other aspects raised, not ignoring the different issues that arise neither the complexity of the matter; nor eludes with solutions that may not even have concrete application, or that may translate into added difficulties. We will accompany the consecration of the National Day of Trans Visibility, the adoption of procedures to give effect to Law No 38 / 2018, as well as the freeness of changes in civil registration. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-17.u80	Mr Rui Paulo Sousa has the floor for an intervention on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Arrival.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-17.u81	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : We have divergied Europe into several indicators. More than 1, 6 million Portuguese continue without a family doctor, waiting ranks increase from day to day, even in cases of serious illness, sexual crimes fire, but the PS intends to bring a non-theme to discussion. This is a debate that shows the times in which we live and what are the main priorities of most of the parties represented in this House, but also serves to show, now more clearly, what the new Marxists come to, which social engineers, who want to re-education the masses through ideologies that are the purest and most absurd denial of human nature. First, they came with the class struggle, then they encouraged the fight of sex and now they want to impose on us the fight of gender. We will still see the PS proposing in this Chamber that a person can register as an animal, if identified as a dog or as a cat;... [[CH's laughs.]] ...and the NAP to propose the distribution of free chips. Everything in the name of an ideology. [[Protests by PCP Member Duarte Alves.]] For PS, for extreme left and for some pseudo-right, if ideology does not coincide with reality, then reality changes. It doesn't matter if a boy or a girl is born, biology is in the drawer. « Sex is a mere social construction», they tell us. They deny that the common sense of mortals is perceived by a mere empirical observation, that is, that men are different from women, but complement each other. And this has been noted since the youngest age: boys are different from girls. It's not us who say it, it's science! Development times are different. They deliberately hide the consequences of this ideology, but they are increasingly clear and consist of killing the concept of man and woman, denying their differences;...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-17.u82	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-17.u83	...to eliminate marriage, motherhood, paternity and destroy the most basic cell of society, the family. [[Congrats from the CH.]] In view of these ideologies, real crimes are being committed with harmful consequences for the lives of people. In the various countries where this type of law has been passed, there are several cases of men and women who regret to change sex. Consider the case of 24-year-old Spanish Susana Domínguez, who at only 15 years of age wanted to change sex. Now, sorry, he says he's had bad psychological and psychiatric follow-up and accuses the doctors and the public hospitals that operated her of ruining her life. The damage is irreversible. Susana referred to ElMondo who took six years to realize that her mental problems of depression and schizoid personality disorder prevented her from making the right decision. You've tried suicide several times before. Like Susana, there are many other Susanas who seek psychological follow-up and often end up in suicide. Who is responsible for that?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-17.u84	Suicide--it's what I want, when I hear this!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-17.u85	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, this ideology also has other declines, such as wokism, which, under the cover of defense of freedom, censures all that confronts it, which police of behavior, thought and language, creating normatives that classify as offensive and discriminatory, ending up establishing an authentic dictatorship of thought. [[Congrats from the CH.]] [[Protests by PS MP Miguel Matos.]] In view of this ideology, they altered and censored books, movies, plays. They invade the academy and culture, chasing and healing anyone who wants to oppose them. We live in times when simply being a man or a woman is a crime. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-17.u86	For an intervention on behalf of the PS Parliamentary Group, Mrs Isabel Alves Moreira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-17.u87	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : I would particularly like to congratulate the activists and activists present here. Law No 38 / 2018, of 7 August, was a great victory for the human rights of trans people. It was therefore a victory for democracy. Self-determination was imposed against « pathologisation », and therefore we did not accept the PSD proposals. It is also necessary to guarantee everyone speed and freeness in the realization of the recognition of their identity in all documents. hence this draft resolution and the other projects that have already been described here. But today, on May 17, it is necessary to talk about the global attack that trans people have been subjected to — it is one day a year to talk about this, Mrs Emília Cerqueira.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-17.u88	Yeah! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-17.u89	That is also why the PS is proud to have all human rights issues as priorities. Fracturing is poverty. Human rights never break, unite. [[P.S. and L.'s applause.]] We reject the speech of non-selective presence in debates, on account of electoralist perceptions. We have always been present: in equal marriage, in WFP (assisted drug procreation) for all women, in adoption by same-sex couples and in the self-determination of trans people. To be socialist is also this: not to leave anyone—but absolutely no one— behind and to have as offensive what extremists are doing, that is to call " fashion" or "aggression" the concrete suffering of people of flesh and bone. People who belong to one of the most persecuted communities in the world. [[P.S.'s applause.]] As Beatriz Bagagli well explains, for young trans, access to health, based on the adoption of the model of gender affirmation, has been extremely politicized in recent years, in the sense that the trans issue becomes considered as more a public debate among so many others, which also gives an air of democratic posture. This position, however, is only a facade, because the trans debate, as it is framed, favors only the field of anti-trans radicalization, with progressively neo-fascist contours, and the growing mass spread of misinformation. In the United States, as in Hungary or Brazil of Bolsonaro, the increasingly widespread violence against, for example, health professionals who care for trans people, especially children and adolescents, is a direct result of the spread of anti-trans speech on extreme-right social networks. The circulation of hate in the networks, in this case, was preceded and directly fed by the so-called ‘moderate’ media discussion on trans health. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it was hate, and hate kills. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The world's largest associations of pediatrics, medicine and psychiatry have already explained that the attacks are rooted in an intentional campaign of misinformation. The author I mentioned demonstrates that questions relating to the safety of trans people are raised through a false framework according to which trans rights could negatively affect people cis. I remember that this cowardly and intentional misinformation about trans children, self-identification for rectification of documents and security spaces, has consequences in the lives of people and young trans. Selling the absurd idea that caring for a young trans is to mutilate this young person or that trans people have malicious intentions—usually associated with bathrooms—and are sexually dangerous—recalls us to the construction of the false Jewish question, step by step, which was, of course, never a debate of ideas, but a political project of annihilation.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-17.u90	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-17.u91	That is why it is really worth spending a day that is for people who see their fundamental rights at risk every day. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-17.u92	The honourable Member has a request for clarification. To formulate it, you have the floor of Mrs. Joana Mortágua from the Left Block.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-17.u93	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I welcome your statement. We heard here from Mrs Emília Cerqueira that the Left Block always wants to go too far. Perhaps there were those who found it when we passed the law of self-determination, the law of marriage, the law of adoption, the law of WFP. [[Protests by PSD Member Emilia Cerqueira.]] The truth is we always get there. We all ended up getting to what seemed too far away. Self-determination has this funny thing, which is what one claims to be against discrimination, but rather, from the top of his privilege, to determine what is one discrimination for the other, rather than to trust what the trans person understands as discrimination. That's self-determination. So that's what I'd like to ask you. The Left Block has a proposal to allow intersex, non-binary and gender-different persons to require that the identification of the sex in their civil registration is not transferred to the citizen's card. That is to say, it is a way of respecting non-binary people, because their question is essentially an issue of identity, as well as guaranteeing them access to name change without necessarily changing sex. It is a way of ensuring that the identification document, as a public manifestation of identity, does not contain the « M » and « F », nor the necessary and mandatory choice between a « M » and a « F ». This is how we respond to the right to self-determination, against discrimination of trans, intersex and non-binary persons. We also believe that it is a way of responding to intersex people, who, as has already been well remembered, have the right, during their growth, not to change their sexual characteristics and, therefore, this would also be a way of, in the citizen's card, not to be forced, or someone for themselves, to determine "M" or "F" until their conscious manifestation and their conscious self-determination of gender. What I ask you, Madam Member, is if you think this is going too far. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-17.u94	In reply, Mrs. Isabel Moreira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-17.u95	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much for your question. I start by saying you're right, we've never been too far. I believe that when the PSD voted against equal marriage, against drug procreation assisted for all women, against adoption by couples of the same sex, against self-determination, the PSD Members and Members who voted for us were well. Those, yes, didn't go too far. They were on the right side of history, on the right side of equality. They were fine. [[Protests from PSD Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-17.u96	What's the right side of the story? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-17.u97	They also had a good PS and the Left Block, when in 2018 they did not accept the PSD proposal. Precisely, the proposal was self-determination. What the PSD wanted was not going too far, it was walking a lot back. I wanted the pathologization of trans people and I wanted a medical report. Of course, we refused. We follow the concerns of the left block bill, until the visibility of the card has nothing to do with what's in the chip. So, no, it's not going too far and we're going to work together and together. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-17.u98	For an intervention on behalf of the Liberal Initiative, Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-17.u99	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Gallery Guests: For us, for the Liberal Initiative, today's discussion is based on a set of insufficient truths. First truth: Self-determination of personality is the first and most fundamental of individual freedoms, because each person has the right to decide who he or she wants to be and, above all, has to be able to make use of his or her freedom to aspire to his or her self-realization. Second truth: discrimination is obvious as an attack on individual freedom, because when one does not have the same rights as his fellow citizens, there is limited discrimination of his or her freedom. Also, when someone has more rights than his fellow citizens, there is limited discrimination on the freedom of those third parties. Third truth: persons with different or minority identities or expressions are discriminated against in Portugal, in various circumstances, including by the State, which does not grant them all the rights that allow them to assert their identity.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-17.u100	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-17.u101	You can choose the name with which someone better identifies yourself, as well as the mention of sex in the identification documents, or the absence of mention also, are of the most basic individual rights and should be recorded. It is therefore without reservation that the Liberal Initiative supports the generality of the diplomas under discussion, which aim essentially to assign rights to these people at the level of registers and identification documents equivalent to those available to other citizens. We will also make it possible, although we have some doubts which we may perhaps be able to clarify, in the field of expertise, the proposal for the Book, which provides that registration documents, such as birth and marriage seats, may be amended because, in some cases, this amendment may occur without knowledge and probably even against the will of the holder of the document himself. We shall have the opportunity to see this in the field of expertise. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, therefore, the basis for the amendments that these diplomas introduce is, for the Liberal Initiative, of course, and therefore we shall vote-CL - favourably, without reservation. But you already know that, from the Liberal Initiative, you cannot expect us to let go of the more political and even more ideological aspects that this discussion also raises. The first aspect is the instrumentalization of identity issues for party or electoral purposes. Any instrumentation is, at first, condemnable, but for a liberal, the instrumentalizations that attribute homogenous motivations and wills to groups of people who share a particular characteristic, thus cruelly denying the individuality and, yes, the identity of each of these people. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-17.u102	The collective perspective on the left, orphan that is today an engine of social transformation, obliges them to constantly seek new reasons for confrontation and cleavage between groups whose purposes can be attributed to liberal democracy or capitalism. This strategy has both as a child and as a mistake, as it closes its eyes to evidence that it is exactly in the most liberal and consolidated market economy societies that the rights of all, majority and minorities, are more protected and advanced. But for this sectarian left, the fault for all the problems is always liberalism, even when these problems occur in extreme-left stitches, as recent examples testify.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-17.u103	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-17.u104	It's against generalizations, except for the left!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-17.u105	The collective view on the left has another negative consequence. promoting cleavage and confrontation between groups,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-17.u106	What? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-17.u107	... the left also promotes a climate of intolerance incompatible with an open society. The constant recourse to a logic of « us and them», or rather « us against them », « who is not with us is against us», is more typical of dictatorships of all colors throughout history than of open democracies. Equally, the police of language and the conditioning of discussions are not compatible with an open society. Above all, this is not the way to come to the defense of minority rights, including the most important of all minorities, which is the individual himself. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, in order to avoid the skillful interpretations that some are good at doing, on Twitter or out of it, I would like to finish, clearly reaffirming that this intervention had two essential intentions.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-17.u108	Please the Greeks and the Trojans!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-17.u109	They are to express our unreserved agreement with the extension of the rights of people with different gender identities or expressions and to tell the left more sectarian than their maneuvers of instrumentalization of people and of polarization of society for their own benefit are voted for failure. in what depends on the Liberal Initiative, they will not pass. [[Congratulations from the IL and PSD Member António Topa Gomes.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-17.u110	Against generalizations, except for the left!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-17.u111	Please the Greeks and the Trojans!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-17.u112	For an intervention on behalf of the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mrs Lina Lopes has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-17.u113	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Today, four bills and four draft resolutions are presented on sexual orientation, gender identity and sexual characteristics, as well as on the consecration of the national day of trans visibility, the authorship of PS, L, PAN, BE and the Liberal Initiative. I wanted to start this debate, stressing that, according to the United Nations, gender identity is the way the individual recognizes himself and how he perceives his own identity. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, in accordance with Article 9 ( b ). that of the Constitution, one of the priority responsibilities of the State is to « ensure fundamental rights and freedoms and respect for the principles of the State of democratic law ». So it is also up to us as Members of Parliament to guarantee and respect the fundamental rights of citizens of LGBT ( lesbians, gays, bisexuals and transgenders). As I said earlier in another speech, and I repeat again, quoting Oscar Wilde: «Egoism is not living our way, but wanting others to live as we want. The bottom line is to impose our will on others, our stereotypes, our way of seeing things. I stress here the word « impose». It's not explaining or defending something: it's imposing. On the draft resolutions of the PS and the NAP, which establish a national day of trans visibility, we can divide them into two parts: the first is the consecration of March 31 as the national day of trans visibility and the second is the recommendation to the Government of an assessment of the health care of trans people and the verification, with the services of the Public Administration, of whether or not there is discrimination in relation to trans people. With regard to the first part of the draft resolutions on the consecration of the national day of the trans person, I would like to remind the ladies and gentlemen. Members who already exist the International LGBTI Pride Day +,... [[Congrats from PSD Members Emília Research and Monica Quintela.]] ... that aims to celebrate and raise awareness of the whole society about diversity and give evidence of the cause of these people, who, like all others, have the right not to be discriminated against by society.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-17.u114	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-17.u115	This day is celebrated worldwide, including in Portugal, and this year will be celebrated on 16 June. But, ladies and gentlemen. Members, to be more rigorous, we have to extend the spectrum of diversity, increasing the abbreviation for LGBTQICAPF2K +( lesbians, gays, bisexuals, transsexuals, Queers, questioning, intersexuals, curious, sex, sexual, sexual, family, two-spirit, kink and others). [[Mr Pedro dos Santos Frazão's laughs.]] In short, the phrase means: lesbians, women who like women; gays, men who love men; bisexuals, people who like both genders; transsexuals and transgenders—which we are discussing here— that are not seen in the gender of their birth, based on sexual organs; transvestites, who are born of male sex but have their identity in the feminine gender; queer, term in English that means "strange", but which includes people who identify themselves with all sexual orientations and genders; questioning, who does not know which their identity or sexual orientation; intersexualsexuals, term designated for who is born with ambiguous genitals; queer, term in English that means "strangerous", but who includes people who want to experience other things, even with the certainty of their sexual orientations or groups; sex, people who do not know which is a gender, gender, gender, gender, gender, gender, gender, gender, gender, gender, gender, gender, gender, and gender; and gender, and gender; and gender, and gender; and gender, gender; gender, gender; gender; gender; gender; gender, gender; gender; The question that arises, ladies and gentlemen. Members, it is the following: there is such a wide diversity, why create only one national day for the trans? Why not celebrate for each element of the acronym a national day? When we create this day for trans visibility, are we not further underlining the differences and discriminating these people? And will we not also be discriminating the other LGBTs, taking into account the previous ones I have mentioned?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-17.u116	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-17.u117	Ladies and gentlemen. Members, all the elements I mentioned earlier are people who have their options and characteristics. We're not here to condemn anyone. This Parliament, and very well, should include it. Tonight, Parliament was illuminated with rainbow colors by the rights of LGBT, celebrating the National Day against Homophobia and Transphobia, approved in 2015 by the Assembly of the Republic. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the PSD believes that LGBT rights are human rights, and we will all have to act to end discrimination against these people. Thus, and in conclusion, the PSD considers, firstly, that fundamental rights and freedoms should be guaranteed and respect for the principle of the State of democratic law and, therefore, the State should intervene, combating discrimination against persons, recommending to the Government the assessment and diagnosis of discrimination not only in relation to trans people, but also in relation to all the other diversitys set out above.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-17.u118	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-17.u119	Enounced by you!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-17.u120	Secondly, the PSD considers that dedicating the national day of trans visibility is highlighting differences, and if we want equality, this is not the way to achieve it. Finally, we believe that in an act of transparency the Government should clarify the annual money to promote the design of gender equality. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-17.u121	For an intervention on behalf of the PS Parliamentary Group, Mr Miguel Costa Matos has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-17.u122	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Today, the International Day against Homophobia, Transphobia and Biphobia is celebrated. It's not just an international day, like there are tens of others. It is the collective assertion that we learn from the mistakes of the past: with the error that criminalized freedom; the error that discriminated against love; the error that censured books and schools—yes, still today, Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen of arrive! — but it does so against the LGBT community; the mistake that it killed, and which still kills today, not only like the others. Members say, abstract concepts, but concrete people, who kill out there, but here too, and that, so many times, falling short of death, causes suffering. This day is therefore much more than just a statement about the past; it is a compromise for the future. It is the commitment that we will not stop until there is true equality — equality for all families, not only for the families of good or traditional families — that this will never, but never, will be an accessory, marginal or prohibited matter, and that this struggle will never be just a minority, but it will be the struggle of all of us. Some wanted to make this a controversial, divisive debate, even impetuous. They say it's a woke agenda, isn't it, Mrs Emília Cerqueira? — which divides society. by doing so - they are importing the worst tendencies of the extreme right : of the American, of the Brazilian and also of the one who sits in this House.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-17.u123	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-17.u124	We could well be tempted to draw here today the dividing lines between the tolerant and the intolerant, the progressive and the conservative. Some say hate won't happen, others say left divisionist won't happen. Never mind! What a strange speech, coming from a liberal! [[Protests from PSD MP Joana Barata Lopes.]] But no. We must resist the temptation of cleavage to appeal to unity. Yes, because today should be the same about this, about unity: unity of common sense, equality, respect. What the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group is presenting today is not the same: equality, good sense, respect. With a national day of trans visibility, we have created an opportunity for, in the midst of the foam of the days, to give visibility to the day-to-day of so many people who, being equal to each one of us, face a reality so different and discriminatory; we have created an occasion for, by bringing this reality to light, obscures, entangles and silences prejudice. Secondly, we propose that the change of sex and name in the civil register be communicated automatically, informally and free of charge to other registers, including commercial and residential records. Yes, because the dead name should not be raised to exchange information that the State already has; yes, so that we do not limit the choice of names proper to the unequivocal expression of a male or female gender; and to make the social and informal name legal and official, which the law has already allowed, since 2018. My colleagues have already spoken in detail about the other two initiatives. Allow me to stay longer in the latter, starting with the questions: after all, why do we even have to be discussing this? Why does the State have to be paternalist, to the point of limiting freedom in choosing its own name? Why do you need to be sure of your name when I have a record of gender expressions? Why do you want to fit us into boxes of men or women? This is even an unusual legislative option in the European context.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-17.u125	Leave the people alone!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-17.u126	Moreover, it is found similar only in Denmark, Germany, the Czech Republic and Iceland. Do all these other countries worry about the fact that a father comes to put the name of a boy to a girl, or vice versa? Isn't this a preoccupation brought to the absurd? It is a particularly archaic option, when we check the way in which the demographic evolution of our population has also evolved our onomastic, vulgar, the list of proper names that are admitted to registration in our country. After all, is not the right to personal identity, to personality development, protected in our Constitution? I therefore ask the most skeptical—we already realize that there are some—what gives us, any of us here, the right to deny our compatriots the freedom to have something as personal, as intimate, as their own name?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-17.u127	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-17.u128	We do not — nor can we — with ethnic or religious minorities. Why, then, would we do it with gender identity, with intersex people, with people who don't identify themselves in the gender binary, or simply with people who, identifying themselves with another gender, don't want to change legal sex, being, in fact, protected by the 2018 law? We know that we only force people to do this on paper. In fact, since 2018, we have allowed a person to identify for his or her initials. They are so concerned about names, but we allow people to identify themselves by their initials or by an adopted name, whenever it becomes necessary to identify data in an identification document that does not match a person's gender identity. Why, then, subject people to this process of adopting the initials or a name adopted, having two names, one on paper and the other adopted, when we can just accept—accept! — that everyone is called to understand, freely, with responsibility, with respect? Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, this is what this is about, and let it be clear to all: against homophobia and transphobia, for equality, common sense, respect, freedom, responsibility. It's what we need, it's what we ask, and the Portuguese too. [[P.S. and BE's applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-17.u129	For an intervention, on behalf of the parliamentary group of the Arrival, Mrs Rita Matias has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-17.u130	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Today, this House discusses that names may become neutral — whatever that is — in the land where Maria José or José Maria exist — and also discusses the consecration of the day of trans visibility. In the role of argumentation, we have seen many references to problems in access to work or health, but so far we have not seen a single statistical data or a single reference which is not a phrase made with false charity. With so many collective organizations and activists funded by public money or through foundations, how can it not be possible to have a single given in this debate? How many people are actually seeing access to denied work, depending on the expression of their sexuality? How many people are actually seeing denied access to health? No data? Or, on the other hand, will people pass on the only ones who have no access to health? So what about the 68-year-old citizen who died of cancer this week in Faro, after months waiting to be transferred to Lisbon or to Porto?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-17.u131	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-17.u132	My dear ones, access to health is scarce for everyone, not only for those who appear on the LGBT flag. [[Congrats from the CH.]] But let us see: in this debate, not only do they not present data, but they also speak only in names, rather than bring answers to the real problems they supposedly identify. If so, it is because the parties of this House do not want to have a serious debate, nor do they want to bring seriousness to this matter. What matters is the woke revolution, which is already in progress. I am not saying that, it is the Trans Visibility Day Manifesto, signed on 31 March, with the support of some parties, in which it is said, and I quote, "Let us go out in combat against the socio-economic system" and yet "to fight transphobia is to fight against a deeply racist and xenophobic society, heir to centuries of colonialism". Question : Where have you ever heard this Marxist Cartilage? What does this have to do with supposed sexual rights? The intentions are clear, because this is not about achieving equality, it is about imposing an agenda of moral and cultural relativism.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-17.u133	Moral Relativism? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-17.u134	Why, instead of trying to unite all citizens, equal to the law, around the flag that is ours, the national flag and the quinas, do they promote the rainbow flag, which only divides and divides? [[Congrats from the CH.]] Why, so far, have not illuminated the Parliament of Red on 6 August, the day of memory to the persecuted Christians? Why didn't they put the flag half a rod for the pregnant woman who died for lack of medical care in the Queen's Horses? But if we talk about trans visibility, then let us talk to the end, in particular of what they try to make invisible. A study conducted in 2021, at the University of Porto, tells us that 55% of the respondents who reverted their transition process did not receive an adequate evaluation by their doctor and 38% concluded that, after all, the alleged gender bias was, in fact, the manifestation of a trauma, abuse or mental illness. at a time when access to mental health is scarce, instead of this House approving the proposal of the Arrival, of strengthening psychologists in schools, prefers to create the figure of the gender counselor, someone non-professional who will think about the sexuality of the children of Portuguese. In the name of trans visibility, this House also approved that the bathrooms and the bathrooms of their children's schools will be accessed according to, and I quote, "the express will" of children and young people, whether that is the will expressed by a trans person, an abuser or a rapist. The criterion is only, and only, that of the express will. Now, knowing the irresponsibility of what they propose, they pretend that they did not propose mixed bathrooms. But I wanted to say that even your friend "conservative", who was someone who, during the electoral period, "transvestted" as a conservative, said that he only proposes unessex bathrooms who have no daughters or wives, and that this idea is an idea of Satan. I am quoting Luiz Inácio Lula da Silva, the gentleman you received so hot. [[Congrats from the CH.]] But do you know who's becoming invisible? The women. Currently, the title of the U.S. swimming university championship does not belong to a biological woman. The most beautiful woman title in the world does not belong to a biological woman. More: even buffer ads are already made by trans people!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-17.u135	Are you jealous? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-17.u136	And saying this is not prejudiced. It is to point out the hypocrisy of these feminists who, at the first opportunity, say that even a biological man plays a better role as a woman than women themselves. This sad society, which does not progress, only deteriorates. In the name of trans visibility, children are being exposed to early erosion, shows with drag queens or even reading books in the FNAC with the sponsorship of a gay discotheque in Lisbon.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-17.u137	Ui! Look at that!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-17.u138	Using a biblical reference already mentioned here by Mr. President of the Assembly of the Republic, «for everything there has been a time under the heavens». So what I'm asking you to do is to respect the time of the children. Don't make them doubt just because of what they see in the mirror.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-17.u139	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-17.u140	As a daughter, as a sister, as a cousin, as an aunt and even as a woman who wishes, one day, to be a mother and to see her children grow up here in Portugal, I ask you, please: leave the children alone. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-17.u141	Leave our children!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-17.u142	For an intervention on behalf of the PS Parliamentary Group, Mr Pedro Delgado Alves has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-17.u143	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Let us get closer to the final stage of the debate and, while there are still some comments to be made about the initiatives presented, I think it is important to understand, or remember, why this day exists,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-17.u144	Because it's on the calendar!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-17.u145	... because it is that May 17 is celebrated and because this is not an obstacle to us being able to celebrate other moments and to mark other equally relevant, equally important days. It is days that are precisely linked to the identification of a problem, a risk, of people who are target of attack, of anger, of hatred, of discrimination against others and who therefore lack society to embrace them on that day, recognize their struggle and recognize their identity. That is why, throughout the year, at various times, we do it and point it out. This is a day to do three things, basically: the first is to celebrate the fact that it has been, and to continue to be, possible steps forward; the second is to remember those steps that we have taken, to realize where we have been wrong, where we have fallen short of what we need, where we can improve; and the third is to move forward. The day to move forward is perhaps the most important aspect that we should highlight today, because the fight for rights is a struggle that is never over, because it has always had opponents, because it always has someone who is more interested in misinformationing, manipulating, instrumentalizing people's problems for his own benefit. So it is never too much — once a year it will certainly not be too much — remember it and underline it again. But I would like to leave some comments to others of the initiatives that have been put forward, also to frame a little of what I hope may be the debate in the specialty. As regards the citizenship card, there are several proposals that are presented, some with a greater degree of complexity than others. The citizen card is, in appearance, only one card, but there is much more information and much more information than it contains, and not all that is proposed is easy to implement quickly. Therefore, it is necessary to distinguish the information contained in the chip and the information accessed through the citizen card from what is displayed on the card. Obviously, the first presents more reprogramming difficulties, because it implies changing a system that is built in binary form and must evolve in another sense, but in which it is not so easy to change. But as for the physical card itself, what it exposes itself can in fact be reduced and limited to the essential. It is perfectly viable, once the existing copies have been exhausted, to stop stating an M or an F. This does not change anything and it is not as difficult as making structural, computer-related, much more complex changes and transformations. But now, too, and then we have this debate in the specialty, there are some misconceptions about the costs of the citizen's card and about them in particular. Because there are emoluments that are paid by record changes, which are not confused with the issue of a new physical card, the cost of which is indeed quite low. So we have to understand exactly what this is about: is it to exempt the emission value of a new citizen card, which is about €18, €20, or are we talking about emoluments? Both are relevant when it comes to identity issues.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-17.u146	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-17.u147	That is, we are not talking about a change motivated by the will of the person, because he married or because he changed his address, but about aspects of his identification, his self-determination. So, obviously, with space for this debate and this discussion in the specialty, we have to look precisely at this subject. The second is that of the registrar. We ourselves have evolved from the original proposal we intended to present, which was a draft law, because we realize that there are, in fact, far more matters that need a survey and data collection about the cross-cutting impact that changes in records may have beyond the civil register. Therefore, it is important to make this complete diagnosis, so that later changes, speed, freeness in some cases and automation can be guaranteed in the best way. And if we cannot follow exactly some of the proposed drafts, especially those which, eventually, relate to third party rights, it is important in the specialty that we can guarantee what does not create any difficulty and in which I think the House will agree: what concerns individual self-determination of a person, in his or her civil identification, must be something that is not dependent on the will of anyone else to be changed. And we all know why? It's not magic, it's because we actually talk to people...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-17.u148	They're in the galleries!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-17.u149	... and because the people, who have difficulties and who face them on a day-to-day basis, turn to the parliamentary groups—to those who have put forward proposals, to some of those who have not responded. But it will not be surprising that some parties do not have access to information, because, if they spend the day denying, vilipentiating and diabolicizing these people, they may not be the first choice at the level of communication to a public entity of the problems they face in their daily lives. Therefore, it is not difficult to make this effort to seek information, it is not difficult to understand what is happening in other countries and, above all, it is not difficult to see that, today, there is still enough reasons and much to do in this area. There is still discrimination, no one denies it; there is still violence that costs people's lives, no one denies it; in the plane international relations, unfortunately, every week we are given several times with unimaginable medieval setbacks as regards the protection of many of these people, prohibiting and denying their existence times and times without account.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-17.u150	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-17.u151	Within the European Union itself, we have not yet been able to achieve uniform fundamental rights in this area, which also makes it more difficult to achieve the objectives of an area of fundamental rights which should be the same for all. But above all, it focused, to finish, on two fundamental aspects. It is not just, as has been said during the debate and has already been emphasized, a lack of education at the school level or in training for people who are in the public service. Obviously, that is fundamental and we are still behind. However, we have a challenge that adds to this because, apart from the lack of information, we have misinformation today.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-17.u152	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-17.u153	We have those who intentionally propagate false information, in order to create an scapegoat, an external enemy to whom they can carry out responsibilities, to whom they can denounce and who can serve as an external enemy for their populist agendas. Therefore, unfortunately, in this plan, we are today worse than throughout all those milestones that we have discussed over the last decades, since homosexuality was decriminalized in 1982, or the moment when it became part of the text of the Constitution, non-discrimination based on sexual orientation. That is why, unfortunately, we are worse because today there are those who want to take advantage of the weakest and those who are most abandoned in society at many times to serve their own agendas. For all these, I repeat, for all these, we will never cease to be on the side of those who want to be free and those who want to be self-determined. It is not a matter of leaving anyone in peace: it is a matter of guaranteeing peace to all those who, as our fellow citizens, deserve it. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-17.u154	The honourable Member has a request for clarification. To formulate it, you have the floor of Mrs Rita Matias of the Arrival.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-17.u155	Mr President, Mr Pedro Delgado Alves, it is not surprising that the Socialist Party, with almost 30 minutes of debate, has not yet mentioned a single concrete fact, a single objective number.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-17.u156	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-17.u157	Look up there!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-17.u158	Therefore, since you say you have access to so many data, since you say that the organizations only contact you, your group and your friends, then please, in the name of your group's credibility, in the name of the credibility of this discussion, bring the data to the collation, share them with the whole House, distribute these documents that you say you have to be able to believe that what you are doing is not just shaking a flag to use these people according to your progressive agenda.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-17.u159	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-17.u160	I think this would be fundamental to the debate and to really understand who is instrumentalizing people. One thing I guarantee you: only the party arrived did quote data. Because we are not concerned with instrumentalizing people, we are concerned about the best interests of the Portuguese. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-17.u161	To reply, Mr Pedro Delgado Alves has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-17.u162	The fact I wanted to quote is: one! A person is sufficient to ensure the legislative amendment and, at any time, to ensure rights to those who have difficulty in the civil registration, in the amendment of the citizenship card, in the impossibility of recognizing his identity. One is enough to this bench and those who are on the side of fundamental rights! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-17.u163	Who? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-17.u164	A person today can be 10 people tomorrow, and the law, if they don't know, if they have forgotten it, is general and abstract.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-17.u165	You don't know!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-17.u166	And, in fact, they're not friends who come to talk to each other. They are people who know in whom they can trust, in the sense that they know who in the past has opened the door to freedom and self-determination. And it's with all the joy that this door keeps open. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-17.u167	Not a dice! Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-17.u168	Data!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-17.u169	For an intervention on behalf of the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mrs Emilia Cerqueira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-17.u170	Mr President, we have just heard Mr. Pedro Delgado Alves, in his final speech, that it is enough for a person to be concerned about the Socialist Party. The PSD deeply regrets that this concern is not seen when thousands of women cannot, for example, have a child and the PS is not concerned about getting it! [[Well remembered!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-17.u171	That's such a bad thing!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-17.u172	It is essential that you look at the Portuguese as a whole! [[PSD applause.]] Human rights is everyone's access, everyone's access. Because, for PSD, everyone is important. And this debate is important...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-17.u173	My Lady! How does the PSD make an intervention of these? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-17.u174	Mr. Eurico Brillante Dias, I understand that you are very nervous because the PS is having many problems here next door in the Committee of Inquiry.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-17.u175	All right! [[Mr Pedro dos Santos Frazão's laughs.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-17.u176	I understand that you want to divert attention, but let's talk about what brought us here, which is a legislative debate scheduled by the party that you are leading in this House. We are concerned about all the men and women who are victims of all kinds of discrimination — all of them! We are concerned that all Portuguese and Portuguese have access to the care they need. And 'all Portuguese and Portuguese' includes trans—image citizens! Trans citizens are, for us, citizens with the same dignity as all other citizens.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-17.u177	Talk to Enough!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-17.u178	However, as yesterday, we have never been with initiatives that do not take the general interest into account and that need weighting.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-17.u179	The general interest? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-17.u180	Vote against everything!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-17.u181	Allow me to finish, Mr President, you are not giving me any conditions to finish, and I would really like you to hear me carefully, as I do, even when I do not agree with you. Democracy, tolerance and human rights are also what we hear with respect, something that you have not known to have during all this debate. I'm just asking you to do this. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-17.u182	Therefore, returning to the debate, because fortunately I still have time — the honourable Member has not been able to exhaust me — for the PSD at the end of this debate there are two or three notes which seem to us to be fundamental. One of them is that all citizens, all Portuguese and Portuguese, really need to be treated with dignity, equality and without any discrimination, regardless of their sexual orientation, gender, religion, as the Constitution says. That's something we always fight for.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-17.u183	What a reactionary right! Smells like mofo!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-17.u184	That does not mean that we always agree with measures that have been taken. This has already started in 2018 and, as Mrs. Isabel Alves Moreira pointed out, these decisions are often taken without any medical support, which has been causing various problems, as you know.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-17.u185	No medical support? Oh, my God! On the contrary! Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-17.u186	And the PSD, in that part, never accompanied the PS. On the amendment of the name, which is a fundamental amendment, it must comply with the procedures already laid down in the law which clearly already protects the rights of citizens — also trans. Finally, to finish, and because Mrs. Joana Mortagua accused me of a series of things: Madam Member, just to tell you that I voted in favour of adoption by couples of the same sex.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-17.u187	What about WFP? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-17.u188	What about the PSD?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-17.u189	He spoke specifically of me, and I will therefore answer him in concrete terms. I voted in favour of adoption, I voted in favour of WFP. I have always voted in favour of equal rights, which I clearly advocate, never discrimination.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-17.u190	What about gay marriage? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-17.u191	Now, sharing people more and more into smaller drawers and thus creating new discriminations will not count on us. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-17.u192	Mr Pedro Pinto has the floor for an intervention on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-17.u193	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Socialist Party has brought us today this debate on self-determination of gender identity and expression. It is undoubtedly the most current subject, the subject of the moment in Portugal, and that is what concerns the Portuguese.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-17.u194	It's the ball! Is that what
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-17.u195	The Socialist Party wants to cover the sun with a sieve, want to talk about fracturing issues of society, such as this or euthanasia. But today, May 17, many Portuguese are already making accounts at the supermarket because they don't know how to put food on the table! [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-17.u196	Yeah...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-17.u197	More: thousands are in the food bank asking for help! And today it has been discovered that another minister of this government is lying. Be the Minister of Justice, the Minister of Infrastructure, one of them lies! This was discovered, once again, in 1. The Commission, and you want to cover up, want to hide that. But with us, they won't be able to do it! [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-17.u198	No, no! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-17.u199	God, Homeland, Family, Work and Freedom!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-17.u200	Freedom, no!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-17.u201	Freedom, yes! We don't discriminate against anyone, but don't come with the history of phobias.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-17.u202	Yes, phobias!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-17.u203	It is you, with the history of phobias, who discriminate against people. You're the gentlemen who come with this story. Freedom is not imposed. And you want to impose your dictatorship of taste, but with us they won't pass! [[Congrats from the CH.]] [[Protests from BE MP Joana Mortagua.]] Finally, Mr President, we have also seen what is going on in Portugal around the world, particularly in the European Union.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-17.u204	Mr. President, time? Oh, my God! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-17.u205	The rainbow color vocabulary!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-17.u206	What about the lyrics of your tie? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-17.u207	The Assembly of the Republic with the rainbow colors? Oh, my God! No, we won't allow that! The only colours that may be on the front of the Assembly of the Republic are those of the Portuguese flag. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-17.u208	But what is this? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-17.u209	Then Augusto Santos Silva, President of this Assembly of the Republic, wrote on Twitter yesterday: "All citizens have the same social dignity and are equal before the law. No one may be privileged, benefited, harmed, deprived of any right». We totally agree! What is certain is that you have deprived a parliamentary group of the right to go on State travel with the President of the Assembly of the Republic. [[PS and PCP rice.]] « Well preach Brother Thomas, do as he says, do not do what he does». [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-17.u210	We want another 1 minute too, Mr President!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-17.u211	With no further inscriptions, I give the floor to close the debate on behalf of the Socialist Party, Mr Eurico Brillante Dias.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-17.u212	I call for an appeal to the Bureau, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-17.u213	Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-17.u214	Mr President, I just wanted to ask why a parliamentary group can use almost two more minutes without being alerted to the fact that its time is running out. Is this the way we now have to rule our times? This is because, in fact, it seems to me to be unequal in view of the normal management of the work.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-17.u215	Oh! It's discrimination!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-17.u216	Anyway, I'm leaving this note alone. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-17.u217	The honourable Member has made an inquiry to the Bureau about the conduct of the work and what I have to say is that I have sought to be balanced in the management of the times, including tolerances.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-17.u218	Mr. President, just look.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-17.u219	As you can verify, it is enough to look at and see that there are several parliamentary groups that have exceeded the times. I'm going to draw attention.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-17.u220	I don't fight!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-17.u221	Normally, when it comes to presidents of parliamentary groups, I have greater tolerance and, when they are invetivating myself, I also try to give room for this invetivation to take place. [[Congrats from PSD MP Lina Lopes.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-17.u222	We will then end our debate, with a closing intervention, which will be done through Mr Eurico Brillante Dias of the PS.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-17.u223	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Today, May 17, is a day of struggle for human rights. It is a day against discrimination, against the inevitability of regularities, formats and normalities that diminish each human being. May 17th is more than the fight against homophobia, transphobia and biphobia. It is truly a day of minorities that we are all part of and that, at some point in life, are discriminated against. It's the day we discuss the full life of all of us. It is the day we fight against social codification that is at the basis of the establishment of differences and therefore also, how often, of discrimination. This discrimination is the basis, the humus, which causes hate speech to advance when the difficulties tighten or even because they concern minorities who are not at any time the priority of the majority of the circumstances. For some, everything is always more important than the discussion of difference and discrimination, everything is adversarial to the problems of the presumed majority. It is also for this which serves the evocative and celebratory days, so that we cannot—because we cannot! - to escape the subject. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr President, history has taught us that there are no smaller or less important lives. There are no lifespans. The life of each and every one is, in freedom, unique and unrepeatable. The vulgarization of anathemas, which have unfortunately come to emerge forcefully and which establish categories — those of foreign origin, those of particular ethnicity or believers in a particular religion — always ends up in the emergence of the speech of hatred, in ordering one against the other and, how often, in blaming some for the results of the collective. We saw this in the growth of fascisms in Europe, in Weimar Germany or in pre-Mussolini Italy.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-17.u224	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-17.u225	And we have also, sadly, seen their impact on the lives of millions of human beings. Tolerance, inclusive speech, consecration and defense of rights are always fragile in the face of a society that, in a state of need, is unable to prevent an adverse selection of minorities. And it is all the more fragile than political leaders do not realize that education for equality and for the free and democratic exercise of rights is essential for us to be able, at the most difficult times, to distinguish our collective as a social body that respects the difference and does not embark on discrimination as a response to any issue of the community. The amendment of the German Constitution in 1935 did not preclude the emphasis on violence against the homosexual community which the Republic of Weimar was seeking to soften. He did not cease to drink in a cultural broth of guilt and discrimination, in a terrible application of human hatred, witnessed dramatically in the concentration camps. Everything, everything, executed by so-called normal people, within the pattern, within the format, in a terriblely scary normality. The banalization of discrimination and violence are the very context of the banality of evil. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, human rights are not negotiable, they are not adversarial, hierarchical, nor even referendable within the framework of each individual's freedom. [[P.S.'s applause.]] There is no dictatorship that does not make sexuality a weapon of shooting, typifications and stereotypes that question, some say, a presumed majority. The assertion of the difference of each and each as a personal heritage is not negotiable. If we don't, we don't make a contribution to stopping the hate speech we say we want to fight. The fight for human rights is not over. It's getting more and more modern today. That is also the case in the defence of human rights, which we are fighting for democracy and freedom. It is also here that we hold back the hatred that undermines trust in institutions and does not normalize the discourse of the extreme right that, as always, uses the difference for its policy of confrontation with democratic political systems. So today, May 17, we fight prejudice, hate speech and discrimination. We fight for all and for all, for a full citizenship. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-17.u226	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we have reached the end of our work. The meeting tomorrow, Thursday, at 3 p.m., has the agenda set, positively, the request of the Parliamentary Group of the Arrival, consisting of the joint discussion of the Bills Nos 761/15 / 1. a ( CH) — By relieving the effort rate of Portuguese families, by amending the diploma establishing measures to mitigate the effects of the increase in the reference indexers of credit contracts for the purchase or construction of permanent own housing and 782/XV/1. a ( BE) — Change the rates applicable to the contribution scheme on the banking sector in general and to Resolution Projects No 621 / XV / 1. a ( CH ) — Renegotiating the conditions of the State loan for financing the BES-New Bank resolution process, 677 / XV / 1. a ( CH) — Recommends that the Government implement solutions for all those injured in the Bank and 696 / XV / 1. a (PAN) — Recommends that the Government create a brake on the rise of the provision of housing credit. There will be votes at the end of the debate. The session is closed. [[It was 17 hours and 2 minutes.]]
