ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u1	Good morning to all of us. We have quorum, so we will start our session. [[It was 10 hours and 5 minutes.]] I welcome the ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Secretary of State, the ladies and gentlemen. Officials, the ladies and gentlemen. Journalists and the ladies and gentlemen. Authorities, I ask you to open the galleries to the public. [[Pause.]] Thank you very much. The first item on the agenda is the general discussion of the Proposal for a Law No 92 / XV / 1. a ( GOV ) — Authorizes the Government to transpose Directive ( EU ) 2020 / 1828 on collective actions for the protection of consumer interests. To present this bill, Mr. Secretary of State of the Sea has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u2	Ex. Mrs. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Government is here today to present a bill that is incorporated into the consumer protection policy, the protection of which is the responsibility of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and the Sea. It is, therefore, with a deep sense of duty that I represent today the pasta with the protection of consumers, an area that concerns us all, indeed. The purpose of this proposal is to authorize the Government to lay down rules for the transposition of Directive ( EU ) 2020 / 1828, of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 November on national and transnational collective actions aimed at protecting the general interests of consumers and the homogenous individual interests of a group of consumers. This legislative initiative was prepared by the Directorate-General for Consumer Affairs in close cooperation with the Directorate-General for Justice Policy, given the matter concerned. In fact, the protection of consumer rights and interests is at stake, through a judicial collective action. In accordance with the transposition directive and with the national diploma that transposes it, these judicial actions are attempted in response to infringements of national and European Union law, committed by companies, which have injured consumers or are likely to damage the collective interests of consumers. It is therefore at stake that access to justice and the provision of inhibitory and consumer repair measures and the strengthening of procedural means for the protection of the collective interests of consumers, ensuring the high level of protection of consumers in Portugal and the European Union. These collective actions meet one of two objectives: to obtain a remedy for damage caused by a company to consumers or to obtain an inhibitory measure to put an end to an illegal practice against consumers. As a result of this type of action and as a measure of compensation for damage, it will be possible to obtain compensation for injured consumers as well as other measures such as the replacement of goods, price reduction, termination of the contract or reimbursement of the value paid by consumers. This new regime provides for national collective actions, anchored in the current law of popular action, and transnational collective actions — a solution that is, at national level, the great novelty of this regime. Transnational collective actions shall be brought in by qualified entities in a Member State other than the one in which the action is attempted. Collective actions thus gain a transnational character within the European Union, moving consumers to be more protected in the internal market. In the case of transnational actions, it shall be up to the Directorate-General of the Consumer to evaluate and, consequently, to designate who will be the qualified entities to try this type of action—which, in most cases, will be consumer associations— by notifying the European Commission thereof, advertising this list, as well as disseminating the collective actions, ongoing and completed, to the knowledge of consumers and businesses. With a view to preventing the misuse of collective actions, the Directive lays down the obligation of Member States to lay down rules on the financing of such actions in order to avoid conflicts of interest and to ensure that the financing by third parties having an economic interest in the proposal or in the result of collective action does not deviate from the collective action of their purpose to protect the collective interests of consumers. I would also like to highlight an important contribution which the Government's proposal represents to the public consumer protection policy in Portugal because it not only incorporated the solutions provided for in the directive as it has further improved the existing legal regime. There are already five spontaneous contributions from civil society associations representing consumers and economic operators at parliamentary level, and before the transparency of the legislative procedure. Compulsory consultations are still lacking with the National Consumer Council, a government advisory body where the interests and rights of consumers are concerned, as well as with the Higher Council of the Magistracy, the Superior Council of the Public Ministry, the Order of Lawyers and the National Data Protection Commission. All these contributions will be considered and will certainly enrich the legislative proposal. In conclusion, the important transposition into national law of the Directive on national and transnational collective actions has of course a strong component of harmonising rights and level of protection between the different Member States, clearly leading to a strengthening of consumer rights at national level, but also a strengthening of the collective interests of Portuguese consumers where they are affected by practices of economic operators in other Member States. Today's proposal is to give this European dimension, strengthening the rights and interests of consumers that are integrated into the wider market than the national market, which is the European market. Today, by contributing to the transposition of this important directive, the Assembly of the Republic and the Government strengthen the protection of consumers in Portugal, so that the exercise of their rights is fair and more effectively exercised and that the injuries of companies to consumers are properly repaired. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u3	The Bureau shall record an inscription requesting clarification from the Secretary of State. To make this request for clarification, Mr. Hugo Carneiro, of the PSD Parliamentary Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u4	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members: This debate here today, however esoteric it may seem, is very relevant.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u5	It doesn't look esoteric!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u6	We will introduce into national legislation rules that defend consumers and that do so more in harmony with what has happened in other countries as well. So this is something that is done in conjunction with the European Union. However, and because we have many doubts about the documents we have received from the Government, we have some difficulty in having this debate today by the Secretary of State who has this folder not here. Still, I will ask the questions, hoping to get the answers. The first question I would like to leave has to do with this: there is a disagreement in the draft authorized decree, which is presented by the Government, between the preamble and Article 1. the, because it is said that these actions can be brought forward in the cases set out in Annex I to the Directive — that is what is written in Article 1. the draft authorized decree, when in the preamble it is said that the objective is that actions may be brought not only in such cases, but also when other legislation on consumer law is violated. So there's something here that's disparate. Was it a lapse? Will it be corrected? What is our opinion on this? It is that we should allow the scope of this decree to be approved by the Government with the consent of Parliament to be as wide as possible, precisely in order to be able to cover other legislation, which not only the situations laid down in Annex I to the Directive and which Community law allows. Another question has to do with those who pay the compensation. That is, if an entity is convicted, who is responsible for distributing the compensation money? There is no guidance on this, but we find, for example, that, whenever it is possible to make distribution at its own expense, it must be the entity condemned to do the distribution. Imagine that a large energy distribution operator is condemned for any reason related to consumer rights. If he can do the distribution, why shouldn't he be doing it? What role, for example, does the Directorate-General for Consumer Affairs play in this regard? For qualified entities, it is also not clear enough, for example, the issue of payment of fees, because we can take these entities to such a point that it becomes uninteresting to promote actions that defend the interests of consumers. We also have something to improve there, I guess. Then, as far as disclosure is concerned, it is said that these sentences should be disclosed in the most diverse ways, but here too we should go further, so that condemned entities have to advertise this on their websites, for example, or to inform consumers. We are likely to fall short of what we could do in this area too. Then — and as we know that a sensitive point of this legislation has to do with the financing operations of qualified entities that can intervene on behalf of consumers — these financing operations are credit operations, but regulators, in particular the Banco de Portugal, are not found in them. Does this mean that any person can finance the imposition of such actions by qualified entities without regulation of any kind? Oh, my God! Nothing is said about this, too, and there are opinions that draw attention to this detail. Then we will assume more responsibilities to the Directorate-General for Consumers, in particular in the registration and verification of qualified entities, and there is one doubt that we are: does the Directorate-General of Consumers have sufficient means, humans and technicians for this new assignment? Will the government strengthen these means if necessary? We would like to have a commitment from the Government here so that we are not approving legislation that then « dies on the beach» because there is a lack of means for its implementation. The Government also says that, in the draft authorized decree, a number of entities have been consulted, but does not speak in the authorities. And the authorities are one of the entities which have powers, in particular, as qualified entities. Why haven't they been heard? Will they be heard? Are you going to be involved? For now, these were the questions I would like to ask and we will soon see the rest of the debate. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u7	To reply, Mr. Secretary of State of the Sea, José Maria Costa, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u8	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much for the questions. I would like to inform you that, of course, this bill is from the Government and that Mr. Secretary of State for Tourism, Commerce and Services is not because he is currently in Georgia, where a set of tourism-related premiums will be awarded, and Portugal will also be able to receive certain premiums in this area.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u9	All right, Georgia!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u10	I would also like to thank the contributions and the issues raised. Above all, what is intended is that, in the context of the specialty and the consultations to be made, some of the rules may be densified. Some of the issues you have raised are, in fact, relevant, but there is a new subject, even in terms of European transposition and harmonisation, in particular in the areas of replacement for the self-employed, in which there are also some doubts and different levels of care. But I believe that this will also be a matter where, within the scope of the specialty, we can enrich and densify some of these same rules through the contributions that will be requested. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u11	Only if you're in Mr. Secretary of State's office!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u12	We now move on to the period of intervention and to this end I have the floor of Mr Bruno Nunes of the Parliamentary Group of the Arrival.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u13	Madam President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u14	Mr. Hugo Carneiro asked for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u15	For a point of order to the Bureau on the conduct of the proceedings, Madam President.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u16	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u17	Mr President, it is only to clarify that what we are discussing today, on our agenda, is a legislative authorization.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u18	It is! Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u19	Therefore, we are not discussing the decree itself, that is, it will not come out of here the specialty. It was just to clarify that.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u20	The agenda is known, Mr.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u21	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u22	For an intervention, Mr Bruno Nunes, of the Parliamentary Group of the Arrival, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u23	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Secretary of State, Mr. Members: Let us begin with this last statement. That is to say, with regard to transpositions, we could begin by analysing the annual report on monitoring the application of European Union law and once again realise that the Socialist Party and the Government are delaying and delaying, with consequences and in such a way as to entitle the Portuguese State for consecutive delays, the transposition of the directives.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u24	It has nothing to do with it!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u25	But this is done in such a way and this time, incompetence is in such a way that the Secretary of State for Protection is not and sent the Secretary of State for the Sea. In other words, this basically works so—for people to realize, at home— : we pass through Brussels and tell us 'Look, here is this dossier of transpositions that you have to make, there on your land'; bring it here and, meanwhile, deliver it to someone who has to solve the problem, and say 'O Zé, transcrive this', and Zé transcrives. [[Mr Pedro Pinto's laughs.]] Zé transcribed this and, however, as Mr. Secretary of State of the Sea was the least busy said to him: "Look, you're going there tomorrow to deal with this." [[Mr Pedro Pinto's laughs.]] And there he came to take care of the matter, not knowing exactly what we were talking about.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u26	It could be the sport's!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u27	It could be Sports, it could be anyone else to deal with the matter. [[PS protests.]] [[CH's laughs.]] No one knows well what you came here to deal with!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u28	Are we on the job? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u29	But it is so loudly that you do not know what you are coming here to deal with that bill concludes with the following: « This decree shall enter into force on 25 June 2023. Do not keep on seeking. ” Let's be serious! Let's take care of things as it should be! You banish this completely. However, we have also heard here and come to the conclusion that consumers... but even the PSD — and we no longer know its ideological position — want to know about the defenses that may be inherent in companies here; no longer even knowing whether or not there can be abusive litigation and that we are trying to make the Portuguese rule of law in the United States of America almost. It is a nonsense of set of actions that do not have any regulation, in which we do not understand exactly how funding is made to qualified entities. [[L. Protests.]] I mean, it's all very vague. And Mr. Secretary of State, because you received the pasta last night, there at 1 o'clock in the morning— they sent this to you by WhatsApp, saying 'Go talk about it tomorrow'—come here and say: « We are prepared to discuss this in the specialty ». But what speciality? Oh, my God! There's no specialty, even. So let's be serious: you don't know what you're doing. [[PS Member Protests António Monteirinho.]] We know more, because we studied. You don't study, you're back there and so you don't even have the right to talk. [[CH's laughs.]] [[PS protests.]] So let's see if this question... [[Continued PS protests.]] Take it easy! After morning? Oh, my God! Take it easy...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u30	Mr Bruno Nunes, you must respect your colleagues and you cannot say that you have no right to speak. The separates, as you know, are regimental,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u31	Ah! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u32	... provided that they do not prejudice the speech of the speaker.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u33	Oh, are they? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u34	In addition, Mr Frazão, please also keep silent, because the honourable Members are very concerned. Members are also making many distances, as you know.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u35	What about the PS? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u36	Please continue, Mr Bruno Nunes.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u37	Mr President, I believe that you certainly have not heard the side of the PS bench, but we are used to it and I am not even going to talk about it.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u38	Ah!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u39	Therefore, I continue to say that if you are not familiar with this matter, if you want to say that you are a member of this House, because you are sitting back there. I keep my position.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u40	You can talk back there!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u41	This issue can create a legal security problem. The mistransposition of this diploma can create a legal security problem for companies themselves and there is a security principle that needs to be applied. In addition, you go out there saying that this can be all solved and that they make the transposition, but I would like to know how they will solve the situation, because we have the courthouses, with consecutive delays in the resolution of proceedings and the problem of judicial officials, who are with all the delays. And you keep saying: "We're going to put more processes, more joint actions and we're going to deal with everything." Therefore, taking advantage of that he is Secretary of State of the Sea, I do not know whether he can launch the network and fish something, to explain to us once and for all whether this is given today or not to make fishing productive. But, honestly, do you know exactly what we're transposing? You know, exactly? He spoke of the associations that made the opinions, and asked: have you read the opinion of the CIP (Condédération Empresarial de Portugal)? Do you see how devastating it is for the Portuguese state, the way you want to transpose this?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u42	Ah! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u43	This should have been regulated...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u44	He's a CIP spokesman!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u45	600 votes!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u46	You guys had it!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u47	I don't know if seven advisors are enough to create a joint action regardless of who they are,... [[Mr André Ventura's laughs.]] ... but, in conclusion, what we would like to know is whether or not this transposition needs its own regulation to be clarified who are the qualified entities and how they are financed, so that there are no abusive problems and lack of legal certainty in the country. [[Congrats from the CH.]] [[L-protests and CH-protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u48	For an intervention, Mrs Fatima Correia Pinto of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u49	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members: We are discussing and discussing the legislative process for the transposition of the European Union directive on collective actions, which has this important responsibility to harmonise the various judicial regulations of the Member States in favour of greater protection of the collective interests of consumers, allowing, in general, easier access to justice and the repair of the damage suffered. In fact, collective actions, also known as ‘popular actions’, play a crucial role in a democratic state, as they are a substantial tool that enables citizens to exercise their rights and be compensated for the damage resulting from large-scale abusive practices in the most various areas of economic activity. It is true that Portugal has, since 1995, had a procedural mechanism governing popular actions and that it already includes many of the regulations advanced by the European Directive, hence this is not a transposition of the linear directive, as it has made it clear here,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u50	Want! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u51	... because it was necessary to harmonize the directive with the legislation that was already in force.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u52	That's how all the transpositions are.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u53	The same did not happen in other Member States where there was no legislation on popular actions. Therefore, the directive comes not only to provide the regime with greater clarity and transparency,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u54	Transpositions are always that!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u55	... but also ensure the existence of a procedural mechanism for collective, effective and efficient action at the disposal of consumers in all Member States. It is our view that the success of this directive, and consequently the success of collective actions, is dependent on three fundamental aspects provided for in the diploma: the empowered entities, the rules for financing actions and, finally, on information to consumers and the effective distribution of compensation or reparations to which they are entitled. With regard to qualified entities, the criteria which national entities must, cumulatively, meet and attest to their exemption and suitability, as well as the duty to disseminate all information on their websites which demonstrates compliance with the criteria, their sources of financing and their organisational structure, are unequivocally defined in the diploma. Therefore, this directive has now allowed a properly qualified national consumer defence association to intervene in cross-border action against a company in another Member State. With regard to the financing of collective actions, which is a novelty introduced by the directive, this is of extreme importance, since it enables consumer protection associations to debate against large companies, against great economic interests, for the sake of the legality and enforcement of citizens' rights — which otherwise was not allowed to consumers in a single way, much less so. However, it is essential that the rules applicable to financing are scrupulously and rigorous in order to ensure the independence of the applicant entities in relation to their financiers, as well as the absence of any conflict of interest as provided for in Article 10. the proposed law – ensures that collective action has as its primary purpose the protection of the collective interests of consumers. As regards the effective distribution of compensation, I stress the Government's choice of maintaining the self-exclusion mechanism, which was already applicable in the law of popular action in force. By way of it, contrary to what would happen in a self-inclusion mechanism, all consumers on behalf of whom the qualified entity has decided to try the action will be automatically represented and bound by its results, so that the entire universe of damaged consumers will have, in this way, the right to compensation or reparation, unless they expressly express the desire to be excluded from the action. The communication and dissemination of actions also plays an important role in ensuring the effective distribution of compensation, providing for the diploma a number of mandatory disclosure elements and information that should be available on the Internet pages, either of the applicants for collective action, or of the competent authority, through the single service portal. In conclusion, I note that this proposal for transposition has merited widespread acceptance by the various associations and entities which have expressed their views on it and whose opinions include important contributions, in particular with regard to the dissemination of actions and the distribution of compensation. These contributions should be taken into account by the Government during the evaluation of the implementation of this legislation, with a view to improving it and improving it, and we, Members and Parliament, are also linked and alert to this implementation, of course, for the protection of consumers — in this particular case, for the collective defence of consumers. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u56	For an intervention, Mrs Isabel Pires of the Left Block Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u57	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government : We are now before the debate on a subject which, from our point of view, is very relevant. We know that, particularly in recent decades, matters relating to consumer protection have gained some importance in public debate, but unfortunately they have not, from our point of view, had proper correspondence in relation to the protection mechanisms of these same consumers. In several areas, we have had many cases in which we see how difficult it is still for consumers to enforce their rights or even receive compensation for damage caused or potential damage that may be caused. Therefore, from this point of view, it seems relevant to us, in theory, that we may be discussing mechanisms that advance in this protection. But we went to check the opinions they had reached the Commission on the document we have on the table and they raise some concerns for us. First of all, and Mr. Secretary of State mentioned this, there are a number of hearings that would be absolutely essential before the presentation of this document, since then, of the National Consumer Council, but also of associations such as the DECO (Portuguese Consumer Defense Association), which is the largest in our country and also complains that it has not been heard in this process. Therefore, the document has ended up not having the contribution of those who represent consumers, and this seems to us to be a serious failure in this process. This serious failure leads to later failures in the way in which the proposal is defined. For example, with regard to the link between popular actions and now collective actions—which are not the same thing, Mrs Fatima Correia Pinto—the DECO draws attention, for example, so that it would be necessary to expedite the mechanism of collective action, which is already in the Portuguese legal system, and has been alerted to this need for several years, so that more people can have access and that their own funding may be more scrutinyable; and also for fear that there may be a limitation of the scope of these collective actions. It seems important to us that this does not happen and that there is a possibility of joint action between these two actions, but without withdrawing autonomy from either of them, which is absolutely unclear in this process. On the issue of financing, there is also a warning from various opinions which have reached the Assembly of the Republic, of the need to ensure that the Consumer Fund plays a guaranteed role in the financing of these actions, not only in order to ensure that potential conflicts of interest are avoided, as well as has been pointed out, but also in order to ensure access to justice. From this point of view, several associations have made a number of repairs to what is in the bill on the issue of financing. Then, as I have already mentioned, we also have the question of maintaining the autonomy of popular action in the face of the collective action that is now proposed, as well as the question of the lack of sanction for failure to comply with the duty of information on decisions passed in trial, for example. Therefore, it seems to us that it would be necessary for the Government to have heard a number of these associations before we are discussing this authorization in Parliament, which had taken account of a number of these opinions and already had the mandatory hearings on this matter. on such an important issue, on which we need even greater security for consumers, it seems to us that we are getting far beyond what is necessary. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u58	The Bureau doesn't have any more inscriptions, so we'll pass...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u59	I call on you to speak, Madam President.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u60	You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u61	You're not registered and you have the word? You have to sign up!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u62	Mr President, Dear colleagues : It is often said that the European Union, having been built first as an economic reality, has its power structures diverted to business. This is not entirely true, since the European Union is an area of restraint, as is Portugal, and there have been cases since the beginning where individual citizens could bring companies into court and win. Costa vs. ENEL is one of the best known cases, but a 25-year-old Austrian boy has defeated Facebook in court, and this is not easy in other parts of the world. The question is that when they went to the Court of Justice of the European Union, consumer associations had a problem called 'procedural legitimacy' and their cases were refused. What this directive and its transposition into national reality have allowed is that this can happen, and the Free is not against it — indeed, it has been in our program since 2014. Since we have here the Secretary of State of the Sea, allow me to paraphrase Father António Vieira to say that this is the situation in which a very large fish eats many small, but the small ones, who gave for a great food for a long time, do not have the ability to organize themselves to defeat this great. And what has already been called'stupid' here today is basically that the small ones can be organized to defeat the big ones. But we know perfectly well that the honourable Member who has used this word realizes that it is in favour of the young, but it is always on the side of the great, when the occasion comes. He's always on the big side!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u63	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u64	What we want, and with this I conclude, Madam President, is that in Portugal there is an application as far as possible of this principle, so that, finally, the small ones have the possibility of,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u65	You're talking about yourself!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u66	... organizing themselves, defeating the big ones in court and thus being compensated for the hidden fees and the abuses of consumer law that we see every day.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u67	For an intervention, Mr Bruno Dias of the CFP Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u68	One minute is not two! You speak zero in Madeira!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u69	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries : As you know, usually the question of delay in the transposition processes of the directives is not a problem that the CFP raises ; it is not, for us, a central issue. But in this particular legislative process, the delay, the slowness, the way in which the process was delayed in the Assembly of the Republic is the demonstration of a process which should have had another form of participation and involvement.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u70	They don't like Europe! You shouldn't even talk about it!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u71	And, therefore, when the Government delivers on 2 June, this bill of legislative authorization, annexing a decree of law which is supposed to be in force 20 days later, and there is a set of mandatory consultations that are not carried out, this undermines the quality of the political debate and undermines, or at least compromises, the quality of the legislation itself to be adopted. We have consultations that have not been made and contributions that Mr. Secretary of State says will still be given, but that if they are not contradictory to the legislative authorization which will be approved here, at least they may not be covered by the meaning and extent of it. This can happen! And the question is, then, what will the government do? Is it going to bring a new bill to the Assembly of the Republic to incorporate the contributions to be submitted in compulsory proceedings such as, has it already been given as an example in the case of the National Consumption Council? Take this matter into account, of course, to serve as an example for future processes. In any case, it is noted that this is not the case with regard to the extension and the meaning of the authorisation that does not allow the inclusion of contributions that have already been made, such as the observations made by the DECO in particular, in which aspects of the content of the diploma are identified and that the Government cannot fail to take into account. On the one hand, the example of the exclusion of areas such as health or housing of the regime that is being taken into account here — it is a problem that can and should be prevented in a timely manner — and on the other hand, an aspect that should even raise more concerns, which is how to consider the concept of cross-border action with mechanisms and capabilities that the national actions themselves do not have. And this is an identified problem, which, either with regard to the realization of qualified entities from other Member States — which only they may require inhibitory measures or repair measures — or, even with regard to the designation of qualified entities, would also be justified for national collective actions. These are concrete examples and the question is very concrete; indeed, the opinions and the form up to the discourse of entities such as the CIP and — until I go further — the Portuguese Banks Association almost are medals that this bill could put to the heart. The problem is that, with regard to the specific options in the application of these mechanisms, there are warnings here that should be taken into account.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u72	You look like CIP's lawyer, you're quoting the report!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u73	And I conclude with this observation: this directive, Mrs. Members, it may have been a great advance for several countries in which there was not even a legislative framework for popular action, but we in Portugal have a popular action with constitutional dignity, which is provided for in Article 52. that of the Constitution, and, in this context, is not the same thing, but there is a very direct kinship in relation to collective action...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u74	It has nothing to do with it!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u75	... which is planned here. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u76	For a short speech, Mr. Hugo Carneiro, of the PSD Parliamentary Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u77	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members: We have concluded, in view of this debate, that the proposal must in fact be much more worked and the warning is now here: we will not impermissibility of legislative authorization, but, if the Government does not do its homework on the basis of the recommendations made by the various entities, the PSD will take the initiative to correct these shortcomings here, if the Government does not do so.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u78	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u79	And here I am also raising another issue, which I have not addressed recently, on the unclaimed compensation. The Government, in its proposal, says that they return to a fund managed by the State. We need to be more specific, we cannot leave this open because, any day, we have this fund to pay, for example, air conditioning or photovoltaic panels. So we have to be clear.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u80	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u81	In conclusion, I mean that the PSD position was constructive. We are not, for example, like other parties, like the Arrival, who came here to criticize the document that was presented by the Government,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u82	Yeah, it's wrong!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u83	...more to make consumer protection impossible than with some interest in defending consumers themselves. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u84	What about the PAN? Oh, my God! What about the PAN? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u85	We will move on to the closing stage, so I give the floor to Mr. Secretary of State of the Sea, José Maria Costa.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u86	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: I would naturally like to thank the contributions that have been made and to point out that we will pay attention to the suggestions and concerns that you have given. Members expressed themselves. I would also like to point out that, with this proposal for a law, we have a densification of consumer protection in what is already a Portuguese tradition, since Portugal has a robust legal framework for the instrumentation of collective action, with some delay in the transposition of this directive, which we recognise — indeed, it is only approved in 11 Member States — but we have a law of popular action and we also have a set of national legislation that protects consumers. I am sure, with the contributions of the honourable Members. Ladies and gentlemen, we will be able to have a more improved bill and thus we will also be able to guarantee consumer protection in the best way. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u87	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we have thus concluded the agenda item one and I am taking advantage of to say good-bye to you. State Secretaries. We move on to point two, which consists of the joint assessment of the Lein Projects 859 / XV / 1. a ( IL) — Approves the Basics Law of the Universal System of Access to Health, proceeding with the repeal of Law No 95 / 2019, of 4 September, 880 / XV / 1. a ( CH) — Alter the Health Bases Act, establishing the obligation of the State to refer the users of the National Health Service ( SNS ) for service in the private or social sectors in the event of exhaustion of guaranteed maximum response times, 884 / XV / 1. a ( PAN) — Authorizes the access of medical students to user health data registration systems, making the first amendment to Law No 58 / 2019, of 8 August and of the Resolution Project No 750 / XV / 1. a (CH) — Recommends that the Government take measures to increase the effectiveness, efficiency and productivity of the National Health Service, particularly in areas and regions most in need. To present the IL initiative, Mr. João Cotrim Figueiredo has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u88	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In previous political statements, the Liberal Initiative has already explained why our universal system of access to health ( SUS Health ). SUS Health is a response to the dire state of the SNS, a response that reduces waiting lists, a response that aligns the interests of patients, health professionals and taxpayers, a response that promotes preventive medicine and lasting healing, a response that promotes innovative therapies and combats waste, that is, as any liberal would say, SUS Health is a response that works and needs. The explanations have been given, today is the day of voting on SUS Health and of course each party is free to decide its own sense of vote, but if they choose to vote against, please do not invoke reasons that show that they have not read the proposal or choose to distort it.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u89	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u90	Do not say, as many have said here on the left, that IL wants to end the SNS, when anyone who does not want to reform anything is that condemns the SNS to decline and condemns, worse, the Portuguese, especially the poorest, to have poor health care. Do not say, as the PCP did, that IL wants to favour the private, when it is the PCP who refuses to reform the system that has made private medicine grow.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u91	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u92	Do not say, as did the Left Block, that we want to reintroduce PPPs (public-private partnerships),...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u93	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u94	...when they don't even make sense in the model we propose. Do not say, as the PCP did, that we find private management always better than the public, when, for us, it is perfectly acceptable that the public subsystem, which we defend that exists, may be the preferred of the Portuguese, because if it is the most chosen one it will be for the best. Nice to meet you. Do not say, as did the Left Block, that the PS is applying the IL program, when what we propose goes against almost everything the PS has done in health in recent years. Do not say, as did the Free, that if there is money to resolve waiting lists in SUS Health, then you do not need to move in the functioning of the SNS. [[Protests by L Rui Tavares.]] If the problem were only money, the increase of more than EUR 5000 million in recent years had already solved it. And do not say, as did the Free, that it is a matter of faeces, when we were inspired by the parts that work best in the various most evolved health systems in Europe.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u95	Yeah, some good parts and some less good parts! Frankenstein also had several parts!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u96	Anyone who thinks that the model doesn't need to be changed has a very different view than the Liberal Initiative on the social and economic value of a healthy and more well-being population. Today is the day to vote for your health. by the Portuguese and by their health, they approve this initiative today. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u97	To submit Bill No. 880 / XV / 1. a ( CH) and Draft Resolution No 750 / XV / 1. a ( CH ), Mr André Ventura has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u98	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: the day we arrive here, the health of the Portuguese faces risks like you have never faced. The proposals of the Arrival aim, precisely, to meet those who today die at the hospital door, see their relatives without consultations and wait for months or years for surgery. According to the latest data we have, of the cancer patients on the waiting list in Portugal, one in four has already exceeded the maximum waiting period provided for in the law itself. One in four of the cancer patients has been waiting longer than the law permits! That is why this is very clear: for the left, it is better to wait and die if care is not public; for others, whether public, private or social, what matters is that those in need of health care. And that's our logic at all! And that's our logic at all! [[Congrats from the CH.]] For this reason, we present this project, to ensure that Portugal is not only Lisbon and Porto and to guarantee, to those who do not have access to health care and to those who do not care that they are public or private, who have access to that health.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u99	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u100	The proposals that today are brought to discussion, mainly by the Liberal Initiative, have an advantage: to break the ideological prejudice that has been sweeping health in Portugal for decades. For decades now, because of the management and, now, because of the PS, the Portuguese are in a muddy system that does not allow them to have access to the most basic of health care and its dignity. But, Dear Companions, let me tell you this: for a proposal that aims to change the Basics Law of the Universal System of Access to Health, it is very weak and, in addition to being very weak, appears to have some ignorance in relation to the contents of the law. And I wanted everyone to hear what the solution of the Liberal Initiative for financing this model is. Because it's important to know, changing the basics law, how the new system is going to be financed. It explains, then, the Liberal Initiative in a large article—and this great article has three numbers—how this funding will be done. One of these numbers says the following : « 1. Given the health policy defined by the State and the resources necessary to carry out its functions and objectives, the financing of the Universal System of Access to Health is ensured in a transparent manner and a multi-year investment logic by the State Budget. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u101	What does that mean? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u102	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, this is not serious! When we looked at what they wanted to do, it was necessary to explain how subsectors will be financed,... [[Exactly!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u103	...how the subsectors they propose will be paid by taxpayers. And what do you say? It is a transparent and multi-annual logic. Well, look, it's the same thing as nothing! But more: they say then that the State will intervene when the private are unable to solve the problem. That is, in the logic of the Liberal Initiative, we will remain, the taxpayers, paying health in general and, when the private ones do not want, we pay even more and we are even more paying the health system.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u104	That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u105	I'm sorry, but this is what's on your initiative. This is not complementarity; this is theft of the State to distribute to the private. It's something else! It's something else! [[Congrats from the CH.]] But it is also unclear, by the proposal of the Liberal Initiative, how it would be done... [[Protests by IL Bernardo Blanco.]] The gentlemen. Members asked us to read the proposal and that is what we did. I know they didn't want to, but we read! [[CH's laughs.]] I know you'd rather no one read, but the truth is that this proposal is archaic, it's unclear and doesn't even say the basics, what is it: how are we going to pay for this model? So this proposal is worth very little, to be honest! [[Congrats from the CH.]] More: the diploma says we're going to reallocate and create subsystems. There's a system and subsystems. What about the employees? What about those employees who work in the public sector today? The Liberal Initiative doesn't want to know, you know why? Because they don't want to know about health professionals, how they don't want to know about nursing professionals, how they don't want to know about justice professionals, because they don't want to know about nobody. For the Liberal Initiative there is a solution for everything: goodbye, goodbye and goodbye! To arrive is to help, help and help! That's what we want! [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u106	PCP! PCP!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u107	It looks like a social-democrat talking! [[Mr Pedro dos Santos Frazão's laughs.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u108	To submit Bill No. 884 / XV / 1. a ( PAN) has the floor to Mrs Inês de Sousa Real.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u109	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We thank the Liberal Initiative for the agenda of this debate, although, unfortunately, we are already familiar with the vision of the Liberal Initiative for Health, as for other sectors: « Privatize, privatize, privatize» is the word of order.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u110	Call the hunter!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u111	For IL, the « SNS for all » seems to be for too many people. E, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, this is not the vision of the NAP. For the NAP, health has to be for everyone, without exception, and not only for those who can afford it. Health must be guaranteed by the State and the private initiative must be a complement to this until it is necessary. But that is not why we ignore the dying state of health in Portugal. We do not ignore that, yesterday, the strike of doctors in Lisbon and Tejo Valley recorded a 90 % membership in the operating blocks and health centres and almost 80 % in hospital consultations. We also do not ignore the wave of medical retirements by the end of the year, nor the number of exits much higher than the number of entries. Between that and that, more than 2 million Portuguese, those who have heard an old promise from a family doctor for all will continue without a family doctor. We also do not ignore that many USF(family health units) cannot open due to lack of professionals, as we do not ignore the devaluation of professionals, waiting hours in emergencies or closed emergencies. We do not ignore all these health problems, which unfortunately are many, but the diagnosis and prescription of IL not only do not heal, as the symptoms worsen and, for this petition, the NAP does not give either. However, today the NAP would like to talk about future doctors, young students, to whom we have a duty to present a different situation and opportunity for the future. With the initiative presented by the NAP today, we want something as simple as a mere legal clarification that guarantees medical students access to user health data information systems, with the guarantee of respect for personal data. We understand that this consultation, carried out by students under proper technical supervision and in safety conditions, is essential for their training and clinical practice. It is a simple amendment, which allows what is already done in practice to be reflected in the law and thus ensure good training for future professionals, in the hope that they will not give up being it, despite the way in which they already see their profession being treated as a future without much professional valorization on the horizon. The NAP is fully available to treat and improve this initiative in the field of expertise and we hope that the other political forces will accompany us.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u112	We have completed the presentation of legislative initiatives and have moved on to the period of intervention. Mr João Dias of the CFP Parliamentary Group has the floor. [[Pause.]] Mr. João Dias, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u113	Madam President, I apologize for my distraction.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u114	O John! O John!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u115	I had gone to Russia!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u116	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Liberal Initiative today brings the fundamental debate on the repeal of the Health Bases Act. But first of all, I want to thank you, because for the PCP it is an honor to be identified by the Liberal Initiative as a party that defends the National Health Service and that is intransigent in this way.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u117	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u118	Therefore, we are honored to refer to us as defenders of the best response to be the National Health Service itself, to be the public management,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u119	Russian!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u120	...that we naturally defend, because that's where the difference lies. Ideological prejudices were mentioned here. Mr President, I want to tell you again that it is an option; it is a political option,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u121	Keep people waiting!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u122	...and this is where we have completely diverged. What you want is for the private groups that benefit from the disease business to define health policy in Portugal! But we do not: we argue that it must be the state to define politics, that it must be the one to safeguard the health of Portuguese, being a financier, yes, a provider, yes, and a regulator! Of course, we do not accept that the State resigns from these functions by transferring competences, transferring tasks and resources to the private sector! What the Liberal Initiative here brings is an option with which you know perfectly that it ends, it ends with the National Health Service! You know perfectly well what are the solutions that save the SNS. They obviously don't defend them, because they defend the opposite, just like you did.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u123	No, no!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u124	It looks like that kid who throws the stone and then hides his hand. [[Mr Pedro dos Santos Frazão's laughs.]] Initially, he put in his proposal for a government program the extinction of the National Health Service and highlighted this concern.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u125	That's fake!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u126	This is what came here and said: "Where is funding for large private groups operating in the field of health? "! Why? Because you know there has to be funding for health, and then the concern is, "Where is the money for subsystems? , « Where is the money for insurers? », for all this.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u127	Doesn't that matter? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u128	The truth is that there is a brutal business in the area of health and economic groups know - well! More than EUR 20 billion is needed for the health of Portuguese and much of this is already paid from your pocket!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u129	But what are those accounts? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u130	And why? Because the one who fails is not the SNS or its professionals, whom we should thank for all our efforts in caring for—it is worth the SNS! What fails are the political options, and the PS has responsibility,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u131	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u132	You've got it, too!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u133	... but the PSD, the Liberal Initiative and the Arrival are satisfied when they hear about the degradation of the National Health Service!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u134	Six years to support the government!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u135	Mrs. Members of the PS Parliamentary Group, when those gentlemen on the right say that the National Health Service is degraded, they don't want to know about saving, they want to continue their destruction! They are absolutely satisfied when they hear that waiting lists increase! Everyone is happy when they hear that they can't do public operations and have to go to private!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u136	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u137	And the truth is that the National Health Service is today the one that is worth to the Portuguese. But your lack of action and measures that correspond to what it is necessary to do in the SNS is a complicity with those who want to destroy it, don't forget it! [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u138	« Lack of action»? It was so good!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u139	The right to health is recognised in Article 64 of the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic. the, and only through the National Health Service... [[Protests by IL Member Patrícia Gilvaz.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u140	I would ask you to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u141	I conclude, Madam President. As I said, only through a National Public Health Service, free and universal is that we can have conditions to respond to the health needs of the population. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u142	Drink water, John, what's going on!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u143	For an intervention, Mrs Irene Costa of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u144	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The truth is that the path of the SNS has never been easy since its creation. Today we live one of the biggest challenges to the National Health Service. Despite having the highest health budget—with an increase of more than 50% and a reinforcement of more than 25% in the number of professionals in the health sector— ; although, as a result of these bets, we have increased the number of medical consultations, nursing consultations and surgeries carried out ; despite having more activities in the SNS today, we still have more needs, more search and an evident pressure on the National Health Service. But the diagnosis is made: we have an aging population that generates more health needs; we have seen greater accessibility to health services with the elimination of moderate rates; we have an expressive increase in the number of registered users; we have an effective improvement in the provision of care and in the capacity to respond to human resources and careers; and we are undergoing important valuations whose effects have not yet fully reproduced. This diagnosis and the implementation of the responses designed are the current challenges of the SNS. These are challenges that naturally involve approaches that value the SNS and enable the creation of positive synergies, which promote and facilitate the equality and access of all Portuguese to efficient and quality health care. in this sense, the Ministry of Health and the Executive Directorate defined two reforms of great scope. On the one hand, the generalization, throughout the country, of the ULS(local health units), a model that is intended to serve people, which facilitates the circulation of users in the SNS, which promotes the integration of care, the optimization of human, material and financial resources, sharing, agileization and faster reference between levels of care delivery, ensuring access, continuity and quality in care. On the other hand, we highlight the reform in the model of relationship with health professionals, either through the implementation of full dedication, or through the extension of model B health units, which provides a more attractive remuneration model for professionals. If these two major reforms associate the work that is being done at the level of the user's electronic registration and an evaluation on productivity and results, also defined as an objective in the logic of financing health structures, we consider that we are on the right path to protect the SNS. So, ladies and gentlemen. Members, we reject the proposals brought to debate,... [[Oh!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u145	... that are proposals from those who place the full faith of the resolution of the SNS problems in the simple purchase of services to the private sector, without indicating, for example, the impact of these measures on the SNS budget, without giving evidence that the use of privates ensures an effective response to all citizens and in all circumstances. We reject proposals from those who put their faith in solving the problems of the SNS in the financing of a competitive model between the public and the private that is intended only to destroy it. We are in this debate today and whenever necessary, as has always been the Socialist Party: to defend, support and politically sustain a National Public Health Service, universally and tends to be free, without prejudice to the complementary and complementary nature of the social sector and the private sector. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u146	For an intervention, Mr Miguel Santos of the PSD Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u147	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I have been listening carefully to the interventions of the Socialist Party and the Portuguese Communist Party. They are within what we have been used to for many years and many years and, with the government responsibilities they have had in the last eight — now, the CFP is a bit side by side, but it has -but I believe - that there is nothing that can effectively improve the National Health Service. I have also listened carefully to Mr Andre Ventura because I always think very thanks to most of his speeches. But even scared me, because it really seemed like a social-democrat to intervene,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u148	Hello! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u149	... by defending the National Health Service and the complementarity of the social and private sector. But as Mr Ventura now spends his days blinking at the PSD, I interpret this more as a "political number" than a strong conviction of social-democrat matrix. [[CH protests.]] Regarding the draft law of bases that the Liberal Initiative presented, with all the sympathy that you know we have for your position...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u150	Rui Tavares has more votes in Valongo!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u151	Please proceed, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u152	Continuing, Madam President... [[CH Member's protests Filipe Melo.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u153	Mr Filipe Melo, I would ask you to allow the speaker to continue. Please proceed, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u154	It's an obsession! [[The PSD member Miguel Santos' laughs.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u155	Ri-te, ri-te!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u156	I know it hurts! I know it hurts!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u157	But listen, how am I going to look at what you are saying without being laughing? If it is to take it seriously, it is a disgrace what you say, an absolute disgrace! [[PSD applause.]] [[IL protests.]] [[CH's laughs.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u158	Then you cry!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u159	It's unbearable! The only way you can civilly hear what you are saying is to laugh at me. And I laugh. I'm partly from the gentlemen, too. Not only what they say, but also what you say. [[CH protests.]] Mr President, with regard to the draft basic law which the Liberal Initiative — Mr. João Cotrim Figueiredo — presented, we have a conceptual question, because you are defending a competitive system between the public sector, the private sector and the social sector. Therefore, from that point on, at the birth, of roots, in ideological terms, we cannot follow a proposal of these. But then, concreteization, as you describe it, still causes us a greater strain and pushes us away more politically. The left really likes to lift the wolf of unconstitutionality, but this time it's me. Indeed, in the proposal of the Liberal Initiative, the trend freeness and universality of access are objectively put at stake because citizens have to pay a contribution to have access to the subsystem they want to use. [[IL protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u160	Look, until the PSD says that!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u161	Let's say if it were a club, it would be a gem that had to be paid.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u162	He didn't read! He didn't read!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u163	That's not possible. [[IL protests.]] But if you allow me, more than that, there is a part, on base two, in which they go beyond that and transform the National Health Service or the public subsystem... [[IL protests.]] ... Mr. President, with all good will and ease, it is sometimes a bit complicated to be able to make an intervention... [[Oh!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u164	You're right, sir. I'm asking the services that interrupt time counting. [[CH protests.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, everyone has the right to speak and to be heard. It is not acceptable for systematic interruptions on the part of certain benches. Therefore, please create conditions for the speaker to express himself. Please proceed, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u165	Okay, Mr. President, as I was saying, let's try to pull back.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u166	There comes another cryer!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u167	Mr. André Ventura thinks it's a good thing, doesn't it? All right, base two goes a long way beyond that, because base two actually turns the public subsystem into a system complementary to the private or social subsystem or another one that may exist in this area. In other words, it completely reverses the situation. Okay, you'll have a chance to explain more about that. And then there is a related problem here, too, which Mr Ventura has already mentioned, which is the issue of funding. And the question of funding...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u168	What you wanted was that wasn't the problem!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u169	My God, this is a comedy, Madam President.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u170	And you have to finish! [[CH Member's protests Filipe Melo.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u171	This is a comedy, really. Oh, my God. The question of financing is not guaranteed at least, nor is it sufficiently clear. Hello, Madam President, thank you very much for your help and for the patience of all. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u172	O Miguel, you have to work the focus!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u173	Mr Rui Tavares has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u174	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This sequence of two debates is very interesting to contextualize where the proposal of the Liberal Initiative comes from. Recently, we had a debate on the transposition of a directive to give consumers the right to go to court against large companies and even hear the PSD, among others, to say that this should be extended to health, but the Liberal Initiative did not even intervene. Here was the leader of the party, the leader of the parliamentary group, the Member of the Committee on European Affairs... I mean, the Arrival, at least assumed that it was a nonsense to give more rights to consumers; of the Liberal Initiative, the crickets were heard! [[Protests of Members of the IL.]] And this is extraordinary, because in this health proposal they want to transform those who use the National Health Service into consumers, but before, when they had the opportunity to say that consumers could have more power against companies, they said nothing. [[IL protests.]] So you see it well: when health users are consumers, you will be on business side, against consumers. But I don't just want to talk about what the Liberal Initiative didn't say, I want to talk about what the Liberal Initiative said.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u175	That's right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u176	Look at the weather!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u177	Mr. João Cotrim Figueiredo, with all esteem, was not I who said that if the Liberal Initiative's proposal cost more money at the beginning, that money could be used to end waiting lists in the National Health Service, and that this was a valid question, it was Mr. And so what you said is that the incentive system will improve, but this is a façade. I believe you believe in her, but she's a faeces.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u178	It's not!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u179	It was not me who said, Mr President, that your system has not been tested as it has the best of all. Do you know who also thought he had the best of this piece and that piece and with that he created a very good creature? Dr. Frankenstein. Well, the Free has a simpler solution.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u180	You're Frankenstein!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u181	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u182	The Free House believes that the solution — I conclude, Madam President — for the subscription of the SNS is properly budgeted and that we need many health professionals. The only thing we don't need is Dr. Frankenstein from the Liberal Initiative. [[Protests by IL Member João Cotrim Figueiredo.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u183	For an intervention, Mrs Isabel Pires of the Left Block Parliamentary Group has the floor. [[Continuation of protests by IL Member João Cotrim Figueiredo e contraprotestos do L.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr. João Cotrim Figueiredo, it is not the Member who has the right to speak now, is Mrs. Isabel Pires of the Left Block Parliamentary Group. Please, Your Honor. [[Pause.]] Mr. Rodrigo Saraiva asks for a word for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u184	For an appeal to the Bureau, Madam President.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u185	Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u186	Madam President, at the next Conference of Leaders we will be able to return to the subject, until on Friday the President of the Assembly of the Republic has already alerted him: there is a permanent single representative of a party who more than doubles the time of his speeches,... [[It's true!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u187	... and use it to talk about parallel themes and next to the themes that are scheduled. Therefore, as far as the agenda and the rules of procedure of this House are concerned, I would ask the President to also take into account the excesses some commit in this House of the Republic. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u188	Mr Rui Tavares asks for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u189	For an appeal to the Bureau on the conduct of the proceedings.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u190	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u191	It's for an interrogation at the table!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u192	Mr President, although I understand that when you are not enjoying what you are hearing if you want other speakers to talk less time, one thing needs to be noted: the excess of interventions is the excess of any intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u193	Thank you for your time!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u194	It's an interrogation! Is that what you're talking about?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u195	What the honourable Member is telling us is that whoever has a small car should only exceed 10 km the speed limit, who has a large car must exceed 100 km. This, of course, makes no sense, just as it makes no sense to use an appeal to the Bureau to announce what you will do at the Conference of Leaders.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u196	Rui Tavares is the Calimer of Parliament.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u197	Excuse me, ladies and gentlemen. Members, who manages the times and who presides at the session is the Bureau. And therefore if they disagree with the Bureau's decisions, they turn to plenary, as the Rules of Procedure says, if they want to take matters to the Conference of Leaders, please. For an intervention, with the Bureau's apologies, Mrs Isabel Pires of the Left Block Parliamentary Group has the floor. [[Protests by CH Member Filipe Melo and L-protests.]] Mr Filipe Melo, the honourable Member, of course, recognizes — we all recognize — that he has a very audible voice. I would like to thank the honourable Member for her terms and conditions. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u198	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: The Liberal Initiative has already brought this issue to debate last Wednesday and, in two days, obviously, we did not expect anything significant to change. But, in fact, here in this bill, there are some pearls and some very interesting subjects, which, in fact, contradict exactly their intervention today and what their intervention was on Wednesday.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u199	Selling cat for hare!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u200	Let's go to some of them: on page 14, we have the idea that premium health packages may exist, that is, for the Liberal Initiative there are some health services that are basic and therefore everyone should have the guarantee of these services.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u201	That's what you're doing today at the SNS!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u202	But then anyone who wants access to certain health care pays more. It is completely a market logic: he wants a little more of his subscription, so he pays a little more.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u203	Are there dentists in the SNS?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u204	This, applied to health, is absolutely pernicious, makes absolutely no sense, unless, there is, that of the Liberal Initiative be here the voice of the owner, the lobby of private hospitalization. [[Protests of Members of the IL.]] But more: this project continues to be absolutely useless, because the privatization that they really claim—because that's what it's going to give, is the result of what is proposed! — it is now being carried out by the policy which is being pursued by the government and therefore we continue to see no use in this. But there is more: the Liberal Initiative believes that the State should be an alternative provider and, preferably, it should not be a provider, its role should be as a financier in this matter. contrary to what they say, this is not an innovative model nor is it a model that is a novelty, this is a model that existed in the 1940s in our country. So, there's no novelty, what there's a pretty big retreat. When we go to page 5, we see that what the Liberal Initiative wants — like any good liberal, be said to pass! — that private individuals are financed with public money, i.e. all the financing of this bill is State budget. In fact, what we all already realize is that for the Liberal Initiative there is only one more state when certain public services and certain rights need to be ensured. When it comes to financing the private sector, there, the Liberal Initiative always asks for more funding and more taxes. It is the incongruence of the Liberal Initiative, but it has already been and has been quite exposed. But there is more curiosity: the Liberal Initiative says that private people will solve the problems all and therefore want to build subsystems made up of conventional private operators, but there are certain areas that should ultimately be public management. And we go to page 16 of the bill, because, see, public health and medical emergency stay in the State area, everything else can go to the private. And why?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u205	It's obvious!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u206	Because it doesn't work!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u207	They could explain why they do not stay, because it is easy to understand: the first, public health, does not provide business, obviously, and the second, of course, does not have to make profit. Therefore, it is the logic that what for the market to damage and not to profit remains with the State, we do not want and then we soon see who is providing these services. Everything that makes profits goes to the private in subsystems, subsystems that are now financed by the State budget—is always the State budget to be paid. The Liberal Initiative is very liberal, very liberal, but when it comes to paying, it always goes the same.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u208	It's fatal!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u209	On Wednesday — and I shall finish, Madam President — I said that I did not have a single reference to public-private partnerships. It is not true either, Mr President. On page 35,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u210	He didn't read! He didn't read!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u211	... when referring to the continuing care network, it refers exactly to public-private partnerships. You wanted to give an idea here of a bill that, after all,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u212	I would ask you to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u213	I will finish, Madam President. The bill that Mr. Deputy tabled on Wednesday and today is not the bill that is here in text.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u214	After all, he didn't read the bill!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u215	What we know is that the only thing for the Liberal Initiative to want the State is to fund the private, which I regret, because for that, the Socialist Party is already doing a great job. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u216	For an intervention, Mr Miguel dos Santos Rodrigues of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u217	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate we have here today is serious and it is unfortunate that some of the proposals are presented in the light of what they are doing. Mr. João Cotrim Figueiredo, we read your proposal carefully — we read the proposal and FAQs ( Frequently Asked Questions ). And there is something very curious that the Liberal Initiative does: first, it promotes free market competition among health providers. I can tell you, from now on, what creates competition between health providers running to the fund, generates 100 % cesarean rate in private hospitals. That's what it generates. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u218	It's totally the opposite!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u219	That's the first thing, first rule not to go on. The honourable Member, in his proposal and in his FAQs, even assumes something more interesting: by comparing the system proposed by IL to Dutch, he says that the Netherlands spends 9, 97 % of its GDP ( gross domestic product ), ignoring now that the Netherlands's GDP is significantly higher than Portuguese, versus 9, 45 % of Portugal's GDP. Then there is a second problem that is: public service providers, the SNS, the private and the social, act in free competition. How much? We don't know. Who pays? The state! Beautiful business, beautiful business! [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr President, what is worth is that our faith, the faith of this bench in the SNS, is always greater than the faith of the Free Market Liberal Initiative. That's what it's worth. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We also need to talk here about the NAP project regarding the sharing of health data for medical students. In a very short way, Mrs Inês de Sousa Real — who is not,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u220	He's with the PSD over there!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u221	You're making the deal! Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u222	... but it does not hurt, because, in any case, it is important that we discuss this issue, which is serious and deserves our attention—the NAP project is not, in our understanding, sufficiently guaranteed from the point of view of privacy. In fact, it is partially transcribed from a Socialist Party initiative, presented in 2021, but establishes a mechanism of consent that seems positive to us. However, it does not establish other mechanisms, in accordance with the General Data Protection Regulation, which should exist in it, such as the revocation of data, the deletion of consents, the deletion of data and a set of other guarantees for users and students, of course, ethical obligations for those who access medical data, who are absent from the student education course and, of course, are present for those who register in the Medical Order, from the moment the course ends. So it seems to us that this is a positive step, it seems to us that this can be the direction, but even though this can be the direction, what is needed, on this subject, is even to pave the way. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u223	For an intervention, Mr. João Cotrim Figueiredo has the floor. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u224	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: of what we have heard, there is a virtue in terms not only today, but two days ago: they have now read, I repeat, now they have read, but they have not always understood.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u225	He didn't read!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u226	There are some who choose to distort what they have read, which is the case of the PCP and Mr. João Dias, who has specialized in this in recent days. And others, who have read, better have not read.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u227	If they didn't read, it's because they didn't read, it's because they read!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u228	Mr Miguel dos Santos, there is no direct contribution to the subsystems. [[Protests from PS Miguel dos Santos Rodrigues.]] So, he didn't read well — there isn't. What is exactly the same form of funding, Mr. André Ventura, which is today in the Health Base Act. The financing is precisely defined in the same way, which a basic law does not have to define in detail. The rest is there and, if he had any doubts, he had used, on Wednesday, to ask for this clarification, which he would have given with great pleasure.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u229	The debate is today!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u230	Now, of what Mr. André Ventura accuses me of, and that hurts me deeply,... [[Oh...!]] [[Oh...!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u231	...is to have a weak proposal. There is nothing more offensive than coming to say that it is a fragile proposal: the party that copied paragraphs, in a project, that came from the Left Block. [[Applause from the IL.]] [[CH protests.]] The party who, wanting to aggravate the criminal framework of crimes of sexual abuse, concluded, says the Supreme Council of the Magistrate, to decriminalize these same crimes for victims between the ages of 14 and 19. Fraquinho, Your Honor? For God's sake! [[Applause from the IL.]] [[CH protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u232	Let's move on to the closing phase.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u233	Madam President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u234	Mr. André Ventura, ask for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u235	To speak, Madam President.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u236	I was not a member, Mr. Member, but you have the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u237	Madam President, I apologize for the late registration, but it is important to give here some answers that seem relevant to us. First, Mr. Miguel Santos, I think you have been distracted lately, perhaps thinking more about the council than anything else, but that is a more your question. [[CH's laughs.]] Perhaps you have been distracted, but being social-democrat, Mr, has nothing to do with the waiting lists. I have some news for you: in several social-democratic governments today, waiting lists have grown 85 %. If that's the Social Democrat whatever I am, I'm not. I leave that to you and what you have done in many regions of the country. That's with you and not with us. [[Congrats from the CH.]] For us, Mr President, there is one thing that is important: it is that the Portuguese have health, regardless of whether they are private, the public or the social providing such care.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u238	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u239	Finally, Mr. João Cotrim Figueiredo, I am very sorry, even, that he brings to this House a proposal that was the core business of the Liberal Initiative, the big proposal of the Liberal Initiative — it is not the Arrival, not the PSD, not the Free, not the Left Block, but the Liberal Initiative — but when we take on it, I apologize to you... [[IL protests.]] I know you prefer to talk about chemical castration, that you're against, and increases of feathers, that you're against. You've always been against everything that's justice, so it doesn't hurt. [[Protests by IL Bernardo Blanco.]] Now, what it really costs is that your main proposal, brought at the beginning of a legislature, does not explain, at the moment, how it is financed, how it is paid and what are the solutions. [[Protests of Members of the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u240	Everything goes to the private!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u241	But, sir, do you know why you don't explain? [[IL protests.]] You know why you don't explain? [[IL Members' laughs.]] You know why you don't explain? Because your incompetence in this matter is so great, so great that you don't even know what you want to write.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u242	Mr. André Ventura, you must conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u243	They don't know what they want to write, but there's one thing I know you want: they want to completely destroy the Portuguese Public Administration. We're not leaving! [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u244	It's a wolf in sheep's skin!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u245	For an intervention, Mr Miguel Santos of the PSD Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u246	Madam President: Mr André Ventura, you have all noticed in recent months about tobacco, SNS, traffic radars or anything, always refers to the PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u247	Oh, then? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u248	This is because Mr Ventura now has a new media strategy: he has convinced himself that, if he says that PSD is bad, very bad, bad, terrible, it will be a star in the sky and will therefore grow! Anyway... [[Protests of PS, BE and CH Member Mr Pedro Pinto's counterprotests.]] However, then we have to see exactly what, in substantive terms, represents the Arrival and Mr. André Ventura. For example, let us see this Social-Democrat vein, with which he was dressed today to appear here in Parliament. [[CH Member Protests and PSD Protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u249	How did you stay in Valongo, in the council?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u250	In 2019, the arrival and Mr André Ventura defended the privatization of hospitals, the privatization of schools, the privatization of communication channels and the means of transport.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u251	You're scared!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u252	What about the council? How'd it go?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u253	Not now! Now, Mr. André Ventura is with a social-democrat and humanist matrix and is concerned about the SNS, with a system that guarantees universality and free access and has already forgotten the private issue a little bit. We do not forget any sector,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u254	Nothing!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u255	...you know, we assume there has to be a complementarity. [[Protests of CH Deputies.]] As for the projects that the Arrival presents and drags today for this debate, I did not mention it, but the first suggests that, when the maximum guaranteed response times are exhausted, we go beyond the private sector and the social sector for consultations.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u256	That's what makes sense!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u257	The honourable Member is obviously a 'copy'! [[CH protests.]] It is a 'copy'! He copied a proposal from the PSD presented in June and that the majority of the Socialist Party plunged. Therefore, the honourable Member is a 'copy', I repeat, is a 'copy'! It's been loose, but now it's necessary to start putting the prism really into what happens. [[PSD applause.]] [[CH's laughs.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u258	I would ask you to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u259	The second aspect, Madam President, is the second proposal which comes to a halt.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u260	You don't have time to move on to the second aspect.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u261	I will finish, Madam President.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u262	You've outlived your time in a lot.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u263	It's like asking a child if he likes desserts. [[CH protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u264	Mr President, I did not want to use the mechanism of cutting the floor, so please conclude it quickly.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u265	I shall conclude, Madam President. It is like asking a child if he likes sketches, when he says this: inside, where there is more need, it is necessary to strengthen doctors, it is necessary to strengthen operationally in technical and logistical terms, agree? We agree, yes. We agree, it's true! [[PSD applause.]] [[CH protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u266	Mr. João Cotrim Figueiredo has the floor for a short speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u267	Madam President: Mr. André Ventura today took the day to accuse the Liberal Initiative of things that he does. Destroy the Public Administration? Who was on the program that wanted to end the Ministry of Education and end the SNS? [[CH protests.]] Who had in the program that did not compete with the state guarantee absolutely nothing? Public education services, public health services, communication routes, transport and communications. Nothing! Nothing! Therefore, Mr. André Ventura, do not accuse others of what you stand for. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u268	Madam President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u269	Mr. André Ventura, ask for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u270	It is only for an appeal to the Bureau, indeed to the Bureau, Madam President.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u271	It's always, but then no!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u272	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u273	I ask the President to distribute the modern, fair and humanist programme of the forthcoming elections by the PSD and the Liberal Initiative's parliamentary groups. [[Congrats from the CH.]] [[Rice from Members of the PSD and IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u274	What's the version? What is the version of the program?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u275	You only have two pages!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u276	600 votes! You had more votes than the Valongo council!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u277	Obviously it is not an appeal to the Bureau, since the programme is public, it is known and therefore the Bureau does not have to replace itself with the interests of each of the consultants. Let's move on to the closing phase. Mrs. Joana Lambeiro of the IL has the floor. [[L-protests and CH-protests.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask for silence. [[CH Member's Protests André Ventura.]] Mr. André Ventura, please respect your colleague. You have the floor, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u278	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Portugal needs to discuss a new model of health. The current model, centralized in the SNS, can no longer respond to all needs. That is what all people feel, or feel those who have no alternative but to use the SNS. Feel those who have to go to the line of the health center in the morning, but no longer just in the morning, they also go to the previous day; feel those who wait and hope for a consultation of specialty or surgery; and also feel the health professionals, who do not see their work valued. So it is more than time to do this debate. The bill we present today proposes a new Health Bases Act that allows us to frame a model of liberal, ambitious and enforceable carousel health, which is inspired by the European models that best results have, but adapted to our reality. So, a model that works. However, all this discussion here has shown, once again, that we are going to delay finding the solution to a problem that is now more than obvious. The left one keeps saying that he wants to save the SNS, but that just means throwing more money on the problem when the problem isn't just money. [[Protests by BE Isabel Pires and PCP MP João Dias.]] Instead of discussing the concrete proposal, he invents what is not written there and imagines our intentions. It says the Liberal Initiative wants to deliver the SNS to privates when the privates have grown up precisely because of the measures you defend — measures you defend and have already shown that they do not work. [[Applause from the IL.]] [[Protests from PCP MP João Dias.]] We have a Socialist Party that sees a different SNS, but that has not been able, in eight years, to predict, plan and act. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we can't keep wasting time. Experience tells us that liberal ideas are making their way. Let's shorten it, let's discuss this proposal in the specialty. We will give more solutions, courageous solutions to those in need of health care, because, if we do not change the current health model, we condemn Portugal to being a more sick, more unhappy and socially unjust country—and it is not, of course, Portugal that the Portuguese ambitions are.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u279	There have never been as many private as now! There are 128 private hospitals!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u280	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, it is in your hands to prove that you care about people and not only about maintaining an exhausted model. It is in your hands to prove that you care about people and not the party that opens this debate. It's in your hands not to let people wait. Don't make people waste more time. The Liberal Initiative has done its part, now do yours. [[Applause from the IL.]] [[Protests from PCP MP João Dias.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u281	We move on to the third point of our agenda and, to present draft resolution No 763 / XV / 1. a ( PS ) — Recommends to the Government new water monitoring and supply solutions in Portugal, Mr Pedro do Carmo has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u282	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The draft resolution we present recommends to the Government new water monitoring and supply solutions in Portugal. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, for an elephant like me, speaking about water or, better, his lack is always an imperative. It is an opportunity we have never lost, because we have always felt, over several decades, how difficult it is to live with its shortage. It is no novelty for any of us that the standard of living of the Western world has led to the development of an economic model that requires a permanent and immediate satisfaction of our needs, leading to the extreme use of the planet's resources, particularly of the essential good, which is water. Water is a human right. No one should have such access denied, said Antonio Guterres, Secretary-General of the United Nations, as well as said that we are living a time of climate emergency.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u283	Uh!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u284	Whoa, whoa! They're going there!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u285	The result of climate change, in view of the impacts that we have caused on the planet, is therefore fundamental and urgent for governments to adopt measures to mitigate adverse effects and, at the same time, to gain the availability and efficiency of the resources essential to life, agriculture and other economic activities. It is therefore necessary to adopt adaptation measures in order to ensure both economic growth and the well-being of the populations, and to ensure that this transition is fair and balanced. It is undoubtedly a difficult formula to apply, even by its emergency. It is therefore essential that the Government develop a set of measures which, in convergence or with the exception of European policies, will ensure good management of national water resources. In the Iberian case, Portugal and Spain have already provided a good example of how it is possible, together, to implement exceptional solutions of Iberian application, as it was with the Energy Pact. We should also now consolidate political and economic cooperation in the joint management of water resources, the so-called Albufeira Convention, because much of the Portuguese mainland is occupied by watersheds shared with Spain, and about 40% of the surface currents occurring in Portugal have, like VV. You know, origin in the neighbouring country. Rivers and waters have no borders. A good example of this that I tell you is the barrier of the Alqueva and all the impact it has had in the country and, in particular, in the whole of the Alentejo. I wonder, many times, what would be economically and socially in this region if it had not been the government's courage to build and continue to invest in the vast network of channels and accumulators of Alqueva. Fruit of this investment, which was and is legally built, the districts of Beja and Évora today have a water distribution circuit, which goes from Barrancos to Odemira, passing through Viana do Alentejo. We thus guarantee public supply to populations, even in times of severe drought as we live. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The same we now expect for the Portalegre district, with the firm and courageous decision to build the Pisão dam.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u286	When?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u287	Good decisions, however, and in view of the moment we live, may prove insufficient. It was in this sense, and in good time, that the Portuguese Environment Agency promoted the conduct of a study, which aims to know both availability and current and future water needs in the context of climate change. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the conclusions have been expected and are clear. In about 20 years, the precipitation decreased by 15 %, forecasting to decrease from 10 % to 25 % by the end of the century, and, worse, much worse,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u288	It's worse than this government!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u289	... availability decreased by about 20 %. In view of this scenario, it is urgent to act either on the offer side or on the search side, avoiding diabolicizing its use in the face of the activity that uses it. I would therefore like to say that we need to create conditions that allow for greater storage of available water, particularly in dams, and at the same time ensure better and more efficient ways of using this finite resource. Thus, for the implementation of strategies that allow the rational and sustainable use of water, the Socialist Party makes several recommendations to the Government. First, it develops a timeline for the implementation of the water efficiency plans of the different regions and the different watersheds, naturally with priority, with the highest priority, for those with higher levels of severe and extreme scarcity, as is the case with Sado, Mira, Guadiana and also the banks of the Algarve. Second, a desalination plant is built in the Alentejo to ensure the increase in water supply in the region. Third, which define goals, monitor and control losses and consumption in the different basins, setting goals and, of course, demanding their fulfillment. Fourth, which articulates with municipalities in order to know the consumption in each of the sectors and of the new projects to be developed in their geographical area, thus always ensuring and ensuring security in supply. Fifthly, plans for the implementation of new solutions are presented here in Parliament. We need to find new water supply solutions in Portugal. Water is life. Territory with water is wealth. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u290	The honourable Member has a request for clarification. Although you do not have time to answer, Mr Hugo Oliveira will put it down. Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u291	Mrs. President. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr Pedro do Carmo, we naturally welcome the fact that the Socialist Party brings the issue of water to debate, which is because the PS is the party that supports the government,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u292	Well!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u293	...and the government is in minimal tails, as you know. [[Rice from PS Pedro do Carmo's deputy.]] Let us look at the draft resolution submitted by the Socialist Party and its title: « Recommends to the Government new water monitoring and supply solutions in Portugal ». In other words, is the Socialist Party itself recognizing that the government does what? Little or nothing. And he recommends that you do what? Let's do more. And asking for what? To meet deadlines. [[PSD applause.]] In other words, the Socialist Party specializes in shaking the water from the hood. Alentejo had a hard summer. The Santa Clara dam is at the limit and can soon run out of water. In the Algarve, the situation is acute year after year, with no effective answers. We need a review of the National Water Efficiency Programme. We need the publication of the Strategic Plan for Water Supply and Waste and Rain Management. The public consultation closed a year ago, Mr. But, Mr President, in the midst of your suggestions to the government, do you also have requirements? That's the question. I wonder if they're going to demand more and question where the plans and schedules are. More than just talk, the government needs to do. Otherwise, one of these days, I will see the PS here recommending that the government also ask for rain dance to be able to solve water problems. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u294	To submit Bill No. 437 / XV / 1. a ( CH) — Amendment to the law of the municipal services of public water supply, sewerage of waste water and urban waste management, Mr Pedro Pinto. Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u295	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Once again, the important issue of water comes to this Plenary. Next Sunday, the National Water Day is celebrated, this fundamental element for our survival. Unfortunately, in Portugal, it remains unused as it should be because only 12 % is taken advantage of. These are numbers that embarrass us: 12 % of drinking water is taken advantage of in Portugal. It is still curious that they present this draft resolution of the Socialist Party as if they were to solve all water problems in Portugal, when this party has systematically voted against the proposals of the Arrival that, yes, solve these problems. More than a dozen bills of law and resolution were presented, as was the case with the one targeting the creation of the national water network, an authentic motorway of water in the interior of the country that would allow the Douro-Tejo-Guadiana-Algarve connections, being guaranteed, beyond 2100, the water necessary for the different uses of the whole country, from Mininho to the Algarve. Members of the Socialist Party rejected this initiative. For PS, ideology is always ahead of Portuguese. This project is almost a bad copy of the project we presented here in March 2023 on the identification of water resources and aimed at the development of regional water matrices to know clearly the location and quantification of water resources in each municipality. To everyone's surprise, or perhaps not, the PS voted against. We know the importance of each nation's energy sovereignty and that water resources, in parallel with energy, are fundamental and one of the major global issues. Drinking water waste in Portugal is hot, due to lack of environmental and energy strategy and misuse of resources. Therefore, we propose an environmental management system that includes an efficient energy use and greenhouse gas reduction component, implemented within two years, from the creation of new management entities, whether public or private. The solutions the Government has presented are harmless and sometimes even repressive of citizens' rights. Minister Duarte Cordeiro, instead of bringing action, prefers to repress. Every year it is the same conversation: we are in severe drought, climate change, this or that. But the great truth is that few steps have been taken to fight. How is it possible that there are dams in the Algarve with 10 % of its occupied capacity? And what is the solution? Limit water consumption, including at home and for bathrooms, cut more than 20 % water for agriculture and increase its price. That is, the solution to the Socialist Party’s custom — to pay, pay and pay. [[Congrats from the CH.]] As far as the Albufeira Convention is concerned, what has the Portuguese Government done when the Spaniards shut down our taps and fail to comply with the agreement? Nothing, nothing. Total silence. A government of inertia to the Spanish Socialist Government. With the drought, it is the farmers who suffer the most. This government, instead of calling on and helping farmers to create water reservoirs, small water outlets or water retentions, more autonomously and with less bureaucracy, is to increase the price of water and that it is not used. We know of the agenda that exists to end the primary sector in Portugal. Farmers are under a closed attack by this government and by these ministers, in particular the Minister of Agriculture. However, they will always have their haven and their voice in this Parliament in arriving. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u296	To submit Bill No. 853 / XV / 1. a and Resolution Projects Nos 821 and 822 / XV / 1. the, all of the Left Block, has the floor Mr Pedro Filipe Soares. Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u297	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The drought is a reality throughout our country and, of course, there are periods of the year, less and less, where the regions in the north still escape from this reality, in the last year, in the south, no region has escaped from the drought situation. In fact, in the last 20 years, precipitation in our country has decreased by about 15% and the outlook by the end of the decade is that it can be even worse. In view of this, we see that there is a sector that consumes about 75 % of the water caught. And, in this sector, agriculture, large water consumers are the farmers of intensive and superintensive agriculture. It is therefore obvious from these data that Portugal is not doing enough and there are sectors that could do more to ensure a decent use, a sensible use of water. But our country runs the risk—and runs quickly because of this circumstance—of failure to comply with the water directive. This directive states that in 2027 all water masses should be in good ecological condition, finding in our country a 45 % failure to comply with the water masses. We therefore see an alarming drought and see a country that is not doing what it should to respond to this alarming situation. The government, we know, is late, at bad hours and often the cash flow of the interests installed, the same ones that receive 75 % of the water in our country, the agricultural sector, in particular intensive and superintensive agriculture. That is why several government proposals are exactly the same as these sectors advocate: greater artificialization of water beds, creation, for example, of desalination stations, and never touching, or very little, on production modes, which is where the problem is currently installed. Anyone who does not think strategically, who does not think in the long term will repeat mistakes, and that is what the government is currently doing to avoid touching on these economic interests installed. Now, what the Left Block proposes is that, firstly, there is a strategic, structural thought about water in our country, which recovers the Institute of Water, which the majority of PSD and CDS destroyed during the period of the troika, which reactivates the administrations of the regional water regions and gives itself to the councils of water regions. With this, we have a structural thinking in the country, we have the involvement of the various sectors, including regional and local entities, and we have the creation of a long-term agenda capable of defending not some private interests, not some installed chapels, but the country as a whole for this design, which should be a national design. We defend investment in changes in production mode — for example, that CAP funds (the common agricultural policy) can be promoted for this adaptation of agriculture — and that there is what is necessarily obvious, a moratorium on intensive water consumption. We cannot promote more intensive consumption at a time when the country has so many difficulties. [[Protests by PS MP João Miguel Nicolau.]] Finally, we defend something that is indisputable: that the water losses that currently exist can be properly healed. Portugal has in water loss distribution systems that we cannot afford to have. From that point of view, what RPP funds should do is also meet this requirement. The measures we propose are sensible, are essential and will not only go forward if the Socialist Party, instead of defending the country, instead of responding to the demands of climate change, continues to be next to some economic elite, particularly agriculture, and thus fail at this fundamental moment. Today, we are building the future and hope that the future will not be the lack of water. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u298	To present Resolution Projects Nos. 794, 809, 829 and 830 / XV / 1. a ( PSD ), Mr Bruno Coimbra has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u299	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The strategic importance of sustainable and efficient water management has led the PSD to present several proposals for this sector. If we are concerned about climate change, water availability, increasing droughts or the vulnerability of our regions, the government's inertia and ineffectiveness will redouble the reasons for alarm. Today, we bring to plenary four more projects with concrete proposals that are needed in the country. We propose an action programme for the full digitization of the water cycle, in a context where there are major inefficiencies. Modernizing water management has to be a priority and it is possible to make good progress in this field. It is enough to see the good example of Spain and the process of technological development which, right here next to it, is under way. We also point to the modernisation of the water monitoring system. It is pressing to evolve into the features of this system and to ensure greater coverage of the water masses. As part of the reuse of treated waste water — also in the path of other projects we have already brought here — we propose a programme aimed at using these in the fight against rural fires and, finally, we propose a national and multi-annual campaign for water saving, changing the paradigm of late and inefficient campaigns, which often change their message and have weak results, in an innovative multi-annual communication strategy that can be comprehensive, impactive and effective.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u300	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u301	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we also welcome the contributions proposed by other parties today. We follow the Left Block in the need for a national water loss reduction programme. This need is so obvious and so pressing that already last year, twice, we presented projects in the same direction. There is only one reason why this program does not exist today: the Socialist Party and its majority have dropped the PSD proposals. [[PSD applause.]] We also follow the NAP, in the need to review the framework of watershed management plans. We both agree that we have proposed and approved in this House the creation of the Working Group — Review and Update of the Water Law, which will review this framework, in this area which the NAP defends, which is the correct one. What we cannot resolve, once again, neither here nor in the working group, is again the slowness and poor socialist government performance. The management plans of the water regions 2022 - 2027 continue to be approved today. It is another delay, to add to the many of this government. Even yesterday, another European Commission communiqué was announced threatening Portugal to go to court, due to successive delays in water management plans and flood management plans. The truth is we warned. At the end of last year, we presented an initiative to address this need and this problem. Guess what happened again? The Socialist Party rejected it! [[PSD applause.]] Well, now Portugal has two months to do so before going to the Court of Justice of the European Union. The Social Democratic Party has prioritized the issue of water and presented numerous proposals to address the gaps that government policy has revealed in this sector. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, unfortunately, what we have seen is a socialist majority who prefers to take into account that it makes, with obvious damage to the country, which assists impotent to the eternalization of the problems. Only in this legislature, nine PSD initiatives on water resources were rejected; four were approved but never implemented; and three were approved and then cancelled in the next State Budget. Let us hope that today we can see a more open approach to solutions and new ways to meet the challenges of sustainable management with greater success. I said. [[PSD applause.]] [[In the meantime, Vice-President Adam Silva was resuscitated.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u302	I welcome the ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. We now move on to the two NAP Resolution Projects : Resolution Project No. 870 / XV / 1. a ( PAN) — Recommends that the Government review the legal framework for watershed management plans with a view to their adaptation to climate scenarios and draft resolution No 871 / XV / 1. a (PAN) — Recommends that the Government proceed with the preparation and implementation of a plan for the agro-ecological transition. To use the word, you have the word Mrs Inês de Sousa Real.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u303	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Despite the issue that brings us here today, I cannot fail to mention today that the International Day of Awareness on Food Losses and Waste is signed today, a topic that is intrinsically linked to losses, not only in the waste of water, because without water there will of course also be no food for our survival. I would also like to point out that I am pleased to see that we finally see a reference and a marriage to the European Ecological Pact and the concern for climate change. I look forward to the day when we will see Mr Pedro do Carmo speaking also in the protection and protection of animals.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u304	Are you going to start eating Madeira bananas?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u305	But on this subject that we have here, on the subject that brings us here today... Sir, this was a compliment, you don't need to get angry!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u306	Thank you for your compliments! [[CH protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u307	We live today, here in the middle of climate collapse, and the evidence of this are undoubtedly the extreme climate events to which we have witnessed a little everywhere, in all... [[Pause.]] When you can continue...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u308	You would like to continue, Mrs.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u309	Thank you very much, Mr President. A person can't praise! If it were an offense, it would be worse.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u310	The praises of V.E.A. had good will, but not so well received! [[PS, PSD and CH laughter.]] You would like to continue, Mrs.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u311	We have actually witnessed the climate emergency a little across the globe. Portugal is no exception, either with the extreme drought and its effects, either with the impact of the full. Agriculture is also an important part of the climate problem, particularly with regard to water loss and what is its impact when we talk about the consumption of more than 70 % of water globally. In Portugal alone, about 75 % of water is used in agricultural and livestock activities, although about 15 % is irrigable. The availability of these water resources and access to drinking water are undoubtedly one of the greatest challenges Portugal will have to face, and who says so is the latest IPCC report (Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change). It is therefore urgent to oppose this process, in particular by changing the patterns of use in the sectors with the most intensive consumption of water, such as agriculture and, in particular, that of intensive livestock, by changing the paradigm, but also the lobbies that are installed and find a response here, through a national strategy based on an agroecological transition, giving priority to ecosystem services, to the detriment of, for example, the increase in irrigation or dams, which any day will have no water to fill them.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u312	That's so fucked up!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u313	The PAN is also planning...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u314	Mrs. Deputy, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u315	I will indeed conclude, Mr. President. The NAP also foresees here the review of watershed management plans, with a view to adjusting them to climate scenarios, including water scarcity, increasing temperature and increasing the number and severity of drought episodes, so that we can effectively curb the worsening of climate collapse.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u316	Now, let's move on to the interventions. Mr Rui Tavares spoke for the first time.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u317	Mr President: I welcome the PS for the marking of this debate and also the other parties that have put forward proposals. I would like to focus on something that has to do with our Iberian and international relations with Spain, since, with the notable exceptions of Sado and Mondego, most of the watersheds, most of the national rivers, the great rivers, come from Spain. And therefore everything that happens in Spain has an effect on the tails in Portugal. These relations are regulated by the Albufeira agreement, which is already 23 years old, which was no longer very favourable to Portugal, and which needs to be reviewed. It happens that we are now in a situation where, as the pressure of lack of water is felt on many countries, and also on Spain, it is possible that the renegotiation will end up finding on the Spanish side an even greater barrier. I therefore want to ask the PS, in particular, which supports the Government, whether the Government is going to move towards a re-examination of the Albufeira agreement, as it promised in 2019, in the discussions we had here for the 2020 State Budget, or whether it intends to Europeanise the issue by proposing in essence to revise the Water Framework Directive, so that our bilateral relationship with Spain becomes more demanding at European level, allowing us to look at the problems we have today, often because of the flows that do not come from Spain.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u318	Mr Duarte Alves has the floor for an intervention by the CFP Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u319	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The drought situation that the country has experienced well demonstrates the consequences of climate change on the one hand and the political options for decades with regard to water policy on the other. in a scenario that is scarce, but above all of the variability of the existence of the water resource, we have a very bad management of water resources, a lack of serious planning, an incorrect or non-existent system of authorization of water uses. The PS initiative does not address this fundamental problem, it does not address the need to prioritize the use of water according to the availability of each of the water basins and the needs hierarchized according to criteria of public interest. Ignore this first fundamental step, to move right to a final solution, which is desalination.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u320	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u321	Long before the desalination is equationed, it is necessary to ensure that in each watershed the water balance is known until May, i.e. the relationship between the water existing in each reservoir, natural or artificial, and what needs and captures installed. This information is essential if it is to decide on an appropriate priority of available water uses. Instead, we continue to have an uncontrolled growth of crops that require a lot of water, such as intensive olives—which is watered, unlike traditional olives—such as peanuts, avocados, red fruit stoves and, still, golf courses.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u322	That's right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u323	The PS does not want to prioritize uses; it does not want to take into account the principle that crops should be adapted to the water availability of the territory, and not the opposite; it does not want to plan existing resources, taking into account its variability, but wants to go immediately to the last resort solution, which is desalination, a expensive, polluting technology, which uses a lot of energy and which, therefore, should only be used when all other solutions are exhausted. And we ask: who serves a technology that can't desalinate for less than 50 cents per cubic meter, ten times more than the price of Alqueva water?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u324	Well seen!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u325	For whom does this solution of desalination serve, what kind of agriculture? It is certainly not for domestic consumption, nor for much of Alentejo agriculture and much of our country. As for other initiatives under discussion, we will vote in favour of those who promote water as a public resource, with hierarchical uses, we will vote against proposals that aim to privatize water...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u326	Mr President, allow me to interrupt you to ask the honourable Members. A little more silence to hear our colleague, Mr Duarte Alves. You have the floor to proceed.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u327	Thank you very much, Mr President. He said that, with regard to other initiatives under discussion, we will vote in favour of those who promote water as a public resource, with hierarchical uses, against proposals that aim to privatize water, as is the case with the proposal of the Arrival, and we will not follow any proposals that intend to prohibit any new area of irrigation, regardless of the region and its water situation.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u328	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u329	The CFP shall in its own time intervene by a law of water which guarantees water as a public and universal good, with a hierarchical management of uses, in accordance with the public interest. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u330	Mr Duarte Alves, now a compliment on the excellence of the management of his time. All right! Mr Bernardo Blanco has the floor for an intervention now by the Parliamentary Group of the Liberal Initiative.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u331	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : I would like to begin by congratulating the Socialist Party on this agenda, on the importance of the water issue, but also, in part, on the bravery shown here. The PS, a few months ago, voted against the following proposal from the Liberal Initiative : « Within the framework of the Regional Plan for Water Efficiency of the Alentejo [... ], the increase in water supply in the region is ensured through the construction of at least one desalination centre », which we have been talking about a year ago. Now, the PS proposes — trying to find out the differences — that the Government « envisages in the Regional Plan of Water Efficiency of the Alentejo, the construction of a desalination centre in order to ensure the increase of water supply in the region ».
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u332	You've given up!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u333	The only difference is that they changed the order of sentences. They voted against a proposal, copied it, exchanged the order of sentences, and now the PS proposes. So we see the courage and coherence of some.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u334	What doesn't seem to be!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u335	At the time, the PS justified the vote against, saying that desalination was not the solution for everything, which was still lacking to study more, etc. It's been the summer, and after all, the PS is already proposing. I don't know what the Socialist Party board studied during the summer, but I know what happened.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u336	You know? So say there!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u337	What happened was that the government put in public consultation, which ends tomorrow, the Alentejo Regional Water Efficiency Plan, which proposes two desalination plants, which we have been talking about for a long time. And the PS — having the government proposing what we were already talking about — is in fact in favour of the desalination plants. So we see the principles of some. Better late, certainly, than ever! It seems clear that in some regions it is inevitable that we should promote an expansion of the supply of water. If desalination is enough? And we think it's, above all, for emergency situations. The reduction in waste on the networks — which the State does not solve, and where waste is in afforesting percentages — is the re-use of waste water, the re-use of grey water, the improvement of water efficiency, are obviously fundamental. In addition, it is clear to us, as a liberal party, that those who use the water must pay for it, and its price should reflect the water availability of the region where it is being used. Therefore, we should also look, as we have already said, at the disparities in supply between different regions and bet on water highways for better distribution.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u338	Water roads! Oh, oh, oh!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u339	All these aspects we hope to see reflected in the revision of the Water Law, which this Parliament will also do. We must work without turning the Portuguese against each other, without demonising agriculture or tourism, as some parties want to do, and without condemning the entire regions remaining behind the rest of the country. The Liberal Initiative believes that, in consensus, in this review of the Water Law, which will certainly do a lot of work, Parliament must guarantee a future of abundance and prosperity for all parts of the country. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u340	Mr Pedro Pinto has the floor for an intervention by the Parliamentary Group of the Arrival.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u341	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, at the end of this debate, I would like to say that this is too important a debate to have had a few farces here. Some proposals are genuine farces, such as those of the Left Block. The Left Block is here once again accusing farmers of taking 75 % of the water and saying that the big problem of drought in Portugal is agriculture, Portuguese farmers. No, Mr. Member, it is not the Portuguese farmers!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u342	No, it's the ones you're defending!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u343	It is thanks to Portuguese farmers that Portugal is still on the market, with its products. [[Congrats from the CH.]] We clearly understand why you are missing, successively and systematically, the Committee on Agriculture and why the Left Block rarely goes there. Dams are fundamental to retain water. The honourable Member said: 'We want to keep the water'. So how do we do it? Is it in the pools? Is it in the pools of Robles and his Robles that we're gonna hold the water? Don't! The dams are fundamental and therefore their proposals and the NAP proposals...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u344	Go study, man!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u345	...are a real farce for the discussion we're having here. [[Congrats from the CH.]] Then I also heard the PSD say 'following the good example of Spain', but in Spain there is a socialist government, a very bad socialist government which has not been a good government for farmers. Therefore, the bad example of Spain cannot be followed.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u346	You want the same as in Spain!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u347	And what was the PSD proposal? To propose another working group in this Assembly of the Republic. With regard to the Albufeira Convention, Mr Pedro do Carmo, the Minister for the Environment said:'Portugal is not available to review the Albufeira Convention'. When we all know that the Spanish are not fulfilling, Portugal is not available to review the Albufeira Convention. It's not available, because we like to always walk hand-in-hand extended to the Spaniards,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u348	It is! to the socialists!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u349	... asking them, please, to give us water, and that's what can't happen. Do you know why, Your Honor? Because we have a project...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u350	Don't talk about what you don't know!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u351	You must conclude, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u352	I will finish, Mr. President. We have a project that makes Portugal self-sufficient in water, which consists of the national water network.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u353	You don't know! Don't talk about what you don't know!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u354	What I'd like was that the gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen were here asking how much that will cost. I mean, that was important. We're doing... [[Protests by PS Pedro do Carmo.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u355	You really have to conclude, Mr. Deputies. You really have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u356	I will finish, Mr. President. We are creating a link of the Douro to the Tejo, the Guadiana, the Algarve, in which the water of the Spaniards will not be needed. We are self-sufficient and we always walk hand-in-hand, but we are tired of walking hand-in-hand extended. [[Congrats from the CH.]] We have water in Portugal!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u357	Mr President, I reiterate the need to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u358	Thank you very much, Mr President, and I thank you for your condescendence. [[Congrats from the CH.]] [[Protests by PS Pedro do Carmo and BE Pedro Filipe Soares.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u359	Mr Bruno Coimbra of the PSD Parliamentary Group has the floor for a brief, sure intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u360	Mr. President, it is very short. I would no longer sign up, until I have only 5 seconds, but this intervention by Mr Pedro Pinto makes me come to lend you an explanation, since, notoriously, you did not realize anything about what I said or did not read our projects. We spoke of Spain as a good example of...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u361	I have to explain everything!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u362	At least listen, sir! By the way, I can explain. We spoke of Spain as a good example of the technological revolution that you are doing and that we need to follow up and do here too, with regard to the digitization of the water cycle. [[Protests by CH Member Pedro dos Santos Frazão.]] Regarding the working group that criticized, and none of the proposals that the PSD brings about on this working group was for the revision of the Water Law, which needs to be reviewed in fact, and was approved by a large majority in this House. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u363	I asked the ladies. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, a little more serenity in Parliamentary space. It is not for nothing, but it is because I am now giving the floor to Mr. Ricardo Pinheiro. You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u364	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: As water is one of the most important elements Europe can discuss today, I would say that the way in which regions and countries organize themselves in relation to water sharing is one of the key points in what might be the future revision of the Water Law. He took advantage of asking a question, concerning water and bilateral relations, in order to understand, for example, how the Party arrived to organize itself with its Spanish congener, Vox, insofar as one of the main proposals of Vox is precisely to make a transvase from the Tejo to Segura,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u365	We are not their European family!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u366	... in which, clearly, it commits itself in a barbaric manner what may be the water availability for farmers and for Portuguese agriculture. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u367	He's here! The speaker displayed a document entitled "National Water Network".
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u368	With regard to the PSD — and indeed there are huge points of union in this area — I would like to talk about a few issues. I know that for many years, the northern part of the country has waited for a transfer from Douro to Paiva and thus ensure resilience in supply systems, particularly in Viseu.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u369	It's a charca! It's a little charca!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u370	I also know well that the population of the High Alentejo, but also of the Low Alentejo, in relation to the Alqueva, waited many years for the different forms of governance and political-party ideologies of the PSD to be effectively assumed and decided, once and for all, to build the multi-purpose enterprise of Pisão, the dam of Crato. [[Mr Pedro Pinto's protests.]] Indeed, in many situations we need to have the objectivity to decide and take public measures so that this model of resilience in relation to water supplies can be done in an effective way. The national information system for water and water resources, Portuguese, is considered one of the best, from a European point of view, in relation to the provision of information.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u371	No, it's not!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u372	Reflecting this is the way we are able to, practically in real time, monitor, upstream and downstream, the four Portuguese watersheds,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u373	That's the truth!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u374	... but also of the eight hydrographic regions that are classified in Portugal.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u375	You must conclude, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u376	Even so, and in this area of partnership and work in relation to improvements, the Socialist Party will approve some of the proposals that have been put forward here, in order to ensure resilience to such important sectors as agriculture, industry and, essentially, the protection of such an important resource as water. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u377	The third point of our agenda is thus closed. We move on to the fourth point of the agenda, which consists in the general discussion of Bill Nos 836 / XV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Strengthen the protection and rights of all student workers, 420 / XV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Creates the status of the student practicing artistic activities in higher education, 851 / XV / 1. a ( IL) — Do not discriminate against self-employed persons in the light of the incomes of young workers, 886 / XV / 1. a ( CH) — Exemption of student tips to attend compulsory professional internships in higher education courses, cross-sectional to all study areas, amending Law No 37 / 2003 of 22 August establishing the bases of higher education financing and 904 / XV / 2. a ( PAN) — Safeguards the access of self-employed workers with a worker-student status to family allowances, higher education grants and survival pensions, amending Decree-Law No 70/2010 of 16 June 2010 together with Resolution Projects No 873/XV/1. a ( PS ) — Recommends that the Government promote better conditions of access to work for students and 881 / XV / 2. a (PAN) — Recommends that the Government take measures to enhance the status of worker-student. Mr Alexandre Poço spoke for the presentation of the PSD's initiatives.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u378	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This house serves to solve problems,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u379	It depends on the parties that present them!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u380	... and it was in this sense that the PSD Parliamentary Group has scheduled for today the discussion of two bills, the authorship of the Deputies of Social Democratic Youth, to ensure that we end with discrimination and that we advance with more rights for all students. The first bill we bring strengthens the protection of the rights of all workers-students, ensuring equal treatment. We cannot accept discrimination in access to social support between dependent and self-employed workers. With the current legislation, all those who work on their own, all those who do seasonal or temporary work, those who work using green receipts or those who use, for example, an isolated act are discriminated against. Many of these precarious young people still need access to social rights, including scholarships or survival pensions. In our understanding, access to social support should not depend on the employment link, but rather on economic deficiency. And if it is true that we have recently made progress in ensuring that dependent workers can benefit from access to social support, today we are faced with fierce discrimination, which calls into question the principle of equality between dependent and independent workers. We cannot discriminate against young people who want to start their active lives and who, because of such a situation, may end up failing to work or even opt for informality. This subject prompted a petition, recently launched by many young people—some of whom in the galleries today, and which I also greet—and the PSD understood that it was time to correct. But it is time to correct with a bill, not with a draft resolution, as the Socialist Party brings to this House,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u381	You have to vote for it, Alexandre!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u382	...by resigning from your role as a legislator, and thus ensuring that we are able to correct this demanding discrimination in the legislation. The second bill that the PSD presents to this House aims to promote artistic activities during the academic course in higher education. For the creation of this status of the student-artist, the PSD, of course, was also inspired by Decree-Law No 55 / 2019, which created the student-athlete regime, in particular in the rights, duties, the concept of academic merit and in the field of regulation for higher education institutions. Similar status to what we propose today already exists in France, and even the Polytechnic Institute of Coimbra has also advanced with a similar formula in 2018. Of course, in the specialty, we can work on this status of the student-artist about what it should contain, what rights and duties it should cover for students, what are the artistic activities envisaged. But, whether the rights of self-employed workers or students, whether the rights of students who practice artistic activities while studying in higher education, this House cannot resign. And I am sure — even because of the number of initiatives that have, in particular, justified the issue of workers-students — that there is broad consensus to correct this injustice and to ensure that workers-students have access to social support, whether they work on their own or work on their own, and thus guarantee their future in higher education. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u383	To submit Bill No. 851 / XV / 1. the Parliamentary Group of the Liberal Initiative has the floor of Mrs Carla Castro.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u384	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In addition to congratulating, address also special compliments to the petitioners present in the gallery, thanking all the work done on the subject. Analyzing the part-work of young people is a complex process. Portugal is one of the countries whose compatibility between study and work is the lowest in Europe and, at the same time, is one of the countries where part-time work is involuntaryly higher. This legislative initiative does not intend to address all of this, but it aims to contribute decisively so that the student worker has better conditions, regardless of his working condition — this key word, « independently», is important. The proposal that we bring, in the form of a bill, does not aim to discriminate against self-employed workers in relation to dependents in the consideration of the income of young workers-students. What exactly does that mean? It means that a worker-student who has a small activity—think, in summer, a seasonal work—does not lose, for example, the right to family allowance or pocket status. What does it mean to be able to happen something like this? It means discouraging work, it means putting young people in the decision to abdicate professional experience, abdicating the attempt to seek an improvement in life, an increase in income. It even becomes an incentive to formality or to look at informality as an option. There was a legislative amendment that allowed the dependent income taken from young workers under the age of 27 years and that was no more than 14 times the guaranteed monthly minimum wage would cease to be considered for the allocation of social benefits. This is positive, but what's going on, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen? Let us pay particular attention to this: if it is clearly an improvement, it is also clearly an injustice. And the self-employed? What about the liberals? Imagine a seasonal summer work in which someone who wants to have more money in his pocket, experience such a labour market or face some expense, but cannot do it because of this discrimination. contrary to what we have already heard here today, flexibility is not precarious; it can simply be an option of life or fruit of the type of work for which it has been chosen. In addition to this obvious iniquity between situations, I believe it is perhaps more significant that this even demonstrates almost a structural prejudice that exists in the legislator in relation to liberal professionals and to independent work. We are working on this issue—and we are going to continue to work—for example, on the rights of mothers, on parenthood in liberal professionals and on so many other subjects, and it seems that the legislator always finds a presumption or often forgets this type of professional. It is important to overcome this prejudice and it is today that we take a step in this direction. I ask you directly: why is a worker-student, if he is an artist, pushed into the informal economy? Why can't you create a little activity? Why can't you have a surgical job in the area of design, programming, selling Berlin balls in an isolated act? Whatever! At least in the plans and intentions, they say that entrepreneurship is good, they say that opportunities are an incentive for some social mobility, which is positive, but then we find in the legislation this legislative crystallization and this structural prejudice that I spoke about recently. We cannot say that we must give more voice to the representation of liberal professionals, hate social mobility and entrepreneurship, but then fail in concrete opportunities. That's why, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen, I end with a challenge this time to the PS. We have this bill made several months ago and the Socialist Party did its project in September—in which we will vote in favour—but it is a draft resolution, which recommends that the Government resolve. Now, with this bill, we solve this particular issue and therefore the challenge that address is very simple. In addition to the other draft resolutions... I will read the first point of this Socialist Party project.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u385	Mrs. Deputy, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u386	I conclude, Mr. President. It is as follows: « Ensure that the conditions of access to scholarships by workers-students do not discriminate against self-employed persons in relation to dependent workers. Do not keep on seeking. ” My challenge is that, instead of 'assured', they are part of the solution by enabling this bill, which is well structured and which we can still fine-tune in the specialty. We will demonstrate to the student workers that the aim is not to refuse the other proposals and pass an intention; it is, yes, to resolve, and today, with the approval of this bill. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u387	To submit Bill No. 886 / XV / 1. Mr Rui Paulo Sousa.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u388	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: If there is a legacy that any politician should ambitiously do everything within his power to leave a better future for the next generations, for the younger ones. Unfortunately, that is not what socialists and their policies are leaving to young Portuguese people. The legacy of the socialists for the new generations is the greatest tax burden ever, low wages and precariousness. The Government is well trying to make this reality, as can be seen by the measures which the Prime Minister has presented, with a pump and circumstance, in a supposed package of support for young people: one week in the Pousadas de Portugal and four train tickets. Let's do it! So is this what young people are going to fix in our country? This, sirs. Members of the Socialist Party, besides being enjoying the face of the Portuguese, is an invitation for young people to leave our country. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u389	Mrs. Members, three in four young people earn less than € 950, and one third want to leave Portugal. The cost of letting our young people out, our best ones, is very high. Not only does the demographic winter worsen as it removes skilled labour from our economy. The truth is that a young person who aims to earn more than 1000 € at the end of the month has only one option: to drive abroad, away from home.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u390	Truth! Truth!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u391	Ex. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we must stop this bleeding, and stop it with concrete proposals. The project here today brings the Arrival is of the most basic justice for young Portuguese people. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u392	The curriculum is an integral part of the academic course in various higher education courses, often mandatory for the completion of the cycle of studies, and aims at the consolidation of learning. It is an essential tool for students to acquire, in practice, technical and social skills that will facilitate their entry into the labour market. More than just a question of justice, the exemption of tips during the curriculum period is an investment in the prosperity of the nation's future: our young people. Not to support this measure is to once again demonstrate any commitment to our young people, not to recognize them value and not to bet on their ability to transform Portugal into a better country.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u393	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u394	at a time when the Dignified Work Agenda was recently under discussion in this House, with Members of the Socialist Party continuing to fill their mouths with this agenda and claiming that work should be recognized and paid, it is a tremendous hypocrisy to allow a young Portuguese to pay for work. However, at the end of last year, Mr Minister said that the vocational training courses for university graduates would become paid. However, in addition to being estimated that this measure will only cover about a thousand students, the tips continue to be paid. There is no logic in this situation. Reitera : students do not have to pay to work. [[Congrats from the CH.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Members, in 2023, for every 1000 students placed, more than 100 quit. That is, more than 10 % have forced to leave the continuation of their academic course. What are the reasons? Economics. in a scenario of inflation, of widespread price rise, in which families face increasingly financial difficulties, young people end up being the most penalized. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I am finishing this speech by challenging the Socialist Youth, which is here represented by your President, Mr Miguel Matos,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u395	He's not president, man!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u396	... which, in a hystrionic way, applauded the solutions presented by the Socialist Government to solve the problem of young Portuguese students. But to claim that you go for stays in the Youth Inns or half a dozen train tickets...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u397	What about our Alive? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u398	...stop a young man from leaving higher education can only be another joke of the friends of the Long Mouse. [[Congrats from the CH.]] in this sense, challenges the Socialist Youth, present here on the bench of the PS, and, by drag, the whole socialist bench...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u399	By dragging? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u400	... to be effectively alongside young Portuguese students, voting in favour of this initiative of the Arrival. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u401	O Miguel, even if they were tickets to our Alive! Now, train tickets...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u402	To submit Bill No. 904 / XV / 2. a and the Resolution Project No 881 / XV / 2. a, of the NAP, has a word on Mrs Inês de Sousa Real.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u403	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We say so many times that this country is not for the elderly, we say so many times that this country is not for the young, but what about this country for the workers-students? It is that, in fact, the life of a worker-student is hard. It is a non-stop life, to sleep late and wake up early—when not from direct to study—, with cycles of endless couriers, 8 hours of work, 5 hours of classes and in which all free time, whether at lunch or in transport, serves to study, to make summaries, for preparations. There is much effort and anxiety to pay for studies, but too little money and little rights. The barriers to this academic and professional development mechanism continue to be too much, and this is only because we have a completely out-of-date worker-student status, which has gone unnoticed in the Dignified Work Agenda. Workers-students are young people of second age. Just because they have to work to pay for the studies, they do not have access to ADSE ( Institute for Protection and Assistance in Disease ), they do not have access to the tax exemption when they enter the labour market at green receipts and, when they complete their degree, they cannot benefit from the measures to support young people seeking the first job. The situation is even worse when, as a result of a gap in the Dignified Work Agenda, only by receiving income, a worker-student to green receipts may be impaired in access to family allowance, higher education grants or survivor's pensions. This discrimination, in the view of the NAP, is unacceptable and has, for example, not been stopped by the scholarship regulation of this academic year. For this reason, today the NAP wants to apply the same regime as this Parliament has approved for dependent workers. We also propose that the Government undertake a cross-sectional reflection on the status of the worker-student in terms not only that guarantee their updating, but, above all, the deepening of their rights at the level of ADSE, tax exemptions, scholarships and employment support measures.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u404	To present the Resolution Project No 873 / XV / 1. a, from the PS, has the floor Mr. Miguel Costa Matos.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u405	Bora, Miguel, for our Alive!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u406	Stealing data from Enough! What a shame! At least, it's resignation!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u407	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Our country had child labour and in the 1990s it ended. Our country had, and has, a shortage of qualifications, but today Portuguese young people go to college in greater proportion than young people from the rest of the European Union. Today our country has a problem of low wages and young unemployment, as much as the wages of young people have grown 40% since 2015, and that young unemployment is half what it was in 2014. [[P.S.'s applause.]] But there is a difference between Portugal and its peers when we talk about workers-students. If in the European Union about one in four young people studies and works in Portugal this percentage is reduced to 10 %. Now 90 000 young people work and study in Portugal. Some do - by choice, on an occasional basis - my case was when I was a student and translated scientific articles into Portuguese, but too many do - because of necessity, precariously, and many even in informality. This reality was well portrayed by the petition "Promoting Youth Independence in Portugal - Rights & Duties of Workers-Students", whose subscribers, who are present, we greet. That is why, in the first State Budget I made in this House as a Member, the Socialist Youth proposed, and obtained, an exemption from IRS (tax on income of natural persons) for workers-students up to 5 IAS(Social Support Index) : 2400 €. That is why in the Dignified Work Agenda, only a few months ago, we ensure that students who work and maintain income up to the annual value of 14 minimum wages do not lose scholarships or social support. And that's why we're going to return the tips, we're going to extend the IRS Youth to IRS Zero in the first year and we're going to guarantee free public transport for all students up to 23. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It is important that we continue this path and that is what we do with this draft resolution, excluding these incomes for the benefit of ADSE, looking at support for the first job, for the internships, for support for the hiring and IRS Young, ensuring that those who work as a student do not spend the « cartridge » of State support. And the same applies to those who are on green receipts—yes! — which does not have to contribute in the first year of discounts and which, therefore, should be able to postpone this contribution exemption at a time when it gains more. Whatever link it is, they should not lose their higher education scholarships. What we refuse, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it is normalizing the false green receipts, so common in our generation. We will not allow young people to be pushed out of the social protection system with what some have come here to propose: a contribution exemption, which is actually a poisoned carrot. [[CH Member Protests Bruno Nunes.]] Today, we are here, with our own initiative, with work done and work done, but with the same cause as always: decent work, also for the worker-student. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u408	Mr Miguel Costa Matos has two requests for clarification, one from Mr Alexandre Poço of the PSD and another from Mrs Rita Matias of the Arrival. How do you want to answer?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u409	Together, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u410	Together, it will be so. Mr Alexandre Poço has the floor for a request for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u411	Mr President, I welcome again the Members and the Members. Ladies and gentlemen. The question we have to ask Mr Matos is whether, in the face of a specific problem which different sides have identified — and the Socialist Party itself has also identified him in its draft resolution — he does not feel a bit embarrassed by what is probably going to happen shortly, which is the Socialist Party to lead these initiatives to adopt his draft resolution. In fact, I can tell you from now on that the PSD will vote in favour of the Socialist Party's draft resolution. But what makes us confused is, in the face of a concrete problem, with a resolution in view of everyone, with different benches that move forward with that solution, we cannot figure out what the Socialist Party will do. Therefore, or the honourable Member probably feels embarrassed, because he cannot guarantee the resolution of a real problem that, in the rostrum, he described as harmful to the workers-students — and then, at the stage of the speciality, if you do not agree with one or another question of one of the bills that are here today the debate until we could express our opinions — or, then, the honourable Member, if you vote against the draft laws of the PSD, the Liberal Initiative and the NAP, and I do not know how you will vote today, you will not be taking an opportunity to solve a problem for young liberal workers. And what do you do? He resigned from his role as a legislator, resigned from his role and almost closed Parliament to say: no, we make a resolution and the government resolves whenever it wants. Mr President, we can resolve this today, with a democratic consensus. [[PSD applause.]] So, Mr. Miguel Matos: do you feel pregnant, do you not feel pregnant? And I want to ask you the following: how will the Socialist Party vote, and how will the young Members of the Socialist Party vote, the PSD bill in this House? It is a very direct question: yes or no? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u412	For a request for clarification, Mrs Rita Matias of the Parliamentary Group of the Arrival has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u413	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Miguel Matos, I will give you something new: young Portuguese people don't want tickets for OUR Alive in exchange for a military service in JS...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u414	There he is!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u415	... and also do not want tickets to go to the CP ( Trains of Portugal ). [[Congrats from the CH.]] The young Portuguese are concerned about the plane tickets that condemn them to emigration. And that is why, in a very concrete way, what I am asking is that it will enable this initiative of the Arrival which ensures that young trainees do not have to pay for work?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u416	You must conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u417	I shall conclude, Mr President. What they did in relation to professional orders was to decree that the internships are paid, but did not give any form of such remuneration. So what I'm asking is, will you have the courage, once and for all, to stand by the young Portuguese and what is to establish justice? [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u418	To respond to this group of requests for clarification, Mr. Miguel Matos has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u419	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank Mr Alexandre Poço and Mrs Rita Matias for their questions. Mrs. Rita Matias, see the party that went against the interests of professional orders, when we tried to get the young people paid in the orders, honestly...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u420	It's never good enough!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u421	on your part, we do not accept any kind of lesson on this matter. On approving proposals from the Arrival, our answer is very clear: never! It's never! [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[What about the tickets?Oh, my God!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u422	With regard to Mr Alexandre Poço's question, for whom he went during the PSD government period to liberalize redundancies and precariousness, we would have much to talk about, but let's talk about today, which is what we are doing here. Mr President, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. I would leave young people without protection in the disease, without protection in fatherhood, without protection in unemployment. That is why, Mr President, I am sorry to tell you that it does not count on us to approve a proposal that makes young people pay more social security than other workers and employers. Therefore, the conclusion we have drawn is that the JSD really presented itself here as one of the best friends of precariousness, and therefore, of course, our position before your initiative will be against it. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u423	You didn't speak on our Alive!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u424	What about our Alive? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u425	What about our Alive? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u426	You now have the floor for an intervention, Mr José Soeiro.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u427	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I would like to congratulate the proposers and welcome the schedule of this debate. Allow me to respond already to what Mr. Member of the Socialist Party said, because point three of the Socialist Party's draft resolution speaks about the difference in the 12-month exemption from social security,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u428	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u429	... i.e. to increase the time by which people—in this case the workers-students who have employment—have no social security protection, because they are not discounting, during this period of exemption they are not discounting, and therefore are not constituting contributing rights.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u430	All right! It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u431	In the framework of this debate the PSD and IL regret that there are few workers-students in Portugal. Now, there are many or few people who are not good or bad in themselves, because there is a great difference between students who are forced to work—for the price of the tips, for the difficulties in housing, for the costs of higher education—and who, therefore, have no time to devote themselves to studies fully and, in this case, being a worker-student is not an option, but a need that results from the costs and lack of support, and workers who choose to return to school for intellectual curiosity, because they want to improve their qualifications, because they want to change their lives, and that is an excellent reason for there to be workers-students. in this case, moreover, we should improve the links, the stability of the bonds, the working hours, the organizational cultures to make it easier for people to be in school again. With regard to the bills being discussed, those of the NAP and IL, to equate independent workers and workers on behalf of others in access to exchanges and non-accounting of income up to 14 national minimum wages, we agree, it makes sense, because the path must be equalization of rights between workers on behalf of others and self-employed persons, in particular in this respect and in others. In fact, we have had this discussion in the context of the amendment to the Labour Code and in enlargement, whether in collective bargaining or in a variety of other rights, to self-employed people. We are also in favour of the exemption of propines—in fact, we are in favour of the end of the propines—and we will not oppose an exemption for those who are doing professional stages and under the status of the artist. Regarding the contribution exemptions, and this applies to the PSD bill as valid for the PS resolution project, this is a trap—in fact, the Socialist Party part of a misunderstanding. Why do independent workers not pay social security contributions in the first year today? It is not because there is an incentive to start the activity of young people; that is a mistake! The only reason is a technical reason, is because first the social security discounts were calculated according to what the person had earned in the previous year. In the first year there was no previous year to calculate the incidence of contributions and therefore there was no way to include people on a scale. That is why in the first year independent workers do not pay social security contributions. This is not an incentive for young people to enter the world of work! During this year, people are not paying social security contributions, but they have no protection in the disease, in parenthood, they are not constituting rights contributing to reform, nothing! It is found that the solution for young people is, in addition to that year in which they are not contributing — and therefore are not constituting contribution rights — to defer even more this period when people are not contributing, it is a problem, it is not a solution; and therefore we are against these initiatives, both the PSD and the PS, to weaken the contribution situation of the younger people. [[Congratulations from BE.]] [[In the meantime, he re-chaired Vice-President Editi Estrela.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u432	Mr Rui Tavares has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u433	Madam President: I would like to begin by welcoming the proponents of these initiatives for a debate that is important and for some proposals that, I think, gather quite broad consensus. I think we can go further, because what matters is that young workers — they are self-employed, self-employed, liberal professionals — can concentrate on doing what they are good and do not have to be their own jurists, their own accountants, their own tax collectors; and can grow on a scale, share costs. That's good for people, that's good for the country. But there are two criticisms I want to make, one to the PS and the other to the PSD, about recent proposals on youth. A criticism has to do with what would be a single rate for IRS for young people under the age of 35. I wanted them to explain to me whether there is no injustice when someone who earns a much higher salary and is 35 years old is paying much less than someone often with low wages, as we have in our country, 36 years old. Is that not "one country, two systems" at the generational level? With regard to PS, the proposal for tips is truly a proposal that is far below what was promised and that is in some ways the worst of two worlds, because there are young people who sometimes leave higher education because they cannot afford to pay the tips and stay on the way, and there are others who come from families with greater purchasing power and will have their tips returned. Now, would the righteous here, both for some and others, not simply abolish the tips and that people would then pay, with the progressive taxes they must pay, have benefited from higher education and have higher incomes?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u434	That's enough! Look at the weather!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u435	This would help to pay higher education for other students, possibly even with the creation of a fund to support the student of higher education, which would be financed from a part of the IRS of those who have benefited from public higher education and are at the highest percentage income levels.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u436	Again! How is that possible? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u437	Mr Alfredo Maia of the CFP Parliamentary Group speaks for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u438	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Staff Regulations of the Workers is an important tool for promoting the dual dimension of work and education. In formal terms, it creates conditions for workers who had to stop their school course or students who had to start working early can continue their course. There are also many workers who decide — indeed, well — to extend their knowledge and skills and to diversify and broaden their knowledge. In addition to a fair individual aspiration and the realization of an essential right, the frequency of successive degrees of teaching or the broadening of knowledge is also a contribution to improving the cultural, social, civic and economic profile of society, with advantages also for companies. Despite the legal consecration of the Statute, the complaints of workers-students about difficulties and obstacles created in companies for the full use of the rights enshrined in it are frequent. In fact, complaints relating to the lack of authorisation — between aspas — of the company for the adequacy of working hours to the frequency of classes, to the preparation of frequencies and examinations and even to the participation of these with the appropriate granting of exemptions are frequent, but not uncommon for many students to have to take a day's leave so that they can attend the examination. This framework is inseparable from authoritarian and even aggressive practices in the organization of work in many companies, with the deregulation of working hours in various forms, such as shiftwork and continuous working arrangements. If this problem, which reaches at least 1 million and 800 thousand Portuguese workers, is already very serious for workers with family members, from the point of view of the articulation of work with family life, you can well imagine how painful it is when they aspire to improve their qualifications. This problem is also inseparable from the demand for an increase in wages, because it is very clear that, in view of its insufficiency, many workers-students are forced to give in to rights that should be irrevocable. With regard to the initiatives presented, I would like to highlight two notes on the exemption from the single social rate and the exemption or reduction of the proposed tax rates: firstly, they clearly affect the worker's contribution career and their own benefits; secondly, it is necessary to consider with caution the effects on the financing of social security. As regards access to family allowances, it is necessary, in fact, to continue its increase and generalisation, i.e. by applying it to all children and young people, as the CFP has proposed — a proposal which has been piped in this House. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u439	For an intervention, Mrs Barbara Dias of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u440	Madam President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Petitioners present here: Privilege or lack of this is the key concept that is at the basis of a young person's decision that becomes a worker-student. We all know a young man who is obliged to reconcile study and work to pursue his dreams, or because the family has no financial capacity, or then does not even have that family support. We all know a young man who, during the summer months, looks for ways to increase his income during the next year and we all know a young man who reconciles the study with the work by choice, because he wants to be able to carry out his projects without weighing on the family budget. We welcome them, all of them, for their conciliation effort, their daily resilience so as not to give up their training course or their incomes. These are truly extraordinary people, with a desire to win, and against the predestined, unmatched. It is therefore up to each of us to cherish and embrace their struggles through solutions that add value and safeguard their rights. A few months ago, we approved the Dignified Work Agenda, which, among other measures, specifically strengthened the social protection of young workers and young students working during school holidays, allowing to accumulate annual wages up to €10,640 with the family allowance, with the scholarship and survival pension. However, the draft law of the PSD, the Liberal Initiative and the NAP which today are put to the vote contradict precisely the objectives of the Dignified Work Agenda. And why? It's worth reflecting. Is it preferable to perpetuate the precariousness of the labour — through, for example, the so-called ‘unemployed false workers’ — and thus to harm the contribution regime of these young people, as well as to weaken access to their social protection, or rather strengthen the social protection of these young people and ensure that they have full access to their rights through a contract of employment? For the Socialist Party, the answer to this reflection is clear. And, responding to Mr. José Moura Soeiro, we do not want to prolong the contribution exemption,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u441	That's what's here!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u442	...we want to postpone the contribution exemption, and there is a clear difference between the two. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Prolonging is different from delaying. And today's draft resolution adds value. The Socialist Party aims to stimulate the reconciliation between studying and working without compromising equal opportunities, dignity and the future of the young worker-student. For us, the worker-student receipt does not get hurt, leaves with contract of work and guaranteed rights. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u443	Let's move on to the closure. To that end, Mr Alexandre Poço of the PSD Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u444	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : To close this debate, I must say that it was a bit surreal to hear the Socialist Party use arguments that Mr José Moura Soeiro used. Rationale is coherent, but we can disagree. We understand that, yes, there may be a contribution exemption for student workers up to 27 years and up to 14 minimum wages, with compensation for loss of social security revenue, to ensure that there is no loss of rights, to be made through the State budget.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u445	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u446	Mr José Moura Soeiro disagrees, Mr Alfredo Maia also disagrees, but they were consistent with the thought that both political forces have. Surreal is to see the Socialist Party using the same argument to attack the proponent of this bill, in this case the PSD, and then in paragraph 3 of its draft resolution, say the following : « Assess the ability and opportunity to differ in the case of young workers-students with annual salaries up to 14 MMG [ guaranteed minimum monthly remuneration], from the 12-month social security exemption at the beginning of a young person's professional course ». Well, that doesn't make any sense! [[PSD applause.]] Or choose the arguments of the Left Block and the PCP, which would not be so rare, and are consistent, or then they do not present a proposal that is similar to ours!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u447	The proposal is bad!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u448	So, ladies and gentlemen. Members, even if they do not agree, what is relevant to us is that there is a broad consensus between the different bills. Mr Rui Tavares, right now, I looked at you and I remembered: maximum rate and single rate are not the same thing!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u449	Exactly! [[Protests by L Rui Tavares.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u450	You have to read our IRS proposal until you are 35. But this was just a part of it, because I looked at you and I remembered you made this mistake. On this issue, there is a consensus to ensure that workers-students are not harmed by being dependent or independent workers. There is this consensus. Now, let's go to specialized headquarters to resolve this grueling injustice and correct this discrimination.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u451	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u452	We are just not going because the Socialist Party is probably going to do what it always does: it is all about it and it is going to approve an innocuous resolution recommending that the government one day solve this problem. [[PS Member Protests Eurico Brilliant Dias.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Members, are proud to be Members, are proud to be legislators, and approve projects that guarantee more rights to workers and students. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u453	When presenting a project to lower taxes, we talk!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u454	Let us turn to the last item on our agenda, with the vote on the Rules of Procedure. I ask the services to operate the quorum verification mechanism. [[Pause.]] I wonder if there's any or some of the gentlemen. Members who have not been able to register. [[Pause.]] Therefore, all Members and Members. Members were able to register, so I ask the services to attach the result. We have a quorum and we shall proceed to the vote. We begin with the Vote Project No. 444 / XV / 2. a ( submitted by the PSD ) — regretting the death of Manuela Teixeira. With the announcement of all seats, Mr Pedro Roque of the PSD Parliamentary Group will read this draft vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u455	Mr. President and Mrs. Members, I read: « It was with deep dismay that the news of the disappearance, at the age of 85, of Maria Manuela Teixeira, was known to be an unmistakable figure of political-union activism. Manuela Teixeira performed the most relevant functions at the level of the Portuguese democratic union movement. He was president of the SPZN ( Union of Professors of the North Zone ) and of the FNSP ( National Federation of Teachers'Unions ), created within the UGT ( General Workers' Union ) and later FNE ( National Education Federation ). Organizations that have always been guided by the principles of reformist unionism, based on the premise that the improvement of working conditions is gradually and not abruptly and revolutionary. Professor and PhD in Education, he was in the creation of the ISET ( Institute for Education and Labour Training ), created in 1993 to meet the initial and continuing training needs of teachers and non-teachers. In trade union terms, it was also a representative of the social-democrat trend, President of the UGT, which stood with distinction between 1998 and 2004. Deeply social-democrat, in addition to party militancy, he also held prominent positions in the Social-Democrat Workers, a work structure of the PSD, as President of the Bureau of Congress and the National Council between 2000 and 2004. As indicated by the National Secretariat of the TSD, the PSD was a candidate for the 1999 European elections. Having not been directly elected, however, circumstances have stated that, by way of waivers of mandates throughout the European legislature, they could later assume the seat of Member of the European Parliament. Nevertheless, because of the fact that she had always claimed that she would only be elected directly, she declined to assume this position. Manuela Teixeira was an example for all, especially in the teaching trade union movement and loudly in the current situation in which teachers go through a particularly adverse period, facing a difficult and delayed union struggle process. In fact, the example of Manuela Teixeira, as union leader and defender of a hard but proactive negotiation, cannot fail to be remembered. Thus, the Assembly of the Republic transmits to the family, friends of Manuela Teixeira, as well as to the democratic union movement its most sincere condolences, recalling the memory of an tireless fighter and an unmistakable figure of unionism in Portugal. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u456	Let us then vote the deliberative part of the Voting Project No. 444 / XV / 2. a ( submitted by the PSD ) — regretting the death of Manuela Teixeira. [[The vote was taken unanimously.]] I take advantage of sending our condolences to family members, friends and representatives of the trade union entities present here in the Gallery III, on behalf of the Assembly of the Republic and on behalf of the Bureau. We passed the Vote Project No. 447 / XV / 2. a ( submitted by the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Portuguese Communities and signed by a Member of the PSD ) — In spite of the victims of the Chilean dictatorship, in the 50 years of Salvador Allende's death and the 1973 coup d'état. To read this draft vote, you have the floor of Mrs. Deputy, and Secretary of the Bureau, Palmira Maciel.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u457	Mr. President and Mrs. Members, the draft vote is of the following content: « On 11 September 1973, the Chilean constitutional democratic regime, elected in 1970 with 36, 2 % of the votes in a left-wing coalition, the People's Union, was violently overthrown by a coup d'état perpetrated by General Augusto Pinochet with the support of nationalist military, overthrowing the government of President Salvador Allende and causing thousands of victims, repression and suppression of fundamental freedoms and rights in the following years. Despite respect for the constitutional and legal framework in the implementation of the new reform programme, Chilean politics remained polarized, with conflicts that gradually escalated between 1970 and 1973, installing a climate of tension strongly influenced by the Cold War and the confrontation of ideological blocks. Allende would eventually die on the same day on September 11, following the siege and assault at the headquarters of the presidency in La Moneda Palace, bombarded by the coup forces, as making prophetic the words he had spoken years before, that “it is only worth dying for things without which it is not worth living. ” The dictatorship of Pinochet, which followed, led to the suppression of rights and freedoms, to the dissolution of parties, to the persecution of political dissidents and brutal violations of human rights, such as executions in the Chacabuco concentration camp, in the Atacama desert, and in full National Stadium, where thousands of Chileans were arrested and tortured in the early days of the dictatorship. In total, the regime has made more than 40,000 victims, including executed, detained, missing, tortured and political prisoners, still forcing some 200,000 Chileans into exile. Today, 50 years after the coup, there remains a duty of memory to be fulfilled, honoring the victims and recalling that authoritarian and nationalist forces and movements are not only a historical fact of the past, but a reality that breaks into many parts of the globe today, including in Europe, threatening democracy and its conquests. Thus, fulfilling a duty of memory in defense of democracy and the rule of law, the Assembly of the Republic expresses its sorrow for the victims of the dictatorship of Augusto Pinochet, when the 50 years of Salvador Allende's death and the coup d'état of 1973 in Chile. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u458	Mrs. Members, let us vote on the deliberative part of the draft vote No 447 / XV / 2. a — In spite of the victims of the Chilean dictatorship, in the 50 years of Salvador Allende's death and the 1973 coup d'état. [[The vote was taken unanimously.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u459	I call on you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u460	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u461	Madam President, to inform us that we will present a statement of vote on this vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u462	Does Mrs Paula Santos ask for the same word?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u463	Yes, Madam President.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u464	Be registered. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, following the votes that we have just voted on, we will keep a minute's silence. [[The House kept, standing, a minute's silence.]] We passed the Vote Project No. 446 / XV / 2. a ( submitted by the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Portuguese Communities and signed by a Member of the PSD ) — Condemning the conduct of regional and local elections in the territories of Ukraine temporarily occupied by the Russian Federation. Mr. Diogo Leon has the floor to read this draft vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u465	Madam President, I read: « For three days, between 8 and 10 September 2023, there were regional and local elections in the Russian Federation and, illegally, coercive and attack all democratic practices, also in the Ukrainian territories temporarily occupied by Russia. The electoral commissions imposed by Moscow in Crimea, in Sebastopol, Lugansk, Donetsk, Zaporijia and Kherson, in an election that purely sought to legitimize the illegal annexation of these territories, indicated that five parties represented in the Russian Parliament showed candidates for local assemblies, with the Russian United Party of Putin to emerge as a prominent winner of the regional elections held in these territories. According to the European Union and other international bodies, illegal “elections” in Ukraine took place in a context marked by the forced and illegal granting of passports by Russia, including children, by transfers and forced deportations, by generalized and systematic human rights violations and abuses, as well as by the intimidation and increasing repression of Ukrainian citizens by Russia and the authorities illegally appointed in the temporarily occupied Ukrainian territories. The conduct of these so - called illegitimate “elections ” in the aforementioned territories deserves firm repudiation and condemnation, for it is nothing more than a new attempt by Russia to legitimize or normalize its illegal military control and attempts to annex parts of the Ukrainian territory. This is another clear violation of international law, including the Charter of the United Nations, as well as the independence, sovereignty and territorial integrity of Ukraine. Thus, the Assembly of the Republic condemns the holding of local and regional elections promoted by the Russian Federation in the territories of Ukraine temporarily occupied, which in itself represent another flagrant violation of international law and an unacceptable provocation to the legitimate sovereignty and unity of Ukraine. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u466	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall vote on the deliberative part of the draft vote that has just been read. [[Having put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the PS, the CH, the IL, the BE, the PAN and the L and the abstention from the CFP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u467	Madam President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u468	To what effect, Mrs. Deputy?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u469	To announce that we will deliver a statement of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u470	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. We shall now vote, in general, on Law No 88 / XV / 1. a ( GOV ) — Transposes Delegated Directive ( EU ) 2022 / 2100 and strengthens standards for the prevention and control of smoking. [[Submitted to the vote, it was adopted, with votes in favour of the PS, against the CH, IL, BE and the deputies of the PS Alexandra Leitão and Isabel Alves Moreira and the abstentions of the PSD, the PCP, the PAN, the L and 14 members of the PS (António Sales, Bruno Aragão, Carla Sousa, Cláudia Santos, Eduardo Alves, Fátima Fonseca, Filipe Neto Brandão, Isabel Guerreiro, Joana Sá Pereira, João Paulo Rebelo, Maria Antony de Almeida Santos, Nelson Brito, Paulo Araújo Correia and Pedro Anastácio).]] The diploma dropped to 9. the Commission. Mrs. Isabel Moreira asks for the word for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u471	Madam President, to announce that I have already made a written statement of vote available to the Bureau.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u472	Mrs. Members, only if it is for oral explanations of vote is that it is necessary to indicate to the Bureau, otherwise, that they present the statement of vote and it is not worth wasting time, with everyone saying that they have delivered or that they are going to deliver the statement of vote. Mr. Pedro Cegonho, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u473	Madam President, although I have voted in favour, I shall not be prohibited.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u474	Mr. Rodrigo Saraiva asks for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u475	For an appeal to the Bureau, Madam President.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u476	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u477	Mr President, perhaps for some time, we need to know who is voting in favour of this proposal. Therefore, either the vote is repeated or at least ask who votes in favour so that the Portuguese know who is in favour of this ban.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u478	You are right, Mr, but as you have announced, I assumed, on the exclusion of parties, that whoever voted in favour was the PS. Mrs. Cláudia Santos, ask for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u479	Madam President, in order to announce that we have submitted a statement of vote on the vote on this Bill No 88, also on behalf of the honourable Members. Deputies Antonio Sales, Bruno Aragon...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u480	Madam Member, I am sorry to interrupt you, but in accordance with the new Rules of Procedure, there is no need for the announcement, it is enough to present the statement. [[Protests of PS, PSD and CH Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u481	Thank you very much, Madam President. As has already been said, the Rules of Procedure do not prohibit and therefore allow. [[Congrats from PSD Members.]] And, to that extent, I would continue to indicate the name of the honourable Members. Members who have subscribed to this statement of vote and who are, in addition to those previously said, the Members. Deputies Eduardo Alves, Fatima Fonseca, Filipe Neto Brandão, Joana Sá Pereira, Paulo Araújo Correia and Pedro Anastácio.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u482	I call on you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u483	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u484	Madam President, to announce that I will present a statement of vote on the vote we have made.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u485	We proceed with the general vote of Bill No. 879 / XV / 1. a ( CH) — Change Law No 37 / 2007 of 14 August, amends the labelling in tobacco products in order to eliminate photographs or illustrations of combined health warnings and give more prominence to available tobacco support options. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and the PCP were rejected, votes against the PSD and CH and abstentions against IL, BE, PAN and L.]] We will generally vote for Bill No. 881 / XV / 1. a ( PAN) — The second amendment is made to Law No 88 / 2019 of 3 September, known as the « Law of the Beats », in order to ensure its most efficient, effective and transparent application. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and the CH were rejected in favour of the PSD, BE, PAN and L and abstentions by the IL and the CFP.]] We turn to the vote on draft resolution No 868 / XV / 1. a (PAN) — Recommends that the Government ensure the adoption of incentives for correct discarding and re-use of tip tobacco products. [[When put to the vote, it was adopted with votes in favour of the PS, BE, PAN and L and with abstentions from PS, CH, IL and the CFP.]] We now vote on Resolution Project No 853 / XV / 1. a (CH) — Recommends that the Government change the registration rules in the daycare centres which adhere to the Creche Felis programme by giving priority to children with working parents. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, BE and PAN were rejected, votes against the CH and abstentions against the PS, the IL, the PCP and the L.]] We will generally vote for Bill No. 876 / XV / 1. a (IL) — Freedom of choice of day care. [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, the CFP, the BE and the L, votes against the PS, the CH and the IL and the abstention from the NAP.]] The general vote of Bill No 882 / XV / 1 is hereby followed. a (PAN) — Creates extraordinary support for the frequency of daycare or daycare, for children who have not had access to the vacancy covered by the free social and solidarity sector or on the licensed daycare facilities of the lucrative private network. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and PSD were rejected, votes against the CH, the NAP and the L and abstentions against the IL, the CFP and the BE.]] We will generally vote for Bill No. 862 / XV / 1. a (BE) — Programme for the valorisation of artistic education. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and IL were rejected, votes against the CH, the CFP, the BE, the NAP and the L and the abstention from the PSD.]] We then vote in general, too, the Bill No. 883 / XV / 1. a (PAN) — Identifys specialized artistic education, providing for the identification of needs and public responses, the creation of artistic scholarships and the hiring of specialized teachers. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of the PS, the CH, the CFP, the BE, the NAP and the L and the abstention from the IL.]] We proceed to the general vote on Bill No. 928 / XV / 2. a ( PCP ) — Enlargement of the public specialized artistic education network. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and IL were rejected in favour of the CFP, BE, NAP and L and abstentions from the PSD and CH.]] We proceed with the general vote of Bill No. 522 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Charter of Qualification for Cereal Culture, Promotion of Cereal Production and Monitoring of the National Strategy for the Promotion of Cereal Production. [[The vote was taken with votes against the PS, the PS and the IL and votes against the CH, the PCP, the BE, the PAN and the L.]] We now vote, in general, the Bill No. 305 / XV / 1. a (CH) — Promotes national agricultural production with a view to achieving sustainable food sovereignty and security. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, the CFP, the BE, the NAP and the L were rejected, votes against the CH and abstentions against the PSD and the IL.]] We shall proceed to the general vote on draft resolution No 604 / XV / 1. a (L) — Recommends that the Government ensure the continuity of the Portuguese Bank of Germoplasma Vegetal and that it consider, in the next State budget, the financial resources that are inherent in its functioning and mission. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the CH, the CFP, the BE, the NAP and the L and the PS, the SDP and the IL.]] The project goes down to 7. the Commission. We continue with the general vote on draft resolution No 869 / XV / 1. a ( PAN) — Recommends to the Government the hiring of superior technicians for the Portuguese Bank of Germoplasma Vegetal. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the CH, the CFP, the BE, the NAP and the L and the PS, the SDP and the IL.]] The project goes down to 7. the Commission. We shall now vote, in general, on the speciality and in the overall final vote, on the Proposal for a Law No 92 / XV / 1. a ( GOV ) — Authorizes the Government to transpose Directive ( EU ) 2020 / 1828 on collective actions for the protection of consumer interests. [[Put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of PS, PS, IL, PAN and L and with abstentions from CH, PCP and BE.]] We will generally vote for Bill No. 859 / XV / 1. a ( IL) — Approves the Basics Law of the Universal System of Access to Health, by way of the repeal of Law No 95 / 2019 of 4 September 2019. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, PSD, PCP, BE, PAN and L were rejected, votes against the IL and the abstention from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u486	Ah, come on, get away!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-29.u487	We proceed to the general vote of Bill No. 880 / XV / 1. a ( CH) — Alter the Health Bases Act, establishing the obligation of the State to refer the users of the National Health Service to care in the private or social sectors in the event of exhaustion of guaranteed maximum response times. [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, the CFP, the BE and the L, votes against the PS, the CH and the NAP and the abstention from the IL.]] Next, we will vote on the application submitted by the NAP, asking the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedom and Guarantees for a 60-day vote of Bill No. 884 / XV / 1. a ( PAN) — Authorizes the access of medical students to user health data registration systems, making the first amendment to Law No 58 / 2019 of 8 August. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We shall proceed with the vote on draft resolution No 750 / XV / 1. a (CH) — Recommends that the Government take measures to increase the effectiveness, efficiency and productivity of the National Health Service, particularly in areas and regions most in need. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, the PCP and the BE were rejected, votes against the PSD and the CH and abstentions against the IL, the NAP and the L.]] We now vote in general on Resolution Project No 763 / XV / 1. a ( PS ) — Recommends to the Government new water monitoring and supply solutions in Portugal. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of PS, PS, CH and IL, votes against the CFP and abstentions from BE, PAN and L.]] The project goes down to 11. the Commission. We proceed to the general vote on Bill No. 437 / XV / 1. a (CH) — Amendment to the law of municipal services for public water supply, sanitation of waste water and urban waste management. [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, the CFP, the BE and the L, votes against the CH and abstentions from the PSD, the IL and the NAP.]] We will vote, in general, on Bill No. 853 / XV / 1. a ( BE ) — The establishment of the water institute, I. P. and the reactivation of the administrations of the hydrographic regions and the councils of the hydrographic region. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and the PSD were rejected, votes against the CFP, BE and L and abstentions against the CH, IL and the NAP.]] We then have the general vote on draft resolution No 794 / XV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Modernisation of water monitoring. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PSD, the CH, the IL, the PCP, the BE, the PAN and the L and the PS abstention.]] This project is down to 11. the Commission. We then proceed to the general vote on draft resolution No 809 / XV / 1. a ( PSD ) — National and multiannual water saving campaign. [[The vote was taken with votes against the PS and votes against the PS, the CH, the IL, the PCP, the BE, the PAN and the L.]] I now put to the vote, in general, draft resolution No 821 / XV / 1. a (BE) — Investment in production modes compatible with water scarcity and moratorium on intensive water consumption activities. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, CH and IL were rejected, votes against BE, PAN and L, and abstention from the CFP.]] We turn to the general vote on draft resolution No 822 / XV / 1. a (BE) — National programme for the reduction of water losses. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PSD, the CH, the IL, the PCP, the BE, the PAN and the L and the PS abstention.]] The project goes down to 11. the Commission. The general vote on draft resolution No 829 / XV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Programme of Action for the Full Scan of the Water Cycle. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and the PCP and votes against the PSD, CH, IL, BE, PAN and L were rejected.]] We shall continue with the general vote on draft resolution No 830 / XV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Promote the use of treated waste water in the fight against rural fires by strengthening the watershed network. [[Put to the vote, it was adopted with votes in favour of the PSD, the CH, the IL, the BE, the PAN and the L and with abstentions from the PS and the CFP.]] The project goes down to 11. the Commission. We then have the general vote on draft resolution No 870 / XV / 1. a (PAN) — Recommends that the Government review the legal framework for watershed management plans with a view to adapting them to climate scenarios. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and the CH were rejected, votes against the IL, the CFP, the BE, the NAP and the L and the abstention from the PSD.]] We shall proceed to the general vote on draft resolution No 871 / XV / 1. a (PAN) — Recommends that the Government proceed with the preparation and implementation of a plan for the agro-ecological transition. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, CH and IL were rejected, votes against BE, PAN and L, and abstention from the CFP.]] We shall proceed to the general vote on Bill No. 836 / XV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Strengthen the protection and rights of all student workers. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and the CFP were rejected, votes against the PSD, the CH, the IL and the NAP and abstentions against BE and L.]] We now proceed to vote, in general, on Bill No. 420 / XV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Creates the status of the student practicing artistic activities in higher education. [[The vote was taken with votes against the PS and votes against the PS, the CH, the IL, the PCP, the BE, the PAN and the L.]] We will now vote, also in general, Bill No. 851 / XV / 1. a (IL) — Do not discriminate against self-employed persons in the light of the incomes of young workers. [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, votes in favour of the PS, CH, IL, BE, PAN, L and PS Hugo Carvalho and the PCP abstention.]] We will vote, in general, on Bill No. 886 / XV / 1. a ( CH) — Exemption of student tips to attend compulsory professional internships in higher education courses, transversal to all areas of study, amending Law No 37 / 2003 of 22 August establishing the basis for funding higher education. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, the PS and the IL were rejected, votes against the CH, the BE and the NAP and abstentions of the CFP and the L.]] We proceed to the general vote of Bill No 904 / XV / 2. a (PAN) — Safeguards the access of self-employed workers with a worker-student status to family allowance, higher education scholarships and survival pensions, amending Decree-Law No 70/2010 of 16 June 2010. [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, votes in favour of the PS, CH, IL, BE, PAN, L and PS Hugo Carvalho and the PCP abstention.]] We then vote in general on Resolution Project No 873/XV / 1. a ( PS ) — Recommends that the Government promote better conditions of access to work for students. [[The vote was taken by votes to PS, PS, CH, IL and PAN and with abstentions from the CFP, BE and L.]] The project goes down to 8.The Commission. We then have the general vote on draft resolution No 881 / XV / 2. a (PAN) — Recommends that the Government take measures to enhance the Staff Regulations of the Student Workers. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the CH, the IL and the NAP and the PS, the CFP, the BE and the L.]] The Commission shall be down to 8. We now vote on the Resolution Project No. 363 / XV / 1. a ( CH) — By classification as a property of national interest and rehabilitation of the former Vouga Bridge. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of the PS, the CH, the IL, the BE and the NAP, and abstentions of the CFP and the L.]] We shall also proceed to the overall final vote of the final text, presented by the Committee on Education and Science, on draft Law No 781 / XV / 1. a (L) — Creates responses of psychological support for victims of harassment and sexual violence in higher education and extends the scope of the codes of good conduct to prevent and combat harassment to all members of the academic community. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the PS, the IL, the CFP, the BE, the NAP and the L and the abstention from the CH.]] We have concluded our votes. Our next plenary session will be Tuesday, October 3. At the first point of our agenda we will generally have discussion of Bill Nos 349 / XV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Defines the transitional regime for the regularization of buildings headquarters and similar of non-profit associations and 868 / XV / 1. a ( PAN) — Approves an exceptional scheme for renegotiating credit contracts applicable to micro, small and medium-sized enterprises, private institutions of social solidarity, non-profit associations and social economy entities together with draft Resolution No 911 / XV / 2. a ( PCP ) — Safety prevention and regularisation of buildings based and similar from non-profit associations. The second point will be followed by discussion of draft resolutions Nos 567 / XV / 1. a ( CH) — Recommends that the Government identify the housing real estate of the State that is being misused, targeted for fraud or in need of rehabilitation works and 906 / XV / 2. a (PAN) — Recommends to the Government the urgent conclusion of the inventory of state real estate with capacity for housing use as an essential measure to combat the housing crisis. of point three is the general discussion of the Bill No 27 / XV / 1. a ( ALRAA ) — Ensures the increase in the risk allowance for the personnel of the security forces and services, together with the Bills Nos 910 / XV / 2. a ( PCP ) — Approves the increase of the supplement by service and risk in security forces and services ( sixth amendment to Decree-Law No 298 / 2009, of 14 October and fourth amendment to Decree-Law No 243 / 2015 of 19 October ), 916 / XV / 2. a ( CH) — Increases to EUR 500 the fixed component of the service and risk supplement in the security forces taken by the Republican National Guard and the Public Security Police officers and 917 / XV / 2. a (PAN) — Ensures the increase of the supplement per service and risk and the round supplement of the personnel of the security forces and services and with the Resolution Project No 875 / XV / 1. a ( CH) — By valuing careers and strengthening the human and material resources of the Prison Guard Corps. in the fourth and final point we will have the debate of Petition No 103 / XV / 1. a ( Isabel Vasco and others) — In defense of our teachers! , in conjunction with Law Projects Nos 922 / XV / 2. a ( BE) — Full recovery of completed service time, in defense of public school and 925 / XV / 2. a ( CH) — Ensures the rights of teachers with regard to the valorization of their career, in general, and with Resolution Projects Nos 714 / XV / 1. a ( PAN) — Recommends that the Government review and amend the new management and recruitment scheme of teaching staff, 883 / XV / 2. a ( PCP ) — Recommends the adoption of measures to enhance public education and school workers, 899 / XV / 2. a ( L) — By valuing and qualifying careers of technical assistant and operational assistant in schools and promoting measures that allow these resources to be adapted to the reality of each school and 900 / XV / 2. a (L) — By binding, accounting for teaching time and end of the blockade in career progression. There are no warnings to be made, so we have completed our work. I wish all the Members, all the Members. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a good weekend. The sitting is thus closed. [[It was 13 hours and 40 minutes.]]
