ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-10.u1	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we are in a position to begin our work. [[It was 10 hours and 8 minutes.]] I ask the ladies and gentlemen. Authorities please open the galleries to the public. We start by appreciating an opinion of the 14th. the Commission. To proceed to your reading, you have the floor of the Secretary of the Bureau Maria da Luz Rosinha.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-10.u2	Mr. President, very good morning to all. I am reading Opinion No 15 of the Committee on Transparency and the Statute of Members, which reads as follows: « At a meeting held on 10 February 2023 the following was observed: Article 5, point ( d ). Article 9 ( 1 ) and ( 1 ). the Statute of the Deputies: [... ] Paulo Cardoso Correia da Mota Pinto ( Electoral Circle of Leiria ) by João Carlos Barreiras Duarte ( Electoral Circle of Leiria ), with effect from February 10, 2023, including until February 24, 2023. 1. The term of office of Mr. Paulo Cardoso Correia da Mota Pinto was already suspended under these legal regulations since 9 September 2022 for a period of 5 months, which now requires that it be extended until 24 February 2023. 2. Mr. Paulo Cardoso Correia da Mota Pinto, since 9 September, was already being replaced by the unelected candidate indicated by João Carlos Barreiras Duarte and, considering the relevant documents available to the Commission, it has been found that this is the following candidate who should temporarily take up the term of office in his place, as listed by the suffrage in the Electoral Circle of Leiria. Do not keep on seeking. ” Mr President, we can vote on the first extension.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-10.u3	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let us then vote on the opinion in part on the first extension of suspension and its replacement. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted unanimously and the absence of the NAP was recorded.]] Mrs Maria da Luz Rosinha, please continue.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-10.u4	Mrs. Members, continuing to read Opinion No 15 of the Committee on Transparency and the Statute of Members: « ( b) Suspension of a mandate and replacement of a Member in accordance with Article 4 ( 1 ( a ). Article 5, point ( d ). Article 9 ( 1 ) and ( 1 ). the Statute of the Deputies: Parliamentary Group of the Block of Left ( BE ) José Borges de Araújo de Moura Soeiro ( Electoral Circle of the Port ) by Isabel Cristina Rua Pires ( Electoral Circle of the Port ), with effect from February 11, 2023, including until June 9, 2023. Having examined the relevant documents available to the Commission, it was found that the unelected candidate indicated Isabel Cristina Rua Pires is really the next candidate to take up the mandate as listed in the Port Election Circle. The applicable regulatory and legal requirements were observed for each of the above situations[... ]. in this regard, the Commission intends to make the following: (a) The extension of the suspension of the mandate of Mr Paulo Cardoso Correia da Mota Pinto ( PSD ) fulfils the legal requirements[...] » — this was the part we have already voted on. « b) The suspension of Mr José Borges de Araújo de Moura Soeiro ( BE ) fulfils the legal requirements being replaced by Isabel Cristina Rua Pires ( BE), with effect from February 11, 2023, including. Do not keep on seeking. ” We can vote, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-10.u5	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let us then vote on the opinion, on the part relating to the replacement of Mr José Moura Soeiro. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted unanimously and the absence of the NAP was recorded.]] To give us an account of the file, you have the floor again to Mrs. Maria da Luz Rosinha.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-10.u6	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members have entered the Bureau and have been admitted the following legislative initiatives: Bill No. 60 / XV / 1. a ( ALRAM ), which drops to 8. the Commission, 61 / XV / 1. a ( GOV ), which falls to 13. the Commission, and 62 / XV / 1. a ( GOV ), which falls to 12. the Commission, in connection with 1. a and 6. a Commissions ; Resolution Projects Nos 443 / XV / 1. a ( PS ), which drops to 9. the Commission, 444 / XV / 1. a ( PSD ), which falls to 9. the Commission, 445 / XV / 1. a ( CH ), which falls to 11. the Commission, 446 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ), which falls to 3. the Commission, 447 / XV / 1. a ( PAN ), which falls to 4. the Commission, 448 / XV / 1. a ( PSD ), which falls to 11. the Commission, and 449 / XV / 1. a ( PSD ), which falls to 9. the Commission. That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-10.u7	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let us now begin today's agenda. The first point is that of the joint assessment, in general, of the Bill No 53 / XV / 1. a ( GOV ) — The essential elements of the rate associated with the provision of postal services and the Law Projects No 498 / XV / 1 are implemented. a ( L) — Bans the sale of lottery and instant lottery tickets at stations and mail stations and 504 / XV / 1. a (PAN) — Clarify the application of VAT exemption on importation to small consignments without a commercial character by amending Decree-Law No 31 / 89 of 25 January. To present the Government's proposal, Mr. Minister for Infrastructures, João Galamba.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-10.u8	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: It is undeniable that the transition we are living in is an inexorable movement that makes all the sense accelerate, but it is also undeniable the importance of postal service as a fundamental instrument of territorial cohesion and for the day-to-day population. The importance is demonstrated in particular through the universal postal service and other services that integrate the concession, making it possible to make available affordable prices to all users, in particular to the groups of the most protected and ageing population. Since postal traffic has fallen in recent years, given the existence of alternative electronic services, the importance of this sector should be emphasized, taking into account the role of the postal network, essentially the distribution network, in the context of electronic commerce. In addition to the universal postal service dealership, they operate on the national market providers of postal services which contribute to regulatory fees. These fees enable the regulatory entity of the sector in Portugal — ANACOM ( National Communications Authority ) — to provide effective means to monitor and regulate the postal services market. The method of calculation was established in 2013, in a port setting out the various rates due to ANACOM, including annual rates related to the exercise of the activity of postal service provider. On 17 February 2022, Judgment of the Constitutional Court No 152 / 2022 found it unconstitutional for breach of the rules establishing the legislative reservation of the Assembly of the Republic, the rules contained in the portal determining the fees due to the regulator of the postal service. In view of the impact that the decision of the Constitutional Court may have on the collection of the rate of regulation of the postal sector, it is necessary that a change of law should be made, taking into account the criteria previously contained in the scope of that law, thus ending the formal breach identified by the Constitutional Court. This proposal is therefore intended essentially to amend the postal law in order to include it in Article 44 thereof. the, concerning the rates, the rules of objective incidence and the form of calculation of the regulatory rate, which are currently poured into Annex IX of the portal, without material change of its content. thus, leaving the criteria for imputation and distribution of the regulatory costs of the postal sector defined by law and not portage, greater legal certainty is given to the collection of this revenue of sectoral regulation, taking into account that, with this proposal, the material content contained in the portage, namely the form of calculation of the regulatory rate, is not altered. The Government therefore urges that this House, having all the contributions already made, be able to do its work of reflection, debate and due weighting and approve, as soon as possible, this proposal, necessary to the postal sector. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-10.u9	To present the initiative of the Book, Bill No. 498 / XV / 1. a ( L ), I give the floor to Mr Rui Tavares.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-10.u10	Mr. President, good morning to all. Mr Minister, as Mr Minister said, the technological change that leads to a service, which, in the case of our country, is already over 500 years old, is under pressure to decide what its model of activity will be from now on, is a concrete fact of our reality that is about to remain. The CTT ( Post Offices of Portugal ) may in particular decide to do better what they did before — logistics, information delivery, delivery of objects — with new technological conditions, or opt for a more eclectic strategy to do everything. In the Committee on Economic Affairs, we had, a few months ago, the Board of Directors of the CTTs and, when asked about what the TTCs were doing, we realized that the strategy followed was the second, that is to say, to do everything a little. It is a strategic choice, we can disagree about it — personally, I disagree — but we do not question it. It is only in this concern that postal service often does everything at the same time, and contradictory things. The initiative of the Free House asks, in particular, whether it is legitimate, from the point of view of the common interest, in a country where, recognizedly, even by the Economic and Social Council, the question of the addiction of so-called 'Raspadins' is so great that, in the same postal services, where people will raise their pensions, raise their postal checks, who still receive accounts, at the same time have not only the availability, but often the incentive — who, here, has already been to post stations, certainly, has seen — from the employees to a vice. In other words, if it is compatible with the public service that should be provided the promotion of a vice which, in Portugal, simply compares with our congenres, is much more marked and more serious and with a regressive social impact on the poorest in the post stations themselves. Therefore, the Free initiative is very simple: to end this confusion of functions; to concentrate the mail, despite its strategy, in our view, too eclectic, on what is a public good; to respect the freedom of people to buy « Raspadins» wherever they want, but without that incentive and availability in stations of a service which, for more than 500 years, has served public good and not private vices.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-10.u11	To present the NAP initiative, Bill No. 504 / XV / 1. a ( PAN), you have the floor of Mrs Inês Sousa Real.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-10.u12	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, whom I welcome, as well as all the persons attending this session. It is common to hear the Government say that there is no money for VAT (value added tax) zero of essential goods or that the IRS (income tax for natural persons) paid by middle-class families is a theoretical dispensation. Everything is subterfuges to hide the lack of willingness to adopt progressive policies. However, it is a matter of expenditure which we want to talk about at the moment and of the need to adopt measures which may in some way change the legislation in what involves renegotiating public-private sector contracts. We want not only a transparent process but also that there can be more information in these measures. That is why the NAP today brings an initiative in which it hopes that, in particular, there will be an openness so that we can work and can, once and for all, be able to change these matters, so that our economy will not always depend on an opacity which fears not to give information to the citizen, but also to create a strategy that not only values the environmental dimension, but also the adaptation of our country to all this information. We hope that the other political forces will follow us and that there will indeed be this capacity for change within the speciality process.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-10.u13	We now move on to the stage of the speeches, to what Mrs Fatima Correia Pinto has said, of the PS Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-10.u14	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Ministers: Bring us here today the Bill No. 53 / XV / 1. a, which aims to regulate the annual rates due by the exercise of the activity of postal service provider to the value of the annual costs incurred by ANACOM. Whenever we talk about postal services and, more specifically, in the TTCs it is always an opportunity for the PSD to recognize the error it made with the Portuguese in 2014 when it went beyond the troika and privatized the remaining 30 % of the company. [[P.S.'s applause.]] And acknowledge the mistake, ladies and gentlemen. Members, not because they have defended and implemented the full privatization of TTCs, and sold, up to below the market price, a company of enormous importance and strategic capital for the country, but to recognise the error, mainly because they have done so without safeguarding the public interest, without ensuring the quality standards of the service provided and without caution, see only the existence of at least one mail station in each of the Portuguese councils. Yes, TTCs were not only a company that gave budgetary dividends, but mainly a structural company connecting the State, the Portuguese and the territory, which played a unique role in the symbolic guarantee of territorial unity and cohesion. After the closure of the mail stations, especially those located within the country and an unprecedented level of complaints, the PSD has still achieved — see only! — voting against the draft resolution which advocated at least the existence of a post office in each of the Portuguese councils. The Socialist Party has always defended that, regardless of the company structure of the CTTs, the new contract for granting universal postal service would have to guarantee excellent levels of quality, it had to protect cohesion, ensuring a fairer relationship between the CTTs and local power and presence in the territory. Fortunately, today we have a CTT strategy aligned with what the PS has always defended.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-10.u15	Oh, yeah? Oh, my God! Good to know! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-10.u16	The result of a constructive dialogue between the government and the new administration, which looks at its stations not as a burden, but as a network of immense value, so we see reopened the 33 stations that had been wrongly closed...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-10.u17	What about the others? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-10.u18	... allowing all the councils in our country to count again on a post office station, which should be valued with more proximity services. With regard to the draft law of the Free Initiative, which seeks to prohibit the sale of lottery tickets and instant lottery tickets at stations and post stations, we understand their motivations and concerns regarding the fact that such games are associated with an additive behavior that may lead to financial and psychoso-family consequences for their players. We believe, however, that in addition to the redundancy in which the provision of point (a) translates to the extent that this possibility already results from the existing postal law, that the proposed addition in point (b) contravene the terms of the concession contract concluded between the State and the TTCs and the acquired rights that arise, in addition to doubts about their constitutionality, taking into account the consecration and protection of the private economic initiative provided for in Article 61. the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic. Regardless of what the destination of this project may be, we hope that the strategic action of CTTs will also be guided by social values. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-10.u19	They have nationalized TAP (Portuguese Air Transport)! Why don't they nationalize CTTs, too? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-10.u20	To speak on behalf of the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mr Hugo Carneiro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-10.u21	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members: Before I focus on the government bill, I cannot but express my perplexity with the intervention of the Socialist Party. When the PSD ruled with the CDS, there were all the CTT problems, but now, with the PS it is all solved. It's all settled! [[PSD applause.]] Mrs. Member, then you are concerned that there is a station next to each person, and I understand this concern, but I do not see the same concern on the part of the PS, for example, with what is happening with the General Deposit Box. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-10.u22	So, do you have two types of attitudes towards companies where the state intervenes completely or has great regulatory power? Oh, my God! There's a certain PS inconsistencies here, but we realize: the PS had nothing to say about the government's proposal, because it comes from the government, and then it went to find another story and decided to talk about it. Madam Member, we are here talking about Bill No 53 / XV / 1. the PS had about 5 minutes available and spent 4 talking about the past of the CTT and about each station of the CTT.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-10.u23	RTP ( Radio and Television of Portugal ) Memory!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-10.u24	Another interesting question is the following: you spoke about the quality of service. Can you assure all of us here that there are no quality problems in the provision of TTC services today? Can you make sure of that?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-10.u25	Don't! Of course not!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-10.u26	It's just that whoever hears the PS seems to want to make sure of that. We have the most serious doubts about your intervention. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-10.u27	And talk about the proposal?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-10.u28	But now, let's talk about the proposal, which is what the PS should have done and didn't. The Government's proposal arises because the Constitutional Court decreed the unconstitutionality of a set of portaria rules aimed at regulating fees in postal service. Now, the government knew that there had been judicial proceedings on this matter and did nothing to solve this; it was necessary for the Constitutional Court to come to the ground saying 'no, this cannot be! » And it is necessary to understand the reasons of the Constitutional Court. The Constitutional Court says that the main elements of tax collection or some of the main elements are not sufficiently objective and clear. Now, this is not just about this and you should worry about this House. The House is competent in tax matters to fix these types of assumptions and the Government has exceeded the House and has not corrected the unconstitutionalities in due time, because, in the exercise of its administrative power, it has exceeded the legislative power. That is what the Constitutional Court says. [[PSD applause.]] The Member of the Socialist Party decided that this was not relevant and therefore did not refer to any of this. What we expected was that the Government's proposal would correct the possible unconstitutionalities, correct a possible past mistake, which we understand, but do not eventually make future mistakes, and that is what we are concerned about in this debate. Look, Mrs. Deputy and Mrs. Members: there is a risk here, in the Government's proposal for a law relating to disproportionateity, breach of the principle of trust and legal uncertainty, for two essential reasons to which Mr Minister, unfortunately, did not refer either. The first reason has to do with retroactivity. The opinion of ANACOM addressed to this House says that there is no problem of retroactivity. Why? Because postal service operators already had an obligation to know through the government gates that this tax was due. And, therefore, it is unconstitutional, but there is no problem, because we are now going to predict the law and the operators, as they already knew that it was at the door, « get used to it! That is, we have seen to correct the error, our intention is therefore to get used to our intention. None of us question the need to finance regulation, and that certainly is the only point that unites us in this debate, but the clarifications provided by ANACOM, on which the Government seems to be based, should be further developed. Another issue that is also addressed in the opinions sent to us is that the Government intends to charge the costs with the provisions for judicial proceedings and the costs related to the advice to the Government in judicial proceedings, which have nothing to do with cases where ANACOM is a party, to postal service operators, through taxation. Now, this raises concerns and the appeal I leave to the Government and the Socialist Party is that they are available to correct some of these weaknesses of the law,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-10.u29	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-10.u30	... on account of being surprised, now and then, with another decision of the Constitutional Court saying that this is not the case, that you don't have to get used to it. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-10.u31	Mr Rui Afonso has the floor to speak on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the European People's Party.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-10.u32	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Bill No 53 / XV / 1. the, which carries out the essential elements of the rate associated with the provision of postal services and which aims at the need to adjust the value of the annual rates due by the exercise of the activity of the provider of postal services to the value of the annual costs incurred by ANACOM with the regulation, supervision and supervision of the postal sector, is in particular a need for legislative correction to a declaration of rejection issued by the Constitutional Court of the conjugated provisions of Article 165 ( i ). Article 266 ( 2 ) and ( 2 ). that of the Constitution, of the standards set out in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Annex IX to Ordinance No 1473 - B / 2008, of 17 December, with the wording given by Ordinance No 296 -A / 2013 of 2 October, in the part in which they determine the objective incidence and the rate to be applied in relation to postal service providers as set out in « step 2 ». Thus, and also considering it important to confer greater legal certainty on the collection of this sector regulation revenue, the arrival will not oppose that proposal. With regard to Bill No. 504 / XV / 1. the NAP, although understanding its good intentions, seems to us that the same is quite incomplete, closing in itself enormous risks in its applicability. The way in which the draft law was designed is conducive to the creation of tax avoidance schemes and will also significantly harm national trade. Otherwise, let us see: nowadays, with the various electronic platforms — we are talking about social networks, registered sites in third countries where monitoring of activities, domains and payment methods do not follow European standards and regulation — it is very easy to send products covered by the exemption values mentioned in the project, without the shipments having indexed a commercial character. Moreover, nowadays, these procedures are increasingly common, and the sender may be a mere name of facade that does not indicate a possible business or commercial transaction. The means of payment have also followed this trend, there are numerous platforms where sending or paying transactions can be carried out anonymously or in a difficult way, masking, thus, a real purchase of a mere personal shipment of products. In the face of these operations, which are in a situation of unfair competition against national companies, already suffocated with taxes and taxes, it is urgent to find more reliable alternative ways to ensure shipments of particular orders, without damaging the national economy and protecting the domestic market. According to the Tax Justice Network report, published in November 2021, the cost of tax evasion in Portugal is around EUR 1000 million per year, so there should always be a growing concern in legislating to end tax escape schemes rather than its opposite. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-10.u33	To speak on behalf of the Liberal Initiative Parliamentary Group, Mr Carlos Guimarães Pinto has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-10.u34	Mr President, before talking about the Government's bill, and I know that the debates in this House tend to be a little aggressive, sometimes artificially aggressive. on matters that should not be, I would not like to end this week without leaving three praises to parliamentary groups which are usually not the target of these praises. The first compliment, which has nothing to do with the point under discussion, but, rather, with the fact that we are at the end of the week, is addressed to the Parliamentary Group of the Arrival. It has been a week since we had a viral case of violence and, contrary to what happened in other circumstances, there has not been that political use, which happened in other cases, nor that allocation of collective guilt that we have already seen happen in other circumstances, which, of course, young Caucasians in Olhão would not deserve, because they should not be held responsible for what a small minority has done. [[Applause from the IL.]] I will not be cynical to think that this change has something to do with the race of those included, but I will believe that there has been an effective change of attitude and that it will remain in the future. Thank you very much, for that! The second compliment is for the Free, for the sense of opportunity you had in introducing a discussion on regulatory fees something about "Raspadinhas". I think it is a relevant topic, which deserves a separate discussion, but not involved in a discussion on regulatory fees for TTCs. The third compliment, this time not ironic, is in relation to the NAP proposal, which, in fact, seems quite useful to us and its only problem, as regards us, was not our proposal. I think it was very well thought out, it's very well written, and effectively affects many people. It is something that makes no sense and we thank the work that the NAP has had to remember from this circumstance. With regard to the proposal for a government law, we do not question the need to finance the regulator or the regulatory issue of having to have independent funding and this funding can come from regulated entities, our great problem, which is indeed presented in opinions, is that this funding goes far beyond what is the regulatory activities of ANACOM. As Mr Carneiro said here, when we have the regulated entities to fund their own legal cases against these entities, precisely when ANACOM is not an interested party in the process, it does not seem to make much sense to us and therefore we cannot follow the proposal. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-10.u35	To speak on behalf of the CFP Parliamentary Group, Mr Bruno Dias has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-10.u36	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Ministers: The populations from north to south of the country, in the Autonomous Regions of the Azores and Madeira, companies, and in particular micro, small and medium-sized enterprises, have suffered the consequences of the shameful situation in which the postal service is located. As for the situation of post offices, people know, in their day to day, the national scandal that is the result of private management, which has been maintained throughout this decade! We are not discussing, in an abstract way, the theories on the management of postal service, because the people who hear us well know that this situation is scandalous, disastrous and has disastrous consequences in the lives of these companies and the reformers themselves, who await their reforms. We can say that what is happening today is the result of the political options of successive governments and the application of the postal law that the Government wants to change. This postal law — a 2012 law, which was passed by most of the time, PSD and CDS, to open the way for the privatization of TTCs, is a deeply negative law for the country. It is the law that enshrines the liberalisation of postal service and the perspective of postal service not as a public service, but as a lucrative business at any cost whatsoever. That is what is in force today in national legislation. The CFP was directly opposed to this approval in 2012. at this time, what the government wants to do is a very specific component of that law, the so-called « regulatory rate », which will in practice finance an important part of the activity of the regulatory body, the National Communications Authority. It is not the first time that the right — the PSD, etc. — it is insurgent against the creation of conditions and the strengthening of means for regulatory activity. We know that good regulation, for these parties in particular, is that which does not compromise, which does not harm, which does nothing wrong. The regulation they defend is a fine regulation. We argue that it is not even in the regulation that is the solution to the problem we live in, that it is in the public service, that it must be assumed and guaranteed as such. Therefore, we know that the PS continues to refuse public management. The PS is very good at criticizing the right for the privatization of CTTs, but the truth is that, of the several times that the PCP proposed the reversal of this privatization and the return to public management, the PS aligned with the right,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-10.u37	There it is!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-10.u38	... rejecting it and maintaining the privatization of TTCs, maintaining private management, with the consequences known. [[PSD protests.]] And still today they came here saying: « now, yes, now the management and operation of mails are as the PS defends them». It is particularly revealing, this statement by the PS! But we can say that the Portuguese population does not share the enthusiasm the PS brought here.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-10.u39	Touché!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-10.u40	Ladies and gentlemen. Members, for our part, this agreement will not change the fundamentals of a structurally bad law, which is deeply negative and by a political option to continue to maintain the Portuguese population and the workers of the hostages...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-10.u41	Mr Bruno Dias, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-10.u42	...a ruinous management and a public service that is being delapied every day. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-10.u43	I've known him most disciplined in the past. [[Laughing.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-10.u44	Mr. President, if you'll excuse me...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-10.u45	Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-10.u46	Mr. President, there is the rule and there is the exception, and Mr. President cannot always be uninhabited either. [[Laughing.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-10.u47	I was very used to it, you know, you're trying to take my good habits off. [[Laughing.]] In order to speak on behalf of the Left Block Parliamentary Group, Mrs Mariana Mortágua now has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-10.u48	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ministers, ladies and gentlemen. Members: It is always good to discuss the privatization of TTCs, because it shows ideological radicalism at its best, it shows the best that has the ideological dogma that the right often carries, brings into the mouth to shoot left, forgetting times when it has despised all rationality, all wisdom and was taken by this dogmatism, by this purely ideological radicalism. Why did they privatize the CTTs? What's the reason? Did the company damage you? It would not harm, it would make profits to the State, it would give liquid money to the State. Were you giving the population a bad job? He did not provide a bad service to the population, he did good service to the population, there were no complaints, at least not like those that are now. Is this a public service? It is! Do you have features of public service? Here! That is why, now, we need to contract a public service with the private, who does not accomplish it, clearly. So why did he privatize himself? Why have the post offices been liberalized? There is a reason in the world that there are very few privatized mail companies. There is a reason why in the United Kingdom, which is the wonderful country of privatization and PPPs (public-private partnerships) if you have tried to privatize the mails and have reverted this privatisation. Of course, then the PS comes to tell us something strange, which is this: « privatize 70 %, it's all right; the problem was those 30 % finals that we privatize ». Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, it makes little sense that the problem was the final 30 % of privatization, because the wrong was done. The dividends were paid to the private. In fact, the private management of TTCs did something else: it distributed to itself — to shareholders — not only the profits of companies, but the reserves of companies. Private management destroyed the CTT! He went to the CTT reserves to keep it for himself as a profit. The CTT administration paid itself a million-dollar salary while destroying the service and taking part of the TTT resources for what he was interested in, which was the bank, the bank!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-10.u49	But you were supporting the government!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-10.u50	Just to send e-mails to people with the CTT logo to sell financial products and consumer credits, as if that were what we needed from a public service. Banks, we have many, and consumer credit offers, we have many, what we lack is a good service of the CTTs, which does not close agencies and which is spread throughout the territory. The proof that privatization was a bad decision is that we have a problem of addiction installed with the "Raspadins", I repeat, a problem of addiction—it is even ironic that the Holy House of Mercy is financed by a vice that affects, above all, people with less incomes in Portugal—and what the PS tells us is that we cannot do anything about it because the contract does not leave. It is that they have made a contract with the private that obliges the CTTs to sell 'Raspadinhas'! We know that it hurts people, we know that it promotes addiction, we know that it affects populations especially sensitive to these issues, but nothing can be done, because the private does not leave.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-10.u51	The Raspadinhas are a legalized drug! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-10.u52	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I do not think we have any greater proof of the error of privatization of TTCs than the debate we had here today. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-10.u53	Make a “Raspadinhas” chute room!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-10.u54	Mr Miguel Iglesias of the PS Parliamentary Group now gives the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-10.u55	Mr President, Mr Minister and Mr Minister, Mr and Mr. Members: I could not fail to refer to the intervention of the PSD bench on the door which Mr. Hugo Carneiro referred to as unconstitutional. This would be precisely the time of the PSD government and the CDS. Mr President, in these matters it is not enough to be serious, but we must also be serious! The port that claims to be unconstitutional is the time of the PSD and CDS. I would just like to refer to the NAP proposal, precisely because we consider it redundant in view of the legislation already in force in the country. The exemption is now enshrined in Decree-Law No 398 / 86 of 26 November laying down the system for tax exemptions applicable to the importation of goods subject to small consignments, up to €45, without a commercial character, from third countries. That is, the adoption of the NAP proposal would imply the duplication, in a separate decree-law, of a standard that already exists in another law- decree. Therefore, if there are economic operators who are not complying with the law, it is necessary to start all the means to correct this situation, and not simply to create redundant legislation. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-10.u56	Mr. Hugo Carneiro, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-10.u57	Mr President, it was to make a point of order on the conduct of the work, if I may.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-10.u58	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-10.u59	Mr President, I don't know if the microphones are working badly, so my point of order. It's just that I said two things, and I'd like you to reaffirm, so you don't have any doubts, unless you want to pass the tape again. First, the Government knew that there were court cases and did not act before the Constitutional Court had decided what it had decided.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-10.u60	That's not a point of order!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-10.u61	The honourable Member is making an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-10.u62	It is not an intervention, Mr President. I don't think the microphones are working well, because I did this and the ladies. Ladies and gentlemen have not heard. [[Laughing.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-10.u63	The content of your intervention has nothing to do with the conduct of the work. The technique you're using is imaginative, and I shoot my hat for that,... [[Laughing.]] ... but I ask you to summarize it in 22 seconds, because it is manifestly an exaggerating what you are doing.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-10.u64	Mr President, I will use less than that, because the second point also has to do with the conduct of the work and the agenda of this meeting. I have heard a lot here about the privatisation of TTCs, which was planned in the Memorandum, and I ask the Bureau if this is on the agenda of this session. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-10.u65	I have not yet used the faculty given me Article 89. the Rules of Procedure, to draw the attention of the ladies and gentlemen. Members who are diverting themselves from the agenda, and I do not intend to do so until, when I intervene in questions in which Article 89. it is really necessary, I am often criticized for making abusive interventions. One of the basic principles of political life is that we become accustomed to Portuguese aphorism « arrested for having dog, arrested for not having dog », but it is necessary to prevent prison being daily. I shall now give the floor to the Government to close the debate, since there are no longer any entries. [[Pause.]] After all, Mrs Inês de Sousa Real, of the PAN, has also been registered to whom I give the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-10.u66	Mr President, Member : The PS believes that the NAP proposal is redundant, but I remember that legislation, according to the Ombudsman, needs to be clarified. It doesn't make sense that even at last Christmas, several people had to pay VAT to pay for clothing sent by relatives, whether from Brazil, the United Kingdom or the United States, and that, for this reason, they had to pay values that amounted to 10 €. However, when this is clearly an abusive interpretation by the TTCs, it is unacceptable that this misinterpretation is not clarified by the Assembly of the Republic. The same applies to criticism made by the Arrival on a proposal on Law No 47 / 2020, which we approved in this House, dealing with low value consignments and remittances without a commercial character.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-10.u67	But it was enough to comply with the law in force!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-10.u68	Thus, redundancy, to exist, is in the value that is being abused by the TTCs, whose correction and elimination must summon us all and everyone in this Parliament. [[Mr. Carlos Guimarães Pinto applauded.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-10.u69	If the government acted, we didn't have to have this conversation!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-10.u70	To close the debate, Mr. Minister for Infrastructure, João Galamba.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-10.u71	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Carneiro, I do not know what your party is like, but we in government tend to respect the courts and wait for their decisions. And that's what we did. When a decision came out, we presented this bill, which brought us to this debate today. On the challenges and problems arising from privatization, I agree with the questions raised by Mrs. Deputy of the Mariana Mortágua Left Block. The decision at the time was not the best and, indeed, did not concern the interests of the people and territories. On the other hand, it is important not to fall into the PCP and Left Block error. There is the saying 'for those who have a hammer, all the problems are a nail', and the reasoning of the Left Block and the PCP is often that.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-10.u72	We have the hammer and the scissors!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-10.u73	The decision to privatize was not the best decision. We have many doubts that the decision to reverse privatisation today is the best decision. Why? Because the concerns expressed by Mr. Members — and already by Mr Rui Tavares, perhaps to many surprises — show that they have such a fixation on the issues of privatizationversus nationalisation that forget the essential, which is the service provided and the measures necessary to improve it. The management of TTCs has changed. I do not know whether it is a novelty for the Members of the Left Block, the PCP and also for Mr Rui Tavares, but, unlike previous management, the current management of TTCs, through a constructive dialogue with the Government and under the new concession contract, decided to reverse the previous policy of closure of many agencies in the country. Therefore, the policy of the current administration of the CTTs is the one that seems to go to meet the aspirations of the Left Block, the PCP, and now Mr Rui Tavares, since he looks in a completely different way at the network of agencies that is present in all 308 municipalities, with 569 own shops and almost 1800 managed post offices, which commercialize products and services of the CTTs. On the objective today, I do not know if it is new, but the CTTs will stop selling « Raspadinhas», thus going to meet the concerns of Mr Rui Tavares and Mrs Mariana Mortágua. Therefore, the current administration of the TTCs will cease to use the TTC network to sell 'Raspadinhas' and will devote itself exactly to what Mr Rui Tavares said he would like the TTCs to do and that the Government would also like the TTCs to do. The good news is that the current administration of TTCs has the same view, i.e., a radically different understanding than that identified here, and well, by Mrs Mariana Mortágua in order to value exactly this capillaryness of the TTC network, which aims to promote proximity services in conjunction with the populations, with the municipal chambers and with local companies to value this capillary as a network of proximity, exactly in terms of the terms advocated here, and well, by Mr Rui Tavares. Today there are problems such as those identified by Mr Bruno Dias. No doubt! The question of delays needs to be corrected. But it also does not seem the right thing to do — returning to the metaphor of the «for those with a hammer, all the problems are a pity» — that a mere reversal of privatization will automatically resolve this issue. in the same way that a different management, with more demanding regulation and care on the part of the government to guide more TTCs for public service, has shown that it is possible, Mr. Deputies, not to hurt us, but rather to set ourselves on ideological options, we look to the services provided to the population, the capillary network and a change of management and philosophy of TTCs. It seems to us that this is the most important thing. Not ideological fixations, but the concrete resolution of the problems of the population. That is what is going on, which obviously leaves the government pleased. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-10.u74	Clearly you don't use the post office! [[Meanwhile, he took the presidency of Vice President Editi Estrela.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-10.u75	Mrs. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, good morning to all. At the conclusion of the first item, we move on to the second item on our agenda, which consists in the general discussion of Bill Nos 483 / XV / 1. a ( BE ) — Determines the transparency of salaries and proposes the establishment of reference salary leques as a mechanism to combat wage inequality, 375 / XV / 1. a ( PAN) — provides for a scheme of incentives for balanced representation between women and men in the management, supervision or management bodies of commercial companies, 500 / XV / 1. a ( L) — Establishs the creation of a conventional reference value for wage ratios in companies and 505 / XV / 1. a (CH) — Increases transparency in job announcements and remuneration. To submit Bill No. 483 / XV / 1. the left block has the floor Mr. José Moura Soeiro.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-10.u76	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Last Wednesday, INE ( National Institute of Statistics) data on wages and incomes were published, which do not leave room for doubt. With inflation reaching peaks in 30 years, the average wage is far from price escalation. In real terms, the average wage in the country decreased by 5, 2 %. What the government announced as an increase is, after all, a real cut in the same percentage: 5, 2 % wage cut, on average, says the INE. But there's an exception. Top managers are the only professional class with wage increases above inflation in 2022, INE data. Look at this deep hypocrisy, this inequality, this offense. After all, real wage increases are only impossible for the working class. When they decide on their own or when shareholders decide, top managers are immune to the phalsifying speech that no wage can be increased to avoid worsening inflation. Unfortunately, the worsening of this disparity is no novelty. From year to year she's always increased. Last year, the ratio between the average wages and the salaries of the managers of the companies of the PSI-20 (Portuguese Stock Index) has worsened. The variable remuneration of the administrators increased 27, 8 %, while the average salary of the workers increased during the same period only 2, 7 %, 10 times less. Some with considerable increases, others with real losses of afflicious effect for those who count each tote until the end of the month. On average, the managers of the main companies listed in the Portuguese stock exchange take 32 times more than the workers, but, if we are in concrete cases, the difference is much greater. In Pingo Doce, the difference between the remuneration of the administrator Pedro Soares dos Santos and the average wages of the company's workers is more than 260 times. A worker at Pinko Doce has to work for more than 20 years to earn what the administrator earns in one month in the same company.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-10.u77	What about the Continent?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-10.u78	Cláudia Azevedo, director of Sonae, had a remuneration 77 times higher than that of the group workers. The remuneration of Gonçalo Moura Martins from Mota-Engil is more than 73 times the average wages of the employees of the company. We're talking about millionaire winnings! More than EUR 3 million in Pingo Doce, EUR 2 million in EDP ( Energy from Portugal ), almost the same in Sonae. At the TAP, while cutting wages to workers, Alexandra Reis received half a million euros for the alleged resignation to his office, and the CEO (the chief executive officer) of the TAP has already guaranteed a €3 million bonus that the government has prepared to say it is to comply with. It is a system of caste that exists in the productive world, with managers having scandalously higher salaries than workers, while being awarded by reducing costs, by cutting wages from those who work, by imposing sacrifices on those who earn less, by increasing dividends for shareholders. That this happens not only in the private sector, but even in companies with public capital shows how far the neoliberal ideology of caste and privilege was imposed. There is no proportion between the increase in managers' salaries in the last two years and the improvement of company results. And, yes, establishing wages is fair, it is sensible, it is possible, it is legitimate from the social point of view and from the economic point of view. Companies are institutions that are regulated by law. That is what we are talking about when we discuss the reference salary gap so that there is a proportion between the minimum wage and the maximum wage. In September 2018, the Block presented here a bill in this sense, which was rejected by the PS and the right. at that time, the PS presented a recommendation to the government, signed, firstly signed by Carlos César, President of the Party, to propose to the Government to establish a mechanism for proportional limitation of wage disparity within each public or private organization. Nothing has happened since then. In the 2022 PS electoral programme there is « to limit the excessive wage gap of companies», but no action has been taken to deal with the system of inequality and caste that characterizes our economy and this disparity. In fact, the political practice of the PS Government has protected these inequalities, while economic and wage policy compresses the incomes of those who work. Today, Parliament has the opportunity to give a signal, to make a decision, to create a reference, to establish a mechanism against this ignominy. That's what the Left Block proposes with this bill. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-10.u79	To present the Bill No. 375 / XV / 1. a, of the NAP, has the floor to Mrs Inês de Sousa Real.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-10.u80	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We cannot let recent cases such as those of Alexandra Reis's millionaire compensation or the TAP CEO deceive us and make us forget the gap and wage inequality that still persists between men and women. If we do nothing, the number of women and men in executive and administrative positions will only be similar in 2063, i.e., only in 40 years is that we can tell girls and girls who might aspire to have the same opportunity to occupy a top position as any man. In Portugal, on average, women need to work more than 48 days to achieve the same income as a man in the same functions. And the higher the positions, the higher the inequalities. According to the progress report of the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals, only one in three managers is a woman. On average, women earn less than 16% than men in our country. See, for example, the General Deposit Box, where on average women receive less than €460 than male workers in the same functions, or then the struggle of women sportsmen, where, recently, they have sought to achieve a minimum wage commitment to mitigate the wage asymmetries that still persist. That is why the NAP is presenting today this bill that aims to break down glass roofs with regard to inequalities in the labour market, mainly in executive and administrative positions in the media and large companies. No, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. It is not a question of meritocracy or of reducing a professional to his or her gender, because merit is not exclusive to men. The point is that in this race, we women are always at a starting point several kilometers behind men. And no, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, men do not have more qualifications than women, since only 60% of graduates are women in Portugal. The financial incentive for a balanced representation does not give the society a wrong signal, it is not unfair, nor does it look at this representativeness as a disadvantage. What he does is exactly what was done for the business sector of the state and the companies listed in the stock market: to drive the necessary change this time in the media and large companies; it is to break the fallacious idea of meritocracy, which is no longer, in many cases, than acquired privileges and extremely comfortable structural inequality, especially for patriarchy. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, what is being done is not enough. When it comes to depending on the NAP, women will not have to wait 40 years for equality, because the woman's place is, and will always be, wherever she wants. in this case, it must also be at the head of the decision table.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-10.u81	To submit Bill No. 500 / XV / 1. Mr Rui Tavares.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-10.u82	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: If there is any political issue that should be a priority during this Parliament, that is the wage issue. Portugal is a country trapped in a trap of low wages, which has several roots, various conditions, which must be overcome one by one. Some of these conditions are historical and structural, others have to do with the legislation that we implement or do not implement in the workplace and in companies. According to accounts made in 2019 by journalists of the Newspaper supplement, Dinheiro Vivo, the remuneration of managers in the main companies listed in the Portuguese stock exchange was 52 times higher than the average wages of their workers, i.e. what a worker takes one year to earn, certain administrators on average—that is, there are far worse cases— they earn in a week. This difference will be even more substantial if we take account of the workers with the lowest wages in this company. in the same way, it will be even more substantial if we take into account bonuses, other privileges or a difference of treatment that approaches what has already been mentioned, and as well as a system of caste within the companies themselves and which was recently illustrated by Alexandra Reis in the TAP case. For all this, it is urgent to regulate wage differences, establishing a maximum wage inequality ratio between minimum and maximum wages within companies, public organisations, in particular in companies where the State holds equity shares. Incentives should also be created for private companies to implement measures that reduce the wage inequality ratio between administrators and employees. We heard yesterday the Minister of Economics say that the companies that work best are those that have employees in the board of directors, to a large extent because workers in the board of directors require companies to be attentive to the payroll that is practised within the company at all levels and because this makes the companies healthier, more balanced and more responsible in relation to their own assets, without a bunch of administrators who drain all resources for their own benefit. This would also be a very important step in ensuring that average wages in our country rise and, therefore, in order to reverse this migratory trend that exists in Portugal, particularly young people and skilled workers. We therefore call for this proposal from the Free to be approved, which gives the Government 120 days to establish a conventional reference value for wage ratios in companies.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-10.u83	To submit Bill No. 505 / XV / 1. a ( CH) — Increases transparency in job announcements and pay, Mr Jorge Galveias has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-10.u84	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Today we are discussing four draft labour law and the alleged defence of workers. The theme that the left Marxist and Trotskyist tried to appropriate themselves as being of their exclusiveness, finding themselves the owner of the workers. Unfortunately, after 50 years of the April Revolution, after 50 years of left-wing governance, there are parents working to steal bread and tuna cans in supermarkets to starve their children.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-10.u85	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-10.u86	That's the one!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-10.u87	This means that socialism and its policies have only created poverty.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-10.u88	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-10.u89	It is therefore time to return purchasing power to the workers. No doubt, but seriously, without the ideological blindness of this majority and its appendices, which continue to push us into a sort of venezuelization, whose backwardness is increasingly difficult.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-10.u90	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-10.u91	All we have to do is look at the unemployment rate, which is currently 6, 4 %, the highest increase recorded in the last two years. Only increased productivity, accompanied by a fair fiscal policy, will increase the purchasing power of workers. Exactly thinking about unemployment and workers, the Arrival presents today, in this Chamber, Bill No. 505 / XV / 1. a, which aims to increase the transparency of job announcements and wages. This project we are presenting, Mr. Members, it is a project to think about in reality lived by thousands of unemployed people who, in one of the most dramatic moments of their lives, find in demand for employment another difficulty, insufficient information and often fallacious.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-10.u92	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-10.u93	Just open any newspaper and look at the pages that announce job offers. Announcements without identification of the employer, without the value of the remuneration and often only indicating a mere mailbox. These situations occur because of a lack of regulation and therefore this regulation becomes urgent. Our proposal comes from the reality verified in the lives of ordinary people, it is not part of a book of ideological charges or a globalist neo-socialist agenda. unlike the other proposals presented today, our proposal does not place workers against workers, workers against workers against employers and does not promote quotas or tax charges below. The rejection of our proposal by this House will represent the turning back on the workers, with the exorbitant apology of the « red lines», which exist only in the heads of those who find themselves the owners of the people, but they are not. [[Congrats from the CH.]] We cannot allow the phrase cast in the explanatory statement of the bill of the Left Block to denounce the hypocrisy and lies of the left caviar, which systematically instrumentalizes the work and the workers, in an ideological web that harms all, workers and employers. Mrs. Members, it is not true when this totalitarian party claims that Portugal is one of the countries with the greatest wage inequality of the European Union.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-10.u94	Don't! It's great!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-10.u95	Unfortunately, it's exactly the opposite. In Portugal there are 4, 5 million poor; more than 50 % of workers receive wages of less than € 1000, rising to 65 % in the case of young people under 30 years of age; 30 % of the working class receives the minimum wage. That's the reality. Unfortunately, poverty is the wage that, in recent years, PS, PCP, Block Left, Free and PAN have offered to Portuguese workers. Mr. President and Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the Portuguese workers know that the arrival will be their voice in this House and in the streets. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-10.u96	We moved on to the intervention period. For an intervention, Mr Jorge Gabriel Martins of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-10.u97	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The bills we are discussing here today, especially those of the Left and Free Block, correspond to the concerns we share and aim to achieve principles and meet the objectives we agree with. In fact, aiming at these two bills, in its essence, to reduce wage inequalities—especially in reducing the difference between higher wages and lower wages, both in the business sector of the State and in private enterprises—is an objective which the PS is pursuing and in which it has achieved results, contrary to what has been said, especially by the way of the increase of lower wages, as has been the example of the increase in guaranteed minimum remuneration. In fact, the trajectory that has been followed—and achieved—, year after year and since 2015, of actual increase and updating of the national minimum wage with the aim of achieving at least €900 in 2026, constitutes a strong lever for reducing wage inequality, by the balance that provides for the distribution of the wealth produced, thus increasing the available income of people and families,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-10.u98	What about the middle class? Is that it? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-10.u99	... from the wage route, but above all, because it assigns the worker a decent wage which corresponds to the functions performed when they do not involve a special competence or specialization. Thus, our understanding is to design the lowest wages upwards, although this can also be accompanied by other strategies that aim to reduce the wage difference between lower and higher wages. As I said, having also done so at the level of motivation for private sector enterprises, which may extend to the public sector, with the increase of costs with the value of wages at the head of IRC (tax on the income of the public) for all companies which reduce the pay gap — i.e. this difference between wages — considering, to this end, the ratio between the basic remuneration portion of the 10% of the most well-paid workers in relation to the total and the basic remuneration portion of the 10 % of the most poorly-paid workers in relation to the total. And these principles have been achieved not by negative means, by punishing entities that do not meet these objectives, but above all by positive ways, in the mentioned increase, what has been achieved in the medium-term agreement on improving income, wages and competitiveness, within social consultation, with results in the State budget for 2023 and in the amendments of the Dignified Work Agenda which today will be voted on.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-10.u100	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-10.u101	That is, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a way we are going to go on, which we will continue to go on — even if it may be somewhat different from what the Left and Free Block today proposes to us — and which will not fail to be a reduction in wage disparities, focusing mainly on the increase in the available income of people and families, through the exploitation of wages and also, alongside this, on the creation of conditions for strengthening the competitiveness of companies in the public and private sectors, increasing their productivity.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-10.u102	All right! That's the way!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-10.u103	So instead of leveling down, we have to level up by pulling up,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-10.u104	Doesn't look like it!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-10.u105	...so the way is going and that's what we're doing. With regard to the draft law submitted by the NAP, which provides for a scheme of incentives for balanced representation between women and men in the management, supervision or management bodies of commercial companies, Law No 62 / 2017 already provides for a system of balanced representation between women and men in the management and supervision bodies of entities of the public business sector and listed companies in stock exchanges. In this context, it is noted that the equality plans resulting from Law No. 62 / 2017 constitute a management tool, allow for the cross-sectional implementation and operationalization of gender equality in a business context, as well as the instrument for promoting equal pay between women and men, approved by Law No. 60 / 2018, to implement procedures for comparative analysis of monthly remuneration, which is one of the mechanisms that we can better assess in the context of combating wage inequality.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-10.u106	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-10.u107	With regard to the draft legislation of the Arrival, which seeks to amend the Labour Code with a view to introducing a standard which provides a set of information to the worker in the job announcements, these amendments relate to the duties of information to the worker and already integrate the Labour Code and the amendments proposed under the dignified work agenda. Thus, the introduction of such amendments could have been discussed in the context of discussions in the speciality of the working group of the Dignified Work Agenda, in which the Arrival refused to participate,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-10.u108	Who wrote that? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-10.u109	... from now on, to the ride of other legislative initiatives, to propose an amendment to the Labour Code when they could have done so before is well revealing the populist and demagogic stance of the Arrival. It won't happen to us! [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Oh!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-10.u110	Who wrote that? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-10.u111	Blah-blah-blah-blah!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-10.u112	Mr Emília Cerqueira, from the PSD Parliamentary Group, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-10.u113	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Today we have the discussion of four initiatives that we can divide into two very different categories. On the one hand, we have Law Projects Nos 483 / XV / 1. a and 500 / XV / 1. the, the Left and the Free Block, respectively, which, in the background, want to balance wages only by thinking about administrations. They should be concerned that you are increasingly a country of minimum wages. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-10.u114	Why didn't you approve our proposal?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-10.u115	We need competitiveness, greater resilience, greater profits in companies—see crime there! We need competitive, profitable companies, because these are the only ones that will be able to increase wages. And politics is here: to end the country's impoverishment cycles. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-10.u116	The extreme left—I know—likes a poor country, with extended hands and dependent subsidies. It is more than 4, 5 million Portuguese who need social support.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-10.u117	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-10.u118	That's extraordinary! Look at that!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-10.u119	That's what the PSD doesn't want. The PSD wants better wages for all, a middle class that has good wages, so our young people can stay in the country. What do the Left Block and the Free Block do? Nothing escapes them. Public companies, companies that contract with the public sector, private companies that are soon prevented from going to public competitions, active employment policies, everything,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-10.u120	Everything! That's it!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-10.u121	...to arrests, as long as they don't comply with these rules of your salary ceilings. Nothing escapes you. In fact, the Block occasionally runs away from it to the truth, saying what it really wants, i.e., that there is no private activity.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-10.u122	That's it! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-10.u123	This is exactly what you don't want: private activity, private companies, private economy, competition, resilience. They worry about ensuring better income for the workers, because if we have better income for the workers, it certainly does not have to do with what the administrations receive. We need a rich people, not an extended people. Think about it. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-10.u124	The other initiatives are quite different. On the one hand, we have the initiative of arriving. Although we can understand the goodness of the proposal, I confess that we have a lot of difficulty in understanding the timing of the proposal. The Dignified Work Agenda has been under discussion in the field of expertise all these days. It had an opportunity there to present its initiative, to discuss and even to see some of its proposals accepted — or not, that is another assessment. But today, clearly, it was not the day for this; nor is it appropriate to present a proposal eight days before being discussed on the Dignified Work Agenda. In addition, Article 106. o -A, which intends to create in addendum to Article 106. that of the Labour Code is a clear duplication. Then, finally, we have the NAP proposal, which has to do with equal pay between men and women in the administration. Mrs Inês de Sousa Real, we believe that this proposal is virtuous in the intention, because, in fact, there is a long way to end inequalities between men and women in the world of work, especially at the top of the administration, those that — allow me — are by choice and not by merit. You're right, there's a big way to go. But, Madam Member, I have said over the years — and let me say it again — that the problem is that normally the NAP never knows where to stop and always goes too far. This is always a major obstacle to keeping track of their initiatives. Why? Because, in fact, in this case, it does not adapt to what is the business fabric of our country, consisting above all of family, small and medium-sized enterprises. However, what the NAP wants, with this initiative, is that the composition of the administrative bodies in all companies, even in the media and large private sector companies, is legally imposed. And that's highly problematic. I am going to give you an example that sometimes we have to think of a family company, as many are — those typical « & Sons» — owned by the father and three or four children, and that, regardless of the members being all family members, has more than 200 employees in their boards. What about the judges? We must oblige that, in their management, they are not partners, whether or not partners, regardless of will,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-10.u125	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-10.u126	... because — we imagine it's a family that basically has men — they can all be men. These are the realities of our business fabric that need to be taken into account. Sometimes, so much if you want to help, that actually harms yourself. We have, yes— and would count on the PSD — to take steps and open the way for the administration, and on its top, especially in the Public Administration, to be truly fulfilled that desire for equality between men and women. It is that, let me say this, where there is merit, women do not need social accelerators, but, where it is by pure choice, without criteria, unfortunately, we still need. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-10.u127	Mr Alfredo Maia of the CFP Parliamentary Group speaks for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-10.u128	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, I would like to congratulate the delegation of the CGTP ( General Confederation of Portuguese Workers ) accompanying us in the galleries. The CFP has alerted the huge gap between the remuneration allocated to executive positions, especially management positions, not only in larger companies, but also in many others, and the average wage of the other workers, with a tendency to increase. Between 2020 and 2021, this ratio increased from 29, 6 % to 32, 2 %. According to a study by DECO ( Portuguese Consumer Defense Association ), of May 2022, in 2021, the average remuneration of the presidents of the administrations of the main listed companies in the stock market was 32 times higher than that of the other workers, a trend that has been growing since 2016 at least. This means that a worker would have to work 32 years to gain the equivalent that the president of the company's board of directors takes in one year.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-10.u129	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-10.u130	For example, Pedro Soares dos Santos, President of the Executive Commission of Jerome Martins, had an increase of 19, 3 % in 2021 compared with 2020,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-10.u131	It's not bad! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-10.u132	... which amounted to more than EUR 3 million. This corresponds to 262, 6 times the average salary of workers, which increased only 2, 7 %.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-10.u133	It's a scandal!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-10.u134	It is important to face this problem, because the situation is scandalous, forcing us to look beyond the demanding wage differences and to conclude that the main difference is between capital and work.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-10.u135	That's the one!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-10.u136	According to the OECD ( Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development ), 5 % of the Portuguese population has a wealth of 10 % of GDP ( gross domestic product ), i.e. it has EUR 23 billion and EUR 500 million. In the country, 56% of the wealth is in the hands of 1% of the population. In the face of injustice in the distribution of wealth, with very serious consequences for employment, it is decisive to distribute more fairly the wealth created in the country. But we cannot be satisfied by the complaint of the problem when referring to the government the definition of wage slots, and it is necessary to point out an effective solution, which goes through a fair collective negotiation that includes management and management functions in the maturity grid. The CFP will vote in favour of signaling the problem, but it raises important questions, such as ensuring the application of measures in multinational companies based outside the country, which may, in addition to what they pay in Portugal, pay wages to the same managers from another country.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-10.u137	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-10.u138	The central issue, Mr. Members, it is to ensure that the reduction of wage flows results in the actual increase in wages of all workers,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-10.u139	That's right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-10.u140	... to start with those who earn lower wages, and not that the reduction of the pay gap results in a forecast reduction of the remuneration of managers,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-10.u141	It doesn't seem like you're telling such a lie!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-10.u142	... keeping workers' wages untouchable. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-10.u143	For an intervention, Mrs Carla Castro of the IL Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-10.u144	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Today we are talking about labour legislation and we want to say that in the Liberal Initiative we are defending a roadmap for job modernization. We defend that there is an approximation of the labour market to the standard of the most developed European countries, and that means being more flexible. We reject, for example, the confusion — certainly proposed by many parties — between flexibility and precariousness. Today's proposals would represent setbacks in Portugal's already weakened labour market situation. Portugal is 3. the country with the highest labour stiffness and is from the countries with the most precariousness. What the left doesn't understand is that the second is the cause of the first. The economic model and labour legislation Portugal has contributed to the lack of competitiveness of wages. If we analyze the average net wage adjusted to the standard of living, Portugal is the 8. lowest in the Community space and has been losing places in recent years. The weak evolution of average remuneration in Portugal relates to low economic growth, high context costs, low productivity, but also to labour legislation. Today, we see here debates of proposals filled with ideology, with pretense expressions of virtue, but with harmful effects. They are proposals that, in so-called equality, promote an economic and labour model that promotes equality, yes, but in poverty. We do not agree with this vision and I will highlight just a few of the many problems. The Left Block, in the explanatory statement, speaks of increasingly low wages, of increasing poverty, in Portugal. And it is true, we are increasingly poor, but because of the policies that have been made. And does this Block measure somehow solve the problem of poverty? Don't! It just says that we are equal, but equally poor. In Portugal, on dispersion, on leques, we can talk about this : we have a poverty risk rate of 43 % before any social transfers ; more than 50 % of workers receive wages less than 1000 € in 2022 ; to be part of the 10 % with higher wages in the country, it is enough to earn 2000 € gross per month ; and about 30 % of workers receive the national minimum wage. Equality in poverty? No, thank you! This is what government policies have brought us, with PS and management. The Left Block also speaks in the PSI 20, and in fact we have a problem in the PSI 20 : it is that not even 20 companies already have. If we see, the average wages of these companies, removing the highest, are generally higher than the average wage in Portugal. We also have the Free, which speaks of a wage ratio — a multiple between the maximum remuneration and the minimum remuneration paid by each company — and according to which, if a certain limit is exceeded, there are no tax benefits. But look at the subversion: what is relevant to the Free is to benefit companies, not those who pay high wages, but those who are equal.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-10.u145	Don't!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-10.u146	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, here we have to worry about raising wages. Portugal needs policies to increase value added so that companies can pay higher wages.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-10.u147	How, for example...? We're waiting.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-10.u148	On the other hand, the NAP project addresses a very important issue, which must deserve the greatest concern and focus of society. But I just want to point out that the unsuspecting Committee on Citizenship and Gender Equality considers that the current law is sufficient for the objectives of gender equality to be achieved. In short, and to end: the same solutions do not solve the same problems, the strengthening of bad solutions aggravates the same problems and we are in an economic model that does not promote growth, does not promote the creation of wealth and does not get the social elevator. So equal opportunities? Yes! Opportunity of growth? Yes! We will fight here, in this House, to increase wages, with policies that can increase value added in the economy.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-10.u149	Like...?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-10.u150	Reform of the labour market? Yes! Equality in poverty? Don't! [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-10.u151	To close this debate, Mr José Soeiro, of the Left Block Parliamentary Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-10.u152	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: IL and PSD think being market-friendly is an ideology for promoting the caste regime...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-10.u153	Huh? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-10.u154	...which today prevails in wage policy. We have a caste regime! We have a caste scheme when, within the same company, a worker earns 260 times less than an administrator earns, when a worker has to work 150 years to earn what his company administrator earns in one year. This is a regime of inequality. In fact, rather than embroiled this inequality and this offense in the speech of growth, competition and resilience, they would do better if they read some of the gurus of management, which speak precisely of the pernicious effects of this kind of inequality. Mrs Inês de Sousa Real, we want to fight all inequalities — all! — whether it is the result of capitalism, whether it is the result of the patriarchate, we want to combat all oppression. We do not want to color rainbows a structure of inequalities. We need to combat the caste system that exists in wage policy, we do not need the caste to be more representative. In no way does it satisfy us, nor does it please us, that, in Sonae, a woman be CEO, just as we do not find the shame of TAP's salary policy more legitimate for the administrator to be Alexandra Reis or the current CEO. We need to combat this system of inequalities and all systems of inequalities, surely the wages and those resulting from class and gender. I would also like to say to the House that, frankly, I found your intervention to be completely pathetic.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-10.u155	He's being nice! [[Protests of CH Deputies.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-10.u156	We've been discussing changes to labour law for five months. How many changes did you make in this discussion process? How many?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-10.u157	And how many of us would be approved?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-10.u158	More than 500 amendments to the Labour Code have been discussed. How many did he show up? Zero! Not a sample in five months!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-10.u159	Zero! Zerinho! [[Protests of CH Deputies.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-10.u160	On the day we make the final vote, the arrival in fact invents an amendment to the Technically Indefensible Labour Code.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-10.u161	Bullshit!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-10.u162	Frankly, if you're the gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen don't take themselves seriously,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-10.u163	No, we're not serious about you!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-10.u164	... do not ask us or this Parliament to take you seriously.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-10.u165	All right! [[CH protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-10.u166	For the Socialist Party, in 2018, he presented a recommendation to the Government to establish a mechanism for a proportional limitation of wage disparity within each organization, whether public or private.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-10.u167	The Portuguese are taking us seriously!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-10.u168	Where is this mechanism?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-10.u169	I would ask you to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-10.u170	The Socialist Party's Member here said: "The proposal of the Left Block is a negative way, we have to go through the incentives, from the tax bubbles to the bosses, to fight wage inequality. Do not keep on seeking. ” [[That's enough!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-10.u171	But what's the negative way? Companies are institutions that are governed by laws, and we need to lay down rules to limit this wage inequality,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-10.u172	Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-10.u173	...to establish proportions, of course, with everything else we need to do. [[That's enough!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-10.u174	But the Socialist Party, when recommending something to the government to then vote against a law that implements what it recommends,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-10.u175	Mr. Deputies, you have to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-10.u176	...shows quite inconsistencies. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-10.u177	We move on to point three of the agenda, which is that of the general appraisal of Bill No. 414 / XV / 1. a (CH) — Determines the assessment of the cost/benefit and financial viability of all observatories, with a view to deciding on their maintenance or extinction. To present this bill, Mr André Ventura has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-10.u178	Madam President, Mr José Soeiro, do not leave now, that I still have an answer to you about the time you haven't given, before presenting our project. Mr. José Soeiro, I don't know if you want to hear, but perhaps you would. As you speak so much about the Dignified Work Agenda, I have to tell you that it is not wrong to propose other amendments. You know what's wrong? It is to defend decent work and fire employees, as does the Left Block. [[Congrats from the CH.]] [[BE's laughs.]] That's not decent work, sir! That's what it's like to be pathetic in your face! Pathetic! Pathetic is what you are being when you fire employees, reduce seats, cut your employees' allowances, and then come to talk about decent work! [[Congrats from the CH.]] It is not only pathetic, it is shameful, which is what you are, whenever you intervene in this House. [[Protests from BE José Moura Soeiro.]] You see, Mr. Deputy, if I were quiet, I'd be better off. Now paint the red lips, if you like. [[CH's laughs.]] Let's talk about observatories: what we have in Portugal today is a situation of real concealment. The government does not tell the Portuguese how many observatories there are and how many are receiving State funds. The project of Arrival is clear: whether there is a list and an exhaustive record of what Portuguese are paying in observatories, foundations and other of these institutes. Just to make it clear: in the SIOE ( Information System of the State Organization ) for example, there are only four public observatories, but we all know that there are hundreds, some of them with the domain gov.com, or. Gov. This means that the State is distributing money through the observatories and, after several demands from the Arrival, refuses to identify which foundations and which observatories the taxes of the Portuguese are paying. This situation cannot continue. We have a single case of hiding in the state. The State refuses to say how much money it distributes or who appoints for observatories, often for foundations or institutes. It's the waste of public money, and that's what we have to have the strength to order and demand. Several demands have already been made to the Government — more than three — on the side of the Arrival, so that you can say that these institutes are these, that observatories are these and that we are spending money. The answer we've had so far was zero. The government wants to hide, but the arrival wants to reveal, because it is the money of the Portuguese that is at stake. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-10.u179	For an intervention, Mr. João Cotrim Figueiredo, of the Parliamentary Group of the Liberal Initiative, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-10.u180	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I am very proud to be part of a party and a parliamentary group that is the enemy number one of the leviancy, the slightness and the disrespect with which the money of the people is concerned, the money of the taxpayers. I'm talking about how much taxes are charged and how much money is spent on these taxes, whether on TAP, Efacec, World Youth Day, and also on a series of structures, some temporary, other definitive, that the government is creating, more or less every day. That is why, as early as July 2022, we had identified 62 temporary structures and addressed a request to the Prime Minister to ask whether there were only these, or how many of them were right, what reports they had produced and how much they cost. With regard to reports and costs, we are still waiting,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-10.u181	Zero!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-10.u182	...but with regard to the survey, we were wrong. There were not 62 structures, there were 206, including 91 working groups, 64 monitoring committees, 17 coordinating committees, 13 task force, 9 mission structures, whatever that is. Our concern for temporary structures obviously extends to the final structures. We would therefore at first have a lot of sympathy to vote in favour of this initiative of arriving, but unfortunately, despite our feasibility, we will not vote in favour, because this initiative, Mr Ventura, is badly done from a technical and legislating point of view. [[Oh!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-10.u183	It is ill thought and—for God's sake, the Portuguese language deserves more respect! — it is extraordinarily ill-written. [[CH's laughs.]] I'm sorry, it's badly written, read it. [[CH protests.]] This is not just an observatory problem, it is not just a foundation problem, and it is worth knowing what we are actually talking about. And to put an end to these structures—it is surprising—the Arrival proposes to create more than what? One more record. [[CH protests.]] Therefore, for us, the solution — which is, in fact, in the explanatory statement of your initiative — is in the functioning of the SIOE, which is a national shame. This system has been created since 2011, has already been reformulated I do not know if once or twice and continues to have any useful information about the number of employees the State has and the number of assignments that are affected by these employees — none of this is possible to know. So in order to make this work, our solution is to continue to insist with the Minister of the Presidency, to continue to insist with the Directorate-General for Administration and Public Employment, so that the SIOE is effectively the information tool that we need to make good decisions, to be known once and for all, where the Socialists have placed the 90 000 public officials who have hired since 2015, where socialists are and are not creating superfluous organisms and where socialists are wasting our money, to once and for all end this lightly and this disrespect for our money. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-10.u184	Mr Pedro Filipe Soares, of the Left Block Parliamentary Group, spoke for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-10.u185	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : I note that the previous debate was so successful that Mr Ventura — as a father of the other Members and Member of Parliament — had to come to save the honor of the convent. Even to present the initiative, which was so important, forgot it, and came to speak from the previous point, to defend the honour that was quite affected.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-10.u186	What are you talking about? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-10.u187	It was not a Member or the Deputy of the Arrival to remember that they are sponsored by the Champalimaud family, by the Mello family and, with that, you can see what kind of caste they are defending here. [[CH protests.]] I don't even know if it is worth it — since you did not have much to do with it — discuss the initiative of the Arrival, but I imagine, for example, that these young people, in the galleries, who got up in the morning to come to the Assembly of the Republic, will be thinking: "Well, what will be the problem of the country? It must be the observatories; the country problem is the observatories. Do not keep on seeking. ” [[Protests by CH Member Rita Matias.]] Do you think Galp or EDP are making too much money with the costs they charge families? No, the problem is observatories. When these young people and young people think: “But where am I going to get a job? Will it be paid with quality? Is it any guarantee that I can be emancipated? Will the housing market give me the chance to get out of my parents' home? »,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-10.u188	You know what it's like to work!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-10.u189	... the arrival says: « Don't worry, we think the problem is... in the observatories».
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-10.u190	That's why you're only five!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-10.u191	Go from there, and because they are very strong with the observatories, they propose to create an observatory to observe all the others. It's a great solution! [[Rice from BE Catarina Martins' deputy.]] There were not enough, we will create another one, but we will not call it 'observatory'; we will call it'registration', to see if it passes through the raindrops and if no one notices the difference. It will be a great observatory to observe all others—this is the solution of the Arrival to the problems of the country! [[Congratulations from BE.]] They're almost there, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen, they're almost there! [[CH protests.]] But you know, in order not to go wrong, that this debate is just a way of not discussing what is essential, because there are, in fact, observatories with which you want to end. One of them, for example, is the observatory against racism and xenophobia. [[CH protests.]] That is where they want to arrive, just as they have already wanted to end with the Committee on Equality and Against Racial Discrimination, but then they do not like to be called racists.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-10.u192	You're racist!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-10.u193	It's with these observatories that they want to finish. And why? Because it touches them deeply on what they are. That's why they want to hide this from everyone. [[Congratulations from BE.]] [[CH protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-10.u194	I ask the ladies and gentlemen. Members who create conditions for us to continue our debate.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-10.u195	You're a endangered species!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-10.u196	Are you accusing us of racists and you don't say anything? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-10.u197	Ask for the defense of honor!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-10.u198	Shut up!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-10.u199	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, you're going to have the weekend to be able to express yourself at will. [[CH protests.]] Please create conditions so that we can continue with our debate. Mr Pedro Filipe Soares is not responding; he has made his speech and has the right to say what he fully understands. [[CH protests.]] Mrs. Members of the PSD parliamentary group have the floor of Mr João Barbosa de Melo.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-10.u200	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Portuguese are used to it, and we have been talking about it, to be periodically provided with the appearance of these observatories. If we do a summary research, we realize that the entities that are so designated are very different from each other. Some are direct creations of the State, i.e. it is the State itself that creates them, operating in its dependence, such as the newly created Price Observatory « National is Sustainable» or the Blue Economy Observatory. Others operate within general management, state autonomous structures such as the Territorial and Urban Planning Observatory or the Migration Observatory. There are also many observatories created at the initiative of local authorities, such as the Sobreiro and Cortice Observatory or the Municipal Observatoire of Adaptation to Climate Change, among many others. Continuing the search, there are observatories created by associations of municipalities, such as the Residue Observatory or the High Thame Data Observatory. We also find a myriad of private associations or non-governmental organizations that have things like the Observatory of Family Authorities Responsible or the Observatory of Local Authorities itself. Finally, in Portugal there are also observatories that are part of private companies, for profit, obviously, such as the Observatory of Risk and Peoples, which belongs to a multinational. In other words — and it was here that I wanted to arrive — the word « observatory» covers such a wide variety of situations that it is difficult to find common elements to treat these observatories in the way the foundations were treated, which in 2012 were identified, evaluated and, in many cases, extinct, when they did not correspond to what was expected of them. The observatories are thus a kind of non-identifiable organisational objects. In the bill under consideration, it is stated that it is desirable to place order in this confused universe and, in this design, the PSD accompanies its scope, because it believes it is important to know and evaluate any entities financed by the taxpayers. In addition, much will win the country if the greater exposure of these observatories to the creation of a fever of consultative and support institutions, which usually, in fact, proliferate as mushrooms in socialist governments, even if they are called committees, study groups, working groups, etc. As the project's intention is good, however, it has some serious problems in drawing the proposed solutions. First of all, any attempt like this to extend to the observatories what has been done to foundations of public utility, is barred with difficulties in defining the object « observatory», something which this proposal does not even try to do. Then there are many solutions in this project that are difficult to achieve or even illegal. In Article 1. , it is stated that the diploma aims to raise the observatories which, I quote, « benefit or have benefited from public support », but no time limit is placed on this. How long should the entities that will have to register back? Should they go back 1 year, 10 years, 20 years? In Article 2. it is maintained that in such a national register, each observatory « should publish the list of employees », I am quoting « with the nature of the link, remuneration and other benefits ». Poor data protection law! [[PSD applause.]] Do we even want to force an observatory from a public university to scrape up on the net that Mr. Hermenegildo Casula, who can't read or write, receives €100 to clean up the meeting room of the observatory? [[PSD applause.]] I shall give one final example: in Article 3. it is determined that it is the Ministry of Finance to analyze the cost-benefit and viability of the observatories, this in conjunction with the ministries of the areas. In other words, what is being proposed, for example, is that the viability of the Vouzela City Council Social Observatory is assessed by the Ministry of Finance, in connection with the Ministry of Territorial Cohesion, which protects the authorities, and the Ministry of Solidarity, because it is a social observatory. [[Rice from PCP MP Bruno Dias.]] We agree that the situation is so difficult to realise that it seems that the project authors are inviting, as has already been said, the Government to create another observatory to monitor the observatories. In conclusion, we cannot vote in favour of a diploma which, despite the intention, which, of course, we follow, fails so much in detail. If we even want to order this matter and if we want to distinguish the observatories that use resources and have good results from others, then we will have to work a lot more than the authors of this bill that is brought to us here. The PSD is, of course, available for this work. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-10.u201	Mr Sérgio Ávila of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-10.u202	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Let me begin by saying that part of my speech is subscribing and goes to the intervention which Mr Barbosa de Melo has just made, because indeed this diploma is based on three fundamental mistakes. The first misunderstanding and the first error are based on the assumption that the name 'observatory' constitutes a specific legal nature, which is totally wrong. There are private observatories, public observatories, semi-public observatories, autarchic, etc. That is to say, since they have the same name, to put under the same scope under the same legal framework questions that have completely different legal framework is wrong and does not make any sense. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Second mistake and second mistake: from the assumption that there are no clear, objective and transparent rules that configure, not at national level, but at European level, what is the perimeter of the Public Administration, of public administrations. The European System of Accounts, SEC, in the current SEC 2010 version, determines with all clarity and objectivity, which is the total perimeter of public administrations. And by this way and by the rules it imposes, it defines what is within the scope of the perimeter of public administrations and, in this context, defines what consolidates in terms of public accounts, in terms of costs, in terms of results, in terms of benefits, those entities that are objectively under the scope of consolidation of public accounts and therefore reflected in the General State Account and have an impact on the State budget in national accounts. Therefore, in these matters, it is not this diploma that brings any innovation. They are clearly and transparently defined, not for the country, but in European rules. Trying to change common denominator rules across Europe, which consolidates public accounts, is also deeply wrong, especially because they are determined by independent entities such as the National Institute of Statistics and Eurostat. Third error and third misconception: assuming that there is no level of supervision or follow-up on these matters, which is false for the reasons I mentioned above. What is within the scope of public administrations is defined and the rules are clear: it is within the scope of public administrations everything whose cost structure is not financed by less than 50 % by the financing of public administrations. For this reason, these rules are automatically defined, are subject to the operation, monitoring and supervision of the General Inspection of Finance and the Court of Auditors. In other words, this project is full of mistakes, mistakes, because part of a completely wrong assumption: that the fact that one has a name or characterises a legal nature, which cannot be. What would be, in the same way, as a diploma that considered that all Antonys, all Franciscos or all Venturas would be all the same. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Meanwhile, President Augusto Santos Silva was re-elected.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-10.u203	Mr Duarte Alves of the CFP Parliamentary Group now speaks.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-10.u204	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: I just want to comment on this initiative. Firstly, it does not seem to us that there should be a special regime for entities bearing the name « observatory ». It is that there are very different caricature observatories. Some could be called study centers, and operate within universities, others are meteorological observatories, others are independent observatories or created by public authorities for certain purposes. Secondly, the bill is based on the assumption that a law must be passed so that the Ministry of Finance is aware of the accounts of the observatories receiving public funding. This is already the responsibility of the Government for all public bodies, whether they are called 'observatories' or not, and the non-approval or approval of this project will change nothing. This is a proposal that nothing changes, whether it is approved or rejected, which does not mean that it is a harmless proposal, because we know the objectives of those who present it. We're not going to give this petition. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-10.u205	For an intervention, Mr André Ventura, of the Arrival, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-10.u206	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I think that the middle of this cycle of interventions there are several things that must be clear. So, and to go in order, Mr. Pedro Filipe Soares, I didn't come here to save the honor of the convent; I found it strange the Left Block to be talking about the Worthy Work Agenda when you're firing employees. I thought it wasn't very normal or very coherent. That's all, I didn't come to save any honor! [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-10.u207	The convent has no honor!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-10.u208	Look, I came to save the honor if, in all the observatories that I came here, I proposed an observatory for the unemployed of the Left Block, for example. That's where I came to save the honor of the convent! [[CH's laughs.]] So, honourable Member, when you say that the Portuguese find this and that of this bench and that of that, the elections were a short time ago and we saw what the Portuguese thought of this bench and of that: as for you, they almost ended up with you; to us, they gave us the 3. the place in Parliament. Your insignificance is summarized, which is what I think they do best. [[Congrats from the CH.]] Mr. João Cotrim Figueiredo, I understand that it is difficult for the Liberal Initiative, which has only 90 initiatives made in one year of work, to look at those of the Arrival. It is that the arrival has 215 initiatives, and the IL, in the end of so much work and so much appreciation meritocracy, has only 90. I therefore understand that I must come to Parliament and say: "Oh, it is not written. » When you don't get any other excuses,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-10.u209	Nothing, zero!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-10.u210	... says: "Ah, it is not written. Do not keep on seeking. ” Is it wrong? Oh, my God! So the champions of the fight against public money, the champions of the struggle for transparency, the champions say that there must be less state, when we bring an initiative to say « less state », they say « is bad written»! [[CH's laughs.]] Is it wrong? Oh, my God! Is it wrong? Oh, my God! Is it wrong? Oh, my God! Is it wrong? Oh, my God! [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-10.u211	It's very badly written!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-10.u212	It's bad writing, no! I had the desired Liberal Initiative really do something and I would have caught up in this initiative, did another and dragged it. And then I would discuss this matter with him. But no, it's easier to sit in place and say "it's wrong"! [[IL Member's laughter João Cotrim Figueiredo.]] Finally, Mr Duarte Alves, I know that the CFP does not want to talk about this, because, you know, how many observatories have been linked in the past to the CFP and the institutions linked to the CFP. So perhaps, if we did this big survey, we would realize that much of the taxpayer's money is in tachos and tachios distributed throughout the system for the observatories in Portugal. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-10.u213	There's even an asteroid with the name of a communist!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-10.u214	Mr Pedro Filipe Soares of the Left Block was appointed to request clarification. You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-10.u215	Mr President, Mr André Ventura, I think there is something that separates us quite a lot here. [[One?! A lot!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-10.u216	It is for the Left Block to defend the transparency of party financing and the almost monopolies of public funding and therefore we respect democratic entities very much and above all the will of the Portuguese people. But here we are to fight for this change. I'd like to ask you a very direct question: is it with money from the Mello family and the Champalimaud family that pay you your driver and car available for all the service? [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-10.u217	To reply, Mr André Ventura has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-10.u218	Mr President, we already know that for the Left Block, the more taxpayers' money is for the parties, the better. We know.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-10.u219	Oh, it's not Champalimaud!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-10.u220	We, on the contrary, are: the less taxpayers' money is for the parties, the better. And, indeed, you are right, Mr President: there is a world that is different from us. We want the Portuguese to pay less their privileges and those of their coordinator; you want more Portuguese to pay the privileges of the parties. It's a world that separates us! And I don't know, Mr. Member, but you can be sure that it wasn't Mellos, Champalimaud, Pingo Doce, Sonae, look, neither the Newspaper, who paid one of your deputies a third salary! None of these, sir! [[Congrats from the CH.]] You see, Mr. Deputies? This is how: «whoever winds sows storms». Furthermore, Mr President, neither are the Robles, nor the Martins, nor the Mortaguas that pay us no privilege. It is those, the Portuguese people, who have made us the third political force and have almost reduced you to insignificance. That's them! [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-10.u221	It's just a throat!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-10.u222	And if I had more time, you'd have more!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-10.u223	Mr Inês de Sousa Real has now the floor of the PAN. [[CH Member's Protests André Ventura.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-10.u224	Mr President, when Mr. André Ventura wants to hear the other speeches... [[Pause.]] I would therefore like to go back to the initiative, because we are going here to exchange pickets or discuss what comes with this initiative, we really prefer to focus on what comes to it. It puts everything in the same bag, not only different legal entities, as has already been mentioned, but also questions the usefulness of some of the existing observatories. And that's why, of course, we know what's coming from here. If, on the one hand, we are all in agreement with greater transparency, particularly with the listing and identification of entities receiving public subsidies — so far we are entirely in agreement — on the other hand, this national register of observatories which now proposes no longer goes beyond a 'blue pencil' to challenge observatories such as equality, the fight against racism, the fight against xenophobia, violence, or also immigration observatories, which have an absolutely fundamental role in our country, to identify fragility and social vulnerabilities and whose role must be valued. [[Protests by CH Member Pedro dos Santos Frazão.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-10.u225	So fucking together!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-10.u226	That is why we will not follow this initiative, because we do not compact with these observatories or records that do no more than bring the times of the "other lady" and demanding control mechanisms, which we do not want in our country. [[CH protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-10.u227	Demands are you, who want to end agriculture, want to end everything!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-10.u228	To intervene,... [[CH protests.]] ... with the support of the Member elected by the Braga circle, Mr Rui Tavares of the Free is now speaking.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-10.u229	Mr President, I find that I am, after all, an old-fashioned type, because I was used to having to know the reality in order to be able to act on it and I thought that the state, among other things, was a repository of knowledge in order to have good public policies. He was also used to a conservative, liberal right, which was for what they called empire, data, and then act pragmatically on these data. But now I find out there's a postmodern right. It is a right that you think the best way to reach the conclusion that you already wanted, which is that there is no racism, is to end the observatory of racism.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-10.u230	It has nothing to do with it!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-10.u231	As, from the beginning, the will that they have always had was to be a negationist of climate change, it ends with the observatory of climate change. And, therefore, everything is solved. And I found something else: a right that used to say that there are no free lunches had the opportunity to answer the question about who pays him the private driver, and, after all, there are free drivers! There are free drivers, who do not ask for favors in return, who are paid by someone! [[Congrats from PS Members.]] [[CH protests.]] But, the unpopular politicians, those who want to create an observatory observatory and a working group to create the observatory and probably a commission to create the working group, while we do not arrive at that moment of enlightenment, which will be the moment when all observatories are eliminated, the great leader receives from God information about the observatories and takes his decisions alone. Well, the modern state in Europe doesn't work that way. It hasn't worked that way for a long time, and we hope it never works like this again. [[Congrats from PS Members.]] [[CH protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-10.u232	To close the debate, Mr Ventura has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-10.u233	Mr President, thank you very much. To conclude this debate, and starting with the reply to Mr Rui Tavares, it is certainly not the same as the seven Councillors of Lisbon, which is a state budgeon. They're certainly not those. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-10.u234	Who's paying you the driver? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-10.u235	These are certainly not the seven Councillors of Lisbon — the shame that has been the management of the Free in this matter — nor those who come here to talk about observatories for racism, but had a black deputy sitting there, who broke away from their own party. That's racism! [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-10.u236	Who do you owe him?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-10.u237	So be ashamed of your face! Have shame on your face when you talk about it. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, it has become very clear what this Parliament wants. [[L. Protests.]] Mr. Deputy, seven advisors in the Lisbon Chamber! It was very clear... [[L. Protests.]] He's nervous now, isn't he? [[Repeals of CH Deputies.]] It has become very clear what this Parliament wants. This Parliament does not want to know where these observatories are and uses the focus of racism as they use it for everything. As we speak of racism, xenophobia, the usual poor people in the system, there are a few who are putting aside.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-10.u238	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-10.u239	There are a few people distributing places all over the system. There are the jobs for the boys and for the girls to be distributed by all as we look at the observatory, for quality, for prices, for support, for everything and more on a list that, if I gave you, would embarrass those who pay taxes in Portugal. The Portuguese have to get up in the morning and work until the end of the day to pay for this. This, nobody knows what it is! The speaker displayed a document. [[Congrats from the CH.]] And when we ask the government to give us the list of these observatories and foundations, they answer: "Ah, this is reserved." Is it reserved? "Yes, Mr. Deputies," we are told. We want to know where the 100 €, the 200 €, the 1000 €, because it's Portuguese money! It is money from those who cannot afford food and have the right to know where they are distributing places that have been distributed for years by the Portuguese party system to these observatories. [[Congrats from the CH.]] They have the right to do so and they have the right to ask who they are, who they pay and where they come from. Perhaps there were many, not because of the merit of the curriculum, not because of the merit of the study and the hours spent reading diplomas, codes or numbers, what many of us here had to do. They may not find it, but they'll find other things. You know what? They will certainly find a pink card, an orange card or a red card that gave them access to those observatories. [[Congrats from the CH.]] That's what's a shame and that's what we have to fight against.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-10.u240	Sir, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-10.u241	They may not approve this project, in fact, few Portuguese will be waiting for it to be approved, but History will show that those who asked for transparency in this process were right. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-10.u242	What favor should you have?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-10.u243	Your whole family works there. When you know what you're gonna see!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-10.u244	We are now entering point four of the order of business, which consists in the assessment of Petition No 8 / XV / 1. a ( FENPROF - National Federation of Teachers) — Teachers claim justice, enforcement of our rights and respect for working hours, together with Bill No. 497 / XV / 1. a ( BE ) — Tenth sixth amendment to the Statute of the Career of Children and Teachers of Basic and Secondary Education, Decree-Law No 139 -A / 90 of 28 April, in general, and Resolution Projects No 172 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Recommends the adoption of measures to enhance workers in education and public school, and 379 / XV / 1. a (CH) — Recommends that the Government undertake the salary updating of teachers and correspond to the high levels of demand that the teaching profession involves. To present the Left Block initiative, Mrs. Joana Mortágua has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-10.u245	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First, I greet all the teachers and all the teachers present here and also those who certainly attend this debate carefully. Evil of the country that cannot pay a decent salary to its teachers. And that is what we have to ask today: do we live in a country that cannot pay a decent salary to its teachers? the last time I checked, we lived in a country where 400 million euros per year were wasted on tax bubbles disguised as technological innovation. We lived in a country that offered millionaire prizes to managers, former managers or future managers responsible for readjustment plans that meant dismissal and wage cuts of hundreds of workers. the last time I checked, this country gave tax bills to unusual residents and digital nomads. the last time I checked, this country gave tax bills to large companies that worked, worked and worked with the crisis. Crisis after crisis, they kept working. So when we ask today and when they ask us why teachers and teachers don't leave the street, the answer is: because the argument of the permanent crisis no longer fits. The argument of a country that cannot pay them decent wages no longer glues, because teachers belong to a working majority of this country that paid crisis after crisis until the public school was in crisis because of lack of teachers. Now they ask us: who will pay for public school? After these workers paid, with their taxes, the bank crisis, the pandemic crisis and the failed social support and the inflation crisis, which are paying with the loss of their salaries, who will pay the public school crisis? The government's response, when these teachers began to say that they could no longer pay for the public school crisis, was to force them to work displaced without money to pay for housing and transport; it was to force them to bind displaced persons to cover the lack of teachers that the government ignored and for which it did not make excuses; the government's response was to prevent mobility for disease, to try to cover up a problem that the government did not want to solve, which was the lack of teachers. So, yes, there is injustice and inequality in this system, in a country that can pay stage and millionaire prizes, but that cannot pay its teachers for the future of public school, and this inequality has gone out to the street. It is normal and legitimate that teachers are in struggle, and this fight is not only fair as is the only way to save public school, because it answers this fundamental question, which is a question of justice for the country, which is the following: after all, can this country or cannot afford a public school? What the Left Block here proposes is no novelty: support for dislocated teachers and the end of vacancies for access to the 5. a is 7. The steps. It is a small beginning to show the teachers that the country, yes, can pay for the future of public school. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-10.u246	To present the CFP initiative, Mr Alfredo Maia has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-10.u247	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : We especially greet the delegation of FENPROF present in the galleries and welcome the struggle of teachers. [[PCP applause.]] We greet FenPROF, as petitioner and promoter of an expressive undersigned, with 17,450 subscribers, which places the urgency of the recovery of all time of service and the end of the vacancies for access to the 5. a is 7. the steps that the CFP has also been proposing; the end of the evaluation quotas; a specific retirement scheme; the elimination of precariousness; and the end of abuses and illegalities in times. On the other hand, the subscribers express their disagreement with the process of municipalization of education and defend the revision of the management of schools, in the sense of their democratization and the participation of all in decision-making, the objective that the CFP accompanies. The petition is another demonstration that these fair claims have long been on the agenda of the teaching class and that it is urgent to resolve, within the agenda of the struggle that teachers keep on the agenda, in a growing commitment in schools and on the streets and that tomorrow will have a high point in the great demonstration called for the lower Lisbon. When 40 000 students continue without a teacher at least one discipline and more than 11 000 teachers are teaching with precarious links for more than 10, 15 or even 20 years of service, and when the government's response is insufficient, it is urgent to truly value teachers' careers, combat precariousness, recognize service time and guarantee the future to the profession and professionals.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-10.u248	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-10.u249	It is for this task that the CFP urges the Government to seriously address the demands placed on the table by schools, from the outset the strengthening of investment in public school; the valorization of careers and respect for education workers; the integration of all workers with precarious links that meet the permanent needs of schools; the rejuvenation of the teaching staff, even in increasing and intense seniority, considering the need for an adequate and fair retirement system; and the fight against professional wear, through appropriate hours and workload. The motion for a resolution that the CFP brings to the discussion has precisely in view of the valorization of careers and public school, recognizing and resting careers, binding specialized teachers and technicians, ensuring progression, defining what is the educational component and eliminating limitations to the binding of the so-called norm-work, allowing the linkage of all teachers with more than three years of service time, among other measures. Mrs. Members, it is time to face up to the serious problems faced by public school and, despite the denodado work of teachers in order to dignify, do not allow for longer delaying solutions that go through the recognition and appreciation of the careers of teachers and other professionals. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-10.u250	To present the initiative of the Arrival, Mr Gabriel Mithá Ribeiro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-10.u251	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Party welcomes the 17 450 petitioners who claim justice, the enforcement of labour rights and respect for working hours. We support these demands with a draft resolution that recommends to the Socialist Government that no concrete steps be taken to recover the purchasing power of teachers. [[Congrats from the CH.]] It is the duty of the State not to leave students without teachers, it is the duty of the State to renew the teaching body, and this requires a teaching career financially fair and attractive. But what the Ministry of Education offers teachers is a human and financial disaster. PS, PSD, PCP and Left Block did nothing to stop the disqualification of disrespect by teachers in classrooms. Indiscipline, violence, bureaucracy, facilitation and the physical and psychological suffering of teachers have been dragged for decades. No political party has even worked to guarantee the teachers authority and order in schools. They've always ignored the gravity of these problems. No political party also has serious financial proposals that dignify and reassure teachers and schools. In the current political maraism of nothings and illusions, the party arrives has the deepest moral and civic conviction in the intransigent defense of the hierarchical authority of teachers in the classroom. It is at stake to defend the mental health of teachers. For the Party to arrive, there cannot continue to be a lack of transparency in the management of public education. I'm talking about financial transparency. This situation is poisoning public opinion against teachers and therefore we insist on the subject. There is no money for the salaries and careers of teachers because of the harmful management of school curricula since 2000 - 2001. [[Congrats from the CH.]] Students spend unnecessary hours and hours closed in classrooms. This aggravated the bad behaviors and caused loss of quality, due to saturation of the pedagogical relationship. The school curricula are today mere supervisors of the Ministry of Education's budget. This is what brought to an end the salaries and career of teachers in the face of the complicit silence of the political class, and no one has been held accountable until today.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-10.u252	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-10.u253	What we ask is that each teacher compares, by itself, the 80s and 90s curricula with the current curricula. It is appropriate to identify the reasons for the freezing of the hours of service of teachers, the irrational quotas imposed on teachers to access the 5. a is 7. the steps, of the loss of purchasing power of teachers, of there is no money for teachers displaced, of specific teaching and of music teaching are in misery, of there are school buildings in ruins and students in cold. The financial disqualification of public schools results from the pathology of the pedagogical obesity of our left friends: PS, PCP and Left Block. [[Congrats from the CH.]] Unfortunately, the PSD has always closed its eyes to the severity of this problem. The party has been the only one to place the finger on it and on another wound: of the approximately EUR 7 billion of the annual budget of the Ministry of Education, the Minister of Education has never explained in this Parliament, nor to educators and teachers, how much of this amount effectively reaches schools, classroom teachers and students, and what value and percentage are held in the bureaucratic, administrative and parasitic structure of the Ministry of Education. [[Congrats from the CH.]] To pacify teachers and to pacify schools requires a financial audit to the Ministry of Education. As if it wasn't enough for millions and millions wasted in observatories and working groups.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-10.u254	Mr. Deputies, you have to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-10.u255	Finally, Mr President, the party will do everything to put an end to this historic era of very bad memory for the Members. Teachers. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-10.u256	You now have the floor for an intervention, Mrs Inês de Sousa Real, of the PAN.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-10.u257	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin by greeting the petitioners who bring us this petition that calls for more justice and enforcement of rights and respect for the hours of work of teachers. Once again, we are discussing in this House the conditions of teachers and we know that unfortunately we will continue to discuss their struggle until negotiations come out, minimum satisfactory solutions. Teacher and non-teacher professionals do invaluable daily work, but they have seen their work devalued for decades. Teachers ask for justice, respect and dignity in the profession and what they have had is an absolutely incomprehensible treatment. Still this week, the teachers who manifested themselves in the streets of Porto wondered: "Is there a need for revolution? For our part, we ask the same question: what is the government waiting for so that it can effectively adopt a fairer and more open negotiating position and so that some progress can be made? So far, what we have seen is not only a continuous devaluation and blockage in career progression, but also the obligation to walk with the house behind the back, competitive procedures for sick mobility schemes that should be a fundamental guaranteed right, which is absolutely unworthy in a just society.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-10.u258	You must conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-10.u259	I really am concluding, Mr President. Worse, the solution is not to consider illegal strikes or, less so, to do what, shamefully, happened in Oeiras, which is to call teachers to have to make statements at the station and to see themselves in arms with criminal processes. This is not the rule of law that we want, nor is this the fair appreciation of teachers, who have an absolutely fundamental role as one of the guarantors of equal access to education between children and young people.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-10.u260	To speak on behalf of the Liberal Initiative, Mrs Carla Castro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-10.u261	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: I particularly welcome you. Petitioners. We've talked about the PS pass-backs, the PS pacemaker... another week, and we're still in the same situation, with the same concerns, the same impasses, the same outrages. We will be again, on the weekend, waiting for another sea of people, people and professionals who are responsible for developing the human capital of a country, which mark the difference in the development of children and young people, who every day play a fundamental role for children and, I repeat, for the country. We are proud of the professionals we have, professionals who would need to have the recognized merit, working conditions, that what happened in mobility for disease, who had an attractive profession, with the dignity and appreciation that they deserve and that they so pride us, and also in a healthy environment that goes to so many dimensions, from bureaucracy to mental health. Unfortunately, what we have is a small policy for all this. We have made criticisms and defended a different model in education policy. And the left-wing parties, or even the Minister of Education himself, may come to accuse us, with puppies, of being mean public school, because no, we are not denying public school. It was not the liberals who deteriorated the public school, it was the government policies, it was the PS, it was the management,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-10.u262	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-10.u263	...the government was unable to respond, governments were tired, without proactiveness, without solutions, without futures, with timely changes that do not resolve in the medium term and without reform solutions. But the fence is tightening. The constraints, as the government likes to call the problems of teachers, could have been solved years ago, if education was indeed a priority; but it is not, it is a management of convenience, of circumstances and, worse, it is harmful: harmful for students, for the country, for families, for the whole school community. The government must, yes, solve the country. The more this situation gets worse, the more other problems are multiplied, such as the recovery of learning, already above a deteriorating situation. But there are also other indisputable signs of distrust in the system. For example, 2021 was the year with the highest ever percentage of secondary students in the private sector and it was already reported, in this month of January, that private schools are with exhausted enrollments for the next school year. We therefore have a growing search for private solutions in the various cycles and the conclusion that this is due to the uncertainty and unpredictability of public school. And it is not worth saying that it is the Liberals who are speaking ill of the public school, because we are not; we are speaking badly, yes, and rightly, of the public policy of this government.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-10.u264	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-10.u265	And who's the best friend in private school? It's been this government, it's been management.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-10.u266	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-10.u267	It is regrettable that we continue without solutions, solutions because the country, children and teachers cannot wait, especially in a country where social inequalities continue to worsen. In conclusion, there is only the following finding: the question is answered about who did, after all, the real attack on public school. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-10.u268	To speak on behalf of the Free House, Mr Rui Tavares has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-10.u269	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : I thank mainly the petitioners, teachers and teachers who are the backbone of our public school. It was the great achievement that we reached after 25 April and that, for centuries, failed this country: access to a mass education, of quality, that would allow people to conquer new worlds. And we all have, in our life, some teacher, some teacher who allowed us to be something with which, before, we didn't even dream. The Free has, almost since its foundation and since its first legislative election, in 2015, the full count of the service time in its program and has fought here for all the other claims presented in the petitions. We all need to be aware of this in Portugal: when we talk about the most qualified generation ever, who qualified it? It was you. Who let her run away? It was those who did not have policies of employment and valorization, even in public education, that would allow these young people to stay here and who, now, had no policies that would allow vocations to pursue the career of teaching, because if they do not see it respected in the present they will not want to follow it in the future, and that is a huge loss that we will all be confronted with. Thank you for your petition and we follow together in this fight.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-10.u270	To speak on behalf of the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group, Mr Agostinho Santa has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-10.u271	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : I address a special greeting to the more than 17 000 petitioners and to FenPROF. The Assembly of the Republic has been called to debate old issues that affect education professionals, especially teachers. Some two months ago, the debate, which has been ongoing for many years, is now amplified by thousands of voices which are heard in favour of its reason. from this fact, registered in the petition, or taken to initiatives of BE, PCP and Arrival, we have as object of this debate only once, all the realities that have motivated protests and claims: the recovery of service time; access to the 5. a is 7. the steps; precarious recruitment and placement; retirement; working hours; revision of school management; wage updates and compensation to displaced teachers; replacement and progression in careers. The whole claiming agenda, therefore, is once again under discussion. We don't complain. We welcome, with responsibility, more this opportunity to talk about matters that mark our collective concerns. Here, let us check some assumptions in which it is already possible to settle, under the growing chorus of protests. First of all, let us appeal to the ability to believe in what can lead to success, overcoming the impasse. They are all professionals of education and educational administration, condemned to understanding, under the penalty of letting us lie in disbelief, contempt and inoperance. If we're still arguing and trying to move forward, it's because no one, anywhere else, has given up trying. [[P.S.'s applause.]] According to assumption: those involved realize that the problem is difficult and complex, not solving either with magic pass, or with spirit of guerrillas, or with stubborn cantonage, which will never lead to a common and attainable destiny of advances and conquests. Third assumption: regardless of the type of proposals that remove the parties, it unites them with the idea that the point of view is the improvement of public school, which is built up only with valued teachers and with decent working conditions. Fourth assumption: no one has any doubt that everything can be left in the same way. It is not in the desire and will of anyone who does not get out of the impasse with obtaining levels of appreciation of the class and teaching career, even if one cannot give everything and one time. Fifth assumption: in order for the path of solutions to continue to be traced, in the face of the cries of professionals and the presentation of government proposals, it is good for everyone to consider that, being the only one that can lead to the right direction, the path is found and is to be made together. It is the path of dialogue, responsible negotiation, demand for possible, balanced and fair solutions, in response to the most important expectations. There's no bad and no good tape. We don't look for villains, because they don't exist.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-10.u272	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-10.u273	Sixth assumption: the big question is whether, on the part of the one who directs the destinations of education, it has already been, or not, initiated such a path of dialogue and approximation of extreme positions.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-10.u274	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-10.u275	And we must be frank in reply: were there any proposals to combat the scourge of the precariousness of teachers? Yes, there was! Have there been any negotiating advances in valuing some aspects of the teaching career? Yes! Was there any concern about improving working conditions in schools? Yes! Were not the proposals to reduce the dimensions of the geographical areas of the QZP ( pedagogic zone tables) constituted as an advance, from 10 to 63?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-10.u276	Sir, excuse me for interrupting you. The ladies and gentlemen. Members must guarantee conditions for speakers to intervene. I therefore ask for as much silence as possible. Mr. Deputies, please proceed.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-10.u277	What about the mechanisms for the exchange and resolution of the problem of surpluses already in the 2024 competition? What about the extension of placements in school boards, where teachers can be fixed on a permanent basis? And recruitment and binding as the sole criterion of professional graduation? And the reduction of incomplete hours? And the dynamic linkage of more than 10 500 teachers this year, and beyond the norm-work, with 1095 days of service? What about the increase in two pay levels for contracts? And fixing vacancies for access to 5. a is 7. the step, by 75 % and by 58 %? And the reduction of bureaucratic tasks? Is everything done? Don't! Is that a lot of what's been done? It's already something that matters. Can you get better? Yes! The effort to go further must continue, of understanding, progressing forward. If teachers are right and right, when they are beaten by the value of careers and teaching classes and by solving problems in their professional life, it is not worth us to rejoice at the progress made, if it is not possible to achieve the essential: to achieve useful, sustainable and desirable effects, in the approach to good agreement. It is as much as you wish and ask. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-10.u278	Mr António Cunha, from the PSD Parliamentary Group, now has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-10.u279	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I shall obviously begin by congratulating FENPROF as well as the more than 17 000 petitioners and the authors of the proposals still being submitted. The PSD believes, seriously and without populism, professional value, social function and centrality of teachers and educators in the educational system. The legacy of António Costa, in the education sector, corresponds to seven years of progressive degradation of the conditions of exercise of the teaching profession.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-10.u280	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-10.u281	Seven years of inaction to make the teaching career more attractive. They're less and less young people who want to be teachers. [[PSD applause.]] Seven years in which the number of reformed teachers almost tripled. Seven years of propaganda. Let's see. In 2020, he allocated funds for the development of teaching functions in areas of the country where there were, continues and will continue to be lack of teachers. Were they executed? We don't know. You failed! [[Protests by the PS Spouse Porfirio Silva.]] In the State budget for 2021, he entered funds for incentives that would enhance the reconciliation between the professional and family life of teachers. What were those incentives? Does anyone know? You failed! [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-10.u282	Seven years of inaction with regard to recruitment, professional development, deburocratization, initial training, dignity of career and conditions for the exercise of it, six of which with the convivence and complicity of the management parties.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-10.u283	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-10.u284	Today, with an absolute majority year, the government continues to fail teachers and educators. [[PSD applause.]] It is unable to propose solutions so that teachers can recover the time they worked. It is alarming to wear out the conditions of teaching activity: increased bureaucracy, lack of individual and collaborative working conditions, increased indiscipline and aggression to teachers. Six years in which the government strategy sought to ostracize trade unions and teachers. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-10.u285	Now, they manifest themselves, they are on the street, on strike, schools closed!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-10.u286	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-10.u287	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, on behalf of the teachers, on behalf of the students and on behalf of their families, it is necessary that the action of the Government should focus on seeking solutions, rather than creating even more problems for the public school and its members. The government has ignored the devastating effect of the crisis, in the worsening educational inequalities, hypothesized the future of young generations, in particular the children of 1. o is 2. or cycles. It is two years, eleven months and a few days of learning lost or trimmed, in which the recovery plan of learning 21 / 23 School + has revealed itself "less school", less conditions of learning work, less classes, less learning, less rigour, less scrutiny, due to deliberate extinction of external evaluations, in 2016, less school as a social elevator, less motivation, less social recognition of teachers and less students enrolled in public education, but more students enrolled in private education. More even the increased mistrust of families in the public education network; more vulnerable students, given to their lot; more inclusive education that, instead of including, excludes, because it ambitious illusions that are incompatible with the real human and material resources needed in schools; more facilitation and neglect of public school; more teachers as mere classroom cheerleaders; more bureaucracy; more grids and platforms to fill; and more contempt of teachers for political power. This is the legacy of the educational policy of Antonio Costa and his ministers of education. [[PSD applause.]] This is the legacy of PS, with the support and announcement of the Left Block and PCP. Seven years of pedagogical folklore, of romanticized visions of the last century, intertwined by the educational catechism of the OECD, which dragged us, the fruit of ideology, into an authentic educational obscurantism. [[Protests by the PS Spouse Porfirio Silva.]] They abolished the tests and the final tests of the cycle, underestimated the fundamental value of knowledge, ignored the structuring power of mathematics, mother tongue and science, removed from educational grammar the concept and value of discipline, the value of effort and rational organization of learning. The PSD hopes that the government will, in fact, focus on students and promote the recovery of learning, so that no student, whatever his or her social status or origin, is left behind. We therefore continue to be concerned about the thousands of students who have gone out of school at least one discipline during the school year. This year there were 60 000, 20 000 at the start of 2. the period. How many will be next year?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-10.u288	Sir, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-10.u289	I'm done, Mr. President. For the PSD, it is urgent to respond to structural problems. We demand from the Government strategies to reverse the lack of teachers, measures to reduce the professional wear of teachers, solutions to the problem of recovery of service time and access to 5. a is 7. the steps, incentives to attract young people to initial training courses, conditions conducive to recovery and improvement of student learning and conditions for teachers to focus on what really matters, i.e. teaching. There is no public school with unconsidered and demotivated teachers. The teachers are waiting. It's time for the government to act. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-10.u290	Mr Joana Mortágua, from the Left Block Parliamentary Group, now has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-10.u291	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: PSD will still have to spend a lot, a lot more time explaining to the teachers why it failed them, when they had the opportunity to recover the time of service.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-10.u292	In 2019! All right! [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-10.u293	But my last intervention, my last words are for the Socialist Party. Promises, promises, promises, promises! So many promises that the government has made and has not fulfilled, that it has stretched, stretched and broken the rope. It broke the rope of the essential trust that there must be in a country, between a government and a public service of a primary and as basic law as public school. So today's debate is not about teachers, it's not about public school, the debate today is about how a country pays the essential public services and how, for these public services, there is always a crisis to prevent investment, but for the privileged, there is never a crisis to give tax stamps and to give millionaire prizes. That is the debate! Today's debate is about inequality, it's about the possibilities of a country responding to their services, their children, their young people, it's about responding to education, and that certainly means responding to teachers' salaries. This is why, tomorrow, we will again be on our way down the Avenue of Freedom. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-10.u294	We have thus reached the end of this point of the debate and will therefore enter the voting period. I request the services that have the registration mechanism. [[Pause.]] I'm asking the ladies. Members to register. [[Pause.]] I wonder if any Member of Parliament or some Member of Parliament have not been able to register. [[Pause.]] The Bureau has the indication that Mr. Deputies Bruno Aragão and Miguel Cabrite, of the PS, were unable to sign up. All of you. Ladies and gentlemen have heard me ask if anyone has been prevented from registering... I ask the services to close the quorum verification mechanism and advertise the result. [[Pause.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we have a quorum and we shall then begin the votes. The first discussion is on the Voting Project No 255 / XV / 1. a ( submitted by BE ) — regretting the death of Jorge Constante Pereira. To read it, Mrs. Maria da Luz Rosinha has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-10.u295	Thank you very much, Mr President. I shall read the draft vote, which shall read as follows: « Composer, dramatist and pioneer of psychomotority therapy in Portugal, with a journey associated with the city of Porto, died in Matosinhos, last January 31, Jorge Constante Pereira. The therapist of Psycomotricity, formed by the Institute of Education Sciences of the University of Geneva, guided the chairs of Psychology of Education and Development, at Eduardo Mondlane University, in Mozambique, where he directed the Center for Communication Studies, of the Institute of Scientific Research. He has always devoted himself to teaching and has been the founder of the Ariana’s Son. He was also author of a collection of visual and auditory resources, I say what I do—I do what I say, to support the development of verbal language and communication in early childhood (2 ). the edition, in 2001, Areal Editores ). In Porto, he led the Ludus Cooperative delegation, with Isabel Alves Costa and Ilse Losa, a body of dissemination and educational action, based on the principles of modern pedagogy, where he played texts by Maria Alberta Menéres, who, sung and played by students of the cooperative, gave shape to discoConversas Con Versos, recorded in the Studios Rangel, as many others. It is, however, as a composer and dramatist that the public knows the creations that behind the scenes animated and “impregnated with music. ” One of his first works as a musical composer was the album, 1975, Cantigas de Ida e Volta, where he played the poems of Sidonio Murallha, Matilde Rosa Araújo and Maria Alberta Menéres, interpreted by Fausto, Vitorino and Sergio Godinho. This was one of the first discs entirely dedicated to the children's universe in the post-25 April. The attention to the universe of children was taking various forms, from projects to theatre, such as the Me, You, He, Us, You, They, Sergio Godinho, in which he participated and wrote, for example, the Song of Hugs, to television projects, such as The Tree of Patafurides or The Friends of Gaspar, in co-operation with João Paulo Seara Cardoso and Sergio Godinho for the RTP-Porto, for which he composed dozens of songs. The DOS music Friends of Gaspar arrived on the record two years later, in another collaboration with Sérgio Godinho, for whom he still composed Small Domestic Deliriums, which integrates the disc Permanent Ink. With the company Limite Zero participated in creations that leave unmistakably inscribed its argúcia and creativity : Pinto Borragudo, The Throne Exited the Street, The Hercules Works, In Search of the Lost Floor, The Adventures of Gulliver, The Stories of Day and Night or Back to the World, a circumnavigation trip. He wrote the story The Cágado has lost his feathers, for the book Everything If Transformed, initiative of the Cooperative The Aryan Yarn. He created musical scores or texts for theatrical projects by various companies, notably More Mar Houvesse, play staged by João Paulo Seara Cardoso, or you the Beator Not te the Beat, staged by Antonio Pedro and with the participation of Angelo de Sousa and João Guedes, in the Experimental Theatre of Porto, in 1967, among many other complicities, such as the Teatro de Joane or the Art'Image. He was working with Cinema Batalha, in Porto, in the recreation of DOS Friends of Gaspar, for a documentary on the series transmitted by RTP. It was to take shape a last project to music a series of poems from Clepsidra, from Camilo Pessanha, by itself selected, compositions of which there is only one first record. Friends of José Mário Branco and Sérgio Godinho, partners who contact Paris, where they were both exiled, Jorge Constante Pereira also includes the list of prisoners and political persecutors of the dictatorship's time. He lived a life of commitment and influenced with his “accelerated genius ” the world of puppets and children’s projects that“ permeated his music. ” Jorge Constante's death is a loss for music, for thousands of children and young people who formed with him, for colleagues, friends and family. The Assembly of the Republic expresses its deep regret at the death of Jorge Constante Pereira and presents his condolences to his family and friends. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-10.u296	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall vote on the deliberative part of the draft vote that has just been read. [[The vote was taken unanimously.]] We moved on to the Vote Project No 260 / XV / 1. a ( submitted by the PAR and subscribed by the PS, the CH, the IL, the PCP, the BE, the PAN, the L, and a PSD deputy ) — To regret the victims of earthquakes in Turkey and Syria, which will be read by Ms Palmira Maciel.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-10.u297	Mr. President and Mr. Members, the draft vote is as follows: « In the early morning of February 6, an earthquake, with a magnitude of 7, 8 on the Richter scale, devastated south-east Turkey and north-west Syria, causing, along with the subsequent replicas, a dramatic scenario of destruction. The number of victims is still uncertain, being the provisional balance sheet of very high deaths and injuries, in the order of tens of thousands. The magnitude of consequences of this calamity, the greatest in the region for several decades, is difficult to translate. According to the World Health Organization, it is estimated that earthquakes will have a direct negative impact on tens of millions of people on both sides of the border, particularly due to destruction caused by civil infrastructure and hospital facilities. Since Monday, rescue and rescue teams have sought to save thousands of survivors who are still found to be under the rubble, a mission which is severely hampered by climate conditions—negative temperatures, rain and snow—the vast area affected, as well as by successive replicas, some with great intensity. The international community has been mobilized to help the two countries affected by this disaster. The Portuguese have also participated in this solidarity effort, having already been sent a Joint Operational Force to Turkey to assist in the search and rescue operations of the earthquake victims, a mission coordinated by the National Emergency and Civil Protection Authority, which thus joins the European and international humanitarian efforts of civil protection. The Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary session, expresses to the authorities and the people of Turkey and Syria its sympathy for the victims and their total solidarity with this tragedy. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-10.u298	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall vote on the deliberative part of the draft vote that has just been read. [[The vote was taken unanimously.]] I am grateful for the presence of the Ambassador of Turkey, who has seen this vote, and I would like you to convey to the Turkish authorities — the President, Parliament and the Government of Turkey — the expression of our feelings. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let's keep a minute of silence in honor of Jorge Constante Pereira and all the victims of earthquakes in Turkey and Syria. [[The House kept, standing, a minute's silence.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw your attention to the following: we shall have votes in the field of expertise which will need quorum throughout the period in which we are voting. We will generally vote on the Resolution Project No. 395 / XV / 1. a ( PS ) — Recommends that the Government create conditions for the development of the voluntary carbon market in Portugal. [[The vote was taken by votes to PS, PSD and PAN, votes against the PCP and BE and abstentions to CH, IL and L.]] This project is down to 11. the Commission. We shall proceed to the general vote of Bill No. 459 / XV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Approves the statutes of the Climate Action Council established by the Climate Bases Act ( Law No 98 / 2021 of 31 December ). [[Put to the vote, it was adopted with votes in favour of the PSD, CH, BE, PAN and L, votes against the CFP and abstentions from the PS and IL.]] This project is down to 11. the Commission. The general vote on draft resolution No 212 / XV / 1. a ( PAN ) — Defines the rules on the composition, organization, operation and status of the Council for Climate Action, in accordance with Article 12 ( 4 ). that of the Basics of Climate Law, approved by Law No 98 / 2021 of 31 December. [[Put to the vote, it was adopted with votes in favour of BE, PAN and L, votes against the PCP and abstentions from PS, PSD, CH and IL.]] This project is down to 11. the Commission. We turn to the general vote on draft resolution No 378 / XV / 1. a (BE) — Recommends to the Government the end of perverse subsidies and profits in the field of carbon trade. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, CH and IL were rejected, votes against BE, PAN and L, and abstention from the CFP.]] We will generally vote for Resolution No. 405 / XV / 1. a (PAN) — Recommends that the Government comply with the provisions of the Basic Climate Law, as approved by Law No 98 / 2021 of 31 December and carry out the procedures in this respect under its competence. [[When put to the vote, it was adopted with votes in favour of the PS, BE, PAN and L and with abstentions from PS, CH, IL and the CFP.]] This project is down to 11. the Commission. We generally vote on the Resolution Project No 406 / XV / 1. a ( PAN) — Recommends that the Government implement a voluntary carbon market and encourage the use of green bonds in Portugal. [[Put to the vote, it was adopted with votes in favour of CH, IL, PAN and L, votes against the PCP and BE and abstentions from PS and PSD.]] This project is down to 11. the Commission. We then voted on a request by the IL to the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Freedoms and Guarantees without a 60-day vote of Bill No 367 / XV / 1. a ( IL) — Amend the Civil Procedure Code, clarifying the revision of foreign administrative decisions. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We are going to vote on a request by the L, on a bass basis to the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Freedoms and Guarantees, without a 60-day vote of Bill No. 499 / XI / 1. a (L) — Admits the divorce and separation of property to non-resident foreign citizens married under Portuguese law and whose national law does not recognize this marriage. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We shall proceed to the general vote of Bill No. 464 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Revoking the decreed increase in toll rates and limiting its update to the value corresponding to 2022. [[The vote was taken with votes against the PS, the PS and the IL and votes against the CH, the PCP, the BE, the PAN and the L.]] We will generally vote on the Resolution Project No. 355 / XV / 1. a ( CH) — Recommends that the Government revise the terms of the Lusoponte PPP with a view to reducing toll rates. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, IL and PCP were rejected, votes against CH, BE and PAN and L abstention.]] We now have for the general vote draft resolution No 356 / XV / 1. a (CH) — Recommends that the Government freeze toll rates. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, PSD and IL were rejected, votes against the CH, BE and PAN and abstentions from the CFP and L.]] We will generally vote for Bill No. 502 / XV / 1. a (PAN) — By renegotiating public-private partnerships contracts in the road sector. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD and PCP were rejected, votes against IL, BE, PAN and L and the abstention from CH.]] We shall generally vote on the Bill No 53 / XV / 1. a ( GOV ) — The essential elements of the rate associated with the provision of postal services are implemented. [[The vote was taken by votes to PS and PAN, votes against IL and L and abstentions against PSD, CH, PCP and BE.]] This proposal is down to 6. the Commission. We proceed to the general vote on Bill No. 498 / XV / 1. a (L) — prohibits the sale of lottery and instant lottery tickets at stations and mail stations. [[Put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the PCP, the BE, the PAN and the L, the votes against the CH and the IL and the abstention from the PSD.]] This project goes down to 6. the Commission. The Bureau received the information that the PS will present a declaration of vote in writing.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-10.u299	That's it, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-10.u300	The general vote of Bill No 504 / XV / 1 is hereby followed. a ( PAN) — Clarifies the application of VAT exemption on importation to small consignments without a commercial character by amending Decree-Law No 31 / 89 of 25 January. [[Subject to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PS and the CH and votes against the PSD, the IL, the PCP, the BE, the PAN and the L.]] We will now vote, in general, on Bill No. 483 / XV / 1. a ( BE ) — Determines the transparency of salaries and proposes the establishment of reference salary leques as a mechanism for combating wage inequality. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, CH and IL and votes against the CFP, BE, PAN and L were rejected.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-10.u301	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-10.u302	Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-10.u303	Mr President, I would like to inform you that I and Mrs Maria Emília Apolinário will present a statement of vote on this draft and on that of the Free.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-10.u304	Be registered. We proceed to the general vote of Bill No. 375 / XV / 1. a (PAN) — provides for a scheme of incentives for balanced representation between women and men in the administration, supervision or management bodies of commercial companies. [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, the PS, the IL and the PCP, with votes against the NAP and the L and with abstentions from the CH and BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-10.u305	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-10.u306	Mrs Paula Santos, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-10.u307	Mr President, it is to announce the delivery of a declaration of vote on the last vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-10.u308	Be registered. We will generally vote for Bill No. 500 / XV / 1. a (L) — Establishs the creation of a conventional reference value for wage ratios in companies. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, CH and IL were rejected, votes against the PCP, BE, PAN, L and PS Diogo Cunha, Eduardo Alves, Eunice Pratas, Francisco Dinis, Joana Sá Pereira, Miguel Matos, Miguel dos Santos Rodrigues, Pedro Anastácio, Tiago Soares Monteiro and the abstention of PS MP Ivan Gonçalves.]] We shall proceed to the general vote on Bill No 505 / XV / 1. a (CH) — Increases transparency in job announcements and remuneration. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, PSD and IL were rejected, votes against the CH and abstentions against the CFP, BE, PAN and L.]] We consider for the vote, in general, Bill No. 414 / XV / 1. a (CH) — Determines the assessment of the cost/benefit and financial viability of all observatories, with a view to deciding on their maintenance or extinction. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, the CFP and the L were rejected, votes against the CH and abstentions against the PS, the IL, the BE and the NAP.]] We proceed to the general vote on Bill No. 497 / XV / 1. a ( BE ) — Tenth sixth amendment to the Statute of the Career of Children and Teachers of Basic and Secondary Education, Decree-Law No 139 -A / 90 of 28 April. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of the CH, the CFP, the BE, the NAP and the L and abstentions of the PSD and the IL.]] The general vote on draft resolution No 172 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Recommends the adoption of measures to enhance workers in education and public school. [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, in favour of the CFP, BE, NAP and L and with abstentions from the PSD, CH and IL.]] We now vote, in general, on Resolution Project No. 379 / XV / 1. a (CH) — Recommends that the Government undertake the salary updating of teachers and correspond to the high levels of demand that the teaching profession involves. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of CH, BE and PAN and abstentions from PS, IL, PCP and L.]] We will vote for draft resolution No 334 / XV / 1. a (L) — By the creation of a Statute of Higher Education Student for Afghan Refugees. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the PS, the IL, the CFP, the BE, the NAP and the L and the abstention from the CH.]] We shall now proceed to the vote on a request by the NAP, on a low basis to the Committee on Budget and Finance, without a 30-day vote of Bill No 44 / XV / 1. a (PAN) — Amends the Budget Framework Act to the provisions of the Climate Bases Act. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We then generally vote for Bill No. 439 / XV / 1. a (CH) — Amends the Investment Tax Code by revising the system of tax incentives for research and business development. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, PCP, BE, PAN and L were rejected and votes against CH and IL.]] We proceed to the general vote on Bill No. 249 / XV / 1. a ( PAN) — Approves a National Programme for Deeucalyptization. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, CH, IL and PCP were rejected and votes against BE, PAN and L.]] We will generally vote for Bill No. 169 / XV / 1. a ( L) — Extends parental rights under the Labour Code by strengthening the rights of children and strengthening gender equality in parenthood ( 23 ). the amendment to Law No 7 / 2009 of 12 February of the Labour Code ). [[When put to the vote, votes were cast against the PS and the PSD in favour of the CFP, BE, NAP and L and abstentions from the CH and IL.]] We generally vote for Bill No 170 / XV / 1. a ( L) — Sets 7 hours a day and 35 hours a week as the maximum of the normal working time in Portugal ( 23 ). the amendment to Law No 7 / 2009 of 12 February of the Labour Code ). [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, PSD and IL were rejected, votes against the CFP, BE, NAP and L and the abstention from the CH.]] The general vote on Bill No 174 / XV / 1. a (PAN) — foresees the system of menstrual pain defects, amending the Labour Code. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, CH and IL and votes against the CFP, BE, PAN and L were rejected.]] We will generally vote for Bill No. 176 / XV / 1. a (PAN) — Approves measures to strengthen parental protection, for the purpose of the sixth amendment to the Labour Code and the sixth amendment to the social protection system in parenthood within the framework of the social security system and the solidarity subsystem. [[When put to the vote, votes were cast against the PS and the PSD in favour of the CFP, BE, NAP and L and abstentions from the CH and IL.]] We now vote on the Resolution Project No 385 / XV / 1. a (CH) — By conducting a survey of the population of javalis in Portugal and agileization of the compensation of the damage caused by its presence. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and the PAN were rejected, votes against the PSD, CH and IL and abstentions against the CFP, BE and L.]] The vote on draft resolution No 411 / XV / 1. a ( CH) — Recommends that the Government urgently draw up a budget for the World Youth Day 2023. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, PSD and BE were rejected, votes against the CH and IL and abstentions against the CFP, the NAP and the L.]] With no objection, we shall jointly vote on the requests submitted by the PSD, the PCP and the BE for a vote by the plenary on proposals for amendments to the final text submitted by the Committee on Labour, Social Security and Inclusion on the Proposal for a Law No 15 / XV / 1. a ( GOV ) — Amends labour legislation under the Dignified Work Agenda and Draft Law No 175 / XV / 1. a (PAN) — Change the system of errors due to gestational mourning, by amending the Labour Code, approved by Law No 7 / 2009 of 12 February 2009, If there is no opposition, we proceed to the vote together of these three requirements. [[After the vote, they were adopted unanimously.]] Before we proceed to the specialist voting, parliamentary groups have the right to intervene for 2 minutes to defend what they understand and the only Members have one minute. The PCP, the Left Block, the Liberal Initiative, the Arrival, the PSD and the PS were registered. Start Mr Alfredo Maia of the PCP, who has the floor for 2 minutes.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-10.u309	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The process of changes to labour legislation maintains standards of the Labour Code which are deeply burdensome for workers and which urgently needs to be removed. However, there is no need to waste the opportunity to make sensitive progress that scientific, technical and technological advances can bear. It is in this sense that the CFP advocates a set of provisions, challenging, in particular, the Socialist Party to review its positions.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-10.u310	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-10.u311	From then on, the reduction to 7 hours per day and 35 hours per week of working time. This is a civil advancement with gains for the health and well-being of the worker, for the articulation of personal and family life with work, but also represents gains of productivity, thanks to the improvement of the performance of equipment and production processes.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-10.u312	Sure!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-10.u313	With regard to workers' rights, we pointed out the replacement of the value of compensation in the event of dismissal, making it correspond again to one month's remuneration and diucturities for each year or fraction of seniority. Even if no compensation does indeed justice or replaces the regular wage, it is sought to guarantee the worker a value that best shares it in the face of the loss of income of his work. On the other hand, the provisions relating to the presumption of acceptance of dismissal are repealed because they unduly restrict the use of courts to challenge the decision. The regime for the expiry and survival of collective labour regulation instruments is also repealed, and they remain in force until they are replaced by others, negotiated between the parties. Mrs. Members, today we have the opportunity to remove bad standards for workers from the Labour Code, with the approval of the CFP proposals. And the question we ask is: what position does the Socialist Party take, but also the PSD, the Liberal Initiative and the Arrival? [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-10.u314	To intervene, Mr José Soeiro, of the Left Block, now has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-10.u315	Mr President: Next Monday, the employers' confederations will call on Belém to express their indignation at some of the measures included in the proposal we are voting on today. What moves them against a reform that ultimately leaves fundamental imbalances in working relations unaffected? In essence, its discomfort results from the proposals we are advocating today: the payment of telework costs; the limitation of outsourcing as a scheme to escape the rules limiting redundancies; the replacement of pre-troic value in compensation when the end of the term contract; the recognition of labor rights of workers on digital platforms, which — see the inflamm! — it is intended, with this proposal, to have in the contract of work the prohibition of the extortion of workers at the end of the contract by means of the unspeakable declaration of abdication of their rights, the extinction of their credits, wages or subsidies which are lacking. The indignation of employers'confederations is shared by the PSD. « Workers will be forced to go to the courts to negotiate compensation! » — says Luís Montenegro about the Block's proposal on labour credits. « This will increase the work conflict! """""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""" The argumentation, frankly, is pathetic.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-10.u316	Less! [[Pathetic?Oh, my God!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-10.u317	There is a simple way to avoid the so-called "conflictity" in the courts, there is a good remedy for it: employers pay what the law requires them to pay, rather than imposing the early resignation of the worker to his rights or to dispute them in court! Simple, isn't it?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-10.u318	You don't really learn!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-10.u319	And it is because we speak of simple things that the employer pilgrimage next Monday is well the portrait of an economic power that he considers to occupy, by force and influence, the place of democratic choice. It is the portrait of a class of entrepreneurs used to submit political power and to whom the Government of the Socialist Party offered a tax stamp wrapped in the colourful role of the income agreement. « You cannot parliamentaryise these discussions », Luís Montenegro said. What we are doing today on these and other matters is, indeed, bringing to Parliament democratic choices on behalf of those who work.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-10.u320	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-10.u321	These rules which the Left Block has approved in the specialty must now be approved, because they are fair, because they are relevant, because they are instruments of justice. They're not enough, of course they're not enough. Of course they are not enough to reverse the structural framework of imbalances in labour relations in Portugal. The current reform is, in fact, critical of everything — and it is very much — which leaves unaffected. For example, in shiftwork, or in the cut-off of holiday days, or in the emblematic and humiliating rule that establishes that a worker who receives dismissal compensation shall be prevented from contesting the licitude of such dismissal.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-10.u322	Just talk to me for a second.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-10.u323	All the things in which PSD and PS joined together to prevent progress. But we value the proposals why you beat us, because they bring progress.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-10.u324	Mr President, your time is long gone.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-10.u325	I will finish, Mr. President. We have fought for them and do not give up on behalf of these measures a structural transformation of labour relations and the annulment of a fundamental imbalance that this reform does not revert. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-10.u326	You always have very serene speeches, but let me tell you that the adjective you used to qualify a colleague's argument was a bit excessive.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-10.u327	Be registered, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-10.u328	Mr Rui Rocha has the floor to speak on behalf of the Liberal Initiative Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-10.u329	Mr President: I will take this opportunity to make a comprehensive assessment of the work done on the Dignified Work Agenda and of the proposals that are being brought today in terms of advocacy, in particular by the Left Block and the CFP. I would like to recall that these same political forces brought to Portugal an ideological vision that condemned the association contracts in education, with clear loss of families, with clear loss of students and ending what could have been a mechanism and an appropriate tool for social mobility. The association contracts had this implicit: everyone could attend an educational institution and there was no selection that was socially directed. They're done with it. They ended this in several locations in the country, in an act of complicity between the PS, the PCP and the Left Block.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-10.u330	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-10.u331	Also in health, the same ideological vision saw the end of public-private partnerships. If other examples did not exist, the Beatriz Angelo Hospital, with this coalition of ideological interests between the PS, the PCP and the Left Block, brought a solution that harms the users, harms the health of Portuguese. It is time to take responsibility for these solutions. Also in the lease, a totally ideological view will have disastrous consequences on the market, especially for people who seek solutions and who do not find them because the rigidity of the market so says. Also there PCP, Left Block and PS have an ideological view of society and solutions. In the labour market, we are facing exactly the same issue. Therefore, what is intended to be done with the Dignified Work Agenda and with these additional proposals is to rigidise the market, to make it work less efficiently. This will have the same effect that it had on the lease, that it had on education and that it had on health: damage to Portuguese, less suitable solutions. What you want to do in terms of law, which by nature is a general solution, should be left to collective bargaining. We will vote against all proposals that bring even more harm to the Portuguese under the cover of the signage of virtue. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-10.u332	Mr Inês de Sousa Real has now the floor of the PAN. You have one minute, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-10.u333	Mr President, I begin by saying that the NAP does not have the right to counsel, and therefore, of course, it cannot advocate the rules it has seen being rejected in the context of the discussion of the dignified work agenda. However, since some issues relating to women's rights, such as menstrual leave or parental leave, are on the way, in order to promote greater equality, we know that work does not run out on this dignified work agenda, quite the contrary. Today we have also rejected a proposal on the balanced representation of men and women to ensure greater representation and equality in the management and management boards of companies. However, there is a path that has been made and that we cannot but stand out. When, a few months ago, we were able to introduce a change of greater justice, which was the right to parental mourning from 5 to 20 days, the path had left the gestational mourning, a mourning that, we know, is often done in processes of enormous suffering for women who lose their unborn children, and for this same reason it was essential to introduce into legislation. The NAP has generally seen its proposal adopted. Unfortunately, we have not been able to see the number of days we had proposed — the 20 days — approved, but we have spent at least three days in this field. This is a step to dignify an absolutely fundamental right, and we therefore welcome the fact that the House is finally taking this step and recognizing these women.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-10.u334	Mr Rui Tavares has the floor for an intervention on behalf of the Free House. It has one minute, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-10.u335	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we have heard here today about ideology as if it were a bad thing. The fact that we have ideology is something that unites us all, as well as the fact that we are all different and that we are elected by them. Let me tell you what the ideology of the Free is. The ideology of the Free is that of the freedom of those who have less freedom, especially in the workplace — the central factor of our life, where we spend so many hours of our day. Now, our ideology tells us that being for more freedom is to be on the side of those who have less freedom at their place of work, either by the hours of work to which they are subject or by the little payment they have, by the limited possibility of progress they have. What we do here—and, yes, it is ideology—is to fight for these people to have more freedom. In this dignified work agenda, there are some advances in the face of a technological reality that is worsening, every day, the lives of workers. The votes that we shall have here on some of the rules that have been brought before us and that the Free Party, like the NAP, does not have the right to advocate, are decisive in determining our position on this dignified work agenda. Because work is central in our societies and because the task of the lawmaker is to be on the side of the weakest, the Free is proud to be on the side of a ideology of freedom for the workers and to be with it as a consequence.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-10.u336	in two years, we'll be here to analyze this!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-10.u337	To speak on behalf of the Arrival, Mr André Ventura has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-10.u338	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, during this debate of the Dignified Work Agenda, we must conclude that this was the biggest smoking curtain the PS has ever been able to launch. Because he could not recover the time of service from teachers, police, health professionals and so many others who lost income, such as workers from small and medium-sized enterprises, launched the Dignified Work Agenda. [[Risos from PS member Eurico Brilliant Dias.]] Today we know that it is the biggest curtain of smoke created to prevent the errors that the Socialist Party itself, at the time of the troika, from being corrected.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-10.u339	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-10.u340	As we reached this point, it was important for workers and entrepreneurs to realize that this legislation is neither good nor bad. In many cases, it is like the Improving, not doing good or bad, but in many other cases it is bad for entrepreneurs and it is bad for workers. Access to outsourcing is limited to temporary work enterprises, without any guarantee to other companies, which will be harmed by this. The Constitution also concerns freedom of economic initiative, which, of course, the Constitutional Court will not fail to consider. They want to protect workers, but they will harm workers and they will harm companies. In addition, it is symptomatic that the PS has wanted to approve with the extreme left an Agenda for Worthy Work, with changes to the labour code, to the wake of the social partners.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-10.u341	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-10.u342	It is the greatest sign and symptom that this change to legislation is not only against companies, it is not only against entrepreneurs, it is against workers themselves and against professional bodies. But that's not why it came to an end. And when they said 'good, but here are very positive elements like telework' — and there are, in some cases, neither were it consequential nor courageous. They have created a more favourable regime for telework, but have not yet defined the tax percentage that companies will have to deduct the costs of telework. When asked about this, with the question: 'Then we will set a limit, a ceiling, for a government office that says how much these companies will be able to tax on telework', the PS's response was that there is no deadline for that door. Now, as all of us in this House know the PS and this government so well, we know that these companies will probably never be able to deduct these costs from telework.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-10.u343	Shame!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-10.u344	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, this is bad legislation for workers and bad legislation for entrepreneurs.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-10.u345	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-10.u346	It emphasizes the rigidity of the market, but does not even give more rights and real value to workers.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-10.u347	Sir, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-10.u348	I will finish, Mr. President. This legislation, together with everything, has serious constitutional defects. Our appeal to the President of the Republic remains here, so that he does not allow it to be promulgated before the Constitutional Court. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-10.u349	To speak on behalf of the PS Parliamentary Group, Mr Fernando José has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-10.u350	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: After a wide discussion around the Green Paper on the Future of Work and on the Government's proposals to amend labour legislation on the Dignified Work Agenda, we have arrived here. We have made an in-depth discussion and participated in the field of expertise, in which the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group has not closed itself, discussing, negotiating and seeking consensus on important changes to labour law, which do not take a step back in the achievements achieved and reflect the densification of the path followed since 2015, a path of wage valorization, of combating job precariousness and of dynamizing collective bargaining. It affirms the left to the left of the PS that these changes are insufficient and that the Agenda deserves a negative note. It affirms the right that this is not the time, that it needs weighting and that in some cases the changes are excessive. But what they cannot and cannot hide is that these amendments that we are voting on today do not take back the rights of workers, but rather strengthen those rights. This is therefore the time to act, improving and further balancing labour relations. This is the case when we densify the regime applicable to domestic workers and workers with the status of informal caregivers and when we extend the framework of parental rights. This is also the case when, through Article 460. , we extend trade union rights to all companies, regardless of the absence of trade union workers. This is also the case when we extend to outsourcing workers the same conditions as the employees of the company covered by collective bargaining, or when the abuse is combated, within the framework of temporary work, and thousands of workers are protected from digital platforms. Now, do you deserve these negative notes changes? We understand you don't. in this same path of positive measures, it is also important to highlight the new framework of arbitration and the regime of expiry, as well as the various measures to simplify the lives of workers, such as the justification for lack of disease, through the digital service of the National Health Service.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-10.u351	Mr. Deputies, you have to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-10.u352	I conclude now, Mr President. We therefore value what is being poured out in the Dignified Work Agenda, giving continuity to the achievements achieved and which will have a direct and positive impact on the lives of workers. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-10.u353	To speak on behalf of the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mrs Clara Marques Mendes has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-10.u354	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The PSD has again asked for the full vote on certain rules of the dignified work agenda. Do so, to give the Socialist Party a new opportunity to review their positions and come to meet the PSD. Moreover, as you did this week in the Commission, in which you initially rejected a proposal to allow parents with children with cancer diseases to work in telework, and fortunately the Socialist Party changed its sense of vote and approved the PSD proposal. It is in this sense and with this spirit that we are here today. For the Socialist Party to review its positions and go to meet the concerns that were signalled by the PSD. For example, with regard to the experimental period, which we voted against; with regard to the prohibition of the possibility of workers and employers, they can make an agreement at the stage of termination of the contract with regard to work credits. On the other hand, it is good to explain what has happened. It is that the Socialist Party initially prevented up to an agreement made in court, i.e., it was impossible for a worker and an employer to make an agreement in court. But, as a result of the PSD attention call, he went back and improved. It is not what should be and therefore we advocate the PSD proposal here because we believe it can be in court, but it should also be allowed to do so without being in court, provided the worker is properly informed and there is a notary recognition of its signature. [[PSD applause.]] That's how workers are protected, that's how employers are protected, that's how you fight job insecurity, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-10.u355	Yeah, yeah! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-10.u356	It's not possible! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-10.u357	So these are some of the many examples that the PSD here advocates and challenges the Socialist Party to meet. By the way, Mr Deputy, to conclude, as the informal caregivers have said, we also challenge him to vote on the PSD proposal, which says that informal caregivers should be entitled to work in telework for as long as they have the status of caregiver and not just for four years. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-10.u358	At the end of the intervention period, we shall proceed to the speciality vote. We begin with the special vote on the proposal submitted by the CFP to replace Article 3. the Labour Code, as set out in Article 2. o Law No 15 / XV / 1. a ( GOV ). [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, CH and IL were rejected and votes against the CFP, BE, PAN and L.]] It was as follows: « Article 3. o (... ) 1. (d) the principle of good faith. 2. Higher sources of law always prevail over lower sources of law, except in the part where they establish more favourable treatment for the worker. 3. Legal rules on labour regulations may be removed by a collective working regulation instrument where the latter sets out conditions that are more favourable to the worker, except when they result in the opposite. 4. Legal rules on labour regulations may only be removed by individual employment contracts when they establish conditions that are more favourable to the worker, if they do not result in the opposite. 5. Legal regulations governing employment contracts may not be removed by working conditions. 6. The rules of collective labour regulation instruments may only be removed by contract of employment when it establishes conditions that are more favourable to the worker. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-10.u359	We proceed to the special vote on the proposal submitted by the PSD to delete Article 106 ( 3 ). the Labour Code, as set out in Article 2. the final text of that bill. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, CH, BE and PAN and votes against PSD, IL, PCP and L were rejected.]] The special vote on the proposal submitted by the PSD shall follow the elimination of Article 111 ( 4 ). the Labour Code, as set out in Article 2. the final text of the bill. [[When put to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PS, the CH, the PCP, the BE, the PAN and the L and votes against the PSD and the IL.]] We proceed with the special vote on the proposal submitted by the PSD on the elimination of Article 112(5) and (6). that of the Labour Code, contained in the final text of the bill. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, the BE and the PAN were rejected, votes against the PS, the IL and the CFP, and abstentions against the CH and the L.]] We shall vote in particular on the proposal for an amendment tabled by the PSD amending Article 166 ( 5 ). o -A of the Labour Code, as set out in Article 2. the final text of the bill. [[When put to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PS and votes against the PS, the CH, the IL, the PCP, the BE, the PAN and the L.]] It was as follows: « Article 166. o -The Right to Telework 1 - (...) 2 - (...) 3 - (...) (a) (...) (b) (...) 4 - (...) 5 - You are also entitled to pursue the activity under Telework the worker to whom the status of non-principal informal caregiver has been recognised, through proof of the latter, and until his or her termination, in accordance with applicable legislation, when it is compatible with the activity performed and the employer has resources and means to do so. 6 - (...) 7 - (...) 8 - (...) »
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-10.u360	As a result of the advocacy presented by BE, we now vote in the speciality of Article 168 (3) and (4). the Labour Code, as set out in Article 2. the final text of the bill. [[Subject to the vote, votes in favour of PS, PSD, CH, PCP, BE, PAN and L and votes against IL were adopted.]] We shall then vote on the proposal submitted by the CFP to amend Article 203 ( 1 ) and ( 4 ). the Labour Code. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, PSD and IL were rejected, votes against the CFP, BE, NAP and L and the abstention from the CH.]] It was as follows: « Article 203. o (... ) 1. The normal working period may not exceed seven hours a day and thirty-five hours a week. 2. (...). 3. (...). 4. The maximum limits of the normal working period may be reduced by a collective working regulation instrument and therefore cannot result in a reduction in the remuneration of workers or any adverse change in working conditions. 5. (...). Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-10.u361	We proceed with the vote on the proposal by the PSD amending Article 337 ( 3 ). the Labour Code, as set out in Article 2. the final text of the bill. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, the CFP, the BE, the NAP and the L were rejected, votes against the PS and the IL and the abstention from the CH.]] It was as follows: « Article 337. the prescription, proof of credit and remission 1 - (...) 2 - (...) 3 - The worker's claims referred to in paragraph 1 shall not be liable to be extinguished by abdicative remission unless the worker expressly declares the waiver of them both in accordance with the employer whose signatures are subject to a notice of formal recognition or in court proceedings. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-10.u362	We have now, as a result of a lawyer presented by BE, the vote on Article 337 ( 3 ) in the speciality. the Labour Code, as set out in Article 2. that of the final text. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the CH, the PCP, the BE, the PAN and the L and votes against the PSD and the IL.]] We voted in the specialty as a result of a lawyer presented by BE, Article 344 ( 2 ). the Labour Code, as set out in Article 2. that of the final text. [[Put to the vote, it was adopted with votes in favour of PS, CH, BE, PAN and L, votes against the PSD and IL and abstention from the CFP.]] The special vote on the proposal for an amendment to the CFP, which amends Article 366 ( 1 ), follows. the Labour Code. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD and IL were rejected and votes against CH, PCP, BE, PAN and L.]] It was as follows: « Article 366. o (... ) 1. In the event of collective dismissal, the worker shall be entitled to compensation for one month of remuneration and diucturities for each year or fraction of seniority. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-10.u363	We shall proceed to the special vote on the proposal for an amendment to the CFP, repealing Article 366 ( 2 ), ( 4 ), ( 5 ) and ( 6 ). the Labour Code. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD and IL were rejected and votes against CH, PCP, BE, PAN and L.]] It was as follows: « Article 366. o (...) 2. Removed. 3. (...). 4. Removed. 5. Removed. 6. Removed. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-10.u364	We voted in particular on the proposal to amend the CFP by adding a new paragraph 7 to Article 366. the Labour Code. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, CH and IL were rejected and votes against the CFP, BE, PAN and L.]] It was as follows: « Article 366. o (... ) 7. Compensation may not be less than three months of remuneration and diucturities. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-10.u365	The special vote on the proposal for an amendment to the CFP, as amended by Article 366 ( 7 ) is hereby followed. the Labour Code. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD and IL were rejected and votes against CH, PCP, BE, PAN and L.]] It was as follows: « Article 366. o (... ) 8. The infringement of this Article constitutes a very serious counter-ordination. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-10.u366	We now vote in the specialty as a result of a lawyer presented by BE, Article 424 ( 1 j ). the Labour Code, as set out in Article 2. that of the final text. [[Put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the CH, the BE, the PAN and the L, votes against the IL and abstentions of the PSD and the CFP.]] The special vote on the proposal for an amendment to the CFP is hereby followed, replacing Article 500. the Labour Code, as set out in Article 2. o Law No 5 / XV / 1. a ( GOV ). [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, the CH and the IL were rejected, votes against the CFP, the BE, the NAP and the L and the abstention from the PSD.]] It was as follows: « Article 500. o (... ) 1. Any party may denounce the collective convention with effect at the end of each period of validity, by means of communication addressed to the other party, accompanied by its negotiating proposal. 2. The collective convention remains in force until it is replaced by another collective working regulation instrument. 3. Removed. 4. Removed. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-10.u367	We now vote in favour of the proposal to amend the CFP, replacing Article 502. the Labour Code. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, CH and IL were rejected and votes against the CFP, BE, PAN and L.]] It was as follows: « Article 502. o (...) 1. The collective convention may only cease: (b) the entry into force of a collective convention replacing it. 2. Removed. 3. Removed. 4. The rules concerning the deposit and publication of a collective convention apply to the revocation. 5. The revocation shall not affect the rights arising out of the Convention and shall continue to apply to individual employment contracts previously concluded and to their renewals. 6. Removed. 7. Removed. 8. Removed. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-10.u368	We shall proceed to the special vote on the proposal for an amendment to the PSD, the abolition of Article 106. o -A of the General Tax Offences Regime, as set out in Article 13. that of the final text. [[When put to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PS, the CH, the PCP, the BE, the PAN and the L and votes against the PSD and the IL.]] The special vote on the proposal for an amendment to the PSD is followed, on the one hand, by the abolition of Article 12. o -A of the Labour Code, as set out in Article 14. that of the final text. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, BE, PAN and L were rejected, votes against the PS, IL and the PCP and the abstention from the CH.]] We voted in the specialty for the Left Block on Article 12 ( 9 ) and ( 12 ). o -A of the Labour Code, as set out in Article 14. that of the final text. [[Votes against the PS and IL and abstentions from the CH and the CFP were adopted with votes in favour of the PS, the BE, the NAP and the L.]] We also vote on the proposal to amend the PSD, to eliminate Article 338. o -A of the Labour Code, as set out in Article 14. that of the final text. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, the CFP, the BE, the NAP and the L were rejected, votes against the PS and the IL and the abstention from the CH.]] We shall now proceed to the vote on the left-wing Block on Article 338. o -A of the Labour Code, as set out in Article 14. that of the final text. [[Subject to the vote, the votes against the PS, the CFP, the BE, the NAP and the L, and the abstention from the CH were adopted.]] We voted on the proposal for an amendment to the Left Block, as amended by Article 32. the, paragraph 3 of the final text. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the PCP, the BE, the PAN and the L, the votes against the PSD and the IL and the abstention from the CH.]] It is as follows: « Article 32. the Transitional Provisions 1. (...). 2. (...). 3. In the context of amendments and additions to the Labour Code, approved by Law No 7 / 2009 of 12 February 2009 in its current draft concerning work through a digital platform, the Labour Conditions Authority shall develop, in the first year of the application of this Act, an extraordinary and specific campaign to monitor this sector, on which a report to be submitted to the Assembly of the Republic is drawn up. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-10.u369	The special vote on the proposal for an amendment to Article 31 ( a ) of the CFP is hereby followed. o Law No 15 / XV / 1. a ( GOV ) ( Article 33. the final text ). [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, PS, CH and IL were rejected, votes against the CFP, the NAP and the L and the abstention from BE.]] It was as follows: « Article 31. ( a) Articles 5 are repealed. o, 10. o, 142. o, 204. o, 206. o, 207. o, 208. o, 208. o-B, 497. o, 500. o -A, 501. is 513. the Labour Code, approved by Law No 7 / 2009 of 12 February 2009 in its current wording ; (b) (...) ; (c) (...) ( d) (...). Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-10.u370	We now vote in favour of the proposal for an amendment to Article 37 ( 1 ) to the PSD. that of the final text. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, the CFP, the BE and the NAP were rejected, votes against the PS and the IL and abstentions against the CH and the L.]] It was as follows: « Article 37. Entry into force 1 — This diploma shall enter into force 90 days after its publication. (...). Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-10.u371	We shall now vote in a global final vote, the final text submitted by the Committee on Labour, Social Security and Inclusion on the Proposal for a Law No 15 / XV / 1. a ( GOV ) — Amends labour legislation under the Dignified Work Agenda; and Draft Law No 175 / XV / 1. a ( PAN) — Change the system of errors due to gestational mourning by amending the Labour Code approved by Law No 7 / 2009 of 12 February 2009. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, votes against the IL, the PCP and the BE, and abstentions against the PSD, the CH, the PAN and the L.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-10.u372	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-10.u373	To what effect, Mrs. Deputy?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-10.u374	Mr President, it is to announce that the PSD will make an oral vote. Mr Nuno Carvalho will do it.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-10.u375	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. I see that Mr Bruno Dias also asks for the floor. To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-10.u376	Mr President, it is in order to state that the CFP also intends to make an oral vote, including Mr Alfredo Maia.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-10.u377	All right. The explanations of vote shall be made at the end of the vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-10.u378	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-10.u379	To what effect, Mrs. Deputy?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-10.u380	It is to inform the Bureau that I shall make a written statement of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-10.u381	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. Mr Rui Tavares asks for the floor. Is it for the same purpose?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-10.u382	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-10.u383	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Mr. Pedro Filipe Soares also asks for the floor. To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-10.u384	It is to announce the delivery of a written declaration of vote on this matter.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-10.u385	Be registered, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-10.u386	Mr President, may I take the floor?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-10.u387	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-10.u388	Mr President, I would like to convey a regret that, with regard to the vote on the proposal for an amendment to the PSD, I regret deleting Article 106 ( 3 ). The purpose of voting for the Free is against. I shall then send this information to the Bureau in writing.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-10.u389	All right. It's registered.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-10.u390	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-10.u391	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-10.u392	Mr President, it is also to inform the Bureau that we are going to make a written statement of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-10.u393	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. We now have five demands to vote. I wonder if we can vote on all the demands together. With nothing to oppose, we then jointly vote on the request made by the Committee on Budgets and Finance to request the extension of the deadline for review in general for more than 30 days of Bill No. 479 / XV / 1. a ( PS ) — adopts standards for the protection of the consumer of financial services as well as the requirements submitted by the NAP to request the extension of the deadline for review in general in the Committee on Budget and Finance for a further 30 days of Law Projects No 365 / XV / 1. a ( PAN) — Extension from 3 to 5 years the period of temporary exemption from IMI for the acquisition of real estate for permanent housing, amending the Statute of Tax Benefits, 424 / XV / 1. a ( PAN) — It creates incentives for business investment in environmental sustainability by amending the Fiscal Code for Investment and Decree-Law No 8 / 2007 of 17 January, 465 / XV / 1. a ( PAN) — Ends the collection of abusive banking commissions to all credit holders by making the first amendment to Law No 57 / 2020 of 28 August and 466 / XV / 1. a ( PAN) — Ends the limits of transfers by homebanking and payment applications operated by third parties under bank minimum service accounts by amending Decree-Law No 27 - C / 2000 of 10 March. [[After the vote, they were adopted unanimously.]] We should appreciate the opinions of the Committee on Transparency and the Statute of Members. I ask Mrs Maria da Luz Rosinha to read.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-10.u394	Mr. President and Mr. Members, the request of the Court of Justice of the Comarca de Lisboa, Local Court of Lisbon — Judge 18, Case No 21933 / 21.5T8LSB, the Committee on Transparency and the Statute of Deputies decided to issue an opinion to authorize Mrs Isabel Alves Moreira ( PS ) to present a statement as a witness within the framework of those cars.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-10.u395	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the opinion is under consideration. [[Pause.]] If there are no requests for a word, we shall vote for it. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We're going to appreciate another second opinion. To read it, Mrs. Maria da Luz Rosinha has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-10.u396	Mr. President and Mr. Members, the request of the Court of Justice of the Comarca do Porto, Juiz de Instruction Criminal do Porto — Judge 3, Inquiry No 1536 / 22.8KRPRT, the Committee on Transparency and the Statute of Deputies decided to issue an opinion to authorize the lifting of parliamentary immunity of Mr Joaquim Pinto Moreira ( PSD ) within the framework of those cars.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-10.u397	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the opinion is under consideration. [[Pause.]] If there are no requests for a word, we shall vote for it. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Let us then listen to the explanations of vote which will be presented. The Members are registered. Member Nuno Carvalho, PSD, and Alfredo Maia, PCP. Mr Nuno Carvalho of the PSD has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-10.u398	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : I would like to highlight here the importance that the Socialist Party attaches to the PSD proposals and the position that the PSD expressed on the concern that this proposal, in practice, does not apply. And it was important, even, Mr. Eurico Brillante Dias to hear this, but he decided to go out and talk about other things that don't matter to the country. [[PSD applause.]] [[PS protests.]] What matters to the country is to realize clearly that this proposal does not attack precariousness. Attack precariousness, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Socialist Party, it was to make the workers gain more, to make the workers have more security at work and to transfer their jobs to other companies, where they had more opportunities. To attack the precariousness was to make the companies that are small today could be bigger and pay better wages. This labour law, the amendment of the law alone, does not mean that the numbers of the economy will change.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-10.u399	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-10.u400	And the numbers of the Portuguese economy are what actually enables workers to gain more, and that is what allows them to attack precariousness. So today we have a law that not only had this problem, but also had a very serious dimension, which is to think that an absolute majority can overcome the tripartite dialogue of social dialogue. [[PSD applause.]] The tripartite dialogue of social dialogue serves precisely to avoid conflicts, serves to alleviate tensions. There is no absolute majority of any party — much less that of the Socialist Party — that can overcome this dialogue. And what we saw here was the Socialist Party ignoring the dialogue of social dialogue, ignoring dialogue in Parliament...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-10.u401	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-10.u402	...and seeking to overcome your will, in an objective which is clearly and clearly not met. This law is in danger of being buried, with regard to the fight against precariousness, if our economy does not follow. It will be something very similar to what we have seen in times past, with laws announced in this Parliament, that would solve the problem of housing and that they did not solve anything at all. This law, by itself, does not attack that problem. Perhaps, let's hear it as propaganda, very quickly, and in a short time, let's see that it was another socialist dream that only meant a nightmare for the Portuguese. This law, by itself, doesn't solve. This is not a law that allows the economy to change administratively. in this, this country does not work, and you clearly do not deceive Portuguese workers or Portuguese entrepreneurs. We will be careful that you actually do your work. And it is also in the economy that they should do so. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-10.u403	You now have the floor for a statement of vote by Mr Alfredo Maia of the CFP Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-10.u404	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Amendments to the Labour Code and to other diplomas which the majority of Parliament has just approved are far from deserving the support of the CFP, justifying, on the contrary, its rejection, except of course, with regard to the rules which the CFP has signed or voted in favour. In fact, the final outcome of the work has not achieved by far the purpose of a genuine work agenda, since it not only maintains the serious standards of the Labour Code as it adds new negative elements, but also has prevented the restitution of rights to workers and has inevitably paved the way for new rights.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-10.u405	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-10.u406	The Code maintains the clemency of the complaint, expiry and survival of collective labour regulation instruments, conditioning trade unions; maintains the rule regarding the presumption of acceptance of dismissal, attack of the rule of law and recourse to courts; does not re-appropriate compensation for additional work and dismissal; and does not re-appropriate the principle of more favourable treatment for workers, among other aspects. The majority remained refractory to proposals for new and necessary advances, such as reducing working hours, restrictions on continuous work, shift work and night work, and the use of end-term recruitment. The process which today ends—in fact, subject to the pressure of time limits imposed outside Parliament, which has made it very difficult to discuss many proposals in depth, and compensating the intransigence of the PS, supported by the PSD, not in defence of workers, but at the service of the interests of the employer and at the expense of workers—is a missed opportunity to restore to the labour laws the role of defence of the weakest in the labour relationship and return to the workers confidence and security in the Labour Code and in other diplomas. Nevertheless, the CFP will continue to be struck by the proposals it has put forward and by the principles it has fought for, because it does not give up serving those who trust it, the workers. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-10.u407	We are thus at the end of our work. The next plenary meeting will be on Wednesday, with the agenda set by the CFP, of which there is only one point, the assessment of Bill No. 452 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Extraordinary housing protection regime in the face of increased housing credit charges. The sitting is thus closed. Good weekend to all. [[It was 13 hours and 53 minutes.]]
