ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-01.u1	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we have quorum and all parliamentary groups are represented, so we can start our work. [[It was 15 hours and 8 minutes.]] I'm asking the ladies. Authorities please open the galleries to the public. Thank you very much. I call on the Secretary of Bureau Palmira Maciel to read the file.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-01.u2	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, I begin by informing the House about the resumed term of office of Mr Paulo Mota Pinto ( PSD ), elected by the electoral circle of Leiria, leaving office Mr João Barreiras Duarte ( PSD ), with effect from 25 February 2023. I note that they have entered the Bureau, and have been admitted by Mr President, draft resolutions Nos 502 / XV / 1. a ( PAN ), which falls to 11. the Commission, 503 / XV / 1. a ( PAN ), which falls to 11. the Commission, 504 / XV / 1. a ( CH ), which drops to 1. the Commission, 505 / XV / 1. a ( PAN ), which drops to 1. the Commission, 506 / XV / 1. a ( IL ), which falls to 13. the Commission, 507 / XV / 1. a ( IL ), which falls to 13. the Commission, 508 / XV / 1. a ( PAN ), which falls to 9. the Commission, 509 / XV / 1. a ( BE ), which falls to 3. the Commission, and 510 / XV / 1. a ( PSD ), which falls to 10. the Commission. Law No. 591 / XV / 1. a ( CH ), which falls to 9. the Commission, 593 / XV / 1. a ( CH ), which falls to 13. the Commission, in connection with 8. the Commission, 594 / XV / 1. a ( IL ), which falls to 13. the Commission, in connection with 7. the Commission, 595 / XV / 1. a ( IL ), which falls to 13. the Commission, in connection with 9. the Commission, 596 / XV / 1. a ( IL ), which falls to 13. the Commission, in connection with 9. the Commission, 598 / XV / 1. a ( IL ), which falls to 13. the Commission, 600 / XV / 1. a ( CH ), which drops to 1. the Commission, and 601 / XV / 1. a ( CH) as well as Law Proposal No 64 / XV / 1. a ( GOV ), which falls to 5. the Commission, in connection with 1. the Commission. That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-01.u3	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we are going to start our agenda today, the first of which is political declarations. For a political declaration on behalf of the Socialist Party, Mrs Maria Begonha has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-01.u4	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Before 2015, before the governments of the Socialist Party, there was no vision in Portugal that placed the right to housing for all as a national aspiration and design.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-01.u5	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-01.u6	We will lead the political and social agenda when we create the Housing Basics Act or the New Habitat Policy Generation, which gave birth to Program 1. the law and the great reform in the process of increasing our public park and now is the time, we all recognize, to accelerate the fulfilment of the right to housing with new answers and to act urgently in the face of a housing crisis that has been worsening. The new responses and measures, now in wide-ranging debate throughout society, can be improved and the last word will be in Parliament because the measures have very clear and coherent objectives with the society project we defend. Without the ideological prejudice of the right with the intervention of the State in housing, because that is, yes, radical; without the retreat from returning to the past of what has already failed to deliver everything to the market, because that, yes, is irresponsible; but with balance and sense of social justice and above all responding to the most pressing problems, such as the lack of supply of houses, the difficulty of access to housing with the escalation of prices, support to families and the fight against speculation. The measures currently in public consultation propose to the country an offer shock that responds to the withdrawal of construction, mobilizes both cooperatives and any private promoter to invest in rehabilitation for affordable lease, offers greater confidence and incentives to private investment and owners — the only magic formula that the right has always defended to solve the problem of housing — but also guaranteed more stability and protection for tenants. [[Congrats from PS Members.]] The State will rent and buy to the private at the market price to sub-render affordable values to families, giving the annual value of income, eliminating any risk to the landlord and exempting the owner entirely from more value in the case of purchase and placing more available houses at affordable prices. We have often heard the PSD talk about the problem of not being able to clear tenants in Portugal, instead of the social concern with whom it is cleared, and here is a balanced model that protects both, that is, in which the State ensures the failure to comply with the rent of the tenant, but does not leave those who need no solution and no social responses, because that is, yes, a red line for the PS. [[P.S.'s applause.]] If there is greater trust for landlords and landlords, the truth is that at the head of these measures is the will and the need to respond to the housing crisis that affects families with both low and medium incomes and to protect those who rent and buy home. That is why protecting families with new income and credit support, immediately in a time of inflation crisis, is a priority, which is why there will be a fair limit for raising income to protect families in new contracts, which is why the criticism that young people do not have answers to these measures is unfounded — many young people will benefit from the measures relating to support for renting up to 200 € or the provision of more houses with affordable incomes. More urgent housing and social responses are already promoting social and economic cohesion, and that is what requires us the time we live, without delay or retreat. What is not cohesion, it is not balance, in a country and cities like ours in which we lack housing, is to have so many homes without people and so many people without the house they need or expel from their cities. That is why the measure of forced lease for devolved houses is fair and we defend it without fear of contradiction. Restoring the facts and serenity in the political debate, the measure is simple: the owners who voluntarily or not will see their homes rehabilitated and valued, will receive a fair value for their lease and are not expropriated from their property at any time, but the supposed right to have empty, returned houses, without use, without function or purpose, does not overlap with the social function of the property or the public interest in responding to the housing crisis. [[P.S.'s applause.]] In the difficult moment that we cross, radical and ideologically motivated, it is even those who do not implement all the mechanisms and instruments, already available in the law, to ensure the right to housing of more families. We heard from the PSD leader the accusation of communism. The CFP certainly does not need my defense here, but being a communist is neither insult nor accusation since the time of fascism. [[Ah...!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-01.u7	Are you defending the PCP? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-01.u8	It is an ideology that is not ours, it is not that of the Socialist Party, nor is it our way. We are democratic socialists and since our foundation, before 25 April, we know who we are and we have been consistent with socialism in freedom. But what should impress the country is not an imaginary radical turn or to the left of the PS, is the disappearance of social democracy and moderation in the PSD — in everything in the style identical to the Arrival, which even came to invoke the PREC (Revolutionary Process in Course),...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-01.u9	Well!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-01.u10	... and in everything in style identical to the proposal of the Liberal Initiative in defending property above any other public interest. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Members, there is no fight against the housing crisis without combating speculation, and, recognizing that several changes we are defending are disruptive, we do not also see who just wants everything to remain in it. The end of visasgold and the end of new permits in local accommodation are necessary policies. We do not fight between the importance of economic activity or the attraction of investment versus the right to housing, but it is about defeating the struggle for the right of all people to live where they want, with rights and dignity, fulfilling the project of life that they aspire to, having therefore more accessible homes, because this is the highest obligation of the state and the highest priority of the PS. I conclude by saying that this set of responses can, and should involve the whole society, from the public to the private, from the municipalities to cooperatives and associations representative of the sector, academia and social movements and protest, because in the PS we even defend that the whole society is mobilized, as we, without lowering our arms, to make housing a large pillar of the social state. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-01.u11	Seven honourable Members have signed up to request clarifications. Ladies and gentlemen. The Bureau was informed that Mrs Maria Begonha answers in two blocks. To make the first request for clarification, Mrs Marcia Passos, of the PSD Parliamentary Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-01.u12	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Maria Begonha, it is appropriate and relevant to the issue that brings us, it is unfortunate that it is to try to hide the incompetence of the Government of the Socialist Party. [[PSD applause.]] It is a government that has recently presented a package of legislative initiatives that we do not know about in a few days, dealing only with wounded measures of enormous ideological prejudices that attack private property, which are the reflection of doing everything to pressure and force. They don't hear anyone, they attack municipalities and they don't make any diagnosis of the state of housing in our country. [[PSD applause.]] This package of measures departs tremendously from the measures that are defended by the Social Democratic Party, and in this regard it has had a great advantage, which has been shown to the Portuguese that, from now on, there are two paths to completely different housing, taking into account what the Socialist Party defends and what the Social Democratic Party defends. But, Mrs. Member, what measures are these? It's just we don't know any. The Socialist Party puts in public consultation—or says it does—a set of measures that do not go through a PowerPoint, only and only.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-01.u13	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-01.u14	Decree-Law No 274/2009 requires that legislative initiatives be published during the public consultation period, and that they explain why they are these and not others, that they must connect with the legislation that is in force, in fact, obliges to explain everything and something else, as well as the diagnosis made. And the government has made absolutely no diagnosis. That is why you now have the opportunity to say what these measures have been put forward by the Government, because they are not known. They attacked, as I said, private property, did not listen to anyone and attacked all the investment that was made in Portugal in urban rehabilitation, either by national investors or by foreign investors. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-01.u15	For the second request for clarification, you have the floor of Mrs Mariana Mortágua, of the Block of Left.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-01.u16	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mrs Maria Begonha, in April 2018, the Government presented a package of measures which I think will be familiar with: ‘Dynamize the lease market, stimulate long-term contracts and promote affordable income. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-01.u17	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-01.u18	at that time, the Prime Minister went further and promised, in 2018 — he repeated in the election campaign — that in six years he would eliminate all housing deficiencies and guarantee everyone the right to adequate housing. Five years have passed and only one thing has happened: housing prices have risen, incomes have risen. Today, having a home is a privilege. People talk to each other and say: “What a luck! He managed to find a house! Have you seen it? What luck! » They are talking about houses at prices of 600 €, 700 €, 800 €. In other words, having a home is no longer a guarantee and it is today a fortune and a privilege that is not accessible to all people.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-01.u19	They didn't talk to Robles!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-01.u20	One year from the 2026 deadline to eliminate all housing deficiencies, the Government repeats the interest rate and now appears with the same instruments. Before, it gave tax benefits to long contracts, but, as it did not work, it gives more tax benefits. New tax benefits are created for those who have speculated, for those who have won, for those who have contributed to the crisis. There is so much to do and the PS speaks so much against liberalized markets, against the Liberal Initiative, against their ideas, but the truth is, instead of regulating prices, the best idea you have is to buy houses at speculative market prices and put them to rent, and will still exempt tax payments from more-values who are selling houses at speculative prices. People, investment funds, offshore — it doesn't matter: tax-free! The City Hall of Porto will buy six houses at 1 million and 800 thousand euros. Say whether it is a sustainable policy to have the state pay 1 million and 800 thousand euros for six houses that will still rehabilitate! Mrs Deputy, this does not solve housing problems, it only aggravates inequalities and certainly access to housing in the future. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-01.u21	Mr Filipe Melo, from the Parliamentary Group of the Arrival, has the floor for a request for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-01.u22	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Maria Begonha, I will make a brief historical review: Gate 65 has not worked; 1. the law has not worked; all the measures which the Socialist Government has implemented in the field of housing have not worked. Hence, in a purely fun maneuver, they present a package of 10 measures and do not explain even one. They don't explain! Basically, what you get out of there is...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-01.u23	Zero!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-01.u24	... that they will end the local accommodation and, contrary to what the honourable Member has said, we reaffirm, will start a new PREC.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-01.u25	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-01.u26	They will enter people's homes and say "this ceases to be yours, this comes to the state, and the state will do your good, your property, what you understand". [[Congrats from the CH.]] No, Mrs Deputy, I'm telling you again that we are in Portugal, fortunately we are not in Cuba, Korea or Venezuela.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-01.u27	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-01.u28	The State must resolve the structural problems of the country, with its own ideas, using its own instruments and not using private and private instruments.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-01.u29	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-01.u30	What they wanted to do was give their hand to the extreme left to put an end to your ideological prejudice,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-01.u31	There he is!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-01.u32	... create another fictitious union and get the extreme left parties to your trailer, again dependent. I know that the results of the surveys have forced you, but, Madam Member, to be playing with a matter as serious as that of housing is to be playing with the Portuguese, with the dignity of the Portuguese, and that will not tolerate. Mrs Deputy, I ask this question: will you associate yourself with the demonstration proposed by the head of office of the Minister? Will you camp at the 25th of April bridge to protest against the lack of housing? It's a proposal from a head of office of your government!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-01.u33	Which cabinet leader? Oh, my God! She's an advisor!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-01.u34	Counselor! Or will you finally be able to look at the measures that came forward — those, yes, substantiated and justified — and that do not call into question private property, what should the State do? [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-01.u35	You now have the floor for a request for clarification on behalf of the CFP Parliamentary Group, Mr Bruno Dias.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-01.u36	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Maria Begonha, there was a phrase that I found particularly significant in the political statement that brought us today: "There is no fight against the housing crisis without combating speculation. Do not keep on seeking. ” It is very important for the PS to show awareness of it itself, but I do not resist telling you that, when I heard it, I remembered that poem, very short, by Alexandre O'Neill: « Prontify yourself to do, / but stay/ to say. - Hello! Stay. / What is -to -do? Do not keep on seeking. ” It is very important for the PS to show awareness of this, because the problem is that, in order to be consistent with this statement, it involves a rupture with the ultra-liberal vision that brought us here. So far, housing continues to be a matter of financial interests, real estate funds and famous investors of golden visas. The right of some to enrich it,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-01.u37	Pingo Doce!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-01.u38	...and enrich them very quickly,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-01.u39	Sonae!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-01.u40	... has come to surpass the right of almost everyone to housing. And for some to be able to earn millions in the speculative transactions of whole blocks, at the bottom of Lisbon or in the center of Porto, there has been an increasingly serious expulsion of young and less young people, who cannot find houses because prices remain exorbitant. Therefore, what is shown is that, according to this PowerPoint that you have put in public consultation, housing remains treated as a speculative market commodity. There is no rupture with this vision, what there are public resources and public funding to support and sustain these speculative gains. A kind of ultraliberal vision, exacerbated speculation, unbridled, subsidized with public money,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-01.u41	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-01.u42	...with the tax bills announced in relation to the transactions of the houses. Only in the Metropolitan Area of Lisbon are more than 160 000 houses that are empty, 720 000 at national level. And we're discussing 26,000 homes for the country? Oh, my God! Mr President, in conclusion, the fundamental questions are these: will you present the concrete measures that you have not submitted so far? Are the PS and the government available to break with this vision that houses, which are needed for people to live, are collected as jewelry, or as luxury items, to be speculated and traded as any other gem? [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-01.u43	In reply, Mrs Maria Begonha has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-01.u44	Mr President, Mrs Márcia Passos, I do not want to confuse your speech with that of Mr Filipe Melo, because, of course, they are very different, but there is indeed a meeting on a particular issue — they both accuse the Socialist Party of ideological prejudice. Madam Member, I believe that the measures of the Socialist Party reveal a greater balance than the way in which the PSD, and also the Arrival, repeatedly, choose one side in this debate, as if there were only the landlords' side. They choose the side of the owners and only speak on the side of defending the right to property. It seems strange to me that the Social Democratic Party, the so-called moderate right, is not able to recognize that the right to property is not absolute, when there is a crisis in housing as we live. This is also true in relation to the measure of empty and returned houses.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-01.u45	If there's a crisis, it's a state of emergency!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-01.u46	I repeat what he said: we do not have, Mrs Marcia Passos, and I also respond to the arrival, an ideological prejudice with the intervention of the State. We have different views and projects of society, it's true, that's healthy. We understand that at this stage the measures we present are of a greater response and greater intervention by the State. We have heard the criticisms made in this regard. We understand that the emergence and worsening of the housing crisis in Portugal justifies this set of measures, i.e., more robust measures to try a supply shock, to place more houses on the market. It is strange not to have listened to the PSD — despite criticism and to overcome some differences in the debate — to recognize that many measures presented by the PS also meet their concerns, such as solving the problem of contracts prior to 1990. There, the PSD already calls for more state, so that gentlemen do not make social status, for example. I now reply very quickly to the honourable Member of the Czech Republic, who has repeated a lot of nonsense about the question of PREC and ideological prejudice with the State. The arrival has clearly chosen one side of the debate, which is the side of the absolute right to property.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-01.u47	It's in the Constitution!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-01.u48	Mr President, we have a different view, which is the right to inhabit empty houses, without purpose, without function, returned.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-01.u49	What if it was your home? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-01.u50	With the housing crisis we are going through, we understand that we have to use the instruments that are already in the law, and we have not even invented this measure. [[CH protests.]] In reply to Mrs Mariana Mortágua, the Left Block, and Mr Bruno Dias, of the Portuguese Communist Party, we have put in these measures a notion of balance, in order to combat speculation, but with the end of local housing permits, because of the effects that obviously cause the price of houses and access to housing,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-01.u51	It's not the end of the licenses, it's the end of the news!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-01.u52	...and with the end of the golden visas. What we want, Mrs. Deputies and Mrs. Members, it is to increase the supply of houses with affordable incomes: yes, by resorting to privates; yes, the State buying, subarrenting, trying to make an offer shock on many roads, having a conjugation of measures. I make the same criticism as I did on the right, understanding that they want to win differences. Strange to have not heard in this debate the Left Block says that it agrees with social emergency support, for example in relation to credit and lease support. Also strange not to have listened to the Left Block or the PCP said that the end of visasgold or the limitation of local accommodation are important measures.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-01.u53	Mrs. Deputy, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-01.u54	I also find it strange that I have not heard any convergence with the measures that are presented and which respond to requests from the left. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-01.u55	Mr Rui Tavares has the floor for a request for clarification on behalf of the Free movement.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-01.u56	For what? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-01.u57	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon to all. Mrs. Maria Begonha, the difficulty of putting an explanation to this neo-liberal ultra-communist plan, or ultra-liberal neo-communist, I no longer know well,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-01.u58	Is that a New Year's Eve? What about the ultrabook?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-01.u59	... is that he may be accused of being everything and his opposite, because he lacks detail, lacks concrete. Therefore, the requests for clarification I want to make have to do with this fact that is missing in your plan. one day, the PS drove here a measure of the Free and, 24 hours later, it presented that same measure that the Book had proposed last September, which was the following: whoever wanted to move from the variable rate to the fixed rate, could not suffer neither penalty nor obstacles on the part of banks and banks had to have the possibility of a fixed rate. one day this measure was plunged, 24 hours later presented -na. at that time, the PS could have asked questions to the Free about this measure, but now it is the Free that makes the PS. How are you going to determine the fixed rate? What are the criteria that set the fixed rate? Are you going to force the bank, all of it, to have the fixed fee offer? It's just a lot of what they do is to stop having because they don't think they're interesting. But can we continue without having anything to say to young people about buying their own home? Of two, one : or we say that we will give them an exemption from IMT (municipal tax on expensive property transmissions) or we say we make a plan, so that there is a fund, which supports people at the entrance to the purchase of their own house, which is where money is lacking to young people.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-01.u60	But he has already put forward this proposal!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-01.u61	Yes, but the Free presented long before the arrival. [[CH protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-01.u62	Ah! It was Joacine!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-01.u63	Mrs Rita Matias, this time I grant one thing: The Arrival is able to have, between the copy and the paste, taken the name of the party that was the original author of the proposal. [[CH protests.]] The question is: what is the opinion of Mrs Maria Begonha and the PS on this matter? Presuming it might not be the same. The PS, after having asked the commission for a discharge of an initiative on the provision of public buildings, in particular quarters, to be student residences, led, in the field of specialty, all that had to do with inventorying these buildings for student residences.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-01.u64	Mr. Deputies, you have to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-01.u65	What are we staying on? Is it not important that less than 2000, 3000, 4000 students per year stop putting pressure on the housing market?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-01.u66	Thank you very much, Mr.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-01.u67	Will the state not put its public buildings, practically empty in this market? Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-01.u68	For a request for clarification, Mrs Inês de Sousa Real has the floor of the PAN.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-01.u69	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Maria Begonha, I welcome the PS for bringing this issue to debate, but this is ultimately an empty debate, as the empty houses you mentioned.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-01.u70	Houses or chestnuts? It can't be any house, it has to be a house for the slipper!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-01.u71	On the one hand, we have not yet been given the Government's diploma so that we can discuss it in detail. It would be important at this time that both the Assembly of the Republic and the country already knew the Government's proposal in the role and not just in the words. On the other hand, Mrs Deputy, and taking the expression that she used the « right to empty houses », it would be good for the Government to set an example. In Portugal, there is no lack of public, empty and devolved property which is not being used, and the government is concerned not only not to make the report of the dwellings that exist, as in not placing it on the market for affordable rent. I ask you, ladies and gentlemen, if you don't think it would make all the sense we're going to start right here. How can we be asking families to make their real estate available if the government does not set an example? Oh, my God! We don't need to go too far. We could go to the building of the old Ministry of Education, which is currently empty. We could go, in Amadora, to a health center, which is empty and which was formerly a home. And there are so many other examples that we can give the country of buildings that could be student residences, or housing for affordable income, but that the government opts — perhaps speculatively to then pay and sell — to keep uninhabited. There have already been a number of shortcomings in Gate 65, so I ask you, Mrs Deputies, being also a young Member in this Parliament, if you think that the young people who are here today or those who are watching at home and have not had the right to access to Gate 65, or that they have not even an enhanced regime, as have previous generations, can expect answers from this government - it seems to us that they still do not exist - for access to housing and their independence. at this moment, at residential level, young people have nothing more than the expectation of having a room to rent at exorbitant prices. As far as housing is concerned, they still do not have access to it. And there were no measures at all.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-01.u72	You must conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-01.u73	I really am concluding, Mr President. With regard to IMI (municipal property tax), we have the tax exemption that treats families in the same way that deals with abutre real estate funds, for example there is no benefit measure of IMI for young people so they can have access to the first house. I ask you if you agree with this.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-01.u74	For a request for clarification on behalf of the Liberal Initiative, Mr. João Cotrim Figueiredo has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-01.u75	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Maria Begonha, I am addressing you with a word of greeting and solidarity because, of course, "the fava has come out" to defend what is practically indefensible, the More Housing programme, which is but the last episode of the novel The PS, now it is! at the end of seven years of power, the PS remembers that housing is a serious problem, and then shoots — throws what? — a PowerPoint, with a dozen and a half measures, none of them particularized, without diplomas, without attachments. From subsequent statements, it is concluded that no one knows how many fires come to the market, how many families will compete for support, but it is known that it will cost EUR 900 million. It's the miracle of knowing the total, not knowing the plots. Then move on to everything! It moves in everything and moves, above all, on the lease market, where it intends to impose on private owners what the own State owner does not assume for himself, in particular as regards the placing of returned houses on the market. You got it! Bad, but you realize why, perhaps, it has to be that way. When it came to the State's real estate inventory system, the Court of Auditors found that in the State's own inventory system there were 9500 state buildings, in the conservatories there were 19 000, in the Tax and Customs Authority there were 63 000, that is, one thing, twice that thing and seven times that thing. We ask ourselves: how is it possible for the State to require private persons to do what the State does not even know whether or not it can do? [[Sure!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-01.u76	And then the honourable Member tells me that it is irresponsible to resort to the same policies as in the past. That is why, of course, the Government decides to propose freezing old incomes. It gave a great result, Mr. Member, the frozen income before 1990! That's where the buildings will all be recovered and at the service of the people! Open... More: do this without consulting anyone. It did not consult the authorities, which have a very important role in all this matter, and certainly did not consult either the Minister of Economy or the Secretary of State for Tourism, who, 24 hours after this huge presentation, with fanfarre, say that this attack — which has no other name — to the local housing' it is better not to do so'. Local housing should be one of those examples that socialists like very much: if any economic activity starts to work, tax itself until it ceases to work! But I remember, Mrs Deputy, that since 2013 when this regime was instituted, there are tens of thousands of Portuguese families who have gone through this activity—which now has its days counted—to its day-to-day.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-01.u77	You must conclude, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-01.u78	I shall conclude, Mr President. Therefore, it is certainly not the 100 000 local housing licences in 10 years, a little across the country, which have led to speculation that they so much want to fight. In short, the question is: how does the PS want this to solve some housing problem? [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-01.u79	In reply, Mrs Maria Begonha has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-01.u80	Mr President, I will try to add some common issues, particularly on the first matter of substance, the question of debate. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, there will be a month of public debate. Therefore, it is not true to say that municipalities have not been consulted.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-01.u81	It's 20 days!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-01.u82	There will be ample time for municipalities, the mutualist sector, the speculative sector, all the associations of the sector, social movements, authorities and all of us can participate in the debate of housing measures. If I have not done so, I would now like to say very clearly that we understand that in this public debate, understood as the possibility of broadening responses and improving the measures of the More Habitat package, these contributions are important. I therefore do not understand these criticisms of the honourable Members. Ladies and gentlemen, you don't know the diplomas yet. Yes, sir. Ladies and gentlemen, the diplomas aren't here yet. Whenever you are here, Parliament will have the floor and you will have the floor. Members will appreciate the diplomas. About the devolved buildings, yes, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, the state must set an example. The state has a great delay, decades, in a set of policies. We are openly critical of the de-investment in housing, in which, historically, we also had responsibility.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-01.u83	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-01.u84	This government is making the biggest ever inventory of its public heritage. In fact, it is a problem that we do not know the entire heritage we have, but we do not accept that it is true that the government is not promoting the rehabilitation of its heritage. The municipalities are using the funding of the PRR ( Recovery and Resilience Plan ) to rehabilitate their heritage. I can quote — and the honourable Members. Members will say it is little — that there are 366 fires rehabilitated in Guimarães, Mrs Inês de Sousa Real, or 80 in Porto, plus 80 in Espinho.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-01.u85	And when does the guitar end? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-01.u86	I could be here talking about the numbers and I could say that there are 70% of the heritage with procedures already initiated, at various stages of the process, some with procedure, others not, but the fact is that this policy takes a long time. To answer some questions that have been raised, although the State has to set an example, we know that this process does not happen with speed and that is not enough. We need the small owners and the large private owners to place more houses on the market — empty houses, homes that they were afraid to rent — so that they can sell them or rent them to the state to have more solutions for young people as well. In reply to Mr Rui Tavares, on issues concerning support for young people, we are the first to have a concern about inequalities, not only the material inequalities of young people, but the inequalities of generations for generations. In other words, with the simple reproduction of wealth or poverty—of course this is a concern—and private ownership is also a matter. In relation to student residences, the student residence plan is being carried out. We do not yet have the results that we all need in the country, all this is absolutely obvious, but, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we have 42 000 young people supported by Porta 65 and we have a 30% increase in the allocation of Porta 65 so that everyone who meets the requirements can access it. Therefore, when there is income support up to 200 €, when there is a set of measures to place more houses on the market for affordable rental, including the issue of local housing, it is demagogic to say that we attack economic activity. We simply know that, despite their role in urban rehabilitation and tourism today, the externalities that cause the right to housing are called into question. However, saying that these measures will not have the effect of creating more homes with affordable rent for young people is also demagogic and it is an idea that we cannot follow. With regard to the acquisition, he knows that this set of proposals to support the purchase and acquisition of homes does not contain this document that we know and is for public consultation. That was neither the option nor the line that the Government followed in this package. Yes, we want to address the difficulties of access to housing by young people. Therefore, the way in this package of measures is, in fact, to promote more support for both those who have already bought home and for affordable rent. That is the line in this package of measures, as you know. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-01.u87	To give the political statement on behalf of the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mr Alexandre Poço has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-01.u88	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In recent times, faced with the urgency of solving the serious problems of Portuguese life, the Government of Antonio Costa, seven years ago in office, now, in each corner, in every intervention and for every situation, a new maxim: "Now it will be! Do not keep on seeking. ” [[PSD applause.]] In view of the instability that he himself has generated, the third Government of Antonio Costa shows itself unable to reverse the path of impoverishment in society or to present any structural idea for the future of the country, in addition to the insufficient and late will to spend European funds. But after seven years to promise, to announce or — more resilient, but equally tragic — to set goals always for 5, 6, 8 or 10 years, the government of the « Now it will be! "he did not recover the political initiative to change something structurally, because he never had this initiative, nor did the reformist will spontaneously generate, at the end of seven years, in the ministerial offices. You see what happens in health, where the problems continue, but your resolution takes time. In 2016, António Costa promised a family doctor for each Portuguese. Today, in 2023, 1, 5 million Portuguese still have no family doctor. With larger budgets, access to health care in the SNS (National Health Service) is getting worse and worse. Waiting lists for consultations and surgeries to shame a European country. Chaos in emergencies as we are seeing today at Loures Hospital. Escape from professionals in significant numbers, after years of trusted conversation. Ideological sectarianism in speech and action, which ends — irony of ironies — with the reality of the facts: the private have never made so much money with health in Portugal. Unfortunately, whoever has money can always have health care and the SNS always stays behind, for those who unfortunately have no alternative. In front of this escalation, Antonio Costa presents the miraculous cure: there comes the CEO (executive chief officer) of the SNS, his new status and « now it will be! Do not keep on seeking. ” [[PSD applause.]] We can also talk about education. In 2015, António Costa promised to return peace to public school. Quietness probably means students without classes, teachers on the street, with the house on the back and an increasingly less attractive career. The tranquillity of those who do not listen when they sit at the negotiating table. However, this tranquillity corresponds to the silence of the empty classrooms and a school that no longer manages to perform one of its main tasks: that of being the motor of the social elevator in our country, which is currently damaged. In the face of the failure of the public school, the Portuguese have exhausted registrations in private schools for the next school year. But for those who listen to Antonio Costa, «now it will be! Do not keep on seeking. ” [[PSD applause.]] Or then we see the situation of TAP ( Portuguese Air Transport ) — « as fundamental to the country as the caravans », « which was the Portuguese people for good and for evil», in which the « music was another» and « where the people put money, then the people had to send». Do You Remember? This TAP came to mean ruinous management, a "terrorist rope" where 3200 million euros were sunk, where there is a lack of transparency, compensation and millionaire premiums, wage cuts and layoffs. But don't worry! — for the sake of the lack of responsibility, in the end, the same ones who have nationalized their company come to defend, without shame or shame, which, with privatization, 'is now what it will be! Do not keep on seeking. ” [[PSD applause.]] Finally, the most paradigmatic case: housing. We can talk about the National Fund for the Rehabilitation of the Building, launched in 2016, which promised thousands of houses and, seven years later, did not rehabilitate a house at all; or about the wonders that the New Generation of Housing Policies and the Basics of Housing Law would bring to the Country, with their houses, on paper; or of the thousands of promised beds—and only promised—in the National Plan for Housing in Higher Education in 2018 ; or of the successes that only Portuguese do not see, with the Accessible Rent Program, the Key in Hand program or the law of vitality housing. Seven years later, and with more than 20 — I repeat, 20! — programmes and initiatives in the area, the Government of António Costa presents the More Housing programme and says: « It will now be! Do not keep on seeking. ” [[PSD applause.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Members, by adding what is happening in the TAP, in education, in housing, we cannot also forget the worrying delays in the PRR or socialist instability in the Santa Casa da Misericórdia de Lisboa, which compromises the institution's action. It is the state to which we arrived at the end of seven years of Antonio Costa. The PS says he'll solve tomorrow what he hasn't done in seven years. As music says: «By the window badly closed/ the time of tiredness comes / the time is coming to challenge/ in smoldering rings». Ladies and gentlemen. Members, invent 1000 ideals, continue to say that they will solve tomorrow what they have not done yesterday or today, because the Portuguese know well that, with the PS, tomorrow will always be too far away. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-01.u89	The Bureau registered six Mrs. Members to make requests for clarification. Mr. Alexandre Poço will answer in two or three blocks? [[Pause.]] The honourable Member is signaling to the Bureau by means of gestures a « V ». Is it ‘V’ of victory or is it to indicate that you want to respond to requests for clarification in two blocks? [[Pause.]] The honourable Member confirms that he responds in two blocks. For the first request for clarification, Mr Pedro Delgado Alves of the Socialist Party has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-01.u90	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Alexandre Poço, without abjection from the questions you have raised, we thank you very much for this week's press release, because more than a structured political statement—seeking to identify problems in which we can focus on a political debate—the honourable Member has announced a number of matters, not necessarily connected to each other, for the purpose of a political declaration, but for which I can leave many questions, and that is one of the advantages. [[Mr Pedro Pinto's protests.]] Mr President, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. Well, let us note that in the government that has taken place in recent years, the government has not had to deal with other matters that may have given priority, such as the pandemic, which has devastated the planet and the country and which may have made it difficult to implement some of these matters. Finally, this is a detail which, repeatedly, the PSD tends to ignore, but which we respect, since, in the view of the political struggle, has to bring something to the debate. In its initial intervention, a criticism of the PRR was also implied, as if the idea of Community funds were something negative. Instead of welcoming the opportunity, I would say, "Ah, we are again dependent on Community funding! » No, sir, we are fortunately at a time when Europe has turned the page and realized that it lacks support for countries on the outskirts, which face more difficulties, so we should welcome this alternative rather than criticize as a problem. Then, especially in the most daily themes, it is interesting to see that the honourable Member brings topics to which we are still awaiting clarification from the Social Democratic Party today. Regarding TAP, we still expect today to know what the PSD would do about the impact the pandemic had on the aeronautical sector and what it would do to solve the TAP problem. [[Protests from PSD MP Sonia Ramos.]] This is because criticism is very easy. It is a position that, obviously, oppositions can choose to take as their own, but which, perhaps, is a little bit, in the view of the problems that the country has. Or, then, I would ask you to clarify how, for example, it is justified that a government in management can enable harmful privatization operations and that it uses the company's own resources that is being privatized. This was another example, another clarification that is on the table and it would be interesting to hear from the PSD something else. Even in the issues of the daily life, even in the moment that we discussed, that of housing, the PSD insists on looking only at what is missing — although we recognize that there are aspects that are difficult, at a time when we have high inflation, in which we have today a news that is not positive for increasing unemployment — when we can perhaps also focus on the things that have taken place. The honourable Member is talking about housing, and already in the previous debate the issue has been raised in the same terms by other parliamentary groups.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-01.u91	Mr. Deputies, you have to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-01.u92	I will finish, Mr. President. Regarding housing, we have an increase in the number of beneficiaries of the Porta 65 programme to the highest ever number. We have a significant increase, as we have never had, of the number of people — 19 000 — who have migrated to long-term leases with the IRS incentives (tax on income of natural persons). We have program 1. the law, which has protocols with 233 municipalities and, nevertheless, in the analysis, the starting point is always that nothing happened in these seven years. Many things have happened in seven years, Mr. Many things have happened in many of the sectors he mentioned. Indeed, we have not reached the end of the road, most likely governance has this: a degree of dissatisfaction also with what has not yet been possible.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-01.u93	Mr. Deputies, you really have to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-01.u94	I'm going to finish, Mr. President, I'm sorry. However, today the news points out that, last year, we had a 6, 7% growth in the economy and that in the last quarter, while Germany declined 0, 4 % in its growth,... [[Mr Pedro Pinto's protests.]] ... we had an increase of 0, 3 %, which allows us, fortunately, to avoid a recession. Well, on this very day, Mr President, the themes they choose are going to look back and not look forward to building solutions and alternatives.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-01.u95	Mr. Deputies, you really have to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-01.u96	This does not seem to be the best way to build a government alternative. Thank you very much for your condescendence, Mr President. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-01.u97	For a request for clarification on behalf of the CFP Parliamentary Group, Mr Duarte Alves has now given the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-01.u98	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Alexandre Poço has brought us here a general intervention on various subjects of current policy. I could say that we have seen and have followed the political void of the PSD, by bringing us, to present, a set of very wide, fragmented and contentless themes, but this political void that the PSD has presented says more: it says a lot about the PSD, but it says more about the Government of the Socialist Party, since the Socialist Party's Government is implementing policies that are not different and the PSD cannot distance itself from those that are the PS policies.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-01.u99	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-01.u100	In some of the issues he referred to — for example, in health — when the CFP proposed measures for the establishment of professionals, with the creation, for example, of an exclusive dedication scheme, the PS and the PSD refused this measure. Now, what is really necessary is to fix these professionals, in front of the circle that is being done by private groups in the field of health. In view of this circle, it is necessary to respond with the establishment of professionals, but on the PS side, we did not see this answer, but we did not see it by the PSD, when it could have approved these measures. In education the same thing happens, with the appreciation of careers, the appreciation of their professionals, teachers. What did we see on the PSD? When he had the opportunity to approve the replacement of all the time of service, he joined the Socialist Party in refusing this measure that the CFP presented, with a 6-year, 6-month and 23-day return.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-01.u101	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-01.u102	Regarding housing, interest increases in credit for housing, and people are living worse and worse. Banks reflect on housing credit but not on the remuneration of long-term interest and long-term deposits. So the banks are winning both sides and making millions of profits, as they have never seen before. in this matter, where does PS PS PS stand out? All the measures presented by the PCP to strengthen the negotiating power of bank customers, in order to be able to go to the renegotiations and leave there with a lower spread, had the same destination on the part of PSD and PS, i.e. rejection. Therefore, you say that 'now it will be! », but is it now that, truly, we will see the PSD moving away from the PS, or will that be very difficult? It seems very difficult, doesn't it, Mr? [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-01.u103	Mr Pedro Pessanha has the floor for a request for clarification on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-01.u104	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I have listened carefully to Mr Alexandre Poço and we would like to know, in your opinion, that differences can be seen among the socio-economic problems that the left so much likes to point out, from the height of the Coelho Pass, versus those that exist today. We would also like to know what measures the PSD proposes to put an end to this crisis, particularly with regard to young people, teachers, health and, lastly, since we live at a time of war — with regard to national defence. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-01.u105	In reply, Mr Alexandre Poço has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-01.u106	Mr President, I am grateful for the questions put to me and, of course, Mr Pedro Delgado Alves' question was not a good one, it was another answer to a statement with another statement. However, Mr President, what we essentially tried to do today was to demonstrate that the Socialist Party appeared to have arrived yesterday in the government. In each of these areas I have mentioned, the Socialist Party always takes a position for the future of those who have not been ruling in the last seven years or who, for example, have not largely governed our country in the last 30 years. [[PSD applause.]] On the other hand, the honourable Member and the Socialist Party strongly insist on the question of TAP, to know what the PSD would have done. As you know, Mr President, the pandemic has not only affected Portugal, i.e. it has not been a national phenomenon and therefore the answer is very simple, and the PSD has already given it n times, but we will give it again - we would never have reverted to privatization! [[PSD applause.]] This would have been a basic principle. And the honourable Member also knows, everyone knows, because it is public access information, that there were other countries that had public instruments, even support to airlines.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-01.u107	That was before the pandemic!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-01.u108	So making the debate about what the PSD would have done, as if it did not equal other support solutions that existed, leads me to understand that it is not very serious, it is almost as if the PSD was condemned here by something I never said I would not do. Of course, if we were faced with the situation, we would know one thing: what we would never have done was bury EUR 3200 million in an airline to then say that they will privatize it. On the question of the PRR, allow me also to say, Mr, that what the Social Democratic Party has said is that the PRR is being executed. What we often see on the part of the Socialist Government is that it seems that only the PRR exists in this country. The PRR is very important and, look, we want it to be well executed and to be able to meet the deadlines for its implementation, although of course we have our reservations about the strategic options that have been made, because we would make another PRR. However, on your part, there is only PRR. It is the PRR and the "now it will be" in each of the other areas. Mr Duarte Alves and Mr Pedro Pessanha, I think that in recent times the Democratic Social Party has had the opportunity to present its proposals, whether in education or in housing, or in the main ideas that distinguish us from the Socialist Party, not only from a biased view, but from the point of view of understanding that these are priority themes for the Portuguese and to which we give our answers. The proposals that the PSD has in the area of housing are public. In fact, we also had a debate here where the Social Democratic Party even abstained from some of the proposals presented by the CFP, related to proposals presented by the PSD in the area of housing. So, if there's something I don't think it's serious, it's saying that the Social Democratic Party doesn't bring any proposals. We did it, a few days ago, with the area of education, and I fear that we will always do it in front of the strategic options that the PS does and that we do not follow. It should also be noted that since 2015 the PSD has not made it possible for a single State budget to António Costa! [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-01.u109	For a request for clarification on behalf of the Left Block Parliamentary Group, Mr Pedro Filipe Soares has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-01.u110	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Alexandre Poço, I have noticed that you read the news and I greet you for that.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-01.u111	Look at another one! That's plagiarism!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-01.u112	In the days ahead, it is good to be able to have people informed, who are informed in the places where the news is true, and not on fake news sites. So I'm going to ask you questions, admitting that you didn't start reading news last week and reading them over time. It seems to me that it is very important, on the various issues it has brought, to identify the responsibilities of the PSD and even of the honourable Member on this matter. This is because, in the question of education, for example, he tells us "well, but the government is dragging this problem", to which I ask him: in 2019, Mr. Deputy was not on the same bench, when the PSD gave a walk between what he was saying one day and what he was saying to annoy and kneel before blackmailing Antonio Costa and failing the teachers? [[Protests by PSD Deputies Antonio Cunha and Sonia Ramos.]] Actually, the PSD gave that doll. Could we have solved the problem at that time? Yes, we could, but whoever didn't want to solve it was the Socialist Party, because the PSD left it. Mr António Cunha, back there, is with his hand stretched out, showing number 5 with his fingers. Well, actually, five years ago, we could have solved the problem, sir, but the PSD just didn't want to, until, at that time, the PS didn't have an absolute majority... [[Protests from PSD MP Sonia Ramos.]] ...and the parties, in addition to the PS, were able to approve things against the will of the PS. If the PSD had kept the word it gave the teachers, this problem did not exist and we were now much more relaxed in schools in Portugal. The same happened with the value added tax of electricity. However, I wanted to go to a more concrete question, because there was one aspect that developed more, in its intervention, that was the theme of housing. In this regard, I ask you: have you read the news? Rui Moreira — who now seem to want to hold on to the PSD, or at least publicly dispute - in this sense - defended in 2014 that it was possible to mobilize, against the will of the owners, some historical shops, to ensure that the tenants, who exploited these shops, could maintain their activity, since the owners wanted, in an abusive way, to increase and fire the price of income, making it impossible to maintain these historical shops. Curiously, the PSD found this normal, and it does not say, now, that we are facing the Bolivarianism of Rui Moreira in the matter. The honourable Member will also have heard or read in 2019 the PSD list head by Lisbon, Filipa Roseta, saying that it was necessary to have a programme that mobilized the building that was standing, which was returned, to ensure through a public policy that the same was introduced into the lease market.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-01.u113	Mr. Deputies, you have to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-01.u114	I will finish, Mr. President. You will also know, because you know this, that the proposals proposed by the PS for the housing market already exist, are already in the law. So the question I ask you is very direct: why does the PSD want to create a cultural war on housing and not discuss the problem that affects people, which is the lack of housing?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-01.u115	Thank you very much, Mr.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-01.u116	I give you the answer, I give you an indication: it is because it seems to me that the PSD wants to run away from its own proposals, wants to keep the market scary and keep people out of the house. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-01.u117	For a request for a 1 minute clarification, Mrs Inês de Sousa Real has the floor of the PAN.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-01.u118	Mr President, Mr Alexandre Poço, I welcome this on the subject which brings us to the debate here. Despite the social and political instability that we live in in various dimensions—which goes from housing to education, also passing through the environmental challenges that persist and increasing the cost of living— I would like to ask, in particular, about the area of health, until, by the words it has spoken, it was not quite clear where the PSD wants to come. In fact, we agreed today with the closure of more urgent hospitals, especially at the Loures hospital. We have a pending solution for the West area, which is afraid not to leave the paper. In fact, the President of the Queen's House has already said that the Minister has come to say that only in April would the same be known, so we are still waiting for a solution. The truth is, after a summer marked by obstetric emergencies, in which there was no assistance to pregnant women, we also now see the pediatric emergencies to close, as well as hospital emergencies in general. I ask you, honourable Member, whether this is the time when the PSD will finally follow the desire to have a stronger SNS, with more State intervention, because we cannot in any way drop one of the essential axes of our society, which is health.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-01.u119	The last request for clarification to Mr Alexandre Poço belongs to Mr Rodrigo Saraiva, of the Liberal Initiative.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-01.u120	Mr President, Mr Alexandre Poço, I begin by saying that I was not disturbed by the intervention you did there in the pulpit because it is within your freedom to choose the way in which you make your political statement, but obviously I do not share the awkwardness of the Socialist Party with what you said, because it was a correct diagnosis and diagnosis. It is obvious that this diagnosis hurts the PS. By using some expressions, this diagnosis is very in line with the analysis that we also do these seven years. We have been saying for some time that the PS has even this phrase, the one that you said now, which is: "Now it will be! » We share the diagnosis. We have made this warning about the failure to fulfill the promise of the family doctor, the problem of waiting lists, the chaos in emergencies and the escape of professionals, and this only in health. In education, as he mentioned, there are students without classes, teachers demotivated and the question of the broken social elevator. These are all specific cases and problems that the Liberal Initiative has been pointing out, as the issue of obviously 3, 2 billion euros in the TAP. We have always warned about this problem and also said that the company should not have been renationalised. Be rested, which I will not ask you why the PSD did not vote in favour of the motion of censure of the Liberal Initiative when it agrees with the diagnosis we make. I'm not gonna ask you that question. We believe that one more day with this government is obviously worse for the country. The Liberal Initiative, since the moment it presented the motion of censure, said « present» for the creation of an alternative to the Socialist Party. So the question I ask you is whether it is now that it will be, if the PSD will also say "present" to make an alternative to the Socialist Party, because the country needs it. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-01.u121	In reply, Mr Alexandre Poço has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-01.u122	Mr President, I would like to thank you for your questions. Ladies and gentlemen. I shall, of course, begin with Mr Pedro Filipe Soares. Mr President, I would like to send you by e-mail or even, in proximity to the Socialist Party, if you would like, by WhatsApp, to the recent document that the Democratic Social Party has submitted on housing. On housing, we have identified some axes that should deserve our answer and that we will soon implement here, in this House, with legislative initiatives. One of the axes is, of course, the question of the dynamization of supply, which, as we know, in recent decades, has fallen quite a lot. Another point that we have identified is that there is a need for support for demand, in particular by recasting some of the programmes that the Socialist Party is in progress and which are not working. Another point that the PSD presented in this document — which I am going to send to you with great pleasure, not to say that I have only been based on news — is the need at this time to give an answer to those people who see the house being provided up on their mortgage credit. We also understand that the country must be prepared for innovative solutions, and I have made here, in 1 minute and 8 seconds, a small summary of what is the strategic document presented by the PSD and which will soon enter here in a series of legislative initiatives. On the other hand, Mr Deputy, with regard to education, would say that the speech that the Democratic Social Party has made on this issue is quite crystallistic: the Socialist Party's Government — its Minister for Education and its Prime Minister — must sit at the table with the unions and have a serious and dialogueal attitude. It is the Socialist Party that knows, better than anyone, that has the data that allow them to measure how much it costs to solve the problem and to understand what the solution that both parties can achieve from a negotiation that is serious. We know what teachers demand and we know what teachers want. What we call, as an opposition party, is that the Socialist Party has the hombrety to sit seriously in the negotiation and, by analyzing the financial costs of replacing teachers' rights, it can make the best proposal to reach a consensus. Therefore, Mr President, I believe that these two answers are very clear and crystallizing the positioning of the PSD, whether in housing or in education. Mrs Inês de Sousa Real, I do not like to judge the intentions of others, but she presented her question in a way that, perhaps, we will not tend to follow up so closely, because, as soon as she spoke about health, she soon placed the prism in the state. PSD has a heritage to understand that, in health, what matters are people. When someone wants to be cared for, because he has a need for health, he is more concerned about what will take care of health and not so much about the property of the building or management.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-01.u123	That's why it's a big deal!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-01.u124	I know this is annoying, but this is a differential point on the left. Mrs Deputy, we understand that the country must have a strong SNS, but it must complement that strong SNS with a complementary response from the private sector and the social sector, for example, as already exists with the SIGIC ( Integrated System of Management of Inscriptions for Surgery ). What we understand is that, when we discuss health or even all the axes related to the response to people's social problems, it is the person who counts and is at the center. [[PSD applause.]] If the best answer is the public, that is the public; if the best answer is the private, that is the private one. This is a difference and I regret that probably because of your question, the NAP does not follow, but I think there is room for the NAP one day to realize that what matters is the person being in the center.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-01.u125	The honourable Member has to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-01.u126	Mr. Rodrigo Saraiva, I am grateful for your question, perhaps somewhat rhetorical/provoked, but I do not think that the Member and the Liberal Initiative should be concerned. The PSD here has been and here is about to make its way of opposition and, when the time comes for the Portuguese to decide what government they want for the country, Mr. Deputies, I have no doubt that the Portuguese will replace this "Now it will be" by the "Now it is too late" and will give the Democratic Social Party the possibility of re-governing Portugal. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-01.u127	To give the political statement on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Arrival, Mr Pedro Pinto has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-01.u128	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: An absolute majority government, 11 months after taking possession, managed to leave Portugal in an increasingly drifting chaos, without any direction and with many difficulties to execute and face the future. We spoke in stability, and this was given by the vote of the Portuguese, but soon when we heard the composition of the executive we warned that this was a bad government, that it kept the ministers more controversial and that it was a fragile government. You know, sometimes I start thinking, how did time give us so much reason in such a short time? It was messed up behind the trickery, ministers and state secretaries have fallen, they have been beating records, sad records, such as the Secretary of State for Agriculture, who has been in office for 25 hours. [[Congrats from the CH.]] in these 11 months, the Portuguese felt in the skin what is the loss of purchasing power and the difficulties in putting food on the table. After the pandemic, the excuse for the war came. What is certain is that before the war inflation was increasing. Today, as much as they say no, the cost of living has increased and the Portuguese receive less than the increase in products. Inflation in meat, fish, fruit and vegetables exceeds 20 %. The price of food is a dramatic reality. in these 11 months, Portuguese families have to account. Bills, bills and more! Having a job is no longer enough to escape poverty. Almost 3 million live with less than € 660. The poor are increasingly poor. in these 11 months, more dependence has been created on subsidies, with social support that in no way solve the real problem of the population, which is the creation of employment with wages worthy and not wages of misery, so that they are always dependent on socialist aid, thus becoming a crowded population and always in the hands of this left that governs. in these 11 months, it is much harder to buy own housing, with the housing credits increasing for values of 14 years. Curiously, at the time, the Prime Minister was José Socrates, which proves the roots that he left within this Socialist Party and that they continue to stand there. in these 11 months, teachers went out in front of a minister whose only answer is: "We are working. But the truth is that it does not solve the problem of teachers. Listen, but don't negotiate or present solutions. In addition, thousands of students continue without a teacher at least one discipline, with a minister who is concerned about mixed bathrooms and teaching teaching teaching. [[Congrats from the CH.]] in these 11 months, he has changed as a health minister, but policies have not changed. More commissions and charges have been created, but what we have is maternity and closed pediatric wings, as will happen at Beatriz Angelo Hospital in Loures, where children can't get sick at night or weekend. Not to mention that right now, waiting for emergency patients arrived at 14 hours at Santa Maria Hospital. in these 11 months, farmers have had much more difficulty. They left the street from north to south in front of a minister who no longer has the conditions to be in office. Support for drought has been lacking and EUR 1300 million from the RDP ( Regional Development Programme ) is still lacking, which is farmers'money. in these 11 months, security forces continued to be mistreated by the government, without a word for when they were attacked, some of them very violently, and where the suicide rate continues to increase worryingly—and nothing is done. in these 11 months, our elderly were deceived. They gave them half a pension in October, but cut them in January, and today they have great difficulty paying for the pharmacy account and rationing the food. They are people who have worked a lifetime and today have miserable pensions of 300 €, while the state pays managers billionaire compensation. Our fighters, who fought and honored our homeland, were also forgotten by the socialist government. [[Congrats from the CH.]] in these 11 months, thousands of immigrants have entered, some legal, other illegal, without knowing who they are and what they are coming. The policy of 'Come all, which we are here to pay' did not work. Portugal has become a rotating door of entry of migrants to Europe, because what we gave them here was exploration, sleep on the street and dozens piled up in houses. They can come with graphics, results and other stories, they can say that the economy is better, but go out and ask the Portuguese if that's what they feel, ask the common Portuguese, who rises at 6 o'clock in the morning to go to work. It is a country where people are overburdened in taxes, but who wants to have the safes full to say that we have certain accounts. It's a country that doesn't care if our young people emigrate. in these 11 months, it is important to understand what we have in this House. Here in front, the Socialist Party bench, which reminds you of a book by Prof. Gilberto Pinto called The Illusions Dealer. They certainly learned with Antonio Costa. At some point, the author refers, and I quote, «with him he had learned all the tricks he knew, the skill with his fingers, the enigmatic look with which he should face the crowd and the secret of offering at the right moment what others, without knowing it, wished to see». Nothing better to personify this bench, where everything is right in our country, we are on the right path, but the truth is that everything doesn't go through an illusion and the Portuguese aren't like that. [[Congrats from the CH.]] in these 11 months, where has the opposition been? The extreme-left blogger continues to be cute, with no ideas and yet without overcoming the pains of the end of a relationship, after having fallen in love and having felt betrayed, never failing to be complicit in this Socialist Party. [[Protests from BE Pedro Filipe Soares.]] The PCP continues with the speech of its foundation, not realizing that the times have changed, that they gave their hand to the PS and that they were also a fraud to the workers who say they defend. The cost of living increases daily, much because of also a war that fears not to condemn, which was Russia's invasion of Ukraine. The Free and the PAN, however they try to get on their feet, cannot pass from subjects of the Socialist Party. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-01.u129	On the right, the Liberal Initiative has such an indefinction to hand over the Left Block and walk together in demonstrations or to try to imitate the Reach in the tone of voice and try to make opposition, but the copy is far from the original. the PSD has failed to be opposed. What was required of that is that it should lead this opposition, but it has not done so. It reminds you of a TV that blocks in the "pause" mode and we have to restart the box to re-connect. He woke up from the sixth last Friday, to make, finally, opposition, but chose the theme of the tolls, in which his complicity with the PS continues to be quite. the PSD requires it to have courage, political courage, and that, as has been done by the Arrival and the Liberal Initiative, quickly present a motion of censure to this government, which does not serve for the Portuguese or Portugal, and we will be here to follow them. [[Congrats from the CH.]] in these 11 months, the only opposition has come — alone, but with great pride. That's what we're still doing. That's why we're here and we're with 14% in the surveys that the Portuguese have given us.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-01.u130	The honourable Member has to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-01.u131	I will finish, Mr. President. We will continue to ask for the presence of ministers, because the Portuguese do not only serve to pay taxes and have to be clarified. We will continue to request the resignation of Minister João Cravinho, who wanted to suffocate the case of corruption at the Military Hospital in Bethlehem with the statement that Lula da Silva was coming to speak on 25 April. It is this endemic corruption that we will always fight in this country of great men, where now some want to modify the letter of the national anthem and where Infante D. Henrique left for seas never sailed, to give new worlds to the world.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-01.u132	Little D. Henrique? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-01.u133	This is the portugality that we will never let them take us away and we will fight, daily, for a better country, free of socialism. We are very proud to be Portuguese. [[Ch's applause, stand up.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-01.u134	To give the political statement on behalf of the Liberal Initiative, Mr Carlos Guimarães Pinto has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-01.u135	They don't ask questions. You've got it all figured out! That's right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-01.u136	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I take this opportunity to greet all the small entrepreneurs of local accommodation, as well as their workers, suppliers, owners of local trade who are currently protesting in front of the BTL ( Lisbon Tourism Exchange ). These people who helped rehabilitate the city center, bringing tourists closer to local trade, who invested in the country at a time when few did so, are now seen as an scapegoat of a crisis for which they are not guilty, scapegoats of incompetence outside the politics of housing. [[Applause from the IL.]] These people deserve our support and solidarity. They do not have the same influence capacity as the large hotel chains, but they were fundamental to feed the growth of a sector, without which Portugal would be in an even greater crisis. Here, of the Assembly of the Republic, I would like to send them a hug of gratitude and tell them that your success is our success, it is the success of the country, and we will continue to fight for your right to success. [[Applause from the IL.]] The Portuguese state has thousands of returned buildings. I say thousands and not a specific number, because that number does not exist. Some real estate has been abandoned for so long that the state does not know that it still has them. Although we have been promising to do so for years, the State does not have an updated record of its buildings. The same government that intends to identify and manage private returning property does not even have a database on its own returning property. A state that never set up its own home now wants to occupy and rehabilitate the home of others. at a time when housing is so much talked about, the state does not want to know about its buildings, even those that could quickly be converted into housing, increasing supply and decreasing prices. The state doesn't want to know, but we do. We will therefore present a proposal allowing civil society to recover these returned buildings from the State and place them on the housing market. All this without spending 1 € of taxpayers' money and without violating the private property of people. [[Applause from the IL.]] Our proposal can be described in three steps. First step, a private who identifies a devolved property of the State may make an offer to buy it. The property doesn't need to be on sale to receive an offer, it just has been returned for more than a year. Second, this offer will be published on a portal for this purpose, allowing any other entity to make a higher offer, or the State itself decides to make use of that property. Third step, at the end of three months, if the State does not use the property, the property will be sold to the entity that made the most offer. The buyer is obliged to submit a licensing project and to place the property on the housing market within a maximum of two years after the work is licensed. With this proposal, we will put civil society to do what the State has been promising for so many years — to identify and rehabilitate thousands of devolved property held by the State. With this proposal, we can start to rehabilitate some of these buildings for housing this year. This proposal still has the advantage of not spending €1 of the taxpayers. On the contrary, the State may receive hundreds of millions of euros for buildings that are currently abandoned, money that can be used to compensate for other tax benefits in the construction and housing sector, starting a virtuous cycle of increasing supply and falling prices.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-01.u137	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-01.u138	The Portuguese would win twice: as taxpayers and as people who need homes. [[Applause from the IL.]] The state has thousands of returnees from outside the country. In the midst of the housing crisis, the state neither rehabilitates nor departs from the top. It is time for the State to make available its buildings to those who want to rehabilitate them and allow those who have the conditions and capacity to do so to do that work that the State has been unable to do for years. If the government is serious about combating the returnees, if it really wants to combat the lack of housing supply, it should start with its own returnees, allowing civil society to rehabilitate them, and can do so. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-01.u139	Mr President, the Bureau records the registration of five Mrs. Members to make requests for clarification. I assume it answers in two modules, the first of three questions and the second of two.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-01.u140	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-01.u141	All right. The first request for clarification will be for Mr Bruno Dias of the CFP Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-01.u142	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Guimarães Pinto, there is a very frequent wrong idea that I think it is important to demystify: when there is a lot of talk about the lack of houses on the market, what is missing are houses that people can pay for.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-01.u143	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-01.u144	To see if we understand ourselves: in the last decade, what has been the evolution of the number of houses in relation to the population? The censuses show, it is very easy: the number of households resident in Portugal increased 105 000 ; the number of houses available in Portugal increased 111 000. The offer increased more than demand and, however, what happened to prices? [[Protests by the Member of the IL Carlos Guimarães Pinto.]] Mr President, unless the censuses are a communist conspiracy to prove that the IL is wrong. The National Institute of Statistics ( INE ), which is not affiliated with any CFP organization, has already shown an increase of 105 000 in the number of families and an increase of 111 000 in the number of houses available. The offer increased above the demand. How many times do we need to repeat it? And yet what happened to prices? What happened was that in the last eight years, while the average nominal wage increased by 21 %, the price of the square meter of the housing increased by 117 %. And in the Lisbon district, it increased by 154%. There are those who are earning millions with this social scourge, which is real and financial speculation, and are, above all, the banks, the real estate funds, the large owners of the estate.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-01.u145	Your headquarters will be occupied!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-01.u146	We are well aware of the social and human dramas that happened with the expulsion of thousands of people, so often even older tenants, using the "Christian law" as a weapon of assault. We also know that the chains of the hotel and the multinationals of this tourist sector have passed away — excuse the expression — when the only discussion is, by the way, about the local accommodation, when there are more discussions to have and there is not only one protagonist in this history. We know him well.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-01.u147	What about your seats? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-01.u148	But what IL has now proposed is a massive operation of ownership of public property, a sort of right of preference for real estate funds, with a compulsory privatization.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-01.u149	No, no!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-01.u150	Well, what does the experience show you? In which country, or on which planet, can a policy of real estate financial speculation, despite the offer being greater, as has already been shown in Portugal, bring cheaper houses, Mr Deputies? [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-01.u151	Mr Rui Tavares has the floor to make a request for clarification in one minute.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-01.u152	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, in these political statements today, extraordinary things are learned. We have heard a little while ago that Infante D. Henrique left for the seas never sailed, unknown fact. What was known was that he had gone to Ceuta and returned, but they were not seas never sailing. Now, we learn that the Liberal Initiative is ultimately in favour of the State inventing its empty buildings to give them use. I remember that when the Free presented a proposal for, among others, transforming quarters into student residences, the Liberal Initiative was the only party, with the PS, who abstained and only voted in favour of a final text, when he came to this torn-off chamber of the whole part that had to do with the State to work to invent its buildings and turn them into student residences. So, the clarification I wanted to have is that they have something against being students' residences or is it because it is the State doing their rehabilitation and not handing them directly to the private?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-01.u153	To make a request for clarification on behalf of the Left Block, you have the floor of Mrs Mariana Mortágua.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-01.u154	Mr President, Mr. Carlos Guimarães Pinto, what you call civil society are real estate investors. What you call civil society is real estate investment funds, are venture funds, are real estate financial interests that have dominated the market in Portugal. It happens that these real estate funds are precisely those funds that did not rehabilitate the buildings that were theirs and kept them empty. And, therefore, he is asking the real estate investment funds to leave empty houses, which did not rehabilitate their homes or, when they did, did so to hotels or luxury markets, which resolved the problem. It is to these entities that you want to deliver the resolution of the housing problem...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-01.u155	Because now it's gonna be!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-01.u156	... and you want to do it - in a way even cartoon: you want to give them more business and compulsive way. You are promoting a process of compulsory privatization here — that is what you want to promote — by delivering to the same market that has produced the housing crisis, which has increased prices, which has expelled people from the cities, the solution to the problem. Mr President, the problem is that your dogmatism prevents you from seeing reality. You will never be able to see that part of the housing problems come from speculation, that part of the housing problems come from unbridled tourism that did not protect the city centers or the population that lived there.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-01.u157	That's xenophobia!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-01.u158	The honourable Member will never be able to see that part of the housing problem happens because the short-term profit has been privileged, because it has been privileged to speculate on the constitutional right to housing. And without realizing this reality, honourable Member, I am sorry, but there is no proposal that can solve the problem. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-01.u159	To reply, Mr. Carlos Guimarães Pinto has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-01.u160	Mr President, Mr Bruno Dias, began here with a fantastic phrase in economic terms, which was the following: increasing supply in a housing market will not lower prices, which is a fantastic assumption.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-01.u161	No, he didn't!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-01.u162	In fact, there are already countries where income starts to fall. And why did income start to fall in these countries? Why is that? It was precisely because the supply in the furnishing market has increased.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-01.u163	That's because they came to buy houses here and left!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-01.u164	That's exactly why.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-01.u165	That's because they came to buy house in Campo de Ourique!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-01.u166	I think it's amazing that someone with economic training will be able to be in this house and say that if we increase the supply of a good the price will not be lower. It's something unbelievable. Mr Rui Tavares, we voted in favour of your proposal. In fact, the honourable Member was the only one who did not vote in favour, which is quite interesting and we accept that. [[L. Protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-01.u167	He didn't even read! Does he read anything?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-01.u168	Mrs Mariana Mortágua came here to say that our proposal is only for real estate.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-01.u169	No, it's to the zé of the corner!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-01.u170	Mrs. Deputy, it is not. It is for anyone, any entity that identifies a devolved property of the State.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-01.u171	Sure! Since I pay millions!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-01.u172	The honourable Member herself, if you wish, can identify them. In fact, in your party, you have know-how in real estate promotion. [[Congrats from Mr Rodrigo Saraiva.]] Therefore, if they so desire, they can certainly identify returnees and make your offer. Second, as I said, those real estate that will be purchased, by whom you offer to buy them, will have to go for affordable lease. That's the condition, you have to go for affordable rent. Therefore, be real estate millionaire funds, be it Mrs Deputy, be it a housing cooperative,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-01.u173	All but the state!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-01.u174	... anyone who buys these state's devolved property will have to place them on the affordable lease market.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-01.u175	What about private returnees?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-01.u176	If the honourable Member agrees that it is necessary to place the returnees at the service of the housing market,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-01.u177	And the private? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-01.u178	... will have the notion that the first, the most priority, should be the devolved property of the State. There is someone who offers to pick up these returned buildings and put them on the affordable lease market,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-01.u179	Let's take the privates!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-01.u180	...I don't understand why someone who's really worried about housing would reject this proposal. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-01.u181	Someone who offers to pick up the buildings!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-01.u182	To make a request for clarification, Mr Antonio Topa Gomes of the PSD Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-01.u183	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, of course, I begin by thanking the proposal of the Liberal Initiative, which, I must say, seems to me, in spite of everything and being the first idea, more detailed than the PowerPoint « More Housing » of the PS.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-01.u184	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-01.u185	It seems to me that, in fact, this is so surreal that even today, when, in a request from the Committee on Economic Affairs and Public Works, the Minister was asked to come to Parliament to defend this proposal, the PS said: "No, it cannot come, because the Minister is not prepared to defend it, because there are no diplomas, there is nothing. Do not keep on seeking. ” [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-01.u186	I didn't say that!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-01.u187	He was asking the PSD not to hit me, because I actually agree with the PS. There are no diplomas, the Minister is not prepared to defend this and, therefore, I confess that she was waiting for PS palms right now. I have to say that the PS proposals are sick of a problem. Of course, they have positive things. You have, Mrs. Member, as you said, but you do politics for the refusal: "We have proposals against local accommodation, we are against immigrants who can buy a house in Portugal,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-01.u188	They're not immigrants, they're summer immigrants!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-01.u189	...we are against the owners who have two houses». Politics is done for good, it is done for mobilization, as the colleague of the Left Block Pedro Filipe Soares said, of all those who have housing, for a question of optimizing resources for themselves and the Portuguese state. Yes, Mr President, we believe that the State should participate in its buildings, but let me tell you, the issue of housing should not and cannot be a state war against the private. We must mobilise the country in these means. [[PSD applause.]] Therefore, it seems more or less evident that the party that has the most advanced proposals in the area of housing is the PSD. It seems that the only criticism of the PS is that we have not yet quantified, but in due course we will arrive there, when we are government. We will not go to the stage of the discussion yet, but only when we have the initiatives. I ask the honourable Member whether he is available to add in his view the social-democratic vision, particularly the proposals presented by the PSD. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-01.u190	For the last request for clarification, Mr Hugo Carvalho of the Socialist Party has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-01.u191	Mr President, Mr Guimarães Pinto, I welcome you and would like to ask you a few questions. First of all, I want to leave a greeting. There is always a glow in the eyes of the Liberal Initiative when it speaks of the speculative market of housing and, therefore, register, first, that same note. But, Mr Guimarães Pinto, not having the ambition—because I do not have the ability to give you a lesson or knowledge about economic policy or economics, there is something I would like to record here in this debate: that the question of supply and demand in the rental market and on the market of purchase, in the housing market, cannot be placed simply between supply and demand. If that were the case, Mr President, over the past few years the price of housing in Portugal would have fallen and not increased.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-01.u192	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-01.u193	And even so, if this equation were simply linear, it is also necessary to understand who has incomes to balance that equation between supply and demand, and that is something that the Liberal Initiative and the honourable Member always try to forget in their speeches. by saying that the market balance between supply and demand is to buy buildings of half a million or 1 million euros, we are always looking for an outside audience, not the Portuguese ones, to enter these same markets and find that same offer there.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-01.u194	Go away with the tax benefits!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-01.u195	The second note is that the problem of the Liberal Initiative is always in the details. The devil is always in the details. Mr President, I would like to ask you about the proposal you have listed here in this pulpit. The Liberal Initiative was perennial to say that the privates are here to keep the state heritage. I understand your enthusiasm, even because cities are getting more and more full and you need to look for all business opportunities for the private ones. And the honourable Member was very clear to say that you have two months to do the consultation, you have two years to present the project and that you will be placed on the affordable lease. What did you not say? How many years does it have to stay on the affordable lease and what happens after that deadline is over. That is very relevant, because what you are doing here — and that is always the problem of the Liberal Initiative — is forgetting the details. They come here with a proposal that can be accepted, so that, at the end of the day, this property is available for what you like, namely real estate speculation. I therefore conclude with this question: after weeks when we have been actively discussing housing, has the Liberal Initiative already realized that in Portugal there is a problem in the speculative market, in the real estate market for rent and construction? [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-01.u196	To reply, Mr. Carlos Guimarães Pinto has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-01.u197	Mr President, Mr António Topa Gomes, I begin by deconstructing the idea that we came here to talk about a private war against the state. On the contrary, our proposal is precisely for collaboration between the State and the private, to do something that the State has been unable to do in recent years to rehabilitate its devolved property. We do not enter this war, we are in favour of the market economy, and a market economy is made of collaboration, collaboration among all the entities that are part of it.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-01.u198	Sure, sure!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-01.u199	Even the workers are collaborators!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-01.u200	Mr Hugo Carvalho asked how many years these houses have to stay on the affordable lease. You know that we, unlike the PS, don't make proposals for PowerPoint. The proposal I have tabled here today will be on the website of the Assembly of the Republic, contrary to yours, which are still being discussed and detailed, to the extent that you are afraid that your Minister will come here to defend them, to the point of having this fear! [[Applause from the IL.]] Our proposals are already being made. Tomorrow, at this time, you will be on the website of the Assembly of the Republic and you will see that we will put the minimum number of years for the houses to stay on the affordable lease.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-01.u201	And then?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-01.u202	We're proposing five years. They accept the proposal and, in particular, propose ten years if they understand it. What can happen later, whatever the hypothesis comes after, will be better than what is being done right now.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-01.u203	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-01.u204	Because an abandoned property, which is not used, neither for public services, nor for housing, nor for anything else, is of the greatest waste this country can have.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-01.u205	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-01.u206	Therefore, whatever the fate of those buildings, after the 5 or 10 years of affordable lease, will be much better than having them as they are now, years ago, to the abandonment, to the point of the Portuguese state or even to know how many they have. They're so abandoned that there's not even a list of these buildings. Even in the state database they are abandoning! So, yes, let's get these buildings not to be abandoned and, as you will see in the proposal—because we present the bills in bill and not in PowerPoint—the state will have a deadline to say whether that property will be used or not, and only if the State does not have a use for that property is that this property will be sold. This is responsibility, this is collaboration between the State and civil society, Mr. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-01.u207	To give the political statement on behalf of the CFP Parliamentary Group, Mrs Paula Santos has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-01.u208	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Families are already cutting in food. The INE data confirm what is obvious, that the speculative increase in prices, alongside the loss of purchasing power, in the absence of government solutions to deal with this situation, brings nothing good, as the reality shows, and will deprive thousands of workers and reformers of access to essential goods, such as food. On average, lacticines increased by more than 25 %, fruit and vegetables by more than 30 %, meat and fish by more than 20 %, compared to the same period. Having more than a hot meal a day, unfortunately, is not possible for all people. Costs with energy and telecommunications increased as well as costs with housing increased. The high housing costs are today an obstacle to access to housing and, for those who have a home, they do not stop increasing income or monthly payment of bank credit, for amounts that are absolutely unbearable, taking into account low wages and low reforms. Add to the inflation of 2022 an inflation of 8, 1 % this year, the largest in recent decades, which means a new and brutal increase in prices. We know that rising prices do not all affect everyone in the same way. Inflation reflects the price evolution of a set of goods and services. But low-income families are much more affected, because there are a set of goods that no longer have the conditions to acquire and what is basic, food and energy, had much higher increases than inflation. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, life is more expensive. Everything increases, only wages are left behind. This is a reality that contrasts with the colossal profits obtained by the economic groups, some for record values: Galp gained a profit of EUR 881 million; EDP ( Energys of Portugal ) Renewables obtained EUR 681 million of profit; Sonae and Jerome Martins'profits increased by more than 30 % in the first months of 2022; insurers increased their profits by 39 % to EUR 900 million; Santander Bank doubled profits to EUR 568 million; BPI ( Portuguese Investment Bank) profits increased by 50 % to EUR 207 million. What is missing in the workers' and pensioners' pockets remains in the pockets of the economic groups. He just doesn't see who doesn't want to! There is clear use of economic groups. And why? Because speculative prices are not blocked. What prevents you? Once again, the PS government and the parties to its right, PSD, Arrival, IL and CDS,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-01.u209	CDS? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-01.u210	... do not confront the interests of the economic groups nor do they want to damage their profits. They say that this is because of war, inflation, as if nothing could be done, as if it were a fatality. They say regret the inequalities, but when there are concrete solutions to overcome and solve the problems, they reject everything. As in the period of the troika it was shown that we were not condemned to a policy of exploitation and impoverishment — with the struggle of the workers and the people it was possible to stop it — we are also now not condemned to this political option of low wages, nor to poverty and inequality. This is the nature of capitalism and who defends it and intends to perpetuate it. Priority is profit, capital, wealth accumulation. For the capital, people's lives don't matter. For a minority to accumulate more and more wealth, there is a huge majority that impoverishes working. Capitalism is not a solution, but part of the problem. We don't have to live like this. This is what they want to impose on us. Is this the way of life they talk about so much? Are you lucky for a half a dozen and misery for those who live in your work? Don't! This is not the way of life that is fair. Sacrifices for those who work, without a decent outlook of life, without a prospect of giving children and grandchildren a better life, so that economic groups continue to explore more and more. This is what we have right now. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, today, as in the past, the intervention, action and struggle of workers, pensioners, immigrants, young people, women, is crucial to break this path, is crucial to an alternative policy. We welcome the struggle of workers on 9 February, marked by the CGTP-IN (General Confederation of Portuguese Workers — National Interunion), a day of indignation, protest and struggle. We welcome the actions of the movement The Same of Always Paying, last February 16th. We welcome the demonstration of the Right Life Movement last February 25th. Workers, populations, denounced the growing injustices and inequalities, demanded that prices for essential goods and services be increased, that wages and pensions be increased. They claim a life with dignity. We are not a poor country; we are a country that, due to the policy of the right, has been impoverished. We have many potentials that can and should be exploited for our development. In the immediate future, to combat the worsening of living conditions: through the increase in wages and pensions and a fair distribution of wealth created; by the control and regulation of prices of essential goods and services; by combating speculation and against the promotion of the interests of economic groups; by promoting national production; and by strengthening public services. Even today, we have submitted to the Assembly of the Republic a proposal for the interim increase in pensions, with immediate effect, of 9, 1 %, at a minimum value of 60 €. Fair enough! It is fair for pensioners and pensioners, who are increasingly pushed to poverty. The workers, the reformers, the people, know that the CFP does not lower their arms and that there is, and will be, intervening and fighting for the lifting of the living conditions of our people. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-01.u211	They signed up to ask for clarifications four Mrs. Members and the Bureau were informed that the honourable Member will answer in two blocks. Mr Buno Nunes, from the Parliamentary Group of the European People's Party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-01.u212	Mr President, Mrs Paula Santos, listen to this statement almost to ask: where did they stop the ship? The PCP, according to news coming from the public, was the most profitable party in last year. It was 2 million euros! But the PCP talks about the profits of the big capital and those capitalists who generate profit. This after hearing the PCP workers, including the Secretary-General himself, saying that sometimes it is difficult to live with 700 € of order. The PCP speaks of the difficulty that the population and the workers go through, as if they only defend the workers and we all defend those who do not work.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-01.u213	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-01.u214	It is a mark of them: only the PCP is to defend the workers. The CFP, in the management of the municipal chambers, as is the case with the Sixth Chamber, where the honourable Member is a municipal Member, continues to have neighborhoods, such as the Fifth Lagoas, with sewage in the open sky, where people live in misery. For more than 50 years, you've been there and you've never done anything.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-01.u215	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-01.u216	The PCP continues to have Quinta da Princess. The PCP, in a municipality managed by itself, had the District of the Second Tower and, for years and years, resolved absolutely nothing, and now comes to talk about misery. Now they remember the misery! The CFP continues to have this policy that attempts to leverage the class war and completely forgets that in the last seven years it has been in management for six years.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-01.u217	It's true! It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-01.u218	For six years he did absolutely nothing for the progression of careers of workers. [[Congrats from the CH.]] He did absolutely nothing for the reduction of the VAT rate in food goods, except for those that are sold at the Front Party!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-01.u219	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-01.u220	He did absolutely nothing by the IMI, by the family IRS paid in the municipalities, except when you do not pay in the Quinta da Atalaia.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-01.u221	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-01.u222	The CFP continues to cry out, as if it were in 1974, a number of stories, forgetting that what happens today, of inflation, of the cost of life, is due to ideologies like those VV. For example, they defend the failure to condemn the Russian invasion of Ukraine,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-01.u223	You must conclude, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-01.u224	...that has so much harmed the whole of Europe. VV. Ex.s are still closed in that bubble, they are still closed, and I would almost say that this speech that you found - certainly, in one of the faxes spread by the Assembly of the Republic and at the end has the signature of Álvaro Cunhal.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-01.u225	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-01.u226	Because they're still having the same conversation at the end of these years. Once and for all: get out of the bubble, live the reality. And no, it is not you who defend the people and the workers. Everyone here defends differently, but not how you do it. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-01.u227	To request clarification, you now have the floor of Mrs Isabel Pires of the Left Block.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-01.u228	Mr President, Mrs Paula Santos, I would like to thank you for the subject you have brought here, because it is very relevant. We live in times when, while some say there is no crisis, the truth is that we have large economic groups to win in a completely absurd way, as we have not seen for decades, but at the same time these same companies that increase prices astronomically for people. That is, we have a contradiction, a paradoxical issue right now. at the same time that there are these extraordinary and abusive profits, we also have a problem with families, insofar as wages do not accompany the inflation we are living. Very recently we have been able to see that even the price, for example, of essential goods is higher than that same inflation, and that means that families, particularly the poorest families, are having difficulties. We also know very recently that the support that has been given has obviously not been able to prevent this breakdown of consumption, precisely because they are just extraordinary support and are not part of a general policy, which should be placed on the table, of wage increases, which are absolutely essential. So one of the issues which, from our point of view, is the question which we wanted to address, has to do with an essential measure, which is price control of essential goods. We know today that there are Portuguese families that are cutting in food, but paying much more for that same diet, for example, and therefore we need to look at the issue of essential goods, food goods, and realize that we must, as we have an obligation, control these prices in order to respond to the difficulties of families. I ask you, then, Mrs Paula Santos, if you agree that a price control measure of essential goods, which has already been done in other areas, may have a positive result. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-01.u229	In reply, Mrs Paula Santos has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-01.u230	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would like to thank the questions raised. Mrs Isabel Pires of the Left Block, it is, in fact, essential that there are concrete measures, solutions for the control of prices of essential goods, food, energy, electricity and gas, which allow to stop this speculative increase in prices that everyone is looking at — only does he not see who he does not want — and is preventing people from having access to essential goods. In fact, it has been reported today that families are already being cut into food, families that are no longer able to make two hot meals a day, and this actually reveals the need for a firm intervention in this matter. We regret that in this House of the Republic the political forces, particularly the PS and the parties to its right, have rejected the proposals that the CFP has brought here. Mr Bruno Nunes of the Arrival, when he says here that everyone defends the workers, I apologize, but it is not true. That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-01.u231	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-01.u232	Why when proposals such as this were discussed here, for example, to stop food prices, where was the arrival? on the side of economic groups,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-01.u233	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-01.u234	...by the side of the profits of Sonae and Jerome Martins,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-01.u235	No, no!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-01.u236	Liar! That's a lie!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-01.u237	... against the populations, against the workers, who are sacrificed with speculative increases, who have lost and continue to lose purchasing power and who have no prospect of recovery from it. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-01.u238	You've been fooling these workers for six years!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-01.u239	Mr President, on the various questions that have been raised by Mr Bruno Nunes, I would like to say the following: of your intervention, what we can conclude is a deep disregard...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-01.u240	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-01.u241	... because of the difficulties that workers, pensioners and families are experiencing today, difficulties with regard to the acquisition of essential goods, and here we refer to food, difficulties in meeting their obligations with respect to housing, considering the increase in the provision of housing credit. Mr President, I would like to point out another: when we brought here a proposal to stop the increase in benefits, so that it would be the bank's profits to pay the increase in interest rates that are being imposed and which are leading to the increase in benefits, some up to 80%, what was the position of the Arrival?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-01.u242	He didn't defend them!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-01.u243	It was, once again, next to the bank, alongside those who are profiting from this situation, against families, against workers, against the reformed. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-01.u244	You gave your hand to the PS!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-01.u245	This is the truth that needs to be said. And now, as far as housing is concerned, he has recorded his intervention, but he could have referred to the fundamental investment that was made, a few weeks ago, the intervention of the municipality of Seixal in the relocation of dozens of families,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-01.u246	You're against the families! You're the fraud of the century!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-01.u247	...because if it weren't for this intervention, these families had not been re-hosted.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-01.u248	That's a lie!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-01.u249	I'm talking about concrete facts and reality. And who has resigned over the years to guarantee the right to housing was not the municipality, it was the PS government,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-01.u250	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-01.u251	... was the PSD and CDS government, which, over the decades, left,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-01.u252	You're like the PS!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-01.u253	... as they continue to leave, the issues of housing for such a market, for real estate, for the great owners, for those who look at housing as a commodity and not as a right.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-01.u254	Mrs. Deputy, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-01.u255	This is the truth. The investment is being made and, not this intervention, these populations and families had not yet had their home worthy. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-01.u256	Mrs. Deputy, you really have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-01.u257	I will even finish, Mr President, by referring to two aspects that are fundamental: if the value of the social pass is today €40, and not €60, €80, €100, having the families left with this money, this was due to the intervention of the CFP.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-01.u258	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-01.u259	If children and young people today have free school textbooks, a expenditure that was very significant for families, this was by intervention of the PCP.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-01.u260	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-01.u261	And, Mr President, even to conclude, because lies cannot be admitted in this House of the Republic, it is important that the following be made very clear: the CFP fulfils all its obligations, including its tax obligations. The PCP pays taxes. Their revenue comes from the contribution of their militants and their activities.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-01.u262	They know they're lying! [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-01.u263	The same can no longer be said about arriving, which depends and is financed by the economic groups. [[PCP applause.]] [[CH protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-01.u264	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-01.u265	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-01.u266	Mr President, it is for an appeal to the Bureau on the conduct of the proceedings.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-01.u267	So, please interview the table. The Bureau is always very jealous when the question is addressed to someone other than the Bureau itself. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-01.u268	There will be no need for jealousy, Mr President. Thank you very much for giving the floor. It is only to ask that this information be distributed in due course, because there are some documents, the following: firstly, the proposal of zero VAT for food goods, which came forward in this Chamber ; then, because there is certainly this information to the Constitutional Court and it will be easy for the Bureau to have access to this information, which is distributed to this House the profits of the Communist Party that have been declared, the price of Quinta da Atalaia, as well as the listing of real property that the CFP, as one of the largest holders of real estate in Portugal, has in its list of assets. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-01.u269	Do you want to rob the buildings again? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-01.u270	The Bureau will follow up on the first request made by the honourable Member. As for the accounts of the parties, the Assembly of the Republic does not control them; the Assembly of the Republic controls the government and the administration, and there are own entities to monitor the accounts of the parties. You now have the floor to make a request for clarification, Mrs Vera Braz of the Socialist Party.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-01.u271	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We well know that, despite the decline in the fourth consecutive month of the inflation rate, we continue to go through difficult times and that there will be an increase in prices, although more contained, and that it will continue to represent a high cost of living for the Portuguese, with more significant impacts on the most vulnerable families.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-01.u272	And not just!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-01.u273	Therefore, it is essential to maintain public policies that can respond, that can allow there to be equity, that allow social justice, supporting those who need the most: families with lower incomes, families with children, young people who are struggling for the beginning of their adult life and elderly people who deserve to maintain a dignified life. However, this, Mrs Deputies, is not done with seemingly easy solutions of constant interference in the functioning of the market, which, rather than contributing, can even bring harmful consequences to our economy and to consumers. [[PCP protests.]] We agree, yes, with effective supervision by the competent authorities, in particular with regard to various sectors of activity whose practices denounce intolerable uses at the cost of the lives of the Portuguese and to the detriment of their quality of life. But you want the ladies. Ladies and gentlemen, by means of a model of price control, will it lead to a disincentive to production? Do you want to see that there are no essential goods in the supermarket shelves tomorrow? Do you want the absence of these products?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-01.u274	Is that really serious? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-01.u275	You're serious, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-01.u276	Have you ever gone to the pharmacy?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-01.u277	And there are several examples. Madam Member, we must have serious policies, such as the two important agreements reached, whether in public service or in the private sector; such as the increase in the national minimum wage; such as the reform of the minimum of existence. Mrs Deputies, this is done with social support, and there have been several measures to support families and businesses — I remind you, for example, of the extraordinary support to the food tank, which has reached 1 million families — this is done with measures to support housing. Mr Duarte Alves said yesterday that we are subsidizing the increase in interest rates: no, Mr Deputy, we are actually reducing family charges. [[PCP protests.]] Madam Member, do you or do you not agree that the way ahead is a path to combating inequalities, a way of valuing a strong social state that provides economic development and social progress? Whether or not it agrees that this is done with the support of social dialogue, with public and private investment and that, effectively...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-01.u278	Mrs. Deputy, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-01.u279	I will finish, Mr. President. As I said, does it agree or not that this is done with the support of social dialogue, with public and private investment, and that all this actually contributes to improving the quality of life of Portuguese people? That is what the Government of the Socialist Party has done. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-01.u280	For the last request for clarification, Mr Hugo Carvalho, of the PSD Parliamentary Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-01.u281	Mr President, I welcome the CFP and Mrs Paula Santos, who will certainly have the sympathy to allow me to clear up what we really disagree about. The honourable Member makes this debate on rising cost of living an opportunity to attack capitalism. We all know that the PCP proposal for this was a planned economy in which you and your central committee decided what I was doing, what I was working on, what I was buying, what I was studying... [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-01.u282	You want to see that capitalism is a collateral damage to this debate? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-01.u283	They decided on you and the central committee. Now, that doesn't matter to me, it doesn't matter to anyone my age and much less to someone in this room, except to VV. Ex. Anyway, that's off-limits. There is an interesting formulation which makes it, basically, « the rich who pay for the crisis » or « who have won with the increase in prices that pay for the crisis ». My first challenge to you is whether you do not want to put the economic agent who won the most with the price increase on the head of that list, which is no less than the state. [[PSD applause.]] This socialist state, addicted to charging taxes on everything that moves, has gained a lot, a lot, with the increase in the cost of living, and fears not to return anything to the Portuguese. More: a socialist state that continues to promote the other side of the increase in the cost of living, in which no food cabaz can deliver to people, because they cannot move forward with a public contest; the face in which the children will be taken to school, the school is closed and we have to go home and think if we have money to pay someone to stay with them; the face in which one goes to the hospital, the hospital is closed or has no doctors and we have to go home and think if we have any money to go to a private consultation. [[PCP protests.]] And, on all these trips home, we're worried, not knowing if the Minister of Housing is already there changing the door lock. [[IL Members' laughs.]] This is the other face of increasing the cost of living for all Portuguese who have been promoted by the Socialist Party. Therefore, the second challenge is that of its evaluation of the Socialist Party, which passed here late in the afternoon in an exercise of opposition to opposition. The bottom line is that the PSD doesn't know what it says, that the PCP doesn't have any proposals either, that the IL proposals are like this, that the Block's proposals are crushed... Well, you don't see anything about the PS, when what you should see were just two things: that they would rule and work, because they chose you exactly for that! [[PSD applause.]] They are very concerned about being opposed, I see that they are very concerned about being opposed to the PSD — and yet, because that time is really coming, that of you being opposed to the PSD —,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-01.u284	PSD, I don't know!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-01.u285	... but whether or not it agrees or does not agree that the Socialist Party could have done so, and perhaps, with which the State had another role at this difficult time for people? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-01.u286	To reply, this time disciplinaryly as regards time, Mrs Paula Santos has the floor. [[Laughing from PCP MP Paula Santos.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-01.u287	Mr President, I am grateful for the questions put by Mrs Vera Cruz of the Socialist Party...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-01.u288	Vera Braz!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-01.u289	Oh, I'm sorry, I'm so sorry. I am grateful for the questions put by Mrs Vera Braz of the Socialist Party and Mr Hugo Carvalho of the PSD. Mrs Vera Braz, in her speech, made it clear that the Socialist Party's refusal to adopt solutions to deal with this situation. And the fact that it makes him responsible for the worsening living conditions of the workers, the reformers, our people, the families as a whole. It is because, you see, you make a reference to the fact that you know that prices will continue to increase, but it does not have to be that way.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-01.u290	Sure!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-01.u291	Why will they continue to increase?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-01.u292	Because of the war! From the invasion of Russia to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-01.u293	Why, recognizing this reality — which is indeed a reality and is going to get worse — does the government not intervene to prevent this speculative increase in prices? That's the point!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-01.u294	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-01.u295	But, then, are we going to figure everything out? It's just that the government intervenes, it's just not the way you want it!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-01.u296	In view of this observation, what we see on the part of the Socialist Party is a total subservience to those who have actually been making a huge gain in this situation: the economic groups. The honourable Member says that it does not go through market interference. We also understand here what priorities are given by the Socialist Party to the situation in which we live because such markets overlap with people's specific lives.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-01.u297	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-01.u298	You're wrong, Mrs. Member, you're wrong.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-01.u299	For the PCP, what is really important is the concrete life of people:... [[PCP applause.]] ... their stability, their security, ensure that they don't lose their homes, guarantee a wage with fire, guarantee a reform with dignity. But here too there is a question that must be mentioned: then, if there can be an intervention such as that which is, for example, with the regulated electricity market and as that which has been even advanced, in a limited way, for the regulated gas market,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-01.u300	Exactly, very well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-01.u301	... if there is also a definition—how is our country's knowledge of how the prices of medicines are established, why can't we extend this to essential goods, such as food? Oh, my God! [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-01.u302	Let's see the different examples!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-01.u303	Or the issues of housing, what is fundamental to people’s lives? Oh, my God! This is what the Socialist Party does not answer. Mr Hugo de Carvalho, I saw you doing a huge gymnastics and contradicting yourself, I would say, screaming.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-01.u304	He even changed the lock of the house!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-01.u305	He makes the reference that whoever has been winning... then he talks about state taxes... we defend a fair fiscal policy and I think it's slightly different from what Mr. Deputie and his party are defending.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-01.u306	Of course!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-01.u307	in this ‘gypsy’ that you did, I noticed that those who are even winning — the bank, the large distribution — are those who pay their workers minimum wages:...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-01.u308	And the oil!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-01.u309	... companies in the energy sector, oil, energy. But there is no problem with that!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-01.u310	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-01.u311	And the state does not pay minimum wages! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-01.u312	They can continue to impose the prices they want, with workers getting less and less pay and reform, and there is no question. The problem is the state's revenues to ensure the National Health Service, which has just criticized!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-01.u313	Yeah!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-01.u314	The problem is state revenue to ensure public school!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-01.u315	That's it! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-01.u316	What about the expenses? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-01.u317	We believe that the policies that are followed by the Socialist Party are not the necessary ones, because they are much closer to the positions of the PSD, the Liberal Initiative and the Arrival. [[Meanwhile, he took the presidency of Vice President Editi Estrela.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-01.u318	I would ask you to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-01.u319	I will finish, Madam President. Now, what we need, in fact, are conditions to ensure the right to housing, to ensure social protection, to ensure the National Health Service, to ensure public school, and this is done, yes, with a fair fiscal policy, relieving labour income, micro, small and medium-sized enterprises...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-01.u320	You must conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-01.u321	...and taxing great fortunes and great profits, which is what you systematically refuse. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-01.u322	That's tax!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-01.u323	Mr Pedro Filipe Soares of the Left Block Parliamentary Group has the floor for a political statement.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-01.u324	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In the past weekend thousands of people went out on the street, claiming a fair life. And in this very different manifestation, there was a poster that caught my attention. He said: "The profits of them are our poverty." I believe that this phrase is very correct to show the "exposed fractures" that are increasingly fattening in our society. Let us look, for example, at the news that, I believe, shocked the country, or at least shocked me in particular: says the INE that consumption fell peak in 2022, particularly at the end of the year, and that where it fell even dramatically was in the purchase of food. It says the National Institute of Statistics that there is no record, even during the period of the troika, of such a break in the purchase of food. When the crisis comes to our plate, when the crisis questions the food of our population, I believe that it is reason to sound all the alarms, and these "exposed fractures" of our society are unequivocal, unmistakable and should have answers from public policies. But if people feel they're stolen every time they go to a supermarket, the truth is they really are. It is increasingly expensive to put food on the table — 20 % more expensive than a year ago — and this is not the fault of faceless inflation. It is that this year, Jerome Martins, wife of the Pink Doce, and SONAE, owner of the Continent, had added profits of nearly 700 million euros. "The profits of them are our poverty"! If we look at energy costs — which are indicated in several production chains as one of the main factors for price increases — and then look at Galp, we see EUR 881 million, more than 100 % in the previous year. The profits of them are our misery! We look, for example, at the cost of telecommunications and we see that neither the regulator can justify how the theft is happening. It says ANACOM ( National Telecommunications Authority ) itself that the responses given by MEO, Vodafone, NOS to the increase in their prices — 7, 8 %, almost 8 % — are absolutely unjustified. And someone will say, "well, but perhaps these companies have increased their workers' wages. Not at all! The increase in workers' wages was 1 %. Where's the rest of the money going? Once again, for the profits! The profits of them are our misery. We look at the cost of housing and it is another "exposed fracture" in our society. As they fire interest rates, which render costs unrelated to housing credit, they also fire the profits of the banks. Santander had more than 90% in 2022 : EUR 568 million! The New Bank, curiously only now that it has come out of the state sphere, is that it begins to make profits : EUR 570 million in 2022. BPI had a profit of EUR 365 million. And the BCP, not to stay behind, had an increase of 50 %: EUR 207 million. The profits of them are our misery! And throughout this period of profit, the shooting of interest rates has caused families to be and to be in trouble. For example, whoever has an average housing loan of €150 000 has seen in one year to shoot what he pays the bank. One year ago I would pay about 460 € ; pay today, in March of 2023, 760 €! And the wages, have they increased in that proportion? And the income of the families, have they increased in that proportion? Don't! The government didn't want it! The government lets profits shoot, it doesn't control prices, but families are constantly paying, people are constantly paying. The profits of them are our misery! While these "exposed fractures" of increasing inequalities, which, from education to housing, deny life, deny the future, throw people into desperate situations, continue fattening, we do not have a country that can be said worthy. We don't have the right life that those thousands of people who went out on the street on the weekend claimed. And the question is very simple. We know that if we look right, they will always say that there is an answer for people. When people ask « but what hand is going to my pocket? They will always say "don't worry, it's an invisible hand, it's from the market, it's not bad and it's even legal. » Well, that invisible market hand is stealing people! The profits of them are our misery! But if this is the position on the right, curiously, it is also the position of the Socialist Party. Have you had a strong hand to prevent price increases, to prevent abuse, to prevent the cartelization that exists, in an undisputed and visible way, in many sectors? Don't! Don't move a straw about it! Tell the regulator to come tomorrow: someone who comes and does something; the Socialist Party and the Government are not! in this invisible market hand, the government does not put a hand. She's going to the people's pocket and the government's still not getting her hand on it! She steals the family income and the government continues to hold hands. Where does the government put your hand? It's in the family income. Doing what? By pushing down, saying that wages cannot rise, because they are a threat to inflation; that they cannot increase the Public Administration, because it is a threat to public accounts. In practice, he tells the country that the threat to the country is the one who works, it is the one who lives from his work. Ladies and gentlemen. Members of the PS, Mrs and Mrss. Members of the Government of the Socialist Party, please do not imitate Montenegro, which was famous for a single sentence, in which it said that the country was better, people are not. The growth of GDP ( gross domestic product ) of 6, 7 %, with widespread impoverishment of people, could make the right, if it was in government, to be content, which is incomprehensible is how it leaves the PS impatience and serene. I think that's irresponsibility in the days that run. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-01.u325	Mr President, you have four requests for clarification. How do you intend to respond?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-01.u326	Two to two, Madam President.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-01.u327	All right, answer two to two. To make the first request for clarification, Mrs Rita Madeira of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-01.u328	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it is undeniable that we face difficult times, it is undeniable that none of us are satisfied. Unfortunately, Portugal is not a single case. Unfortunately, it is not only the Portuguese who live with high inflation rates, which deal with the speculation of the cost of essential goods, with the increase of energy cost, with the successive increase of interest rates. No, sir, we're not. But do you know what distinguishes us from the others? Do you know where we make the difference? It's because we don't resign, it's because we're worried and because we do. It's very easy to go up there, to the rostrum, and point your finger, it's very easy to say that it's all wrong, it's very easy to go to the street to post a poster,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-01.u329	Easy? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-01.u330	... but in the 'H hour', when voting, to be part of the solution, to be part of the difference in the lives of families, they vote against, as they did with the Dignified Work Agenda. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Fortunately, at times so difficult and so uncertain that we go through, we have a government capable of having the right accounts, capable of having an economic growth above all forecasts, able to lower the inflation rate, capable of reducing public debt and, at the same time — yes, Mr President! - help families. Portugal was 4. the euro area country which has allocated more support to people to mitigate this crisis and the effects of inflation: it was about EUR 6 billion.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-01.u331	It makes all the sense!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-01.u332	And it's not the PS that says it, it's not the government that says it, it's the European Commission that says it. We have signed a historic agreement with the social partners, which provides for a gradual increase in the minimum wage; we have agreed on measures that provide for an increase in the average wage; we have valued the public administration's careers; we have reduced the IRS; we have implemented the measure of free day care;...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-01.u333	Badly implemented!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-01.u334	... we increase family allowance and free school textbooks; we reduce the rate of public transport; we have the lowest rate of risk of poverty, or social exclusion, ever. Is there still much to do? Surely there is! That is why we continue here, that is why the Portuguese continue to trust us, because we present solutions and implement measures that make the difference in the lives of the Portuguese. And the gentlemen, how long are you gonna keep pointing your finger? Oh, my God! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-01.u335	For a request for clarification, Mrs Rita Matias of the Parliamentary Group of the Arrival has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-01.u336	Mr President, Mr Pedro Filipe Soares, I have expressed some concern about those people who speak out on the street and therefore I would like to ask how much your constancy is truly inclusive or not. And I would like to read some posters that have been raised today at the BTL door, which said « We want more serious legislation, not families in poverty », « Against persecution », « Against injustice », « Against instability » and « Against unemployment ». It is that, as we are here, at the time when you show your solidarity with those who suffer, André Ventura is in the hands of those local housing owners who suffer and who fear for their future. The speaker showed a picture illustrating the situation she mentioned. [[Congrats from the CH.]] The first question, then, is this: is he concerned only with the misery of some or is he sympathetic to the misery of all? The second question I would like to ask you is whether you like to look at just a few data. You spoke to us on bank profits, on profits from large economic groups, and I would like to ask you whether you like to look at the data and what the Portuguese tell us. And because you spoke in housing, I mean, very concretely, the following: 85% of young people between the ages of 18 and 30 show intention to buy a house; 60% of young people say that buying their own home is an investment for the future, and I know that this shocks with their concept, of constant attack on private property; 40% of young people still say that this is a way to create a home. Therefore, its efabulation was beautiful, but I would like to talk about concrete proposals, which are under discussion. In the State budget, the Czech Republic submitted a proposal calling for the creation of a programme to support young people in the acquisition of their own homes, i.e. for the State to share and assist in what is the main difficulty of a young person in access to housing, which is the entry into a home. In the period of the State Budget, the Left Block spoke alongside all other parties and voted against. by the way, this proposal already deserves some solidarity from Mr Rui Tavares, who has already put forward proposals in this area—it is amazing! —...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-01.u337	« Until now»? Oh, my God! It's on our show! In yours, I wasn't! Our program didn't have nine pages! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-01.u338	What program? Oh, my God! The Free, now, do you have a program? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-01.u339	... because you are following Viktor Orbán's proposals, in Hungary, which have a visible success,... [[Congrats from the CH.]] [[L. Protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-01.u340	You have to learn!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-01.u341	...in fact, it's the only country that has the birth rate growing, the families growing. The only question we want to ask is: this proposal from the European Parliament is currently in the centre of expertise. What is the sense of urgency of the Left Block? Do you want to follow up on this proposal and be with those who are the real needs of Portuguese youth, or not? Oh, my God! [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-01.u342	To reply, Mr Pedro Filipe Soares has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-01.u343	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Rita Madeira and Rita Matias, I would like to thank the questions. I would like to begin by replying to Mrs Rita Madeira, telling you, more or less, of course: what was missing in your question was the fundamental point of my intervention. It is that the government does not have to respond to the brutal increase in the difficulty of families, which is materialized in the cutting of consumption in food, I repeat, in food. We are not saying that luxury goods have ceased to be bought, that superfluous goods have ceased to be bought, we are saying, in fact, says the INE, that the biggest cut that there is record, even greater than in the troika period, is in food, in the purchase of food goods. On this issue, what you have to say to us is propaganda: 'Ah, but the government was the one who, in Europe, gave more support', 'the government does this, does that'. Madam Member, reality destroys this argument! What the reality is that it's increasing unemployment, it's dramatically increasing the difficulties of families and where they're cutting in food. On this point, the question that follows is acceptable: are the difficulties increasing for all? Don't! They are not increasing for the large economic groups of the bank, they are not increasing for the large economic groups of telecommunications, they are not increasing for the large distribution. These sectors—and they are now those who are also represented at the social dialogue table and with whom the Socialist Party is proud to have made an agreement—are having days like they never had, to have millionaire profits, to win as they have never won. And the question is the following: how is it that a party, which is called socialist,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-01.u344	It's said, but it's not!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-01.u345	Do you accept these inequalities? It's incomprehensible! For me, it's a mystery! And to answer this, the government's propaganda comes. Madam Member, the government's propaganda is impoverishing the country. When the honourable Member speaks of wages and repeats three times « increases», I believe that reality fails because the reality is that to combine government policy with wages rhyme with loss of purchasing power, I repeat, loss of purchasing power. And I believe that this choice would be understandable on the part of those who defend the market against everything and against all—which is the right—but this choice on the part of the Socialist Party is a surrender to the narrative on the right, but it is a choice, it is a loss, and we do not follow that indifference from those who need us most in the country.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-01.u346	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-01.u347	Mrs Rita Matias, I confess that I was at odds with your intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-01.u348	It's normal!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-01.u349	Looking at statistical data in Europe, the country where the cost of housing is higher is in Hungary. And when you hear the honourable Member say, "We want to bring Hungary's policies here," I answer you in a way that you will know and understand: go back, Mrs. Deputy, go back! We do not need these devils in our economy, on the contrary,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-01.u350	Venezuela is better! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-01.u351	...we want to defend the people of these choices that make the price of housing increase even more. [[CH protests.]] But the honourable Member says, « we have made a number of proposals, etc. I confess: when I saw Mr. André Ventura, in the photograph he showed, with the megaphone in his hand, I thought "is he speaking for the Mello or the Champalimaud...", because that is the megaphone he is here in the Assembly of the Republic. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-01.u352	For a request for clarification, Mrs Alma Rivera of the CFP Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-01.u353	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Pedro Filipe Soares, we thank you for the subject you brought here. I would begin by saying that every day, prices rise, house expenses increase and wages rise for less days of the month. People are choosing between heating the house or eating. This is the part of the message that the Right Life Movement and all the demonstrations that have been going through our country in recent days. This is the success of the right-wing policy, this is the success of the policies that the Socialist Party implements. And this is the feeling of the general population. People work so hard, they work so many extraordinary hours, because wages are so low that if they don't, if they don't kill themselves at work, they can't just pay their bills. This is the reality of our country that the Socialist Party refuses to oppose. The question we wanted to raise, given that people do not eat GDP, people do not eat the right accounts, people do not heat up the house with debt reduction and need concrete answers, is the following: that something else can explain the government's option not only not to tax, and not to intervene, in those who are the great profits of the large economic groups, as even those who subsidize by means of measures that pay the difference, seeking to reduce the cost to the citizen? Oh, my God! What other option, than a class option, an option of favoring large economic groups, can explain that while the Portuguese are having the worst years of their lives, companies such as Galp, EDP and Sonae are having the best years, the best results of their life? Oh, my God! What other option, that not a class option, an option to favor who else, to the detriment of those who have less, can explain these options? Oh, my God! [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-01.u354	For a request for clarification, Mr Hugo Oliveira of the PSD Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-01.u355	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I begin by thanking the Left Block, because this is a very important issue for us to debate today. We are in a cycle of galloping impoverishment, this cycle has a face and that face is António Costa. There are 2 million people with income of €554, or less, and there are still those who earn above only according to the social benefits of the State. If it weren't, we'd have 4 million Portuguese on the poverty line. We have a government that hides itself in the international environment and we see other countries go beyond our country. Mrs. Gentlemen, isn't that embarrassing? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-01.u356	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-01.u357	This is indeed a catastrophic social framework. We have an accounting government, with a supermarket as a background panel, announcing inspections, when Portuguese shopping difficulties are very visible, because prices are above inflation. My lords, the Government of the Socialist Party has been ruling for seven years and has been impoverishing the country. Yes, that's true! The PS led the country to impoverishment. Yeah, it was the PS that unprotected people! Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, it's true that the Portuguese cut into the food they buy. You are right, Mr: "Not even with the troika was cut so much in food", as we have seen today clearly in the media. The speaker posted news from the Newspaper. It is the highest bill of the last 27 years, of which the PS ruled 20 and, as you know, had your help in one part of them. Mr President, I know you want a very visible hand, a government that intervenes in everything. But, Mr President, knowing that it costs you, do you not agree that the starting point is the creation of wealth, so that it can be distributed then? Oh, my God! [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-01.u358	But? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-01.u359	She's already being distributed to the mammoths!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-01.u360	To reply, Mr Pedro Filipe Soares of the Left Block Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-01.u361	Madam President, I would like to congratulate Mrs Alma Rivera and Mr Hugo Oliveira, whose question I would like to give a very direct answer, Mr. When asking if we want the creation of wealth, if we are not seeing the creation of wealth, or if we want to deny the creation of wealth, I answer that it is being created in our country, as it has not happened for decades. It was the greatest creation of wealth, the one we had in the last year, since 1987, the problem is that it was concentrated in a set of hands or, worse, it was exported to other hands. We know that, in these exports, there is a part of responsibility on the right, when you privatize some of the monopolistic companies in our country. We know, on the other hand, that the choice to consider that, in the market, everything is normal, everything is trivial, is the choice that the right has brought, the PSD, in particular. And I am not even talking about the Social-Democrat PSD, because they always had some concern about putting some limits on the market—no! — I am talking about the real PSD, the one who thinks IL is a set of good people, with good ideas for the market, the one who wants to normalize the arrival. [[CH protests.]] For example, in relation to the question of poverty and the 2 million poor people whom you mentioned, who earn less than €545, we know that income has been cut off to part of them, because the arrival made an agreement with the PSD and the CDS, and also had the support of the IL in the Azores to reduce the payment of the supplementary solidarity for the elderly, on the one hand, and the RSI (social income for insertion), on the other hand.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-01.u362	They're kids!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-01.u363	What about the workers that the Block fired? Where are they all?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-01.u364	This shows well how poverty-response policy is often based on prejudice...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-01.u365	What prejudice, what? Oh, my God! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-01.u366	...or in the political way that makes the bridge to the extreme right. Those who suffer are the poorest, in particular, children. Mrs Alma Rivera, I believe that the question you have posed has an obvious answer and that unites us. The question you have asked about whether these profits are acceptable, at the moment in the country, the answer is 'no, they are not acceptable'. They result from the enrichment of a group of people, from shareholders of economic groups, at the expense of the widespread impoverishment of our country, at the expense of a middle class that is impoverishing, at the cost of choices that, from work to education to housing, place the middle class in difficulties to cope with normal living costs.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-01.u367	Where are those you fired? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-01.u368	When a middle-class family is forced to leave the center of a city, because it can no longer entail housing costs in that city, we have to realize that there is a structural problem here. There's a problem. What's the matter? Is it called a "state"? No, it's lack of state, it's letting the speculators do everything, it's letting the big economic groups have all the profits, it's not having the courage to defend people against this abuse. So I finish, as I recently started my speech, because the poster was absolutely sure: "The profits of them are our poverty"! That's why we have to fight these profits by controlling prices. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-01.u369	For a political declaration under Article 77 ( 2 ). the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly of the Republic have the floor Mr Jorge Gabriel Martins of the PS Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-01.u370	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The political statement I make today—and which only binds me, because I do it in the terms of the rules which, for that purpose, are permitted—is made by an ethical imperative and of consciousness regarding the future hospital of the West and what has been said about it, including in this House of Democracy. I am making it because, as a Member, I represent not only the populations of my municipality, which is Bombarral, and of my district, which is Leiria, but because I represent all Portuguese and Portuguese, and therefore I am made up of the sense of responsibility which I am responsible for being a Member representing my country and not the electoral circle for which I was elected. This preliminary clarification requires a brief description of the steps that have been taken so far with a view to the construction of new hospital equipment in the West region and reasons for the same. In 2008, the Programme of Action for Municipalities that integrate the Association of Municipalities of the West was approved, in which it was clearly identified the need for new hospital equipment to replace the hospitals of Torres Vedras, Caldas da Rainha and Peniche. However, due to lack of understanding among the region's autoarchs as to its location, the construction of such equipment did not advance, although some municipalities had made available and even acquired land for this purpose. In 2012, given the change in terms of accessibility, mainly due to the construction of the A8, a restructuring of health care in the West region was carried out, with the hospitals of Caldas da Rainha, Torres Vedras and Peniche in the Hospital Center of the West. However, such restructuring, which would have the alleged condemnation of increasing the quality of health services provided to the populations of the municipalities covered by the West Hospital Centre and having an economic effect of scale which would allegedly save in financial and human resources, had the opposite effect — by the duplication of resources, by the increase of the transport of users between three hospital poles, in parallel with the degradation and ageing of facilities, and, even more so, without the possibility of installation until today, despite the efforts to do so, of an intensive care unit, which has made it difficult to hire doctors and the opening of new specialties of hospitalization, which causes the daily transfer of users to other hospitals. Therefore, if in 2008 it was more than evident the need for the creation of the new hospital in the West region, now this evidence became a predominance that could no longer be expected. For this reason, the twelve municipalities that are part of the CIM ( Intermunicipal Community ) West decided unanimously, I repeat, unanimously, that a study should be drawn up to define the profile, size and location of the future hospital of the West, having been awarded this study to the University of Nova. Thus, following this concern of the populations and with the agreement of all, I repeat, of all the autarchs of the West region, this study was carried out in accordance with the schedule of charges, at the time approved by everyone—I would like to repeat again, by all — the presidents of the chamber that make up the twelve councils of the West CIS, having presented their conclusions, without limiting themselves to choosing, by way of rule and framework, the location of the hospital future — contrary to what some say — but also taking into account the social and economic impacts of the same, the possible solutions for the current poles and the design and profile of the future hospital, in which, according to the said study, it is expected to have more nine specialities of external consultation, plus six specialties of admission, 625 beds of admission, against the current 304, and above all, to create such a desired intensive care unit. It was therefore also on the basis of the existing consensus that the Government in the report of the State Budget for 2023 set out the location of the future West hospital, its profile and forms of financing for it, and to this end the Minister of Health constituted a working group and assumed the commitment to announce its decision during the first quarter of 2023. Now, the New University study indicates as a preferential location, among the nine studies, the location of Bombarral — next to the A8 and close to the West Line, in lands with technical maturity for this purpose, made available by the municipality, with the area of 50 ha — as the one that is the best alternative to arrive in less time to the hospital, and that is why it ensures the largest number of residents less than 30 minutes from the future hospital, thus promoting a more timely response to health care in relation to all other locations. In other words, if you are in the center of the West region, the location of Bombarral is the one that allows 421 000 users to arrive more quickly at the new hospital to benefit from quality hospital services. on the contrary, building the future hospital north of the West would mean that the populations of the municipalities of Torres Vedras, Lourinhã and the eight parishes of the municipality of Mafra, which are in greater number than the populations of the municipalities of Caldas da Raina and Óbidos, would travel to the Beatriz Ângelo Hospital, in Loures, or to the hospitals of Lisbon, because they would become closer to those municipalities, thus reducing to about 180 000 residents the influx to the future hospital of the West, leaving to justify the construction of a new equipment, since the profile that the study provides, and which is unanimously accepted as necessary, is dimensioned to 421 000 users. The same would be true if the option of building the future hospital was south of the West region. We would therefore be removing the population living north of the West region from the hospital, although this population is smaller than the population living in the south. In view of the above, the location of Bombarral is effectively that ensures a qualitative improvement in the provision of health care to residents in the West region and that it enables the functioning of the future hospital, with all the valences indicated by the study prepared by Universidade Nova, and that all unanimously recognize as necessary. The West region, which develops along the A8 and the railway line that has its name, will be an urban continuous, within 10 to 20 years, so also for reasons of territorial cohesion, makes sense that the construction of this equipment is in Bombarraral, which offers all kinds of services and conditions necessary for the installation of the hospital, as well as to welcome its users and professionals, some of whom already live there, due precisely to the proximity of Caldas da Raina and Torres Vedras. In addition, when the location of the Bombarmral is 15 minutes from Caldas da Raina or 20 minutes from Torres Vedras — which is, for example, practically the same time that any of us will take to this House, where we find ourselves, at the Hospital de Santa Maria — there seem to be no reason, whether by pure barbarism, electoralism or simply by history, that everyone honours us, but that it cannot be a sign of immobilism and much less lack of vision, so that it is decided differently from what the New University study points out.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-01.u371	You must conclude, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-01.u372	I shall conclude, Madam President. the Government and in particular the Minister of Health, the decision should be taken. I am sure you will do so in the light of your national interest. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-01.u373	The honourable Member has two requests for clarification. How do you want to answer?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-01.u374	Together, Madam President.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-01.u375	To make the first request for clarification, Mr Hugo Oliveira of the PSD Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-01.u376	Mr President, Mr Jorge Gabriel Martins, first of all, to discuss this matter we must respect the municipal planning plans of the territory. And it is more than clear, in the PROT OVT ( Regional Planning Plan of the Western Territory and the Tejo Valley) that this type of equipment is done in urban spaces. It's well planned. And these large urban centers in the West are Torres Vedras and Caldas da Rainha. Therefore, the reference to the Bombarral — with all due respect for the Bombarral — is not a matter for this reason and for the disrespect of the planning of the territory that could represent. I am not going to make random attacks, because I do not question the interests of the population of the West region, but you know, Mr Deputies, that, in relation to what I said here about unanimity, the fact is that, when ordered, the study did not respect the premises requested by at least one of the municipalities,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-01.u377	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-01.u378	... which somehow does not make the thing very clear as to who is the final result. But in order to have a serious discussion, we have to put aside the emotions and we have to know the territory and the dynamics of it. In fact, a hospital is not planted in a territory, a hospital is set up in a place, which will certainly enable the territory to be leveraged, but it must also have the necessary conditions to ensure that those who come with the equipment have living conditions and the possibility to develop their work. We must learn from possible mistakes from the past. Otherwise, let's see: the discussion between Sines and Santiago do Cacém led to a midway installation decision. The result is in sight of all. [[PS protests.]] But Mr. Deputy is from Bombarmral. Usually, you go to the Queen's Caldas Hospital, right? Oh, my God! Would you rather go to Torres, in the future, and the population of the Bombarmral as well? That is the question. Moreover, the question is this: "I think that the study is insufficient, and I would not be at all quiet with this study." [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-01.u379	For a request for clarification, Mr João Dias, of the CFP Parliamentary Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-01.u380	Mr President, Mr Gabriel Martins, I would like to tell you that the construction of a hospital is always a matter of the greatest importance and this is, in particular, of greater importance, taking into account the discussion that has already been held on it in this House. Mr President, I would like to leave you a very simple question: do you know what is the main problem in this hospital? I'll answer it. It is not your location, it is not there, Mr!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-01.u381	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-01.u382	That's the point! And there is not even a decision for us to put it on the paper, the more we all want to see, which is the state budget's money for its construction. In fact, what we want to make clear is our demarcation on individual positions, which are in fact related to the decision that has to do with its location, which is a decision for the government.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-01.u383	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-01.u384	Another thing we must also denounce is this: how do we understand that Members of the same parliamentary group, elected by the same electoral circle, have completely different positions, taking into account what is their location? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-01.u385	It's freedom, sir! It's freedom!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-01.u386	Well, what's the matter? What's this evidence, sirs? Ladies and gentlemen? It is clear that it is not the interests of the population that are in front of your positions, but the electoral interests that you bring to this House. It is therefore important to make it clear that, as long as you are "giving to the petitioner" of the location, with this barbaric speech, as you have identified here and of which you are not running away, the government is not taking the decision which is its responsibility, which is the responsibility of the central administration.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-01.u387	That's the one!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-01.u388	That is why there is something that we understand, Mr President. What is not understandable is that the government does not take this position; what is not understandable is that it does not understand. Members do not take a position in defence of the interests of the population and of the health services they should serve. So I want to ask you another question, which has to do with the future of the hospital units that persist there, because the construction of a new hospital cannot lead to the loss of valences nor can it lead to the decrease in the current hospital response, there must be investments in current facilities.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-01.u389	I would ask you to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-01.u390	Now, I want to conclude by saying that while you're here discussing whether a hospital is more than 10 km up or more 10 km back, who loses, with this, are the populations, who don't have your hospital. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-01.u391	In response to requests for clarification, Mr Jorge Gabriel Martins has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-01.u392	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Oliveira, I am grateful, of course, for the question you have asked me and I say to you: it is clear that you are putting yourself in this position, since you have taken my origin from Bombarral, and you will also take yours from Caldas da Raina. However, this is not the case, because there is one thing I am sure of, Mr, that we have more in what unites us than in what separates us. What unites us, Mr President, is that we both want — and I am sure — a robust hospital, a concentrated hospital that effectively improves the conditions of access to health by the populations of the West. We want a hospital that, in fact, can do what has not been done so far, i.e. a hospital of the last line, a hospital that has an intensive care unit running, which captures its professionals, has more expertise and makes people not transferred to other hospitals, as it is now. However, the honourable Member — and that is where we separated — wants a hospital at the door, at your door, something that I don't want anymore. I want a hospital that—despite the study presenting Bombarral as a preferred location—will serve the entire population of the West region, and not just a part. Mr President, I give you the example of what happened in particular at the West Hospital Center when it was aggregation. Torres Vedras' motherhood was closed and, therefore, Caldas de Rainha's motherhood was in operation. Supposedly, the birthplaces of Torres Vedras or Lourinhã would go to the motherhood of Queen Caldas, but do you know how many were there? Zero or a residual number. And why? Because they went to the Beatriz Angelo Hospital, they went to the maternity wards of Lisbon. Mr. Member, this is what will happen if the hospital is in Queen Caldas. You know why? Because there is a nearby offer from Torres — you say that and it is true — that makes people go to Lisbon hospitals. Do you understand that?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-01.u393	You're right, that's why it must be at Caldas!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-01.u394	No, Mr, because from there you won't have enough muscle to answer. It's almost 220 000 people who stop going to the hospital, and that's why that happens. On the other hand, I also give him another example: he closed the orthopedic service in Caldas and became orthopedic in Torres, and Caldas citizens and users go to the orthopedic service in Torres, without any problem.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-01.u395	Few! Few!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-01.u396	Look what you're doing, look what you're doing. When we are talking from a distance that corresponds to 15 minutes—and you take this position for reasons I understand, I understand and understand— I think you have to look at the whole territory. I hope that the reason prevails and that Mr and others can effectively realize that the focus of this issue is to provide quality health services for the entire population of the West region, and not just for a part of the population.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-01.u397	You must conclude, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-01.u398	I shall conclude, Madam President. In reply to Mr John Dias, I will say that the government is doing what it has to do. Obviously, from the moment the autarchs decided to do a study — and well! — and that the same has been presented, the Government has set up a working group and the Minister has already announced that he will take a decision shortly. Therefore, that decision will be soon. [[Protests from PCP MP João Dias.]] Now, Mr President, do not be surprised that there are more opinions in the Socialist Party and in other parties.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-01.u399	I would ask you to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-01.u400	We do not have a central committee that decides what everyone has to think.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-01.u401	But nobody said that!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-01.u402	Here, each one thinks about his head, happily! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-01.u403	For a political declaration also under Article 77 ( 2 ). the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly of the Republic, Mr Gabriel Mithá Ribeiro of the Parliamentary Group of the Republic has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-01.u404	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The evaluation of teachers is the weapon of governments to hide the garbage under the carpet, which is the evaluation of students. Teachers don't have to accept this addicted game. The foundations of the rule of law and democracy are at stake. John Locke or Rousseau, among other authors, dispel doubts. I am referring to the social contract which guarantees the legitimacy of relations between rulers and governments and between the State and society. This social contract is based on explicit references, reverted to the Constitution, but not less on tacit references, habits and traditions that are morally unattainable. In teaching, the social contract is guaranteed by two related objectives: by the system of classification of school results and by national examinations at the end of the cycle, with consequences on the disapproval or retention of students. The logic is the same as the Constitution. It is not lawful to change any of these structural references in the privacy of the ministerial offices, by the circumstantial wills of governments and ministers or by revolutionary impulses, to the understatement of society. However, that is all that has been done. Against a teaching kidnapped by a tiny caste, we fulfill the duty to respect the social contract. I begin with the classification of school results. The scale of classification of school results from 0 to 20 values was unique and socially consensual. When someone was told "you're worth 20 values! », even the most illiterate did not hesitate as to its meaning. There has never been a better evidence of trust and respect relations, transparency and honesty between society and school. [[Congrats from the CH.]] In 1974 - 75, the Pandora box was opened. In full revolutionary instability, an ultra-minority caste imposed fragmentation between basic education, up to 9. the year, and the secondary and higher education of the 10. year forward. In basic education, the evaluation went from 0 to 20 values to levels 1 to 5. at the end of the half century, there is no single evidence that shows the benefit of discontinuity in the school results classification system of students, along the course, from the first cycle to the university. The revolutionary pen made, in an apex, more than twice the inflation of the notes. Level 2, which can correspond to 5 values, has become easily convertible to level 3, which can correspond to 12 values. The teachers came to survive, cohabited by a political class that made their prestige at the expense of the gross counterfeiting of school results. [[Congrats from the CH.]] José Socrates, your Sunday diploma and your party are the symbols of excellence of facilitation!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-01.u405	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-01.u406	The teachers were forced to overlap the percentages from 0 to 100 to avoid disorientation when they moved from the basic classes, with levels from 1 to 5, for secondary classes, with 0 to 20 values. Later, the scale from 0 to 10 appeared to evaluate the teachers. in the same education system there is this Russian salad: levels 1 to 5, values 0 to 20, percentages 0 to 100 and notes 0 to 10. The teachers were also forced to surpass the qualitative assessments to the quantitatives, with the entries of Very insufficient, Insufficient, Sufficient, Good and Excellent. Since evaluation is fraudulent, teaching always gets worse. New rabbits came out of the carton: qualitative assessments in written text run, individual student plans, reports and more reports, evaluations and training tests that are supposed to assess, but do not classify. The bureaucracy snowball never stopped again. Today, we live more days of an ultrasophisticated ridiculousization of teachers, in a mess of headings, called Project MAIA (Monitoring, Monitoring and Research on Pedagogic Assessment). Qualitative and quantitative assessments overlap and cancel each other. Mentally tortured, the teachers no longer understand the reasons of their students pass by mass or rarely refuse. Today, teachers are tormented in defending their own evaluation, also ultra-burocratic. This is the subversion of the school, which is called "crazy". [[Congrats from the CH.]] The country has to put a blow on the table against bureaucracy and demand the drastic simplification of students' school results. The other side of this disease is called ‘examocide’ — the genocide of national examinations. It's not even obvious. The less national examinations, the worse the quality of education. The tests were eliminated from 1. the cycle, no. 4. the year of the 2nd. the cycle, no. 6. the year, of the 3rd. the cycle, no. 9. the year, and it also prepares for the removal of national secondary exams, both in 11. the same as 12. year. It is this Parliament's duty to respect the foundations of the rule of law and democracy, which means returning to society what is its own: school! [[Congrats from the CH.]] In accordance with Article 115. the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic, the party will propose a national referendum to the system of classification of school results and national examinations. The school is Portuguese! [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-01.u407	We therefore conclude point 1 of our agenda. We now turn to point 2, with the general assessment of the Bill No 54 / XV / 1. a ( ALRAM ) — regulates the skills transfer framework for municipal bodies in the Autonomous Region of Madeira in the field of public parking. For an intervention, Mrs Sara Madruga da Costa, from the PSD Parliamentary Group, has the floor. [[Pause.]] However, I am told by the Bureau that the sheet I had in front of me on the agenda of the plenary meeting is, after all, wrong with regard to point 2 of the agenda. In fact, the initiative in question is Law No 54 / XIV / 1. a ( ALRAM ) — Amends the voluntary social insurance scheme approved by Decree-Law No 40 / 89 of 1 February in the current wording as well as the Code of Contributory Schemes of the Preventive Social Security System, as annexed to Law No 110 / 2009 of 16 September 2009 in the current wording in order to allow the admission of Portuguese residents in the diaspora. Now, yes, you have the floor of Mrs Sara Madruga from the Costa, from the PSD Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-01.u408	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, I would like to begin by regretting the late schedule of the discussion of this initiative, the authorship of the Legislative Assembly of the Autonomous Region of Madeira. Three years is a long time, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it is an unacceptable extension, even more so when we are faced with a relevant matter, with the whole of justice and which deals with a basic constitutional principle, such as the principle of equality. Equality in the protection and access to social security benefits, which must exist among all Portuguese, whether or not they reside in Portugal. That is what this initiative is about, ladies and gentlemen. Members, ensure that the principle of equality is respected and improve the right and access of our migrants to social security. To comply with this wish, Mrs and Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the Parliament of Madeira proposes to extend the scope of voluntary social insurance in order to allow the inclusion of more migrants, in particular those who are in a situation of greater social weakness and in host countries which cannot safeguard and safeguard their social rights. This initiative therefore has a very worthwhile purpose, which is to improve the scope of social insurance and adapt it to complex situations such as those that are experienced in our diaspora, especially in the Madeiran communities of Venezuela, South Africa and Brazil. The adoption of this initiative, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it is therefore very important for our emigrants, it is very important for Madeira. It is an initiative that makes full sense in the face of negative developments and backward local development and social benefits in these countries. It is an initiative that requires a logic of solidarity and the creation of more social responses and additional mechanisms such as this one. So let's do it, ladies and gentlemen. Members, a double challenge: a challenge to the PS and a challenge to the government. We challenge the PS to enable this initiative, to vote in favour, to maintain the sense of vote it took on Madeira. We challenge the government to do more for our communities, to find new solutions and new answers and to speed up existing ones. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, we all have the duty and obligation to have this initiative approved and to create more of this important tool so that more migrants can access social security, retirement pensions, protection in the disease, among other very relevant social rights. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-01.u409	Mr Rui Afonso, from the Parliamentary Group of the Arrival, has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-01.u410	Mr President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The bill in question extends voluntary social insurance to our emigrants, ending with unacceptable discrimination and providing a guarantee of security and protection for all. First of all, we could not fail to greet the people of Madeira and the Legislative Assembly of the Autonomous Region of Madeira and to affirm our respect for the autonomy of a region that all emigrants feel like theirs. Secondly, we welcome the more than 5 million Portuguese who, spread by the four corners of the world, raise the name of Portugal by contributing their work to the greatness of the nations and peoples who welcome them. Thirdly, we regret the evils of socialism, which spreads its mistakes around the world. As the facts show us, socialism is like a plague, where it goes through destruction and produces poverty and misery for all, with one exception: the party's friends. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-01.u411	Venezuela is an example of this. All we have to do is see what happened and what happens to the thousands of Portuguese people who are suffering in that country. [[Protests by PS Member Berta Nunes.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the people of Madeira know well what is going on in Venezuela because all Madeirans have a family or a friend in that country across the Atlantic. Between the 50s and 80s, in which it dominated capitalism, Venezuela was the richest and most prosperous country in Latin America. The wealth generated by oil promoted stability and social cohesion. In the capital, Caracas, the buildings were high and modern for the time, the wide roads were filled by modern cars, the hotels were considered a luxury in a tropical paradise and the Venezuelans had the title of the biggest consumers of luxury items in the world. [[Congrats from the CH.]] Thousands of migrants from dictatorial regimes in South America, and even Spain and Portugal, found in Venezuela a secure port to thrive. The most well-known phrase at that time was « In Venezuela there is genuine freedom». Alexander Guerrero, a university professor who emigrated from Spain to Venezuela in 1978, tells that with his first salary of $1700, he was able to buy his first car. Today, your salary in Venezuela would be $77. It would be, of course, if he himself wasn't living in the United States. Hunger, poverty and human rights violations were what the Chavism and the United Socialist Party of Venezuela, now commanded by Nicolás Maduro, brought to that great nation, due to their policies of mass statistics and price control. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-01.u412	It is a country with a corrupt democracy, an economy destroyed and without social peace, where more than 50 per cent of the population lives in extreme poverty and more than 80 per cent of the population lives in total poverty. This is what the close friends of Lula da Silva, José Socrates, António Costa and Marcelo Rebelo de Sousa brought to Venezuela — these are the ones who are silent when they denounce these attacks against freedom and democracy. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-01.u413	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Venezuela is an example of what we do not want for our country. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-01.u414	For an intervention, Mrs Carla Castro of the Liberal Initiative Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-01.u415	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The ALRAM Bill ( Legislative Assembly of the Autonomous Region of Madeira ) amends the voluntary social insurance scheme, allowing Portuguese residents to be admitted to the diaspora. It also defends this proposal for legislation « that this optional regime can guarantee the right to social security for people who do not necessarily fall within the framework of social protection schemes, even more so when it comes to Portuguese heritage in diaspora, which would dignify our community, our country and still our social security by ensuring greater sustainability». We agree with the above. It is noted that a mechanism is defended through monthly contributions, with a contribution impact and established steps, giving the beneficiary the power to choose. That is, there are, in practice, several angles of analysis that we would like to highlight. Of course, this is an optional, voluntary regime, as the name indicates, and deserves reflection on the very logic of the system we have today. The second point is that this scheme supports, through the mutualisation of risks — we are obviously counting that the accounts are well done — part of social security support, which, in addition to benefiting Portuguese diaspora, also benefits all others. A third point is that, from the point of view of pensions themselves, in addition to the dimensions of risk I mentioned earlier, this model allows people to have a voluntary pension income level. I am therefore taking advantage of the issue of the greatest importance, which we must highlight in this Parliament and in society. It is a matter of political relevance for our generations, because we have a responsibility for a generational contract, and that is that of the unsustainability of social security. We need a profound reform of social security and, in particular, of the pension system. We need to ensure the sustainability of the pension system, to have a reform pension system that enables the beneficiaries to experience and to promote citizens' freedom of choice in relation to their reform options. In view of this plan, the Liberal Initiative defends the transition to a system with a first pillar of contribution, with some similarities that already exist, plus two pillars, a foundation in a mechanism of savings capitalization with a mandatory capitalization component, and another voluntary capitalization. The proposal under discussion today reminds us that we must have the political courage to face the present and future situation and speak of a real reform of social security and the pension system. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-01.u416	Mr Alfredo Maia of the CFP Parliamentary Group speaks for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-01.u417	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Bill No 54 / XIV / 1. the, of the Legislative Assembly of Madeira, intends to introduce changes to the voluntary social insurance scheme, with the admission of Portuguese workers resident in the diaspora. the possible adoption of this proposal would result in the extension of the personal scope of the application of such a scheme, which is now limited, in particular to « national citizens engaged in professional activity abroad and which are not covered by an international instrument to which Portugal is bound ». As it is known, in addition to the European Union area, Portugal is a signatory of bilateral social security arrangements with numerous countries for the social protection of citizens who reside in and work in them. Such instruments provide, as is the case for relations between States, liaison mechanisms, in particular through appropriate diplomatic channels and, as such, for the resolution of failures in their application or even any differences. Mrs. Members, the proposed enlargement aims at the admission of national citizens who, although covered by an international instrument to which Portugal is bound, do not benefit from the agreement cannot be met by reasons which are not imputable to the Portuguese State. However, this requirement raises at least three doubts. First: how to demonstrate and charge the responsibilities for failure to comply with the agreement and, above all, that Portugal will not have at least one share of the blame, even if it is not for omission, since it is his duty to act on the mechanisms to enforce the letter of the Convention and the rights of the citizens covered by it? Second: when, and exhausted from the demands of the Portuguese State, will the citizen concerned be able to apply for admission into the voluntary social insurance system? The third is a question as to the reversibility of registration in that system. It is that, unless it is better understood, the proposal does not establish any rules on the termination of registration when the situation of possible non-compliance by the counterpart State is healed. On the other hand, there is the risk that the State will now be allowed to lower its guard in terms of defending the rights and interests of its citizens and, above all, of renouncing the sovereign duty to enforce the international instruments it has negotiated. In other words, the question is whether we may be approving not a warning way of solving problems of citizens deprived of their social protection, but a mere flight forward, making the letter-death of the arrangements. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-01.u418	For an intervention, Mrs Marta Freitas of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-01.u419	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: At the time of the entry of this legislative proposal into the Assembly of the Republic in 2020, there were effective gaps in the protection of the future and the old age of our migrants working in countries with which Portugal had not concluded social security agreements. They could not only have access to voluntary social insurance, but also had no access to the public capitalisation regime. But these gaps were identified and, in November 2021, an initiative by the Socialist Party was adopted in this House in order to enable national citizens to reside abroad for accession to the public capitalisation regime, a social security regime. It was also one of the commitments made in the Government of the Socialist Party Programme, which was funded in 2022, to extend access to immigrants of this public capitalisation regime, for the protection of the future and the old age of our fellow citizens. Thus, from the beginning of this month of February 2023, this became possible. All national citizens who are engaged in their professional activities and who are covered by compulsory social protection schemes in the country where they reside and with which Portugal is bound by international social security instruments, such as our countrymen who reside in Venezuela, have been able to access the public capitalisation regime without losing rights. Today, all Portuguese who are emigrants have access to the public capitalisation regime, whether Portuguese citizens living and working in a Member State of the European Union or the European Economic Area, in the United Kingdom, Switzerland, Canada or in a country with which Portugal is bound by the existing bilateral or multilateral social security convention, such as Australia, the United States of America, Brazil and Venezuela, among others. From this year onwards in 2023 they had access to the surname « PPR (the plan savings-reform) of the State ». Also Portuguese immigrants who live and work in a country that does not have a compulsory social security system with a convention with Portugal have this right, and in this case they have to be subscribers to voluntary social insurance, as is the case for Portuguese immigrants in South Africa. Voluntary social insurance is optional and aims to guarantee the right to social security of persons who do not necessarily fall within the scope of social protection schemes, in particular when there is no professional activity or, in the exercise of professional activity in the territory of the State of residence, for which no international instrument binding the Portuguese State is necessary. In short, now citizens residing in Venezuela, as the ALRAM initiative highlights, or in other countries in which they are discounted for social security and with which Portugal has concluded a social security agreement can, from this year, this month, make additional discounts for this public capitalisation regime, throughout its active life, choosing the value of its monthly contribution. The monthly contribution shall be calculated taking into account a contribution rate affecting the taxpayer's gross income. The fee is fixed by choice of the person who will adhere. The result is the accumulated value aimed at strengthening the social protection of the acceding citizen and may be redeemed when the conditions of acquisition of the right to pension or retirement, due to old age or absolute disability — which was indeed not possible by 2020, when this proposal of the Madeira Legislative Assembly entered the Assembly of the Republic. So far, this public capitalisation regime was banned from our immigrants in countries where social security schemes did not have a convention with Portugal because of lack of legal framework. But with the recommendation of the Socialist Party, the Government has ensured the access of all Portuguese people to the diaspora, promoting equal access between Portuguese citizens, whether resident or not in Portugal, giving the possibility of an increased security, an answer in old age, in particular also providing for situations in which, for some reason, agreements between Portugal and another country are not being complied with, for reasons not imputable to the Portuguese State. We have received several messages of satisfaction and interest from our emigrants, including Venezuela, in joining this public capitalisation regime after their entry into force. It is up to us now to ensure the maximum coverage and social protection either by the public capitalisation regime or through voluntary social insurance, so that our citizens will have security in their reform and enjoy their old age with the greatest possible tranquility. We are aware that there are countries with no social security or weaknesses in this support system and where Portuguese citizens live and work. But with the action of the PS, all, without exception, can rely on the solid and robust social protection of the Portuguese social security system. It is important to safeguard the future of these immigrants. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-01.u420	For an intervention, Mrs Isabel Pires of the Left Block Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-01.u421	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen: With regard to the proposal from the Legislative Assembly of the Autonomous Region of Madeira that we are discussing today, I must say three things. The first, and I think it must be obvious for all parliamentary groups, is that the priority of the Portuguese State must of course be the maintenance of the rights which the immigrant Portuguese have, irrespective of the country in which they are, based on the protocols and agreements that exist. This first priority must always be at the heart of such proposals. The second question has to do with the instrument that we are currently talking about the voluntary social allowance, which has been applied to several workers, in very different ways. What is intended, with this proposal from the Legislative Assembly of the Autonomous Region of Madeira, is that there may be a greater inclusion of Portuguese workers in other countries in this regime as a form of protection for their future. The truth is, if there is a voluntary discount scheme for those who are in Portugal, who have some uncertainty about the country where they make their mandatory discounts must also, of course, have the possibility of making these voluntary discounts for Portugal and, at the end of their professional life, be able to receive the discount on account of these discounts. The Left Block understands the problem presented in the bill and we leave here our willingness to deepen this debate and to have 10 of it itself. the Commission may follow this proposal. Whereas, since 2020, when this proposal has been tabled, there have been some legislative amendments in this area to date, it must be checked whether the amendments have been made or not and are consistent with what is currently being proposed. We therefore believe that the debate and the proposal are important and, above all, it is important to ensure that Portuguese immigrants have their rights guarded. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-01.u422	For an intervention, Mrs Inês de Sousa Real has the floor of the PAN.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-01.u423	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The debate that this proposal from the Legislative Assembly of the Autonomous Region of Madeira brings us to two different issues. The first is, of course, the sustainability of social security — a debate that has been postponed successively! — and the protection or lack of protection for the different citizens of our country, whether or not they live in Portugal. In fact, we have already had this debate about the CPAS, about the discounts that lawyers make for a private box, to the detriment of the General Board of Appeals. On the other hand, I remember, as has already been said, that this proposal is already of the past legislature and that, therefore, there has been a delay leading to changes that have already been mentioned. The proposal actually brings us concrete cases, not only of informal caregivers, volunteer firefighters, but of so many other people who, in their frailty, often could see in this mechanism a mechanism of greater security, especially in the circumstances of disability or old age. That is why the NAP is fully available for the review of the scheme that this proposal brings us, because it seems to us that, despite the past time, it remains of the greatest relevance in terms of debate and legal review.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-01.u424	Mr Rui Tavares has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-01.u425	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: It is not the first time in the history of voluntary social insurance that there is the possibility of greater enlargement and coverage of this instrument. So it happened in the turn of the century for the scientific research fellows abroad, who, before, did not have this option, and to which some have adhered, despite the difficulties, despite the discount being quite large and despite the future benefit of the pension being also, in a life of scientific research fellowship, uncertain. What the Legislative Assembly of the Autonomous Region of Madeira proposes to us is to ensure more inclusion, greater coverage of this instrument and thus to other professional categories and to Portuguese abroad, extend it to our entire diaspora. It is a measure that reflects a spirit of national cohesion and participation for the entire national that is important and that allows people who either have uncertainty about the future of their contributions and pensions abroad or who wish to maintain this link with Portuguese social security to do so in a way that is entirely optional. We therefore support this measure and congratulate the Legislative Assembly of the Autonomous Region of Madeira for taking this initiative and bringing this House.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-01.u426	For an intervention you have the floor, Mrs Sara Madruga da Costa, of the PSD Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-01.u427	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: I would like to begin by saying that if there is any matter that should join this House, it is that of defending our immigrants, especially those who live in areas of enormous fragility. This initiative remains perfectly current and makes all the sense: either we agree with it or we do not agree with it. This is to say that when we thought we had seen everything from the PCP, we see the PCP, see well, defend the conventions, international instruments, when it is the first, in this House, to defend national sovereignty,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-01.u428	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-01.u429	...to go against the European Union and go against all these instruments. It can't be worth everything, ladies and gentlemen. Members, to try to justify the unjustifiable, when we know that what is at stake is to protect our citizens who are in Venezuela. [[PSD applause.]] With regard to the Socialist Party, I would like to say the following: we understand your attempt to mix two realities that are completely different. One thing is the regime of capitalisation, which is in force, and yet, another thing is what we want with this initiative, which is to include other immigrants with voluntary social insurance. One thing is the certificate of reform, another thing is that we can access a set of social benefits in social security, Mrs Marta Freitas. [[Protests from PS MP Marta Freitas.]] Therefore, either the PS agrees with the principle of this initiative or then does not agree. What is intended is to provide another tool, another social response that is fundamental to our immigrants, especially in Venezuela. I would like to say, in order to conclude, even more this week, that the Secretary of State of the Communities, Paul Cafófo, came to say that we must be together in defense of our communities, that this is another opportunity that the PS has—and that better reason and better time we have than this one! — to vote in favour of this initiative to solve this problem. Therefore, following the challenge launched by Mr. Secretary of State and consistent with what the Socialist Party voted in Madeira, approving it, I ask the Socialist Party to enable this initiative, in effect, as we all want in this House. If not, we will conclude that, after all, what Mr. Secretary of State mentioned this week, accusing the PSD in Madeira of using immigrants to make party politics, it is not the PSD that does so, but the Socialist Party. And I can give several examples of that reality. We have already discussed the Regressing Programme—and it is a shame that what happens with the Regressing Programme—we continue to discuss the problem of Banif (International Bank of Funchal, SA), that the PS and the Government continue to want to resolve, and now we have this golden opportunity for the Socialist Party to redeem itself, vote in coherence with what you voted in Madeira and comply with what Mr. Secretary of State, Paulo Cafófo, mentioned here this week.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-01.u430	You must conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-01.u431	Therefore, our expectation, consistent with what was said by the Socialist Party, the Secretary of State and what was voted upon in Madeira, is that this initiative is viable, so that we can approve and create another answer that is essential for our fellow citizens in Venezuela. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-01.u432	We have concluded our agenda. I would ask Mrs Palmeira Maciel to read the usual information. Mrs. Member, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-01.u433	Madam President, the House is informed of the resumption of the term of office by PS Member Alexandre Quintanilha, elected by the electoral circle of Porto, discontinuing the functions of Marlene Cristina Mendes Teixeira, with effect from 1 March 2023. That's all, Madam President.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-01.u434	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the plenary session will meet again tomorrow at 3 p.m. the first item is the general discussion of the Proposal for a Law No 59 / XV / 1. a ( GOV ) — Transposing Directives ( EU ) 2022 / 211 and ( EU ) 2022 / 228 concerning the protection of personal data. In the second point, we will have the joint discussion, in general, of Bill Nos 285 / XV / 1. a ( IL) — Eliminates the contribution to the audiovisual, lowering the bill of electricity of the Portuguese and 39 / XV / 1. a (CH) — Amends the law approving the model of financing the public broadcasting and television service in order to change the conditions for charging the audiovisual contribution. of the third point, there is the joint discussion, in general, of Bill Nos 376 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Change the Statute of the National Health Service ( first amendment to Decree-Law No 52 / 2022 of 4 August ), 146 / XV / 1. a ( BE) — Status of the National Health Service, 584 / XV / 1. a (PAN) — Ensures the provision of psychological and nutrition consultations in health centres groups, amending the Statute of the National Health Service, and 591 / XV / 1. a (CH) — Changes are made to the Statute of the National Health Service in order to enable and ensure fairness in the right to health of citizens. In the fourth point, we will appreciate together, in general, the Bills Nos. 458 / XV / 1. a ( BE) — Amend the Rules of Procedure ( amendment to Decree-Law No 34 / 2008 of 26 February approving the Rules of Procedure ), 486 / XV / 1. a ( CH) — Alter the Rules of Procedure, as approved by Decree-Law No 34 / 2008 of 26 February 2008 to exempt public officials from costs, in criminal proceedings for an offence suffered in the performance of their duties, or because of them, 578 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Creates the mission unit for the review of the judicial costs regime, 579 / XV / 1. a ( L) — Alter the Rules of Procedure, exempting all workers and their families, in matters of labour law, from the payment of procedural costs irrespective of how they are represented in judgment and annual income taken, and 586 / XV / 1. a (PAN) — Ensure access to law and courts by amending the Rules of Procedure and Decree-Law No 503 / 99 of 20 November. I say goodbye to the ladies and gentlemen. Members and all present. The session is closed. [[It was 18 hours and 37 minutes.]]
