ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-15.u1	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we are in a position to begin our work. [[It was 15 hours and 8 minutes.]] I would like to ask the honourable Members. Authorities please open the galleries to the public. Thank you very much. The agenda for today is set by the PSD, with the general debate of the following initiatives, whose generic theme is support for older people: Bills Nos 815 / XV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Enlargement of the number of vacancies shared in the social responses addressed to the elderly and extend this participation to the private sector when the public/social network cannot respond, 816 / XV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Amends the Statute of the Informal Caregiver - First Amendment to Law No 100 / 2019 of 6 September approving the Statute of the Informal Caregiver, amends the Code of Contributing Schemes of the Preventive Social Security System and Law No 13 / 2003 of 21 May and 817 / XV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Establishment of a permanent interdisciplinary special committee for the elderly of the Economic and Social Council and change in the competences and composition of the social network; and Draft Resolution Nos 758 / XV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Ensure the social responses and financial sustainability of social and solidarity institutions and 759 / XV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Strengthening of the home support service. In general, Law Projects Nos 241 / XV / 1 will also be discussed. a ( PAN) — criminalizes new attacks on the rights of especially vulnerable persons by amending the Penal Code, 648 / XV / 1. a ( CH) — It provides for the accounting of periods of household care for the purpose of reform, 819 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Creates the public network project of equipment and services supporting the elderly and 820 / XV / 1. a ( PAN) — Strengthen the rights of informal caregivers, together with Resolution Projects Nos 766 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Development of the National Integrated Continued Care Network, 767 / XV / 1. a ( L) — Recommends that the Government urgently update and approve the National Strategy for Active and Healthy Ageing and 768 / XV / 1. a (BE) — For the recognition of rights to the carer and the carer and for the establishment of a national care service. For the presentation of the initiatives of the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mr Nuno Carvalho has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-15.u2	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Portugal is 5. the country of the European Union where the health levels of people over 65 are on a level that is not desirable, on a level I would say, that it is not acceptable. But this one, ladies and gentlemen. Members, it is a statistical statement whose reality, every day, is only mitigated by the efforts of families and IPSS ( private institutions of social solidarity ). In practical terms, this effort exists because there is a negligence on the part of the State. I mean, ladies and gentlemen. Members, in Portugal, not always because of age is worse, but because of State neglect. [[PSD applause.]] This is an issue which must call on Parliament to establish a way of attacking this national scourge, because what we have seen, by the efforts of families and the IPSS, is obviously a priority issue for the Portuguese. What the PSD presents today is indeed a theme that brings Parliament's priority to something that is fundamental to the lives of Portuguese people: the defense of a principle of well-being and dignity for older people. [[PSD applause.]] This legislative package presented by the PSD aims, firstly, to attack on the supply side. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the use at home as the first form of response to what are the older services is, indeed, a conception that is not correct. [[Exactly!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-15.u3	Home support, the informal caregiver and even the host families themselves are ways to provide this service at the age of three without using a home, which should serve to provide such care when it is no longer possible to offer them in the comfort of the elderly home. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-15.u4	This way of addressing the problem naturally leads the PSD to want to increase these support services, not only from the point of view of their quantity, but also from the qualitative point of view, incorporating a health component into the home support service; and, also, by amending the Statute of the informal Caregiver, making it possible for it to have more free access. This change causes more people to have the possibility of caring for the elderly, which releases pressure from the homes. And releasing pressure from homes is something that is fundamental, because the waiting lists, which we all know exist, make the elderly who want to access this service despair, sometimes so long that they no longer go in time to enjoy it. [[PSD applause.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Members, for the same reason, the PSD proposes an increase of at least 20 % per year of the coverage rate for support services to 3. age. This increase of at least 20 % per year is crucial in order to be able to cope with the drama we currently see, with endless waiting lists. But it is also essential that we look at the value that is paid by each user and still for days in this Parliament, the Minister of Labour, Solidarity and Social Security said that the amount for each user was about €492.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-15.u5	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-15.u6	Therefore, if we add this amount that Social Security pays to its partners to care for the elderly to that other component that serves as funding at this cost, which is the reforms of the elderly, we can begin to realize how worrying this scenario is — and we know that the average reform in Portugal in 2022 was € 550.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-15.u7	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-15.u8	That is, when the value of Social Security and Reform is short, who compensates for families; when families cannot, then, compensate for the IPSS ; but when families and IPSS fail, what remains, as an option, are illegal homes. [[PSD applause.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it is essential to pay the real cost. When, every year, in cooperation agreements, the real value is not encrypted, what is happening is this dramatic result: to carry over the finances of families, IPSSs or ultimately lead the elderly to illegal homes. That is the reality, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we well know that we cannot accept that in our country an organization or a home that we do not recognize before the law is the only way anyone can exercise their rights. We cannot accept that the only way an elderly person has treatment according to his well-being and his dignity is by resorting to an illegal home. We cannot let this happen in Portugal. [[PSD applause.]] We cannot call ourselves a rule of law when we let this happen. That is why this is a scourge that calls us all, and that is why we must not fail to give an answer like this, looking at what is a model of supply growth, exactly as the PSD has defended and that we see happening to day care — partly in the face of what the PSD defends — where there are not only established partnerships with the IPSS that still have vacancies as well as with the private ones, who can help an elderly person to be treated according to his dignity and well-being. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it's crucial that we don't get carried away by ideology and think ideology will solve the waiting lists. It's not from ideology that we're looking for here, it's from the dignity of the elderly. That is why this model we propose is fundamental. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the PSD does not want this to be just a day of debate in Parliament. The PSD does not want this to occupy only one agenda day of Parliament, either this debate on the country's agenda, on the country's priority. [[PSD applause.]] The PSD wants the principle of the well-being and dignity of the elderly to be part of Portugal's agenda and priority, and it wants to tackle this scourge which it cannot — it cannot! — to persist in our country. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-15.u9	The Bureau shall record an application for clarification. Mr Paula Santos, from the CFP, has the floor to make it.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-15.u10	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr Nuno Carvalho, today the PSD makes an agenda entitled « Dignity and well-being of the elderly », but the truth is that when it was in government, it did exactly the opposite to ensure the dignity of the elderly.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-15.u11	Exactly! [[Oh!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-15.u12	All right, Mrs. Deputy!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-15.u13	And they wanted to keep doing it! [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-15.u14	Hey! Hey! It is a debate that seeks to whiteen the responsibilities of the PSD in the degradation of the living conditions of the elderly, in the run-up to their rights. What has marked and is the political responsibility of the PSD was the courting of elderly people's pensions.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-15.u15	Exactly! It's fundamental to dignity!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-15.u16	And they were preparing to go further in that court! [[PCP applause.]] [[PSD protests.]] In other words, in its governance—and that is what marked it—the PSD pushed the elderly into poverty.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-15.u17	The bankruptcy is that you pushed them, it wasn't us!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-15.u18	The PSD today brings a number of initiatives to extend the gap in equipment, home support and support for associations, but I would like to ask you, Mr: when you were in the government, why did you not take any of these measures that bring the debate today?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-15.u19	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-15.u20	That's right! They had that chance! [[And you, with the PS?]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-15.u21	Why didn't they? [[PSD protests.]] They were able to do it, but that wasn't your option. Your choice was exactly the opposite. Your option was to degrade the living conditions of the elderly.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-15.u22	All right! [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-15.u23	Your option was to increase the cost of drug spending, health expenditure. Your option was to cut social benefits.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-15.u24	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-15.u25	But I would also like to talk about something else. Already in this legislature, the CFP has brought an initiative for the creation of a public home network, for the extension of home support, for the support of the associations of the elderly and pensioners, and we see who voted against: the PS and the PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-15.u26	Of course, that's not the answer!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-15.u27	In your eyes!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-15.u28	That answer doesn't work!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-15.u29	In fact, this debate is nothing more than a political hypocrisy on the part of the PSD to make it believe that it is what it is not and that it defends what it does not defend, because, in fact, when it has political responsibilities, it has only contributed to making life difficult for older people. [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-15.u30	And where did your policies help the elderly? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-15.u31	People with a working life, a life of difficulties while working and, at the moment, when their rights should be guaranteed, these were not the political options of the PSD. It is therefore clear what is the objective of this debate. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-15.u32	To reply, Mr Nuno Carvalho has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-15.u33	Mr President, Mrs Paula Santos, I thank the question put, but I must start by answering it with evidence. It is that the last party here, between PSD and PCP, which has participated in a government solution in recent years has not been ours. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-15.u34	He's wrong!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-15.u35	Be serious!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-15.u36	Call it'management', call it what you want, indeed, Mrs and Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, there has been no solution, no management, no more or less well-held, that has lasted and has solved this problem.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-15.u37	Exactly! [[All right!]] [[Protests from PCP MP João Dias.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-15.u38	So, of course, I believe that you are. Members must be disturbed by the silence coming from the Socialist Party.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-15.u39	You guys were really upset with what was being said!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-15.u40	Because, of the two, one : either the Socialist Party is directly against the solution that the PSD proposes here or is directly in favour. This party, which is here on our left and on your right, has, in fact, been the one who has been stopping solutions in recent years. Part, it was with you, and now it's entirely with them. [[PS protests.]] What we heard in the PCP speech may indeed be a little bit of nostalgia, because they liked that the PS needed a crutch to help him pass some proposals. But in practice, Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, get used to it! Who you have to deal with is the Socialist Party, because they are the ones who rule. They are habitual, because in recent years you have ruled with the Socialist Party! [[PS protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-15.u41	Now get used to it!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-15.u42	We would like to be able to understand this silence that comes from the party that has had government responsibilities in recent years, and not just now. And we would like to see whether they will address this problem or whether they will prefer to do what they apparently did at the beginning of this debate: to know that the problem exists — to know that there are elderly people who are not treated, who have no dignity, who are not well-being — but decide not to look at it. So far, what we see is the PS knowing that the problem exists and not looking at it. Let's see what they're gonna do! [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-15.u43	To submit Law Nos 241 / XV / 1. a and 820 / XV / 1. a, of the NAP, has the floor to Mrs Inês de Sousa Real.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-15.u44	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Today, the World Day of Awareness of Violence against the Elderly is being signaled, a particularly important day when we look at what the data tell us: that every day, four elderly people are attacked, among other crimes, and that in 2020 the numbers of violence against the elderly have reached values that have not been seen for 30 years. The changes introduced in the Penal Code in recent years, although they are positive, in particular in 2007, have strengthened the protection of the elderly, but have been insufficient. Who says it's not just the PAN. Say so too, since 2015 ; it has been the opinion of the PSD Government, expressed in the Protection Strategy for the Elderly, also in 2015 ; or more recently of the PS Government, in the National Strategy for Active and Healthy Aging. However, they did not translate into effective changes. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, starting from this debate, there is no excuse for these advances not to occur and neither for lack of initiatives by the various political forces. from the NAP, we propose two dimensions of changes. On the one hand, which goes on to punish criminally and autonomously the abandonment of a vulnerable person, in particular an elderly person, the denial of access to an institution for the reception or use of an elderly person and discrimination in access to goods and services. There is no shortage of very degrading stories of what has been the abandonment of these people, often even with economic dependence on their family members. On the other hand, we cannot forget the appreciation of the rights of those who care for us, and we speak of the informal caregivers. If it is true that the Dignified Work Agenda has taken a few steps in the right way, these steps are short. Today we have about 1, 4 million people to whom the European Commission report attaches risk of poverty, anxiety, exhaustion and isolation, but despite this number, we have only 11 000 recognised caregivers and, of these 11 000 — appear! — a little more than 2000 have been granted. The causes are very clear, not only the limitations of the informal Care Act itself, but also the limitation to the family relationship, as well as the absence of an effective support structure, which awaits the RPP funds ( Recovery and Resilience Plan ). For all this, the NAP aims to strengthen the rights of those who care for and care for, whether by criminalizing abuse of the elderly person, or by guaranteeing to informal caregivers the rights they should be assisted. We hope that this House will come out with a broad consensus so that, in the field of expertise, we can all move from words to action in the effective protection of these people.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-15.u45	The Bureau registered an application for clarification, not available to Mrs Inês de Sousa Real for time to respond. In order to make the request for clarification, Mrs Gabriela Fonseca of the PSD Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-15.u46	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, it's about caregivers that we talk about right now, and caring is love, it's love, it's dedication, it's listening to the soul, it's suffering with the suffering of the caring person, it's keeping your own pain in the pocket. The caregiver is one who cares in contexts of comfort, providing adequate care and safety to dependent elderly people, aiming at their well-being, recovery, full exercise of their rights and fulfilment of their duties. In order to take care of them, they need to have the best conditions to do so rather than create obstacles to access the Statute of the Informal Caregiver.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-15.u47	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-15.u48	The Social Democratic Party and its Members understand that the requirement for communion of housing between the caregiver and the caretaker, provided for in the Statute of the Informal Caregiver, is socially unfair and grave for informal caregivers and consequently for the caretaker, particularly when there is a family bond up to 4. the degree of the right line or the collateral line of the caretaker. In addition, the Committee on Monitoring and Intersectoral Evaluation in its reports repeatedly referred to the legal imposition of housing communion as an obstacle to the effective, fair and appropriate application of the Staff Regulations. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-15.u49	Ladies and gentlemen. Members, we are talking about caregivers of vulnerable people, dependent people, who require from all of us commitment and seriousness to take on the real problems and to approve the bills that give them back the solutions. The NAP presents two bills that partly meet the PSD proposals. So I ask whether or not you are available to accompany the PSD bill today and resolve the problems to the caretakers and caregivers, because: «The person is the measure and the end of all human activity and politics must be at the service of their entire realization» — Francisco Sá Carneiro. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-15.u50	Table was informed that PSD grants 40 seconds...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-15.u51	Ask the government!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-15.u52	... to Mrs Inês de Sousa Real, Mrs Inês de Sousa Real, so she can respond to the request for clarification. And I'm going to make an ad hoc account, because I'm going to subtract the 40 seconds 32 seconds and find as a result 40 seconds in it.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-15.u53	What's that? This is VAR(video assistant reference)!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-15.u54	Mrs. Member, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-15.u55	Mr President, thank you very much, too, for your tolerance.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-15.u56	You're going to talk to the end of the legislature!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-15.u57	I appreciate the question that has been raised. We not only share the concerns that the PSD has brought about, but also mirror the same concerns in our initiative. There is no sense in the existing limitation on family relations. We believe that the same is unfair, even when we speak of a perspective in which, sometimes, many caregivers also have relationships of friendship, and we are entirely available to work, in the field of expertise, in this sense. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-15.u58	After all, I just needed 16 seconds!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-15.u59	I don't know if the times given for the response to requests for clarification are transferable to interventions, but there is a Portuguese saying that says who gives and takes away somewhere again will stop. [[Laughing.]] We shall then turn to the presentation of the initiative of the Arrival, by Mr Rui Paulo Sousa. You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-15.u60	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Maternity and domestic care continue to be seen as an obstacle to a woman's working life and may even constitute a reason for discrimination or disadvantage in the face of those who choose to have no children and devote part of their lives to caring for them. The figures do not lie: the data provided by Social Security allow us to conclude that in 2021 the average pension values allocated to women stood at €450, a value lower than 40 % compared to the average pension value allocated to men. Social Security, in the report of the State Budget, also revealed that Portuguese women reform later than men, presenting worse contributory careers. In fact, a Portuguese woman in a state of retirement has, on average, 30, 6 years of discounts, while men have 36, 8 years of contributing career. The lack of social support policies to reconcile family life with work ends up pushing women to choose between a successful career and motherhood or the postponement of the birth of their first child. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, once again, the data we have available do not mislead: most Portuguese women had their first child later than they intended, being pointed out as one of the main reasons for this postponement the lack of stability, both financially and at work. Nine out of every 10 women consider that public policies to encourage and value births would be fundamental to facilitate their decisions for maternity. All this, when our country has the lowest birth rates in the world. Fewer babies are born in Portugal, and this drama can only be reversed by recognizing and valuing motherhood and paternity. Here too, we see that socialism does not serve Portugal and, in particular, the Portuguese. [[Congrats from the CH.]] Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, in order to combat this social stigma, it is essential to value maternity through the adoption of positive policies that remove any factor, penalization or discrimination of women by the condition of being mothers. The woman should not be in a position to choose between one of the two ways, as if the paths were exclusive, and she could not be pressured to shorten her time of care for the children. The promotion of inclusive societies must go precisely by equipping women with the tools they need to freely choose the path to follow, without having to give up any pillars of their lives.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-15.u61	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-15.u62	One of these forms is what we propose today, with this bill: the recognition of the time they spend caring for their children as a family good, but also for society. at a time when there is so much talk about equality policies and many committees and study groups are created for this area, here is a field where inequality is screaming and a measure that would make the difference for thousands of families. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-15.u63	To present the initiatives of the CFP, Mr João Dias has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-15.u64	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: For the CFP, ageing with dignity is directly linked to the creation of decent socio-economic conditions, which requires the strengthening of the rights of pensioners, pensioners and elderly people in structural areas such as the right to reform and to a decent pension, in order to ensure their economic autonomy and to increase their living conditions, through access to public health services, the right to mobility and public transport, while not forgetting the imperative need for access to a public network of equipment and services supporting older people. The difficulties facing our pensioners, pensioners and the elderly are further compounded by the increase in prices of essential goods and services, which has worsened the degradation of their living conditions. Many live in poverty because of the low values of their reforms, values that result from a lifetime of impoverishment. Let's remember, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the difference that was achieved during the period 2015 to 2019, with the decisive intervention of the CFP in the extraordinary increases of pensioners. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-15.u65	It made a difference!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-15.u66	We could have gone further, so the PS would have wanted, but the truth is that this was possible, contrary to what happened in the period of the government of the troika, which only applied cuts.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-15.u67	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-15.u68	How dishonest!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-15.u69	All this is added to the state of degradation of the National Health Service, which, due to the absence of investment in equipment and professionals, also contributes to the increase of poverty and impoverishment. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, today in Portugal, it is even more difficult than before to grow old with dignity. contrary to what the PSD here said, the problems are not today, are dragged decades ago, and the PSD has claimed that it is aware of this reality.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-15.u70	That's right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-15.u71	Where did the PSD go when it had the opportunity to improve the living conditions of our elderly and pensioners? [[Protests from PSD Members.]] We understand, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen, we need solutions that respond to the structural problems that persist, that are being dragged down and that have worsened over time. We understand that the guarantee of social rights, including the existence of support equipment and services for the elderly, is a primary responsibility of the State.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-15.u72	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-15.u73	The urgency of ending the proliferation of illegal homes and waiting lists for entry into homes and residential structures can no longer be postponed. It is necessary to create new vacancies from public management, responsibility for social security, with the provision of unoccupied public equipment that can be reverted to that end. in this sense, the CFP presents an initiative that aims to create a public network of equipment and services to support the elderly, which aims to meet the difficulties experienced by the institutions and the insufficiency in social responses to the elderly, as well as to ensure the strengthening of the necessary workers. In addition, we present another initiative that provides for the development of the National Network of Integrated Continuous Care, which strengthens the public response of this network in all its types, with particular attention to the most deficient, with a distribution according to the needs of the population and its distribution in the territory. Mrs. Members, it should also be noted that the CFP recognizes the important role of the IPSS, but as a complement to the public responses to which the State is constitutionally required and not to replace the State. These are the fundamental answers to solve a broad set of problems and that is the way the CFP will continue to defend. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-15.u74	The Bureau shall record an entry for clarification. To make the request, Mrs Joana Barata Lopes, of the PSD Parliamentary Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-15.u75	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Parliamentary Group of the Portuguese Communist Party, in this debate scheduled by the Parliamentary Group of the Democratic Social Party, brings us the opportunity to stress a very specific point. When the PSD comes to talk about paradigm change, that is, when it comes to the well-being and dignity of the elderly person, but also about the need, for example, to prevent institutionalization, focused on the specific needs of each person, what we want to discuss—but apparently a broad consensus on these same answers—is what makes us different. In fact, what the CFP has been talking about, with regard to these proposals, is this ideological obsession with the public network of social support equipment and services. This, when the CFP knows—because it knows the whole country, but above all, they know the Portuguese who have no answer—that there is no truly concrete answer in this public network. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-15.u76	There isn't, but there should be!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-15.u77	On the contrary, what the PSD proposes here is enlargement — see the difference, Mr President! — the number of vacancies shared in the social responses addressed to the elderly, extending this participation to the private sector when the public network is unable to respond. [[PCP protests.]] Sir, you know why? Because people who need answers don't want to know about your ideological battle. They need an answer and that's what the state is for! [[PSD applause.]] The state does not serve for communist militancy, the state serves to answer the Portuguese. Mrs Paula Santos recently said that we know what everyone wants with this debate. Mr Member, the PS wants to keep quiet, not to come to page 3 — I think it was page 3, but I am available to admit the mistake — of the Memorandum of Troika, in which they negotiated the cut in pensions! Because they took the country to bankruptcy! [[PSD applause.]] They took the country to bankruptcy!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-15.u78	Don't be a victim!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-15.u79	And what the honourable Member wants is to get rid of what she hasn't done. Because if it is true that there are problems with the number of beds, there were already in 2018 and 2019. The speaker showed news of the data she referred to. Do you know who was part of the government in 2018 and 2019? The Portuguese Communist Party. [[PSD applause.]] [[PS, PCP and BE protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-15.u80	To reply, Mr João Dias has the floor. Quiet request to the House.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-15.u81	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Joana Barata Lopes, the honourable Member is talking about a paradigm change, but what the PSD comes to is more of the same: it is wanting to speak in dignity, when, in fact, you are talking in business!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-15.u82	Oh, yes!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-15.u83	That's the one!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-15.u84	That is what the honourable Member is talking about: it is to grasp the difficulties that families experience, which have nowhere to put their elderly people, who have nowhere to put pensioners, and to say that it is dignity. Dignity, Mrs. Member, is to have wages, because these elderly people who, today, are aging and impoverishing have spent a lifetime of work without dignity in wages, without dignity in the professions they have exercised. In this respect, it has a lot of responsibility for the PSD, which has never been available for the valuation of the wages of those who work. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-15.u85	Say an answer that works!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-15.u86	To present the initiative of the Free Party, Mr Rui Tavares has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-15.u87	Mr. President, Dear and Dear colleagues, dear and dear citizens in the galleries: I would like to begin by welcoming the PSD for the marking of this debate for today, which is the International Day for the Awareness of Violence against the Elderly, a problem that is not only ours, but that in Portugal lives with a particular emphasis and everyone should worry. This is a day established in 2006 by the International Network for the Prevention of Violence against Older Persons, recognized by the United Nations since 2011 and which warns against a problem we too have: violence against older persons. Half of the Portuguese population is over 47 years old. We are at an accelerated rate of aging: we have increased 4, 7 years to every decade. This means that the country must return to the elderly, not only from the point of view of public health and prevention, but also from the point of view of active aging. The country should not view our senior population only as a burden or responsibility; it should see our senior population as an asset, as a repository of knowledge, citizenship, participation capacity, as people who gave much to the country, under very difficult conditions, and who still have much to give to the country and to whom the country owes much. For the same reason — also based on the spirit of the Charter of the Rights of Senior Citizens, already adopted here and proposed by the Freeman — the Free House challenges the Government and, today, the PS, which supports it through its absolute majority in this Parliament, since the Government has not been present for a very simple thing: to approve and implement the National Strategy for Active and Healthy Aging, in which the PS government itself, by 2017, through an interministerial group and a priority that has been announced, determined what should be done. Therefore, we do not ask the PS to change his mind to implement the Free program. At least we ask that the PS take as priority what it announced as priority. What would be if it hadn't been a priority! This National Strategy, which was planned for the years from 2017 to 2025, needs to be updated and rescheduled from 2018 to 2030. It is essentially valid; it needs to be updated and implemented. This is the first request. With regard to the second request, I end with it because it is simple — since we ask them only to do what they have committed themselves to, we also ask for something, perhaps a little more difficult, but also necessary, which is that, in particular, they do not contribute to emptying the Charter of the Rights of Senior Citizens, which this Parliament has still recently adopted and which will be under discussion in the coming months.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-15.u88	I should be discounted in your order every time you talk more!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-15.u89	To present the initiative of the Left Block, Mrs Isabel Pires has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-15.u90	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Portugal is an ageing country, I know - it still fails, to a large extent, to protect and give rights to this range of the population. The 2021 censuses pointed to 23, 4% of the population over 65 years of age, so the challenges are great, but no one in this Chamber can say that these challenges are new or unexpected. The truth is that there has been no willingness on the part of most parties to reconsider, in its essence, the current model in care, based almost on its majority in cooperation with the social and private sector and in a lack of absolute strategy for aging in Portugal. Despite this, Portugal has a low rate of formal care. Less than 13 % of the elderly have access to professional support, whether home support or institutional support. Having said this, there are four notes in this debate that we consider relevant. The first note is this: Portugal is still a country of low wages, this fact is detrimental, and it has very objectively harmed those who are now enjoying their retirement or pension. Portugal has scandalously low pensions, because so many times, for decades, these people were very badly paid and had very few rights. Therefore, the fact that there has been such precariousness and so low wages also has an influence on the pension and reform that people have. This is worrying and it is still at a time when inflation continues to compress these scarce incomes. There are those responsible for this, particularly the parties that have been in governments in recent decades, the PS and PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-15.u91	It's a PCP and a Block!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-15.u92	The second note relates to the fact that the public care network is clearly insufficient. This is because care is not yet considered a right, nor a collective responsibility. A democratic response to aging and increased dependence has not been created, which we know has a tendency to increase, without mitigating measures. The truth is that the model of care being carried out consists of an outsourcing for families and for institutions in the social and private sector, without the State taking on its role in providing care. In fact, the model presented by the PSD's own proposals, which marked this debate, actually, maintains exactly the paradigm that exists today. So from our point of view, these proposals will not solve any problems. The problem is that, in the absence of professional care provided by the State in sufficient quantity and universal access to whom it needs the most, there are, as we have seen in recent times, complaints about clandestine homes, illegal homes, which have no conditions, but which, at the same time, continue to prosper, in addition to continuing to overload the family. The third note is this: in order for any model of formal care to work properly, it is necessary not only the political will to create it, of course, but also the valorisation of its workers — I say workers because, in its vast majority, they are women. A few weeks ago, these social workers were on strike. The minister, on the same day, in a regiment hearing, said that everything was all right and that social dialogue existed. So why do these workers continue to fight for their rights and wages? That's not reality. Unfortunately, precariousness is too often reality. Salaries are very low for functions as important as those they perform and therefore we need to change that reality too. The fourth note concerns the incomprehensible delays in implementing the measures provided for in the law of informal caregivers. Today, we know that 85 % of caregivers do not benefit from the Health Care Act and that 93, 5 % do not benefit from the caregiver's rest service. More than half, about 51, 1 %, does not actually receive any support. If it is true that the Statute of the Informal Caregiver intended to provide answers and guarantee rights to the carer and the carer, it is also true that the way in which it is being applied ends up boycotting the scope of this public policy. There is a lack of access under special conditions to the National Network of Integrated Continued Care, there is a lack of household support for rest of the caregiver, there is a lack of psychological support, among many other things. That is why the National Association of Informative Caregivers, which has so many times come to this Parliament to warn about all these problems, has promoted a legislative initiative of citizens, in order, precisely, to promote the revision of this Statute, in order to solve these identified problems, which we fully monitor. Considering these four notes, the project presented by the Left Block is going exactly to answer these four questions. This is not the way to all the proposals under discussion today, we know. We know that the PSD says it wants a real paradigm change in the system of organization of social responses, but, in fact, it does not change that paradigm, because it maintains the logic of the social sector and the private sector. But there is a final note that we could not fail to mention. In the midst of such inaction by the government, we come to this debate with proposals from virtually all parties; only the Socialist Party brings nothing. Question : Will everything be all right with regard to the situation and reality of older people in our country? Certainly, the PS will paint the picture of the "full medium cup", but the truth is that reality shows us another virtually empty glass. The fact is that we have found that they do not want to answer virtually any of the problems that have been raised. Instead, we continue to hear the same data repeatedly, the same information, which objectively in no way changes the lives of these people. We therefore reiterate the urgent need for the creation of a genuine national care network for all elderly people in our country. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-15.u93	A member of the Bureau was appointed to make a request for clarification. To that end, I give the floor to Mr Hugo Maravilha of the PSD Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-15.u94	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mrs Isabel Pires, with regard to your draft resolution, it seems to us that the proposal of the Left Block, with regard to the creation of a national care service, incorporating a public response from home, day centre and home support, does not solve the current problem of the social and solidarity sector. This is not, in our understanding, the best way. In fact, the question—or statement, as you would like to understand—that I have to do to you, from now on, is very simple. With the proposal to create a public network of social responses, the Left Block aims to end the IPSS, the equipment network and the social responses we currently have. [[Exactly!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-15.u95	Therefore, say clearly, unequivocally, transparently, if that is what they want, if they intend to end the IPSS. That is the first question I want to ask you. [[PSD applause.]] That is not the social-democrat vision. The PSD recognises that social and solidarity sector institutions play a decisive role in social inclusion. However, nowadays, the institutions of the social and solidarity sector present, let us say, difficulties of sustainability, much of them financially strangled. It is essential that the State be able to ensure that the social and solidarity sector is sustainable in order to train institutions, leaders and collaborators.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-15.u96	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-15.u97	It is precisely in this sense that the PSD proposes, in particular with regard to the financing of cooperation agreements, that the participation of the State be carried out in accordance with the actual cost of the user, with the socio-economic conditions of the user and in accordance with their social response. On the other hand, the review of the cooperation agreement should be updated, either on the basis of inflation values or on the basis of national minimum income, and should also provide for the valorisation and training of workers in this sector, so that more attractive careers can exist. Finally, I would like to ask you one last question, without prejudice to what I initially did to you — which is relevant, in order to clarify what you want to do to the IPSS — which is whether to follow these measures which the PSD proposes and which, in our perspective, will help to improve, and much, the social and solidarity sector in Portugal. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-15.u98	In reply, Mrs Isabel Pires of BE has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-15.u99	Mr President, Mr Hugo Maravilha, I would like to thank you for your question. On the first question, I don't know where Mr. Member, or someone from the PSD, ever read, in some project of the Left Block, that we wanted to end the IPSS. So that answer is easy, because we never wrote it and never said it anywhere. [[Protests from PSD MP Miguel Santos.]] But there is an underlying issue in your speech, which has to do with the debate that we are having and which is very relevant to us. Objectively, we have a completely different view of how we should respond to the need for care in Portugal. What we have come to propose, and that this project again put on the table, is the need of the State to have that primary role. What is really going on with the IPSS today is that the government has no own answers and, therefore, is leaving these institutions and others completely accompanied and without any further answers. When the PSD, in one of its projects, points out that it wants a real paradigm change in the system of organization of social responses, we realize that, in fact, what you are doing is opening up to the private...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-15.u100	Sure!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-15.u101	... what today, by law, is only in the social responses of non-profit institutions, IPSS and mercy!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-15.u102	People are desperate!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-15.u103	Who wants to end the IPSS? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-15.u104	Therefore, it is not the Left Block that wants to end the IPSS.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-15.u105	Sure!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-15.u106	The Left Block has been proposing that there must be a public support network. Obviously everything else is complementary, we never said the opposite. The problem is that there is no public care network, especially for older people, and that is where we must begin, with the creation of a public network, without prejudice, of course, of everything else on the table.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-15.u107	And people are waiting!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-15.u108	We will not go to the PSD proposal, which from our point of view is wrong, because instead of solving the IPSS problem, which they say they want to solve, they are just saying that we can use more money from the taxpayers, but for the private sector and not just for the IPSS, and that seems to us to be completely wrong. We need to channel this investment into the public care network. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-15.u109	We now move on to the period of intervention by the various parliamentary groups, with Mrs Joana Cordeiro, of the Liberal Initiative, to whom I give the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-15.u110	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Unfortunately, the lack of quality of life of our older people remains on the agenda. Thus, it is of the utmost importance that this issue be brought back to debate and, therefore, we wanted to start by thanking the PSD for this agenda. The dignity and well-being of the elderly person was, for a long time, a silent matter, almost as if we were at an age when we lost our rights or dignity as people. And this has a name: culture. Culture includes stereotypes, prejudices and discrimination directed at people based on age. Despite this being a form of very little-spoken discrimination, it is considered by the United Nations as the third most serious form of discrimination in the world, and it is very little spoken because the elderly do not have an active voice, because they do not give them an active voice. In Portugal, although Portugal is one of the oldest countries in the world, the truth is that there is still a great stigma in relation to older people, and this is reflected in the attention that has been given to them over the years. Portugal is 4. the country of the world, when looking at the proportion of people over 65 years of age. Portugal is the country of the European Union where the population has grown older in the last decade. But Portugal is also 5. the country of the European Union where there are more people over 65 years of age working. And the reason is obvious: low wages and low pensions, which implies the need to find alternatives. Portugal is also the country where the national coverage rate of responses for the elderly is only 12 %. This means that only 12 in 100 elderly people find a response in homes, day centers or home support, which can lead to the emergence of illegal institutions and, worse than everything, situations of abuse to the elderly. But for the government, it's all right. According to the powerpoints we have been used to, great investments have been made in this social area, but the reality has shown, in a European study in which the rate of healthy ageing was evaluated in people aged 70 or older, that Portugal was much less than acceptable, with a rate of only 8, 8 % compared to Austria, the best country with 58, 3 %. The Minister of Labour, Solidarity and Social Security has told us about major investments under the PRR and the PARES programme ( Social Equipment Network Enlargement Programme ), which will be the major saviors of this sector. It remains to be known when. It is that the Government has not yet realized that urgent measures are needed, that they differ from the difficulties felt at present. For example, new and different social responses are needed because, as the Liberal Initiative has come to defend, older people must be respected in their will and have options. Social responses are needed linked with the private and social sector, justly contracted, in order to promote agility and the expansion of vacancies, so that an effective increase in this coverage rate can be achieved. And they need trained social responses to all the needs of older people and according to their level of dependence and autonomy. This means more specialized and individualized care. in this context, we need proximity responses that promote the acting in place, i.e., aging at home and in the community. Therefore, the conditions needed for elderly people to stay as long as possible in their environment, either through adaptation of spaces, in order to create safe and comfortable environments, either through home support, to ensure constant monitoring and to combat isolation and loneliness, or through activities that keep the elderly active, both at cognitive and physical level. Here, local power has a fundamental power. Only social support provided by the power closest to the citizens can be really more efficient to measure and fill all needs of a particular population. Social benefits must follow a path of decentralization, proximity, an idea of agility, because our elderly cannot wait. in this context, so that elderly people can be as long as possible in their homes, we can not fail to highlight the role of informal caregivers. in this sense, it is more than time to change a regime that has proved too rigid, with too many demands and unjustified bureaucracy. I come back to what I have already said: for the Liberal Initiative, it is essential that older people be respected in their will and that they have options, that they can choose between staying in their homes, with all the necessary support, or move to an institution that provides them with additional care, with quality. But, ladies and gentlemen. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, one final observation: our demographic pyramid is reversed and we are putting in our younger ones — many of those who were here and are still in the galleries today — the responsibility to support a whole generation of reforms. Without economic growth and serious reform of the pension system, we are putting on very few young people the burden of supporting a large part of a very old population. These must therefore be the priorities: greater economic growth and a complete reform of the current pension system. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-15.u111	To speak by the PS Parliamentary Group, Mrs Cristina Sousa has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-15.u112	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The social and solidarity sector has been playing an extremely strategic role over the last few decades with the significant expansion of the social services and equipment network, thus promoting the increase and creation of new social responses, in meeting the commitment of the Socialist Party, reflected in its Government Programme, aligned with the European Pillar of Social Rights and the European Care Delivery Strategy. Thus, in recent years, the Government has been implementing an extended set of measures and support aimed at the social and solidarity sector, with the aim of increasing the importance of the sector and cooperation with the State and thus contributing to the improvement of the quality of life, in particular of the most vulnerable groups, including elderly or dependent people. Through the PARES programme and the Recovery and Resilience Plan, requalification is possible — it is true, Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, as much as it costs to listen - and the extension of the network of social equipment and responses, as well as the increase in the network of innovative responses and the qualification of the home support service. [[P.S.'s applause.]] These measures constitute an investment of more than 700 million euros, representing 53 000 places in social responses, of which about 40 000 are for the elderly. It is also important to highlight the trajectory that has been traced in order to strengthen and qualify responses in the community, such as the home support service, day centres and collaborative housing, which allow people to stay for as long as possible in their home, regardless of the dependency situation in which they are found. It is recognized that, among the various existing measures, the home support service is the social response of excellence, in order to fulfil the great desire to maintain the elderly or dependent persons in their own homes, inserted into the community.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-15.u113	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-15.u114	in this sense, the government is developing a study to amend the legislation of this social response, with a view to its qualification, the diversification of services and care provided and its intensification, in the expansion of either the time, or the greater stay of professionals in the home. With regard to the financial sustainability of social and solidarity sector institutions, it should be noted that the State budget for 2023 provides for an increase of EUR 115 million in comparison with the forecast in 2022, which represents an increase of EUR 522 million since 2015. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Thus, in order to implement the commitment set out in the Cooperation Pact, financial participation increased by 8, 4 % in the ERPI (residential structures for elderly persons) and 11, 5 % in the day-to-day centres. On the other hand, and as a result of the exceptional rising inflation situation, support for the increase of food expenditure has still been created for a total of EUR 18 million. In addition, extraordinary support was created to compensate for the increase in the price of fuels by around EUR 1, 4 million in the social responses of the Domestic Support Service, the Day Centre and the Inclusion Training and Activity Centre. In the context of the cooperation compromise, measures are still being developed for the institutions to address the needs of existing responses. Thus, at the end of 2022, a new addendum to the cooperation commitment was signed by the Government and the representative entities of the sector, ensuring extraordinary support and the update of participations in 2023, with a total investment of EUR 150 million. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, for the Government and for the Socialist Party, the social and solidarity sector is one of the fundamental pillars of society and it is in this sense that we have done everything and will always do to accompany the effort and deserved work of the institutions,... [[Protests from PSD MP Clara Marques Mendes.]] ... with measures duly structured and articulated with the sector, with the main objective of the well-being of the elderly. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-15.u115	The honourable Member has a request for clarification. Mr Emília Cerqueira of the PSD Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-15.u116	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have listened very carefully to your statement, which, in fact, if it had been said by the Minister of Labour and Social Security, would have been exactly the same. He was perfectly able to bring the position of the Government and to be Mr. Minister's resonance box.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-15.u117	Good!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-15.u118	But, Mrs Deputy, I would like to tell you that social admissions have increased 60 % in Portugal, occupy 1675 beds of hospitals and have a cost of 226 million euros, according to news from our newspapers and the Portuguese statistical data.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-15.u119	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-15.u120	This is the reality of our elderly people. [[PSD applause.]] In order to solve this problem, the honourable Member — in fact, once again! — refers to the PRR and PARES. They are the alpha and omega of all the problems of Portugal. But I have to tell you something, Mrs. Member, something that I think is what our families, our elderly people and those who hear us at home, those who don't have time to wait so long. The honourable Member is threatening us with medium- and long-term measures, but people who today do not have a solution, who do not have a bed, do not have a home, do not have a social response, need a response for today. Many are 80, 85, 90 years old. Can you wait for the 10 years that are necessary to finish an ERPI, to finish an institution, a complete work? They can't wait. That is to leave them alone, Mrs. Deputies. [[PSD applause.]] And that is precisely what the PSD does not want me to continue. We have a short-term response at our disposal. As long as they're not cleared by ideology...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-15.u121	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-15.u122	...and for the public for everything, the answer is there. And the answer is in the proposal that the PSD, in fact, presents to this debate today the increase in vacancies for older people. For this purpose, it is enough to extend the network to the public, social and private sector, to those who, like what happened to the day care centres, are willing to participate in this scholarship.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-15.u123	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-15.u124	What we really need to know is whether you're going to be with us and answer people who today, at home, have no solutions for their elderly, or if you're going to continue here with the alpha and omega of the PRR. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-15.u125	In reply, Mrs Cristina Sousa has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-15.u126	Mrs Emília Cerqueira, I want to tell you that the way is being made. With regard to cooperation agreements, according to the figures I have just mentioned, we have been talking about around EUR 500 million since 2015. That represents...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-15.u127	That's not enough!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-15.u128	Not enough, but the way is being made, and for many years nothing has been done. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-15.u129	Go, go!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-15.u130	Really, at the time the PSD was in the government, nothing was done and the Socialist Party had to start again,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-15.u131	That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-15.u132	...had to continue the path, which the Democratic Social Party interrupted, during the years it was in the government. [[PSD protests.]] I would also like to remind you, too, about the beds of admission, which we had in the Health Committee yesterday, the discussion of Amendment No 38 - A, which will come into force and will help solve many problems. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-15.u133	It's 30 vacancies!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-15.u134	The path is being made, takes its time, but the Socialist Party does not resign, the Socialist Party's government remains firm...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-15.u135	There's the government, don't you see? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-15.u136	... and continues on, always looking for the best solutions for the populations and, in particular, for the elderly. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-15.u137	And when does the government talk? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-15.u138	To speak on behalf of the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mr Rui Cruz has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-15.u139	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: What brings us here today is the reflection, speedy and fruitful construction of a set of measures that support a short-term social intervention strategy aimed at two target groups: older people and adults with disabilities, who urgently need beds and social responses, indispensable and unattainable to their comfort, security and dignity. [[PSD applause.]] These are particularly fragile people, without unlimited material resources and of course are limited in their autonomy to find solutions to problems of loneliness, abandonment, dependence or ill-treatment. The aim is to cooperate with the structures, equipment and institutions of the civil society installed, and with great success, without deluding them, diminishing or harming on a mission essential to the social state: the fulfilment of the role of social protection. We are well aware that the Government has found in the millions of the Recovery and Resilience Plan and the Community Support Framework 2030 a capable solution to shut down emerging social problems. However, dear Members and Members, despair, indignity, social emergency shout higher and they cannot wait, cannot wait for the answers of 2026 or 2030. That is why, by looking objectively at the extreme seriousness of the social framework of these people and the indisputable reliability of the sector institutions, at a time when the budget revenue allows it and the tax burden widely justifies it, we made these measures, certain of its unquestionable opportunity and of its just social adequacy. [[PSD applause.]] Certain of its capitulation in the budgets of cooperation, in the State budgets for 2024 et seq., until the announced government promises are fulfilled, the initiatives aim, at the same time, to reconcile five objectives: to delay the institutionalization of users in residential responses; to increase the availability of social beds expressly and immediately; to take safe steps in the promotion and protection of the rights of older persons; to make access to social beds universal and transparent; and to ensure, in cooperation, the cost of the user in the social responses of home, irrespective of the value of his or her participation. The bet is made in a profound reform of the social response of SAD—Domicile Support Services— increasing the number and type of services to be financed by cooperation, thus creating a kind of social beds to the household, in the home of users, of SAD and day centre. We talk about essential services, medical services, nursing services, physiotherapy, care, surveillance, day, night, 24 hours, depending on the needs of the users and their families. [[PSD applause.]] [[Protests of PS Members.]] We want to add them to the typical services of animation, food and personal hygiene and home, at the same time seriously betting on the figure of the informal caregiver, unlocking entropies that legislation created in the face of excessive reservations about the conflict of rights of this institute between the duty originating from their children to care for parents and the right and the duty that the State has to protect. We intend to update, dynamize and hire family reception—a law of the last century—from elderly and disabled people, through the cooperation budget, giving the IPSS the selection, training of host families and authorization and follow-up to district centres. Then, it is necessary to adapt the total coverage of cooperation agreements to the maximum lot of equipment and to bet on the licensing of new social beds in existing, but useless or devolved spaces, in the already licensed social equipment and on the use of property owned by social institutions intended for housing, creating temporary residences and accompanied by IPSS. Finally, cautioning the sustainability of the first line of social protection, a set of measures emerges that aim to facilitate the management of social responses by eliminating redundancy, financing more balanced equipment and social responses, including residential home responses and increasing transparency in access and calculation of user participation in social responses. And, no less important, mechanisms are created to promote and protect the rights of older people. It emerges in the ESC ( Centre for Social Studies ) and in the social network, with particular emphasis on the executive nuclei of the CLAS ( Local Social Action Councils ), which, together with the Public Ministry, have operational competences for the prevention and protection of elderly in extreme situations. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we are sure that these measures are urgently needed, as certain as the need to consult, in particular, with all parliamentary groups. This is because, as it is, the idea that the government gives us, paraphrasing, is that "this country is not for the old. And that is unacceptable. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-15.u140	Not for old people, not for young people! This is hard for everyone!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-15.u141	For an intervention on behalf of the PS Parliamentary Group, Mrs Marta Freitas has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-15.u142	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The European Commission has launched the European Care Delivery Strategy, which consists of putting people first, from childhood to old age, ensuring that they receive the right care at the right time and in the right place. As far as the informal caregiver is concerned, the PS Parliamentary Group has listened to you and has something to say, firstly, to do here a historical retrospective of what has been the implementation of the Statute of the Informal Caregiver. In 2019, the Socialist Party ensured that the Statute of the Informal Caregiver was a reality, providing for a set of rights for caregivers who so far had no social recognition or protection. Subsequently, the legislation that regulated pilot projects, lasting 12 months, covering 30 municipalities in the continental territory, as the honourable Members know. Ladies and gentlemen. Due to the pandemic context, its operationalization took place on 1 June 2020, with retroactive effects of the right to support the main informal caregiver. However, since June 2020, it was possible to request recognition of this status in all councils of the national territory, and with the aim of improving access to the Statute of the Informal Caregiver, several portals were published that allowed the exemption of documents to suit the need for more accelerated implementation of this measure. Already in January 2022, with the generalization of the Status of Informal Care throughout the national context, improvements were introduced, when compared to pilot experiments, which resulted from the evaluation of these same experiences. Also with the publication of Ordinance No. 100 / 2022 of 22 February, which sets the amount of the allowance to be allocated to the primary informal caregiver and the reference income of his family aggregate, there were improvements in relation to the previous model, because it constitutes an important tool to combat the poverty of the main informal caregivers, in particular with the increase in the percentage of the indexer of social support (IAS), which assesses the reference income of the family aggregate of the caregiver. Thus, in 2022, all these measures were generalized and extended to support informal caregivers and caregivers throughout the continental territory. These measures were implemented through the articulation of social security services, entities from various sectors, including health, justice, education, employment, vocational training and security forces. [[P.S.'s applause.]] in this statute, measures are planned to ensure the training of caregivers and the right to rest, as well as they know. It is therefore the will of the government to create nearly 10 000 vacancies in residential structures and homes for the rest of the caregivers — a central rest — because those who care also deserve to be careful. Important is also this possibility of integrating people cared for in care for a period, so that there is rest of the caregiver, but also creating terms of reference for placement in residential structures for elderly people, or in residential homes for people with disabilities and, in the absence of these, the reference in the private and lucrative sector, the support of social security for the rest of those who take care of 24 hours, 365 days a year. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Therefore, we are aware that there are still improvements to be made and because we are equally committed to its implementation, in the short term - the publication of the portal that will regulate the measure of rest of the caregiver and the proposal to amend Regulation Decree No. 1 / 2022 of 10 January, in order to simplify the process of recognition at the time also of the Informal Caregiver Statute. Still in preparation is the legislative amendment that will allow priority access to public services for primary informal caregivers and social energy, gas and internet tariffs for these informal caregivers who take the support allowance. No less important is the Committee on the Monitoring, Monitoring and Evaluation of the Statute of the Informal Caregiver, which is currently in progress and which is a standing committee which aims to evaluate this important measure of social policy and to follow up all the measures provided for in the statute which, or not, lacks regulation, strengthening and mitigating the conflicts of the law passed and regulated for a little more than three years, thus constituted by a port in November 2022. In this regard, the Statute of the Informal Caregiver of a measure of cross-sectoral social policy, the success of which requires concerted and coordinated action between various sectors of society, requires, within its monitoring, the evaluation and monitoring guaranteed also by a linkage between various sectors and services, including social security, health centres groupings, family health units, municipal chambers, freguesia boards, social solidarity institutions, informal caregivers' associations, including the National Association of Informatic Caregivers and other entities. According to the diploma published in the Diário da República on 8 November, it is up to this committee to monitor the development and computer operationality of the data and to connect with the various competent services and agencies of the Ministry of Labour, Solidarity and Social Security, the Ministry of Health and the Holy House of Mercy of Lisbon. It is also up to you to ensure the quarterly publication of regulatory monitoring data, to propose improvement measures in the field of operationalization, communication and circuits, and to define a framework of indicators for the evaluation of implementation, regulation and effective social effectiveness. It is therefore important to hear what this committee has to say about improvements to the Statute of the Informal Caregiver, and it is important to mention, and to raise awareness among the honourable Members. Members, that an in-depth and comprehensive assessment of the status, which was extended throughout the continental territory in 2022, lacks implementation time. Relevant is also the dissemination of support to caregivers to obtain this status. I recall that, in 2022, a collaboration protocol was signed in the context of the implementation of this status between the Institute of Social Security and the National Association of Freguesias, thus ensuring close support and personalized follow-up to those who need it. Such support may be given, for example, in the submission of applications for recognition of status or in the submission of applications for social security. It may also be possible to help these informal caregivers when they need to resume their professional activity and their life, ending the care provided to the caretaker. Similarly, various training and information actions, campaigns and other communication measures have been promoted. These measures that have been carried out since the implementation of this statute really reflect the Government's commitment and that have contributed to the growth of this important policy of protection for informal caregivers. The evidence of this evolution is the results, not only quantitative as qualitative, that have occurred, compared to the homologous period, with a growth in the order of 60 % of the number of recognized informal caregivers. Recent data show that approximately 14 000 informal caregivers have already been recognized, of which 48 % are main informal caregivers and 52 % are non-main informal caregivers. The average monthly value of the support allowance for informal caregivers is about 297, 74 €. Fortunately, the number of caregivers has grown, in a universe that predicted 142,000 informal caregivers, according to Portaria No. 2 / 2020, of 10 January, at the date of publication. Finally, through the Dignified Work Agenda, which aims to reconcile professional life with the family life of parents and caregivers, informal caregivers began to benefit from a set of rights at work. Thus, non-principal informal caregivers become licensed for 5 days and the right to 15 days of justified misconduct. In the Labour Code, informal caregivers are entitled to telework, flexible or part-time hours and are covered by the protection against dismissal and discrimination. It should also be noted that the proposals for amendments to the Labour Code present in these initiatives deal with articles which have recently been added to the amendments under the dignified agenda adopted in this House,... [[Congrats from PS Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-15.u143	Hit your palms as it should be!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-15.u144	...knowing the gentlemen. Members who have come into force a little longer than a month ago who are in line with the directive of the European Union on the reconciliation of professional and family life. Therefore, in view of the fact that in the various initiatives, it is recognised that there is good will in improving the Statute of the Informal Caregiver and its labour rights, alerted to the importance of the necessary implementation time of both laws which have recently entered into force, so that the amendments to the legal regime of this statute, after the assessment of it, are more comprehensive and can be more effective. However, the Socialist Party's Government has been implementing improvements in this status, as a result of monitoring and a continuous and deep assessment, contrary to what has been argued. So the way is being made, we will continue to be careful and evaluate this status so that it can improve. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-15.u145	The honourable Member has two requests for clarification. How do you intend to respond?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-15.u146	Together, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-15.u147	For the first request for clarification, Mrs Ofélia Ramos has the floor on behalf of the PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-15.u148	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Marta Freitas, I have listened very carefully to your speech and let me tell you that she does not pass a review of the status of the informal Caregiver.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-15.u149	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-15.u150	Nothing adds to this debate, because we ended up not knowing the Socialist Party's position on the PSD proposal for informal caregivers.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-15.u151	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-15.u152	He also said nothing about the social response of the home support service. In this regard, let me tell you that the PSD firmly believes that getting older at home, with the family and the neighbourhood network, with security and comfort, brings numerous benefits and benefits. [[PSD applause.]] For this reason, today, this is a model of social intervention privileged by the World Health Organization. Ageing at home should not be an option of appeal, it should not be a second option, it should be the first option of our elderly and Portuguese families. In order for people to grow old well at home, we need to have and ensure more diversified, high-quality and comprehensive home support services. The home support service cannot continue to focus on meeting the basic needs of the elderly, because this is little, it does not satisfy, it does not meet the needs of the elderly of the 21st century.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-15.u153	It was a choice!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-15.u154	The PSD has been alerting the Socialist Party and the Government to this concern, and in particular has put forward a number of proposals, all of which have been systematically plunged by the Socialist Party. Therefore, the PSD once again brings up a proposal to strengthen the home support service so that it will include basic health services and care. In fact, this proposal has never been so current: with the increase in the cost of living and with the degradation of the National Health Service today, more than ever, it is justified that the home support service begins to understand medical and nursing services, thus avoiding numerous travels to health institutions. The Government and the Socialist Party cannot continue to deceive Portuguese with programmes and projects financed with structural funds, in particular the PRR, which aim precisely to ensure these home social responses. The Portuguese do not want temporary projects to respond to permanent and structural needs, because when the funding is completed our elderly continue to be elderly and need adequate responses to their needs.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-15.u155	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-15.u156	Thus, I ask the Socialist Party whether it is in this case that it follows the PSD proposal and will allow the home support service to include, once and for all, basic health services, so that consultations, medical and nursing acts are carried out in the home context, without our elderly having to leave home. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-15.u157	For a request for clarification on behalf of the Left Block Parliamentary Group, Mrs Isabel Pires has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-15.u158	Mr President, Mrs Marta Freitas, for her speech on the Statute of the Informal Caregiver, unfortunately, after so many years of debate and progress in the law, it seems that the Socialist Party continues in the field of intentions, when we should be in the field of the realization of what is left in the law and to check what is wrong in it to improve it. The honourable Member spoke in about 14 000 people already receiving the Staff Regulations of the Informal Caregiver. Madam Member, there will be about 827 000 informal caregivers in our country, the difference is abismal and, therefore, if this does not reach the people to whom it should arrive, we have a problem.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-15.u159	It's empty glass, it's not even half full!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-15.u160	In my speech, I mentioned the percentages we have: 93, 5 % do not take advantage of the rest service of the caregiver. That was one of the issues that we brought here, and which the honourable Member mentioned. Why, over so many years, do these caregivers still not have access to a right that should be theirs and that is shaped by the law? Mrs Deputy, having spent so many years in this debate, which has united several banks and political forces in the Assembly of the Republic, how is it possible that we are still on the side of the Socialist Party in the field of intentions?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-15.u161	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-15.u162	There is not a single informal caregiver in this country who can realize that. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-15.u163	In reply, Mrs Marta Freitas has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-15.u164	Mr President, Mrs Ofélia Ramos, I will tell you that Mrs Deputy is also making a historical review, but sent by the PSD vision. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-15.u165	The honourable Member has certainly not been attentive to the data I have given, nor to the data that my colleague Cristina Sousa has listed, especially on diversified responses and home support. Therefore, Mrs Deputy, I advise you to be more attentive to our speeches. As for the Left Block, I also say that you have not been attentive to the numerous portals I have announced, which are being worked and disseminated, nor to the committee that has already been set up or to the evaluation work that is being done.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-15.u166	Oh, are they being worked? So, okay!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-15.u167	There should be recognition that there are improvements that are being made and the Left Block knows that there are improvements that have been made in relation to pilot projects.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-15.u168	Say one!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-15.u169	I don't have anything else to say. Pay attention to the interventions. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-15.u170	What's worth is we have doors advertised every day!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-15.u171	I now give the floor to Mr Filipe Melo on behalf of the Group of the Party of European Socialists.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-15.u172	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Member of the Socialist Party has now spoken in doors that are being made and studied, but while the PS has been doing these doors for a long and long time, there are elderly people going hungry. There are elderly people who can't go to the pharmacies, while the PS is studying the portals.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-15.u173	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-15.u174	This is the social chaos in which the Socialist Party leaves our elderly.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-15.u175	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-15.u176	Do you know, Mrs Deputy, that the average reform in Portugal is 500 €? Do you know that the lowest reforms are €288? How do you think our elderly people live by these values? They don't live, they survive! I will tell you more: there are 2, 5 million — I repeat, 2, 5 million! — of people over 65 years of age in Portugal and of those over 500 000 — I repeat, too, 500 000! — are poor or live at the threshold of poverty. These are the portals that you are still studying that contribute to these people being like this. And add: a social state that does not care for children and the elderly is a failed social state.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-15.u177	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-15.u178	It's not the state! Who's failed is the government! The state is all of us!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-15.u179	The evidence is that, in a debate of this importance, there is not a member of the Government sitting in these chairs, not one! [[Congrats from the CH.]] This is the importance that the elderly have for the Government of the Socialist Party. People who have worked their whole lives, people who have given everything for their work, their lives, their families, come to this age and are despised. I don't know if it costs you or not, but it costs me a lot to spend on the street and see the elderly sitting on the side of the walk asking for money to buy a bread. It costs me a lot to get to the door of a pharmacy and see the elderly ask, not money, but to get them into the pharmacy to buy them a medicine. This is revolting! This is the country that we have and that should embarrass everyone we are sitting here and legislating, as well as all the members of the government who are not here today to face and take on this failure for the Portuguese elderly. [[Congrats from the CH.]] Today, the Social Democratic Party brings a debate of great importance. I have heard all the PSD interventions very carefully and I note that only the right is that you are concerned about this debate. This was seen today again. But I must say, ladies. Members, that the proposals they bring are credible and that they will therefore have the favourable vote of the Arrival. But it is also important to note that, in all the proposals brought by the Arrival, including those of the State Budget, the PSD's return was lead.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-15.u180	Truth!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-15.u181	I will show you which: increasing the value of the minimum pension, giving dignity to our elderly. What was the meaning of PSD's vote? Against. Simplification of the Statute of the Informal Caregiver, which today bring, and well, and that we will vote in favour, what was the PSD's response? Against.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-15.u182	Against!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-15.u183	Shame!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-15.u184	Programme to extend the national solidarity network of elderly people's homes. How did the PSD vote? Abstention. Mrs. Members, renewal of the computer park of homes, strengthening the protection of the elderly who are victims of crimes. What was the meaning of PSD's vote? Against. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, this is the difference between those who make politics thinking about people, who is our case, and those who make politics thinking about ideology and only the party itself.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-15.u185	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-15.u186	What we recommend is that your bank leader be consistent in the responses he gives to the proposals brought by the other parties. We reaffirm: we will vote in favour of all the proposals that have brought the debate today. They are worthy, they are fair and they help the population.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-15.u187	They're the same as us!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-15.u188	I invite you to do the same on very identical proposals, which we have brought in the past, last year and still this year, and which you voted against. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-15.u189	You now have the floor to speak on behalf of the PS Parliamentary Group, Mrs Cristina Mendes da Silva.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-15.u190	Mr President, I welcome the honourable Members and the honourable Members. Ladies and gentlemen: Let's go to parties. Aging and longevity are the greatest challenges worldwide. Portugal and the European Union align strategies to deal with demographic changes and ageing, which are active and healthy. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, with regard to the proposal for the Economic and Social Council, it is my duty to say that it works as a plenary and that it can set up specialized temporary committees, with the composition, objectives and mode of operation which the Council itself defines, so this proposal from the PSD — the establishment of the specialized committee — should be delivered directly to the ESC, to the head of this institution, which is the body responsible for this. With regard to the amendments proposed by the PSD to Decree-Law No 115/2006, which regulates the social network programme, the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group would like to recall that the social network programme aims to combat poverty and social exclusion, in the perspective of promoting local social development. It is not in its competences, nor must it have the mission of direct social intervention, but rather of mobilizing all services, entities and organizations, in order that these, through its action plans, can act directly with people, in order to meet the goals and objectives of the Social Development Plan (SDP ) of the social network. The social network is the engine that everyone is part of, but it is the partner entities that have to operationalize activities and projects. I give as an example the Senior Movement, Diabetes in Movement, Boccia Senior, and so many other projects spread throughout the country. The topics presented should therefore be covered by the proximity services, which continuously promote social support to the population, particularly through the Social Assistance and Monitoring Service, without prejudice to the necessary linkage with other entities that constitute the social network. As part of the update of the National Strategy for Active Aging, which was proposed by the Free, we say that it was a proposal that reached the Government and, following its verification, the conditions for its approval were not met. But recognizing that it is a matter that deserves attention, through the Order No 4762 / 2023 of 20 April, the Minister of Labour, Solidarity and Social Security and the Minister of Health appointed a national coordinator of the Active and Healthy Ageing Action Plan. It is therefore expected that, in the short term, innovative, concrete and structural measures will be presented to these protections, with a view to strengthening and diversifying the services that promote independent self-reliance and promote the self-determination of older people, allowing them to be wherever they want to be. It is recalled that as early as 2021, the Government had established the National Monitoring Centre for Aging and that more recently the Centre for Active Aging Skills was established. In short, honourable Members and dear Members, the Government has an Active and Healthy Ageing Action Plan, a National Monitoring Centre for Ageing and an Active Ageing Skills Centre.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-15.u191	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-15.u192	Our country is covered by a national network that integrates all programs and mobilizes its partners. The Government is committed and working, as always, for the benefit of the elderly and their families.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-15.u193	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-15.u194	It was not the traffic lights regime, which, when it is red, the PSD cuts into social measures and, when it is green, the PS follows with social measures, we were already further away and more people were being supported. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-15.u195	The honourable Member has a request for clarification. To put it forward, you have the floor of the Member of the PSD Parliamentary Group, Olga Silvestre.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-15.u196	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, being elderly is people who deserve to be cared for, loved, respected and happy. In Portugal we live in a demographic winter, but this fact must not prevent the State from having to take care of those who have already taken care of us.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-15.u197	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-15.u198	Human rights are not old, but the socialist government fails with the elders, and failing with the elders is failing with the country. Poverty, isolation and the health of the elderly is a major concern of the PSD. The debate is long and the problem of illegal homes has not yet been addressed here,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-15.u199	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-15.u200	... but in the real country, many elderly people are abandoned to their fate and who is poorer, and when the situation is urgent, they are forced to resort to illegal homes, sometimes being subjected to ill-treatment. The State here also fails to monitor. Institutionalization, which should be the last resort, ends up being the only option, above all for the most deprived. [[PSD applause.]] The PSD has also recently questioned the government about this situation, but silence has been the answer of the Minister. Mrs. Members, making appropriate choices to avoid institutionalisation must be the priority. Privilege the maintenance of the elderly in their homes is the most humane way of supporting and promoting effective active aging.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-15.u201	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-15.u202	Within its humanist DNA(deoxyribonucleic acid), the PSD presents several proposals, because what it wants is that, at the end of the day, the person who was already a child and young continues to have a dignified and happy life, because it deserves, is fair and due to it.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-15.u203	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-15.u204	We should treat the elderly as one day we would like to be treated, because hopefully all of us here will have the privilege of being elderly one day. Mrs Cristina Silva, is the Socialist Party available to support the measures proposed by the PSD? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-15.u205	There was a second request for clarification this time on behalf of the CFP Parliamentary Group. Mrs Paula Santos has the floor to make it.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-15.u206	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to address two aspects of the dignity and appreciation of the elderly and how to ensure dignified living conditions for the elderly. The difficulties of the elderly result from the right-wing policies that have been followed both by the Socialist Party and by the PSD and the CDS, but which have always been supported by the Liberal Initiative and the Arrival.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-15.u207	Sure!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-15.u208	The truth is that these difficulties of life, of the low reforms, also result from a life of work based on low wages. The Government of the Socialist Party, in view of this reality, continues to fail to adopt the solutions that are necessary to, in fact, recover and value the reforms of the reformers and pensioners of our country. This was the first question I would like to ask you: will the Government and the Socialist Party, or will they definitely not value, guarantee decent living conditions for the reformers? Recently, we had the opportunity to say that, after a lifetime of work, they should have these conditions, and they are faced with numerous and numerous difficulties. The second question I would like to put concerns the social responses, both within the framework of home support and within the framework of equipment for older people. The truth is that this shortage has also long been identified in our country, not today. It is, in fact, a lack that has been a long time ago, but the truth is that no solutions have been adopted to give an effective answer. We have often seen families with no solution that end up pushing for solutions without dignity, and that are illegal in our country, because there is a lack of a public network. But what prevents the government from taking these solutions? What prevents the government from actually creating a public network and extending the answers, either at day-care level or at home level, or at home support level, which actually allows to guarantee these same living conditions, as we mean, with dignity? These are the issues I would like to ask you. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-15.u209	In reply, Mrs. Cristina Mendes da Silva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-15.u210	Mr President, I would begin by responding to Mrs Paula Santos of the CFP and telling her that in relation to policies, we are taking that path,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-15.u211	They're not! They're not doing anything!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-15.u212	...in fact, you are witnesses of this, because they have been with us for a while. Then you don't know very well why, they gave up.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-15.u213	Give us an example there!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-15.u214	But who has raised the minimum wage, from 2015 to now, almost 50%? [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-15.u215	What about the cost of living? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-15.u216	PS has no solutions!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-15.u217	I'm sorry, but the elderly who will be retired in 30 years will have a better reform than those who have retired until this date. [[Protests from PCP MP Paula Santos.]] With regard to the second reply, concerning the public network of social equipment, in a rule of law, as Mr Deputy said here, recently in a loud voice, « the state is all of us », and therefore the State cannot be only the government.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-15.u218	But who executes the policies? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-15.u219	The State has the entities that govern, has the economic model and also has the institutions. We have our social system based on associations, which have served us well over the past 50 years, and therefore we have to support, the State supports, and we have to create conditions for them to welcome people and treat them as best they can, which is what they deserve. [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-15.u220	Then you have to solve it!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-15.u221	With regard to Mrs Olga Silvestre of the PSD, who asks us if we will be accompanied. Mr. Member, I ask you, in a more cordial way: where have you been so far?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-15.u222	Presenting proposals and you and lead them!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-15.u223	If we go see, did they wake up now? Are you coming to meet us? It's just that whoever's listening thinks the PS hasn't done anything in the social area until today.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-15.u224	Zero! Zero!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-15.u225	I'll remind you, I'll remind you! [[PSD protests.]] [[Ball!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-15.u226	Calm down, calm down! Ball's for you. See, from 1995 to 2002 when the minimum social income system was created, where was the PSD? Don't show up, it was the PS. [[PSD protests.]] In 2005, with Decree-Law No. 232/2005, which created the solidarity complement of the elderly, the most fighting poverty in the third age, where was the PSD? I wasn't, I was PS.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-15.u227	Bankruption!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-15.u228	More! In 2011 and 2015 what happened? Withdrawal of many important social measures in relation to workers, in relation to families and, if you are afraid, you have cut the pensions to the elderly, and now you come to say that the PS has not done anything? I'm sorry. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-15.u229	You signed!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-15.u230	Sorry, but that's what I'm saying: it's not with cuts or austerity that people support, and we're currently working to make the country develop and leave no one behind.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-15.u231	We're back!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-15.u232	Is it hard to rule? Yes, sir, but the PS doesn't lose focus. Even with you saying something that is completely the opposite of it, I think that people who are at home, even the elderly, especially the elderly, have memories and will remember that one who was the party that, since 1974, has been present in the best and greatest social measures. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-15.u233	To the worst! ... How is that possible? What a shame!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-15.u234	Lie with everyone's teeth!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-15.u235	For an intervention on behalf of the Liberal Initiative, Mrs Patrícia Gilvaz has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-15.u236	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Before we focus on this issue, I would like to say to Mrs Paula Santos — who is always with the Liberal Initiative here, the Liberal Initiative there — that forgets that it was the CFP that approved six budgets of the PS State. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-15.u237	The increase in pensions!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-15.u238	Four Budgets!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-15.u239	Therefore, focus on your party and let the Liberal Initiative continue to present proposals to change the country. Focusing on the debate here, today, in question, the real increase in average life expectancy is proof of the progress and success of civilization, achieved through globalisation, free market and ensuring a series of individual rights, which are so well represented and defined by Western society. It is also a quite solid argument against any catastrophic idea, which erroneously propagandises that the world walks into the abyss at any time, at the same time as proclaiming that the quality of life worsens every year. And this is not what the data tell us, nor is it reality. However, ladies and gentlemen. Members, although it is important to increase the average life expectancy, it is also important for these years to live with effective quality of life and with respect for fundamental, individual and social rights of the elderly. Having reached this dilemma and these objectives, we have two options. On the one hand, we can choose to ensure that these same rights are deepened, ensuring that the elderly enjoy all the social and medical conditions that allow them a dignified and dignified end of life and also ensure that they enjoy reforms that allow them to be financially independent, a point that is essential to ensure their freedom and autonomy. On the other hand, we can opt for the criminal rhetoric of the hardening of sentences and the creation of gross crimes, which are not uncommonly confined to already existing crimes, as well as alerted the opinions to Bill No. 241 / XV / 1. a, of the NAP. The IL cannot follow this rhetoric which paradoxically infantilizes the elderly and qualifies them as more fragile only and only because they are over 65 years old. Well, that's not true, ladies and gentlemen. Members, because fragility and vulnerability are not measured by age. That is why, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, we are already used to populism by some, but, from left to right, criminal populism will make its way, this time through Bill No. 241 / XV / 1. a, of the NAP.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-15.u240	Mrs. Member, I apologize for interrupting, but there are many conversations that are taking place in the plenary and that I am listening, and I wanted to hear only Mrs. Deputies. I'm sorry and I'm sorry to keep you going.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-15.u241	Thank you, Mr. President. Clearly, they are not very interested in this debate. I was saying, from left to right, criminal populism is taking its way. this time, through Bill No. 241 / XV / 1. the PAN, which I mentioned, and also through populism. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-15.u242	For an intervention on behalf of the PS Parliamentary Group, Mrs Susana Correia has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-15.u243	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Some of the initiatives presented refer to the importance of health care in support of citizens who, as a result of a decisive set, are in a position of dependence and vulnerability. We are aware that, in view of the challenges we face, the success of many of the measures taken is largely dependent on the correct linkage between network work in the most various areas. It is essential to adopt public policies capable of promoting the well-being of citizens and which, in concert, communicate with one another, achieving a principle that we defend, which is that of health in all policies. The reality has changed, as a result of demographic issues, innovation, digitization, people's preference. It is important that the answers we propose to be given accompany the new needs and multiple determinants such as economics, environmentals, housing and the Community context in which they are inserted. With the current participation of municipalities as agents in strategic planning, in areas as important as the social area and the health area, it is essential to promote alignment between the needs of the population, the care provided and the implementation of measures that include innovative responses and that include citizens in this process. The current Government has presented a set of measures that support its vision for what is important in these areas. We give the example of home hospitalization, a successful program in monitoring people and in supporting families, strengthening health care and differentiated health care. This programme should be in-depth and can even support elderly people in homes for these elderly people. In addition to the news we have shown, we could bring here institutions that are already in progress with this program and what implies the quality they provide in primary health care in the homes. The goal is to triple this treatment. In view of the success of this measure, we know that it is the intention of the Government to deepen the programme, taking it as a very important step in the care at hand. Finally, Mr President, Eurostat data should be reported : less than 659 000 people at risk of poverty since 2015. This is the lowest ever number of people at risk that there is registration. [[P.S.'s applause.]] These policies, which were criticized here with sentences made, allowed to turn the page of austerity, beginning with a trajectory of growth and sustainability of public accounts. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-15.u244	For an intervention on behalf of the NAP, Mrs Inês de Sousa Real has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-15.u245	You have, but you shouldn't!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-15.u246	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: With regard to Mrs Patrícia Gilvaz's intervention, I would like to ask her the following question: when, in the context of the strategy against older persons, the Attorney-General of the Republic felt that the existing legal framework was, by any chance, defective, the honourable Member also thinks that this is criminal populism? Perhaps, in the bubble of your comfort—acknowledging that the victims, subject to the abandonment of their own children and the violence of their own children, lack an in-depth legal framework—it is very easy to come here to say that this is criminal populism, when, in fact, there is not only very clear data from the Attorney-General's Office of the Republic, but also the World Health Organization points out that there is a criminal path to be made in our country. On the other hand, I cannot but say, with the tolerance of the Bureau and thanking Mr President,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-15.u247	More tolerance? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-15.u248	... that we have heard the PS report a lot of data, but we have not heard what the solution to the difference between the informal caregivers who are registered — he said in 18 000 — and the 2000s, which corresponds to the number of those who receive support right now. We have already placed more than EUR 22 billion in the state bank.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-15.u249	Mrs Inês de Sousa Real is abusing the tolerance of the Bureau.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-15.u250	You don't have the right to such a long time! It's a shame!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-15.u251	I really am concluding, Mr President. We have already put more than 3000 million Portuguese Air Transports on TAP, but for informal caregivers, they continue to give coughs.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-15.u252	The only Members are now the protected ones here!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-15.u253	Mr Jorge Galveias spoke on behalf of the Group of the Party of European Socialists.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-15.u254	Ex. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Today, in this House of the Republic, we have discussed questions concerning the elderly — enlargement of social responses, the creation of committees and working groups, support for their caregivers, criminalization of ill-treatments — but, unfortunately, we all here know that the approval of all these proposals will not change anything significant in the life of the vast majority of our elderly. The arrival does not forget the criminal agreement signed by the Socialist Party of José Socrates with the troika, an agreement which imposes cuts on the pensions of our elderly, cuts which, unfortunately, the PSD and Pedro Passos Coelho did not have the courage to refuse. But yes, sir. Members, this agreement was signed by the Socialist Party.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-15.u255	I'm sorry, sir, I'm going to have to interrupt you. I ask for silence and I also ask that people not turn their backs on the speaker, because that is indelicate. I apologize and ask you to proceed, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-15.u256	Coffee's out there!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-15.u257	Thank you very much, Mr President. Yes, sir. Members, be sure that, with the arrival, the policies imposed by the IMF (International Monetary Fund) against the most vulnerable people will not pass. [[Congrats from the CH.]] Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, our elderly are people to whom Portugal owes everything. It was they who, with their love for our nation and their work and sacrifices, gave their lives for our present and our future. Without them, none of us would be here today. They faced an authoritarian regime and believed in the promises of April, which unfortunately did not come because of a corrupt system of established interests. I would therefore like, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Party, to greet each one of our elders and pay them the most fair tribute. Our parents and grandparents are of the best that this nation has ever had. They are part of our «grandparents», which we sing in the national anthem.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-15.u258	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-15.u259	But unfortunately, this political system looks at the elderly as a weight and treats them as objects. Mrs. Members, it is in this age group that the rate of poverty increased most in the years 2019 and 2020 in Portugal — about 2, 6 %, corresponding to 465 000 poor people aged 65 or older. You know, ladies. Deputies, who in this winter died hundreds of elderly people in Portugal cold, because more than a third of the poor elderly cannot heat up their homes. More than 18% of our elderly people do not have the capacity to buy food and, of these, 5, 4 % starve. For the Socialist Government we have only one word: shame! [[Congrats from the CH.]] Mrs. Members, unfortunately, the reality of our elderly is much blacker than the political forces present here want to paint: reality in which the pensions of misery are an authentic penalty of death or gradual euthanasia, because they condemn the elderly to an accelerated process for an announced death; reality of a scientific socialism that has long tried to make the human being a soulless worker, which can be discarded when their production levels decrease; reality in a country where the average pension is around €500, worth that no one can live with dignity; reality in which more than 18% of our elderly do not have the capacity to buy food. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, returning dignity to our elders is to join the party and to accompany us in the sense that in Portugal no pensioner has a pension lower than the national minimum order. Only in this way can our parents and grandparents live their last days with quality of life, and they can convey the joy of being Portuguese to their grandchildren, to our children. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-15.u260	For an intervention on behalf of the Liberal Initiative, Mrs Patrícia Gilvaz has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-15.u261	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Inês de Sousa Real: Mrs De Sousa Real focused only on an opinion and data, ignoring all the rest, i.e., she ignored the opinions they gave regarding the project she presented. [[NAP protests.]] All I said is true. The NAP constantly presents projects that only demonstrate the populism they are doing here, because it ignores several data that are presented, that the increase in penalties in the various crimes does not solve the situation. I shall read a excerpt from the opinion of the Superior Council of the Public Ministry, which says: « [... ] to establish a fixed limit of 65 years of age in the current conjecture, in which the vast majority of people who reach this age standard do not generally present particular conditions of vulnerability, will not, in our view, be the most appropriate way to confer the intended protection. » It is also mentioned, ahead of that opinion, that other particularly vulnerable victims will be left out. [[NAP protests.]] The honourable Member seems to ignore the fact that there is a victim's status, in which the victims are also protected especially vulnerable. Therefore, it would be much more profitable and, perhaps, it would better protect older victims and all other victims who should not be forgotten if they presented a draft amendment to this victim's status. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-15.u262	You now have the floor on behalf of the PS Parliamentary Group, Mr Paulo Marques.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-15.u263	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Today, a lot has been said about various matters that interfere with the lives of older people and, at the head of their concerns, identify their health as one of the main ones. It's a legitimate concern you have. Knowing how to access health care correctly is a way we can take advantage of them. in an increasingly digitized world, it is important that access to digital media by older people can have a mediator that allows them to facilitate access to health care. It is a sign of dignity that this layer of the population deserves us, demands and has its own right. It was certainly to think of the difficulties in accessing digital media by older representatives that representatives of the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Labour, Solidarity and Social Security joined forces so that the SNS 24 balconies would be extended to the social and solidarity sector. These two areas of government action were undoubtedly associated with the Union of Portuguese Mercy, the Union of Portuguese Mutualities, the National Confederation of Solidarity Institutions and the Portuguese Cooperative Confederation. The existence of the SNS balconies aims to facilitate the access of these citizens to the health services of the SNS, moving forward with this response in residential structures for the elderly, residential homes for people with disabilities and in the units of the National Network of Integrated Continued Care, which allows to ensure a close and quality response and overcome the barriers existing in access to technologies. They excuse those who are most eager to come to say that this answer does not exist everywhere. They excuse the "old men of the Restello" from saying that it is an answer that will not work. They excuse those who always look at the glass half empty to come and say that this answer should already exist. This change is happening and, if it is to happen, whatever the song of the Deolinda says: "If it is to happen, it is now. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-15.u264	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-15.u265	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the SNS Balkans are a legacy of the pandemic that came to stay and that aims not to leave anyone behind in an increasingly digitized world. I shall finish by recalling the words given by General Ramalho Eanes at the beginning of the Covid-19 pandemic in March 2020. He stated, with regard to the measures that had to be taken to protect the Portuguese population: « We the old », Mr. General said, « will be the first to set an example. Do not keep on seeking. ” [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-15.u266	To speak on behalf of the CFP Parliamentary Group, Mr João Dias has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-15.u267	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it seems to us that it will be of all importance to address this issue with honesty and justice. What is vital, in particular, about the economic fragility of our elderly people, is a matter that the CFP has always been available to overcome and that the PS has not been. Also the PSD has never accompanied the PCP. In particular, I remember, and it is fair to say, that precisely in those State budgets made available by the CFP — 2017, 2018, 2019 and 2020 — it was possible to greatly increase pensions. [[Exactly!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-15.u268	But we could have gone much further. The PS is that we didn't want and we didn't have any help either, because the PSD at that time even had more votes than the PS and didn't stand by us. But it is also important to be fair and serious in assessing solutions. What do we have today? National Integrated Continued Care Network, 2 % of public response. However, it is more than proven that the private and social sectors are not responding adequately to what is needed, as is the case with residential structures for the elderly, particularly households. What do we have? of around 2600 homes, about 1000 are private. The rest are social responses. Where's the public response? That's the answer you're missing.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-15.u269	Exactly! [[Protests by members of the CH Pedro dos Santos Frazão and Pedro Pinto.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-15.u270	That is why we say that the solution and the path will be to increase and encourage public response.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-15.u271	Mr. Deputies, you have to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-15.u272	Allow me, Mr President, to say that today what we are talking about is justice: justice for those who have worked a lifetime and who are entitled to decent aging. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-15.u273	To close the debate, on behalf of the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mrs Clara Marques Mendes has the floor. I would just like to inform the House, however, that we are pleased to have with us a delegation of Members and officials of the House of Representatives of the Kingdom of Morocco, which I greet on behalf of the Portuguese Parliament. [[Upstairs, standing, PS, PSD, CH and IL, having also stood, but without applause.]] You then have the floor to Mrs Clara Marques Mendes.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-15.u274	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: At the end of this debate, scheduled by the PSD and accompanied by a set of concrete measures to meet the challenges of an increasingly aging society, I want to leave three notes. A first note is to regret that some benches have failed to think about people and are blind to ideological prejudice. [[PSD applause.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, this is not a right or left issue.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-15.u275	Oh, no, it's not! That's conversation!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-15.u276	This is not a subject for ideological prejudices. It's a real theme, which needs real answers and not ads. A second note is also to regret that once again the Socialist Party, which supports the government, continues to place its head in the sand, to realize that it is all right, and is unable to recognize that the Government supporting it does not provide solutions. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-15.u277	The Socialist Party came to this debate as a spectator. He came to watch, because solutions, none. [[PSD applause.]] in a sentence, I would say: the Socialist Party does not, nor does it. [[PSD laughter.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-15.u278	You're right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-15.u279	A third note and the main one is to say that responding to the elderly is to ensure that they age with quality, dignity and well-being. This has to be a priority of all. We therefore present concrete solutions. We want to give priority to the role of the family, the community, and home support, so that the elderly can, as a matter of priority, maintain themselves in their homes, in their usual way of life, with all the care they need. We propose to extend the scope of the application of the Statute of the Informal Caregiver to enable more people to take care and receive care. Currently, an informal caregiver can only be familiar and must reside with the elderly. With the PSD proposal, we remove this enormous limitation and allow a child to take care of his father without having to change his residence and a neighbor can take care of an elderly person and live with him. That's what we should do. [[PSD applause.]] We propose to strengthen the home support service, going to meet those who are real needs, and may have broad services, including medical and nursing services. All this must be given priority, so that the elderly are not institutionalized. But, ladies and gentlemen. Members, whenever institutionalisation has to be a reality, we must guarantee conditions. We all know that there are no vacancies, there are no social beds. Therefore, the PSD proposes to increase the number of vacancies and social beds and extend to the private sector whenever the public sector or the social sector cannot respond. to the elderly, it does not matter who is the holder of the institution. to the elderly, it is important to be careful. [[PSD applause.]] [[Protests from PCP MP João Dias.]] We also propose the increase of State participations to social and solidarity sector institutions, which so well care for the elderly. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, to defend the financial capacity of institutions is to defend the care of our elderly. If the State delegates to these institutions a function which belongs to it, it has an obligation to train financially so that it can carry out its function. Therefore, if the elderly person is at home or in an institution, it is up to the State — I repeat, the State and always the State — to create the conditions and policies necessary to ensure the well-being and dignity of the elderly person. Join the PSD, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, let's give this assurance to the elderly. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-15.u280	Let us then proceed to the vote. I would ask the services which operate the quorum verification system and the Members. Members to register. [[Pause.]] Question whether there was any difficulty or impossibility in the electronic record. I don't think so. I would therefore ask the services to close this quorum verification period and to advertise the result. [[Pause.]] We have quorum, we are going to vote. We begin by voting, in general, the Bill No. 815 / XV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Enlargement of the number of vacancies shared in the social responses addressed to the elderly and extend this participation to the private sector when the public/social network cannot respond. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and BE were rejected, votes against the PSD, the CH, the IL and the NAP and abstentions from the CFP and the L.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-15.u281	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-15.u282	Mrs Paula Santos asks for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-15.u283	It is to announce that we are going to make a statement of vote in writing, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-15.u284	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-15.u285	Mr Rui Tavares asks for the same floor?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-15.u286	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-15.u287	It's registered, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen. The general vote of Bill No. 816 / XV / 1 is hereby followed. a ( PSD ) — Amends the Statute of the Informal Caregiver - First Amendment to Law No 100 / 2019 of 6 September approving the Statute of the Informal Caregiver, amends the Code of Contributing Schemes of the Preventive Social Security System and Law No 13 / 2003 of 21 May 2003. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PSD, the CH, the IL, the BE and the NAP and the PS, the PCP and the L.]] This diploma goes down to 10. the Commission. We then vote in general on Bill No. 817 / XV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Establishment of a permanent interdisciplinary special committee for the elderly of the Economic and Social Council and changes in the competences and composition of the social network. [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, votes in favour of the PS, CH, IL, PAN and L and with abstentions from the CFP and BE.]] We now proceed to the general vote on draft resolution No 758 / XV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Ensure the social responses and financial sustainability of social and solidarity institutions. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of the PS, the CH, the IL, the CCP and the NAP and the Abstaining from BE and L.]] The general vote on draft resolution No 759 / XV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Strengthening of the home support service. [[The vote was taken with votes against the PS and votes against the PS, the CH, the IL, the PCP, the BE, the PAN and the L.]] We now vote, in general, the Bill No. 241 / XV / 1. a (PAN) — criminalizes new attacks on the rights of particularly vulnerable persons by amending the Penal Code. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, the IL, the CFP and the BE were rejected, votes against the CH and the NAP and abstentions against the PSD and the L.]] The general vote of Bill No 648 / XV / 1 is hereby followed. a (CH) — Provision is made for the accounting of periods of household care for the purpose of reform. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, the IL, the CFP and the BE were rejected, votes against the CH and abstentions against the PSD, the PAN and the L.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-15.u288	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-15.u289	Mrs Emília is asking for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-15.u290	It is to announce that a written declaration of vote will be submitted on behalf of the PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-15.u291	You are registered, Mrs. Deputy. We now vote, in general, the Bill No. 819 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Creates the public network project of equipment network and support services for the elderly. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and IL were rejected in favour of the CFP, BE, NAP and L and abstentions from the PSD and CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-15.u292	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-15.u293	Does Mrs Emília Cerqueira ask for the floor to say that she is going to make a statement of vote in writing?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-15.u294	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-15.u295	You are registered, Mrs. Deputy. We now vote, in general, the Bill No. 820 / XV / 1. a (PAN) — Strengthen the rights of informal caregivers. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of the PS, the CH, the IL, the BE, the PAN and the L and the PCP abstention.]] The general vote on draft resolution No 766 / XV / 1 is hereby followed. a ( PCP ) — Development of the National Network of Integrated Continued Care. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of the CH, the CFP, the BE, the NAP and the L and abstentions of the PSD and the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-15.u296	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-15.u297	Mrs Emília is asking for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-15.u298	It is to inform us that we are going to make a written statement of vote, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-15.u299	You are registered, Mrs. Deputy. We proceed with the general vote on draft resolution No 767 / XV / 1. a ( L) — Recommends that the Government urgently update and approve the National Strategy for Active and Healthy Ageing. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of the PS, the CH, the IL, the BE, the PAN and the L and the PCP abstention.]] Finally, we will generally vote on draft resolution No 768 / XV / 1. a (BE) — For the recognition of rights to the carer and the carer and for the establishment of a national care service. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and IL were rejected in favour of the CFP, BE, NAP and L and abstentions from the PSD and CH.]] We have thus concluded the votes and therefore the agenda. The agenda for tomorrow's plenary meeting consists of the following points: firstly, the visit and debate, with the presence of the President of the European Parliament, Roberta Metsola, under Article 16(2)(d ). the Rules of Procedure, with its own grid. The discussion of the Bill No. 742 / XV / 1. a ( BE ) — Guarantees the payment by postal voucher of extraordinary support to the most vulnerable families and their impermenability, which drags the Bills No. 793 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Expands the forms of payment of extraordinary support to the most vulnerable families by amending Decree-Law No 21 -A / 2023 of 28 March, 800 / XV / 1. a ( CH) — Add support for long-term unemployed persons to the set of minimum social benefits cumulative with the extraordinary support provided for in Decree-Law No 21 -A / 2023 of 28 March ( first amendment to Decree-Law No 21 -A / 2023 of 28 March ), and 802 / XV / 1. a (PAN) — Ensure access to social support to persons without a bank account to order, amending Decree-Law No 21 -A / 2023 of 28 March. The third point will consist of the debate of draft resolution No 662 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Immediate measures to support agricultural and livestock sectors in combating the effects of drought, which drags draft Law No 797 / XV / 1. a ( L) — Creates a national plan to support precision agriculture and Resolution Projects 46 / XV / 1. a ( CH) — Strengthen support for Portuguese farmers in drought, 380 / XV / 1. ( IL) — Regadium Reform, 672 / XV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Recommends to the Government measures to support the agricultural sector in the face of the effects of drought of 2023, 699 / XV / 1. a ( PS ) — Promote the allocation of incentives to the agricultural sector within the framework of the RPP to improve water efficiency, energy and the strengthening of the circular economy, 713 / XV / 1. a ( PAN) — Recommends to the Government the creation of incentives for the production of vegetable crops, 721 / XV / 1. a ( PAN) — Recommends to the Government the adoption of extraordinary measures to minimize the effects of drought, and 728 / XV / 1. a (CH) — Recommends to the Government the immediate implementation of measures to support agricultural and livestock sectors in order to combat the impacts of drought. We shall conclude the agenda with the vote on the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-15.u300	Mr. President, I ask for the palate.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-15.u301	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-15.u302	Mr. President, I am so sorry. I had the session open. I was at a meeting in the New Building and I arrived in full votes. It was just to give an indication of my presence, if you'll excuse me.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-15.u303	You had to run!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-15.u304	It's registered, Mr. Deputies. I now call on Mr Arthur Sovereign. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-15.u305	Mr President, the situation is very similar. [[Laughing.]] I sent an e-mail to the municipal assembly I represent. On the way, I was questioned because of a question relating to lithium. I ran as fast as I could, which is not much. [[Laughing.]] The fact is that, although I have followed the votes, I am working with computer science even worse than it is running, and therefore I have not been able to sign up. Thank you very much, Mr President. [[PS's, PS's, CH's and IL's laughs and applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-15.u306	All right, Mr. Deputies. in this good-willed communion, I say goodbye to the honourable Members. Ladies and gentlemen. See you tomorrow. [[It was 17 hours and 25 minutes.]]
