ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-19.u1	We already have a quorum, so we're going to start our work. [[It was 15 hours and 5 minutes.]] I welcome the ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, the ladies and gentlemen. Journalists and Mr. Officers of the authority, asking them to open the gates of the galleries to the public. Thank you very much. [[Pause.]] Before we enter our agenda, I give the floor to the Secretary of the Maria da Luz Rosinha Bureau to read the file.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-19.u2	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, you have entered the Bureau and was admitted by Mr President, Bill No 73 / XV / 1. a ( GOV ) — Approves the Big Options for 2023 - 2026, which goes down to 5. the Commission. Resolution Nos 628 / XV / 1. a ( PSD ), which drops to 1. the Commission, and 629 / XV / 1. a ( CH ), which falls to 3. the Commission. I mean, then, Law Projects Nos. 716 / XV / 1. a ( BE ), which falls to 10. the Commission, 717 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ), which falls to 12. the Commission, 718 / XV / 1. a ( BE ), which falls to 5. the Commission, 719 / XV / 1. a ( L ), which drops to 1. the Commission, 720 / XV / 1. a ( L ), which falls to 3. the Commission, in connection with 6. a, 721 / XV / 1. a ( L ), which falls to 5. the Commission, 722 / XV / 1. a ( PAN ), which falls to 3. the Commission, 723 / XV / 1. a ( PAN ), which falls to 5. the Commission, 724 / XV / 1. a ( PAN ), which drops to 1. the Commission, 725 / XV / 1. a ( PAN ), which falls to 12. the Commission, 726 / XV / 1. a ( PAN ), which falls to 10. the Commission, 727 / XV / 1. a ( PAN ), which falls to 5. the Commission, 728 / XV / 1. a ( CH ), which drops to 1. the Commission, 729 / XV / 1. a ( CH ), which falls to 5. the Commission, 730 / XV / 1. a ( CH ), which falls to 10. the Commission, 731 / XV / 1. a ( BE ), which drops to 1. the Commission, and 732 / XV / 1. a ( CH ), which drops to 1. the Commission. That's all. Mrs. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-19.u3	So let's get on our agenda. The first point will be a current debate required by the CFP on « The situation of the national railway ». [[Pause.]] We will wait a few minutes because we could not see from above that the government representatives were not yet involved in this debate. Let's wait a few moments.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-19.u4	Madam President, does the government come on a train? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-19.u5	The government train has been abolished!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-19.u6	The CP's on strike! [[Pause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-19.u7	I congratulate Mr Minister and Mr Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-19.u8	They were at a secret meeting and they were late!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-19.u9	They were at a preparatory meeting!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-19.u10	Let us then start the current debate required by the CFP on the situation of the national railway. To introduce this debate, Mr Bruno Dias of the CFP Parliamentary Group has the floor. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-19.u11	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government: Theoretically, there is today a broad consensus on the importance of rail, and we say that there is today a broad consensus, because we do not forget the years in which PS and PSD joyfully alternated in the destruction of the national railway, in the closure of lines, in the spraying of the CP, in the destruction of SOREFAME (Societes Reunions of Metal Manufactures), in the assembly of PPPs (public-private partnerships) which have exhausted public resources and in the liberalisation of the railways, in command of the railway packages of the European Union. But even now, where, in theory, there is a consensus on the need to invest in the railway, in practice investments are being dragged, competitions are taking place, funding and recruitment processes are being blocked by the government and the national railway continues to deteriorate rather than meet the needs of the country.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-19.u12	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-19.u13	There are delays, problems and incidents in ongoing interventions in the national rail network, raising concerns and perplexities about the options that are being followed. Number of train situations are eliminated due to lack of personnel or failure of rolling stock. At the offices, there may be distressing situations. Some would be even cartoons if they weren't so serious. There are no parts and you need authorization to acquire them; then comes the piece and personal lack for work. In Guifões, a short time ago, all the access ramps for wheelchairs were purchased and its installation was still suspended, because the priority was, of course, the installation of the wheels on trains. Stations are increasingly derailed, without workers, without affixed or advance information on train entry. Many of the problems that exist today in the railway operation could be avoided if there was no separation between CP ( Trains of Portugal ) and IP ( Infrastructures of Portugal, SA ). But the government has always refused and continues to refuse to reverse the merger of the REFER ( National Railway Network) with the EP ( Estradas de Portugal ).
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-19.u14	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-19.u15	It is essential to rebuild REFER, connect it to CP and strengthen its operational capacity in the area of design, monitoring, maintenance and even construction. The question continues to be unsettled: how is it possible to turn off the wheel and rail in this way? What is the use of electrifying a line without acquiring the electrical circulating material to circulate it and for the increase and modernization of the supply to grow the demand? But this discoordination continues to affect national railways. An ambitious railway investment plan is announced, but for example only 15 % of the 2020 Railway is completed two years after the date of its expected total conclusion. The spillover of public investment was a permanent strategy. Systematic announcements and promises of millions that are repeated again and again, until the announcement of the project of the work, the announcement of the book of charges, the announcement of the launch of the contest, the announcement of the winner of the contest, the opening of the first stone, the opening of the first piece, the opening of the second piece, until the eventual final opening. A propaganda strategy to create and manage prospective and, at the same time, accumulate these million announced, but not applied, to reduce the deficit at the cost of the railway.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-19.u16	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-19.u17	In the North Line, the main railway axis of the country, took place at the beginning of this year four abatements in three weeks. It is a situation which is indissociable from the systematic use of subcontracting, the tenders in which it is contracted by the lowest price, in which until supervision is done in outsourcing, in which the technical competence in the railway operation is gradually replaced by a poor management of contracts in the fashion of the IP, liberally. coincidentally, on the day this debate was marked, it was announced in the newspapers that the CP achieved a positive net result in 2022. The result of public transport companies is always a reflection of their financing model. In the years in which the State underfinances them, they have damage and accumulate debt, as happened with the CP over many years. When these are properly funded, they achieve balanced operational results. In view of this perspective, the need for measures which the CFP has been defending for many years now, such as the urgent response to the urgent shortage of staff in all areas and the investment in workshops and the strengthening of supply, is stronger. From that point on, this result shows the fairness and importance of solving the financial problem at heart, which was not created by the COP, but by successive governments. It is that the financial consolidation of the CP, removing from the CP the debt that the State has parked in it, was a measure that the PS government solemnly promised on the eve of the last elections, but which continues to carry out. Only with a single, public and national COP will it be possible to dynamize a policy for the promotion of rail transport, including in the national construction of circulating material and its articulation with the territorial balance and development of the country. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, it is not possible to have railways without railways. In Portugal, there are no railways in operation, maintenance, supervision, project and construction. There is a need to prepare for the exit of many railways approaching the reform and they have to pass on their knowledge. There is no need to train, motivate and value railways, from the outset to value the career from a remuneration point of view, ending with the policies of freezing or reduction of wages, which are degrading the real remuneration of a wide range of highly specialized workers and technicians. According to CP own data, 42, 3 % of employees earn up to €960. More than 82 % receive less than €1250. The remuneration of railways is in practice frozen almost 15 years ago. Much is said in the strikes, but little is spoken in this reality, which leads the railways to the struggle. Without forgetting the many thousands of workers, they also railways, who have been pushed into service providers, cleaning, surveillance, maintenance and train bars, whose fair struggle from here we greet and whose integration into the CP is the requirement that the government cannot ignore: the railway Portugal needs to rely on the creation of quality employment. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This cannot continue and must not be. We are not doomed to this degradation. It is possible, it is urgent, an alternative policy is indispensable to defend the railway, which defends the interests of the people and the interests of the country. That is what the CFP has called for in this debate. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-19.u18	To intervene in the opening of this debate by the Government, Mr. Minister for Infrastructures, João Galamba.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-19.u19	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Parliament is debating for the third time in a few weeks issues relating to the state of the railway in Portugal. The mere fact that railways today are a political issue is not beyond the centrality that the government has given this sector so important to people's lives and to our collective future. I therefore begin by welcoming the fact that, or almost all, the parties are today paying attention to the state of the railway in Portugal, because in the past and over the past decades, it has not always been so. In fact, no one can deny that it was with this government that the railway returned to the centre of the political debate. [[Mr André Ventura's laughs.]] Of course, some of the results are delayed. That's what happens when projects are made. To do works it's necessary, first, to make projects. And it is important to say that when we started the 2020 Railway Programme there were practically none of these projects to be launched. To have new trains it is necessary to entrust them, it is necessary to prepare the order books, to launch the contests and then to expect them to be developed, produced and certified.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-19.u20	Eight years!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-19.u21	But it is precisely because we know that all these things take time for us to take measures that are not sufficient to have a faster and more significant impact. I speak of the reopening of Guifões workshops, the recovery of rolling stock or the hiring of new frames in CP and IP. It was with these measures that we were able to stabilize the railway service, reduce the suppressions and accelerate the pace at which we were able to work on the railway. I repeat, work in the railroad, a novelty that has been gone for decades. Only so can we today have more than 500 km of railway lines in works, corresponding to EUR 1200 million of works in progress in the North Lines, the Beira Alta, the West, Évora, Cascais, Sines, and the Algarve. For the first time, in a long time, we are inverting the cycle of closing lines and reducing service. I take advantage of some examples: on the Beira Baixa Line, between Covilhã and Guarda, which was closed since 2010, we completed the works and reopened the Line ; Viana de Castelo, Valença and all the Mininho Line today have direct services to Lisbon, also served by comfortable and modern trains ; the Alentejo High Alentejo was without any passenger service on the East Line and was first introduced one and then a second daily train in each direction. I've heard some complain that the service is mediocre.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-19.u22	Mediocre? Mediocre please!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-19.u23	Surely, we can greatly improve this service, but it is clearly better than the null service that existed before we re-start and strengthen. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We know that at various points in the territory we are far from being able to offer the railway service that the country needs. But it is fair to acknowledge not only that we are, in fact, improving it, but also that this represents a total and absolute reversal of the cycle, towards the years and years of decline of the railway in Portugal. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the Government has a commitment to regain the purchasing power of public sector workers. In the case of Public Administration, this commitment is reflected in the multi-year agreement that was reached and that provides for the full recovery of the lost purchasing power for inflation during the Legislature. This principle, with appropriate adaptations, guides the evolution of wages throughout the public business sector and, of course, covers the workers of public undertakings in the railway sector. This principle of purchasing power is not closed in percentages of wage increases agreed for each year, but it has the ability to adapt to the evolution of inflation figures. And that is why the Government has already approved an additional salary increase for the Public Administration and which will soon be given guidelines for reopening negotiations in public undertakings, since the increase decided for public service — as it had already happened in the past — has direct implications for the wage mass available for the negotiations that occur and that will be reopened, in particular in the CP and the business sector of the State. It is in this framework that the Government and public enterprises maintain a spirit of dialogue and appreciation for those who daily ensure that trains keep running and without which the railway will not have a future. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, these debates give us more encouragement not to give up and to continue working. There may be delays, but we have not given up any of the works that have been announced, until delays in works mean only, and only one thing: that there are works on the ground, which, in fact, have not been for a long time, and we do not devalue that fact.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-19.u24	It's to hit the palms! Don't shake hands? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-19.u25	A country that does not invest in rail for 20, 30 or 40 years loses capabilities. It loses capabilities the state, loses capacities companies and, yes, these projects take. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-19.u26	Now, beat it!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-19.u27	Only the gentlemen, who have never designed a project and have never done any railway projects, are they bold to criticize the government, who has resumed this process, due to delays or delays of works they have never done, they never planned and never would have done, if they were in the government. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The missing component in the railway sector at the service of the country is precisely the industrial component, and that is why we created the Railway Competences Centre. That is why we started by recovering the carriages, using 90 % of national incorporation — those carriages that some, in a spirit of disillusionment something verbal, say « whether it is new or not worth nothing ». All these steps converge so that our companies, our industry and its workers have the ability to manufacture trains in Portugal, and we today have every reason to believe that this capacity exists. Today it is public that two of the main competitors to the competition, which will be finalised and awarded very briefly, announced publicly that they included in their proposals an industrial dimension, in addition to the provision of trains. That is why the Government has said, and repeats, that, at worst, we will have the railway industry back in Portugal, in addition to existing workshops, because there is more than one competitor with projects presented and can be sure that what will be chosen will be the most robust and solid. Portugal can therefore face the industrial future in this area in a completely different way than it had in the past, in particular having - something which it did not have. And it is by work and grace of this government and of the initiatives that this government has taken,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-19.u28	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-19.u29	...the way this government chose to buy trains...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-19.u30	I ask you to conclude, Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-19.u31	This government could have chosen to buy trains. This Government has chosen to buy trains and provide the Government with industrial capacity to produce them in the future, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, that is what we are building.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-19.u32	You must conclude, Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-19.u33	I would therefore like to conclude by congratulating the Commission on its proposal for a Council Regulation (EEC) amending Regulation (EEC) No 1408/71 on the approximation of the laws of the Member States relating to imports of certain dangerous substances originating in the People's Republic of China. Members, noting the Government's commitment to continue, as is evident, this strategy for the recovery and development of the railway sector, the result of which we will continue to see in the near future. And the government also believes that the recently announced measures and discussions we have held with the CP trade unions, particularly with the drivers, give good prospects for the speedy end of the strike and the resumption of work. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-19.u34	Mr Pedro Coimbra of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-19.u35	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Secretary of State, Minister: The year 2023 is continuing an ambitious investment programme in the re-qualification and modernisation of our national railway, which is based on the Railway 2020 programme. at a global value of more than EUR 2000 million, the Railway 2020 programme has EUR 367 million in works already completed, EUR 1225 million in ongoing works, EUR 164 million in tenders and also EUR 286 million in works to be launched in the coming years. At the moment, there is a bit throughout the country, important and relevant ongoing investments that will modernise our railway line very significantly. On the other hand, the Government is also continuing to develop the investment programmes included in the 2030 NIP, with a planned investment of around EUR 8,8 billion by 2030, in which EUR 80 million will still be implemented this year. Also in circulating material, investment will be very significant. With the award of 117 new electric motors, at a global value of EUR 819 million — of which EUR 81, EUR 9 million also in 2023 — and also with the launch of the invitation to tender for the purchase of 12 new high-speed trains, amounting to EUR 336 million. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: For all this, we must emphasize the private investment announced for the construction of a train factory in Portugal, which is only possible because these investments have been launched by the Government. Today, we also learned that for the first time in its history, CP closes a year with positive results, by fulfilling the public service contract, it is true, but also by the gains of management and efficiency, on the side of the expenditure, with emphasis on the merger of EMEF (Train Equipment Maintenance Company) with CP, thus generating synergies that resulted in these good results. It is also worth mentioning the opening of Guifões workshops, which allowed the recovery of rolling stock, which eliminated the problem of train suppressions, increasing the number of passengers, as well as the return to Spain of materials rented to Renfe ( National Network of Spanish Railways ), which was replaced by renewed Portuguese material and in perfect conditions of quality and circulation. When, in 2015, António Costa took possession, he inherited a railway to abandon. Today, in Portugal, the largest investment in the railway of the last 100 years is under way, and this is a factual reality. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-19.u36	To speak on behalf of the PS Parliamentary Group, Mr José Pedro Ferreira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-19.u37	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Deinvestment and progressive degradation of the railway path in Portugal has been a reality for decades, based on a mistaken vision of rail devaluation, totally countercyclical with the growing concerns of stimulating green mobility. We all have memory, we all know who started this disinvestment. Recent changes in transport policy, stimulating the use of public transport, have resulted in the greatest investment ever made in rail, which will allow the gradual recovery of the delay. However, this delay will not occur overnight, in view of the extent of the investment and the availability of the equipment. The recovery plan drawn up by the Government is under way, including the modernisation and expansion of the national rail network and the demand for and requalification of rolling stock. The plan provides for the recovery of locomotives, wagons and motor vehicles, including the well-known cars purchased from Renfe. The recovery process defined by the Government will be less costly, faster and involves the active participation of the national industry. The workshop of the CP of Guifões, already referred to, is at the center of this material renewal. Recent data point to three times lower costs for the recovery of a carriage compared with countries such as Switzerland and Germany, which recently started similar remodeling processes, which some call « scrap ».
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-19.u38	Talk until 4 o'clock!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-19.u39	The existence of highly qualified labour in Portugal — electricians, sawmills, technical welders, electromechanicals — and the bet on the national market for the purchase of parts,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-19.u40	The President is distracted!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-19.u41	... as an alternative to import, it is an important step in reducing costs. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Voltage converters, produced in Portugal, and the rehabilitation of the stofos of the carriages, carried out by companies in the center of the country, such as Solfaestofo, in view of the excellence of the work done, have allowed the establishment of new contracts, with a very interesting impact at the regional level.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-19.u42	Mr. Deputies, you have to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-19.u43	Talk until 4 o'clock!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-19.u44	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, these initiatives, the initiatives related to the opening of the competition...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-19.u45	Mr. Deputies, you really have to conclude. You've outlived your time.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-19.u46	Let José Carlos Barbosa speak, who is the only one who knows something about this!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-19.u47	Mr President, I would just like to conclude by saying that this is called 'encouragement to the national economy'. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-19.u48	Mr António Topa Gomes of the PSD Parliamentary Group spoke for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-19.u49	You only know how to say wrong!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-19.u50	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Ministers, Mr. Secretary of State : In 2015, the PS took over the Government of Portugal after a clean exit. According to the PS, it was the end of austerity which allowed the resumption of public investment, especially in priority rail infrastructures. At the same time, in Europe and Portugal, there is a broad consensus on the need for investment in rail transport as one of the most effective tools to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and achieve carbon neutrality. Finally, in view of the above objective, many of the European funds are directed towards rail. This government has enjoyed, and has enjoyed, a volume of European funds that has never been seen before, which would definitely allow it to bet on the railway. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-19.u51	It is therefore a government with unique conditions, both financial and policy, for investment in rail. We therefore ask: why does the PS government systematically fail to invest in railways? [[PSD applause.]] We then look at the 2020 Railway. Mr. Minister, if we were bold, it was boldness to believe in PS rulers. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-19.u52	Error!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-19.u53	In 2016, already in the full PS government, it was promised that the 2020 Railway Investment Plan would conclude at the end of 2021 and a total investment of more than EUR 2000 million. In February 2019, the Minister of Planning Pedro Marques, in full election campaign, stated that the programme's implementation rate was 40%... [[Well remembered!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-19.u54	... and that, surely, in 2021, we would have executed the whole. [[PSD applause.]] In 2021, two years after the words of Minister Pedro Marques, we only executed 28 %. We have succeeded in returning to the words of Minister Pedro Marques.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-19.u55	Really? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-19.u56	It is not surprising, therefore, that the general delay is well over two years, that in the South International Corridor the delay is more than six years and that in the Algarve it is a four-year delay. So how can we trust this government? If the government invested in these six years about 600 million euros, what it promised and did not invest was more than 1500 million euros. This is the PS government failure measure. What you didn't do was two, five times what you did. That's what's wrong with it. [[PSD applause.]] And how would our railway be if the two, one billion euros promised had actually been invested? It'll stay for other weddings. But the government also fails because the railway maintenance deficit, which is important for rail safety, is delayed. For the first time in the last year that there are records in 2020 there is no reduction in the railway maintenance deficit. We have around 450 million euros of rail maintenance deficit. Today, my gentlemen, a comfortable news has been planted about the results of the CP, on a day when we have not yet known the report and accounts of the CP and, therefore, we cannot speak about the news. But it is not only in physical execution that the government fails. The government also fails to operate and manage the COP. What is expected of a railway service is that it is reliable, predictable and efficient. And what is our railway service? Trustful is not, as the news itself indicated today. Last year 11 000 trains were abolished in Portugal.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-19.u57	What's that? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-19.u58	Our train regularity index is only 97, 5 %, well below the objective set by the CP itself.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-19.u59	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-19.u60	Nor is predictable. As the Report of the Quality of Service CP and Customer Satisfaction demonstrates, the punctuality index is today of 87 %.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-19.u61	They didn't combine at the preparatory meeting!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-19.u62	Go ahead: worse than in 2015, the year in which things were very bad. We managed to make things even worse. [[PSD applause.]] It is also not effective. Let’s look, for example, at the Porto-Lisboa train. The Alpha Pendular takes almost 3 hours today. Intercities takes 3 hours and 22 minutes. It takes longer today the Intercities than a bus trip and, therefore, the bus passengers grow and do not grow, or practically do not grow, the train passengers. [[PSD applause.]] We are today worse than 28 years ago, when the PS began to rule. With all the need for public rail transport, and given the condition of impoverishment to which PS brought us, the number of passengers transported in 2022 is almost equal to that of 2019, much more residually superior. Where, therefore, is the incentive for the rail transport of the PS? The novel of the continuous PS announcements, given the failure of the 2020 Railway, now speaks of tomorrows singing with the PRR ( Recovery and Resilience Plan ), with the 2030 PNI, of the National Railway Plan, when we are not yet in the middle of the implementation of the 2020 Railway Plan.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-19.u63	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-19.u64	But can anyone believe in the ability to perform this PS? No, my lords, you can't. And the PSD here is to be the alternative. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-19.u65	For an intervention, Mr Filipe Melo, of the Parliamentary Group of the Arrival, now has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-19.u66	Mr President-in-Office, Mrs. Minister, Mr. Minister, Mr. Secretary of State, Mrs. Members: I am glad that the COP does not work like Mr Minister. The CP leaves by hour, Mr. Minister arrived with a 14-minute delay, which harms all the work of the Assembly. [[Mr Pedro Pinto's laughs.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-19.u67	CP usually comes in late! Filipe's not on a train.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-19.u68	I would like to recall what your Secretary of State said at a hearing in the Committee on Economics, and I quote: « There is only delay, because there is work». Mr Minister, let me tell you that only in Portugal do we see a statement of these because there is work everywhere; in Portugal there is little, it works badly, and the delay is a constance of your government. So these statements are unfortunate...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-19.u69	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-19.u70	... and again, they say a lot about the state of the railway, this Ministry and this government: constant delays and never a good result. [[Congrats from the CH.]] Then let me tell you something else, which I think is important too. When we refer in that same Commission to the word'sucata', I am going even further to strengthen that your Ministry has increased the purchase so much by €150 000, but it has not been scrapped. You gave €150,000 per asbestos, which brought a bunch of carts of scrap by drag.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-19.u71	Ah!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-19.u72	So you spend 150 000 € on asbestos, which brings scrap. And that I can show you with images that prove it.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-19.u73	It was better with numbers!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-19.u74	Mr Minister, do not interrupt me, listen carefully, and then know how to respond, as soon as possible. Then, as far as high-speed works, as Mr. Minister knows, the works have already been awarded, and then they have been cancelled, because someone you even know well, named José Socrates, took this country to bankruptcy. And then, by that year, the works were suspended. So once again, we came to the conclusion that the high speed, which you claim for yourselves, were you who destroyed. You guys didn't let him move on. It was the former governor you know well, José Socrates, who ruined this country and also the high speed. Therefore, Mr Minister, before making high-speed advertising, remember that it was a socialist government that killed the high-speed government at birth. Finally, and so that your bench doesn't talk so much and so many times and don't make a rail flag, I'm going to tell you where Portugal is at the last ranking presented by the Boston Consulting Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-19.u75	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-19.u76	We're ahead of time in Europe. Even at the railroad we have to be on Europe's tail! We're in everything, and the railroad couldn't be an exception. Below us we have only Romania and Bulgaria. Everyone else has a better rail network than ours. Mr Minister, this is not to laugh, this is to you to be ashamed and not to laugh.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-19.u77	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-19.u78	Together with this, people pay a bonus for train trips and don't even have a bar where they can go get a water or drink a coffee, because even the bars had to close. And the strikes you're doing! What does the government do to prevent this?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-19.u79	Nothing!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-19.u80	What does the government do about security? How many times have we said in this House that it was mandatory to have CCTV cameras inside the trains? They don't exist. We see handkerchiefs, we see people jumping off the train with the train running, we see assaults, we see abuse. Is this what the PS wants for the railroad?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-19.u81	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-19.u82	Mr Minister, as in many things, railway is no exception, it is the disaster of the Socialist Party and, worse than everything, it is a disaster — one more! — the Ministry of Infrastructure, which is still managed by you. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-19.u83	Mr Rodrigo Saraiva, of the Liberal Initiative Parliamentary Group, spoke for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-19.u84	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin by congratulating the CFP, by scheduling this debate on rail. It is, in fact, a subject that has been very much debated in this House in recent times, and not, Minister, is not because the government has decided to give a centrality to the railway. If everything was all right with the railway, these debates were not in existence, and the debates are in existence, because everything is not right in the railway.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-19.u85	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-19.u86	And one of these debates was an urgent debate, even proposed and scheduled for this House by the Liberal Initiative. We also had an agenda with proposals from the Liberal Initiative. And we are discussing rail is, in fact, very broad, and all these debates will not be sufficient, because we can debate issues relating to users, at the service, whether in their quality or in their model, equipment, infrastructure, workshops, workers, of the various types of workers that exist. The Liberal Initiative has already done so, it has brought proposals to this House, unfortunately plummeted—and we can remember who led them, in addition to the absolute majority of the PS — but today the Minister also said that there was a need for projects. I think it is more than that: what is needed is execution capacity. Capacity and conditions!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-19.u87	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-19.u88	I would therefore like to focus my first intervention on the issue of managing and implementing public investment, which is obviously necessary. To do so, I will comment and share with you a recent interview, which, more than an interview, is an authentic treatise. It is an interview given by Mr. Vice-President of the Infrastructures of Portugal to a public podcast, which has as its title We are not too late in Railway 2020. I shall begin with a few citations, in which this face of the infrastructure of Portugal, which is responsible for the management and implementation of the 2020 Railway, begins by demarcating who in 2016 announced to the Country a 2020 Railway impossible to carry out in four years, of which only 18 % of the works are completed. It adds that the IP proposed a fully adjusted execution schedule. He « shakes the water from the hood», but recalls, well, the Public that this Vice-President of the Infrastructures of Portugal was, at the time, an adviser to the then Minister of Infrastructures, Pedro Marques. Say several things and then—there's the PS at your best! — it begins to say: « In view of the time that the works and projects are taking time, we are not unbalanced from what is normal practice and international practice. Therefore, that classic of the Socialist Party of «is all right». Next, talk about the guilt, which is never the PS! It's about the troika, it's about the pandemic, it's about the war in Ukraine, it's about inflation...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-19.u89	Climate change!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-19.u90	Everything serves, less assume any responsibility. But then, in fact, Mr Vice-President mentions a few more reasons, which then leads us to the management and implementation model, which is where we started to realize why these plans have the implementation rates that they have: he says that it was necessary to approve the safeguards, which were double, and he speaks of the works that need an environmental impact study. And there is the question: even before we start to think about the National Investment Programme, where it says there has to be a bet on the railway—very well—it says that it will resort to public-private partnerships. I will even quote this: "Because it was thanks to the road PPPs that the country built, in a few decades, thousands of miles of motorways. » Do you even want us to remember the road PPPs made by the governments of the Socialist Party? Oh, my God! It's, maybe, we'd better not go that way. This is all worrying. But let us turn to the question of the management model : the infrastructure of Portugal needs to seek authorization for the protection of infrastructure and for the protection of finance. It loses months and months in this to, later, still have to coordinate things with the IMT (Instituto da Mobility et de Transportes ), with the APA ( Portuguese Environment Agency), with the LNEC ( National Civil Engineering Laboratory)...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-19.u91	You have to take the password!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-19.u92	It's all a mess! This government, which is known, as we have already seen, as the champion of the task forces, working groups and mission units...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-19.u93	I would ask you to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-19.u94	I shall conclude, Madam President. As I was saying, this government, which is the champion of the task forces, cannot create the conditions for Portugal's infrastructure, for example, to have good execution rates in a consensual emergency, which is to have a railway, for example, which connects all the district capitals of this country. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-19.u95	Mr Duarte Alves of the CFP Parliamentary Group spoke for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-19.u96	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Government members : The realization of many of the planned investments and contracts in the railway has systematically slammed in the financial garrote. This is a situation that has become widespread in the Public Administration — it is not an exclusive railway — and there are many instruments used for this: captivating; delay or non-publication of the laws of budgetary implementation; the imposition of a prior visa on finance. The truth is that we have seen a concentration of investment decisions in the Ministry of Finance, and rail is no exception to that reality.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-19.u97	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-19.u98	This finding is not to channel the responsibility of the Minister of Finance — in this or in the past — and much less to block the remaining members of the Government from the responsibilities they have in this area, until this concentration of power in finance is a political option, which is responsible for the entire government and which is enshrined in the logic of giving priority, above all, to the accelerated reduction of the deficit and not to the investments that the country needs in so many areas. As a result of this budget policy in 2022, there were EUR 1400 million of public investment to be implemented. What a short time they would make for so many necessary investments, all over the country! For example, on Monday, we were at the Shipment, where we checked many of these needs and where this money would need to be invested. For example: in the requalification of the station itself, which serves thousands of users, as well as of the stations of Riachos, Santarém, Abrantes and others; in the reopening of stations closed in the district of Santarém; in the construction of unattended passages, to increase security. There are many measures which these EUR 1400 million for public investment, which were to be implemented in the face of the budget, could be implemented.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-19.u99	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-19.u100	Ladies and gentlemen. Members, it is common in these debates on railways to come to light the question of the so-called "historical debt of the CP" and of how the state will now pay that debt. The right one likes to use the so-called "historical debt" as a way to attack the public enterprise. In fact, all public companies. Now, this issue of debt needs to be demystified. It is that, contrary to what is said, it is the Portuguese State that has a debt of years towards the CP, for all years that has not paid a penny for the public service contract, at the same time that the only private operator, Fertagus, has always received this amount of public service compensation.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-19.u101	It's a fact!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-19.u102	Where have you been in the last six years? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-19.u103	The CP's debt stems from this policy option to favour a small private operator and not pay the public service—which in certain links does not have to be profitable—which has always been provided by the CP. The right, now claiming the so-called 'historical debt', is the same right that privatized the most lucrative part of the CP, CP Cargo — today, Medway — decides that which the PS government did not revert, when it was still going on. It is the same right that, together with the PS, has wagered over the years in strategies to reduce the capillaryness of the rail network, reducing the attraction to new users and thus also increasing the revenues of the CP. The railway needs investment, stability and budgetary predictability. It needs not only a political strategy but also autonomy in management and management oriented towards public service criteria. Basically, it needs an alternative policy. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-19.u104	For an intervention, Mrs Isabel Pires of the Left Block has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-19.u105	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government: We know, and I fear to say it to satiety, that railway is undoubtedly one of the most powerful instruments that exist, from the point of view of public policies. It is a powerful instrument not only for the area of mobility, but also for the area of the environment, and has a significant impact on the issues of territorial cohesion and the income that families have available. But the truth is, over several decades, the option has always been to invest brutally in the railway, and this implies the PSD, the CDS and also the PS, which made that decision over several decades.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-19.u106	It's a Block and a PCP!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-19.u107	At the time, the option was to invest in the railway to invest in the highway. If it is true that this allowed certain territories to be connected, the fact is that today, in 2023, it is verified that doing so at the expense of the railway was the biggest error in terms of the mobility that this country has committed.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-19.u108	Don't!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-19.u109	In fact, we continue to have investment in railways on paper, but it advances with such slowness that it does not respond to the needs of the populations.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-19.u110	Ah! Now you've spoken well!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-19.u111	During the past few years, in several regiment hearings, in several specific hearings on this subject, we have raised the issue of the implementation of the 2020 Railway. Finally, numbers always vary a bit, but they never exceed 20 %. Therefore, regardless of whether it is 15 %, 18 % or 17 %, it is never more than 20 %, and this is not acceptable! On the other hand, on the argument that the Government and the Socialist Party are now using, that « there is only delay because there is work», I am sorry, but this is not an argument justifying what has been going on with the railway in Portugal for years. In fact, there are two reasons for delays: on the one hand, the options, for decades, of disinvestment and closure of railway lines in our country and, on the other hand, of bad planning. The interview with Mr. Vice-President of the Infrastructures of Portugal has already been referred to, which at some point says : « On the day following the presentation of that calendar — the calendar of the Railway 2020 — some of the projects were already four years late. Do not keep on seeking. ” Mr. Minister, Mr. and Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, this is not acceptable in a country that says it is democratic and it is not even acceptable for a government that says it has railway as a priority. Therefore, we would like to understand how it is possible for the Government to have approved a plan whose timetable initially knew it was not feasible. But let us look at some examples that demystify what the government has been saying: the High Beira Line is closed for nine months, for the execution of works. The extension of this closure has already been announced for more than ten months, and let's see if these months are coming! [[Protests by PSD MP Jorge Salgueiro Mendes.]] On the North Line, the main railway axis of the country, we had four casualties in three weeks. This leads to cutbacks, adding to the delays that already existed on the North Line. The line between White House and Beja continues to be electrified. About the Porto-Vigo connection, extremely important, nobody knows anything. Barca d'Alva has no funding. On the Vouga Line, there remains an impasse on the issue of the bottle and, in fact, the promise of integral requalification is to be fulfilled. There is no direct connection between Barcelos, Braga, Guimarães and Family. I am not even going to talk about the districts of Vila Real and Bragança, because it is absolutely unacceptable to have parts of the country that have minimum access to an essential service like this. Therefore, Mr Minister, it is indeed urgent a policy for the promotion of rail transport, but this implies a serious political commitment, which has not been the one that the Government of the Socialist Party has had, because it is based on advertisements, in plans that it knows it will not fulfill.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-19.u112	I would ask you to conclude, Mrs Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-19.u113	I shall conclude, Madam President. In the end, those who are suffering are the territories that still have no access to rail transport, the users who need this transport and the environment, because there is still no such important policy to deal with climate change. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-19.u114	For an intervention, Mrs Inês de Sousa Real has the floor of the PAN.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-19.u115	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Government members : As far as rail is concerned, we continue to have a country at two speeds. On the one hand, we all agree with the statement that rail is essential in a social perspective and also from the point of view of combating climate change. But when we look at the country, what we see is that there are no links between all the district capitals and, if we make the accounts to figure out where we can get in less than 5 hours, we find that we hardly go beyond the center of the country. More: we could not even go to Madrid, we could not, for example, go from Faro to port in less than 5 hours, and we were widely beaten in the expansion of the railway by the neighbouring Spain. Then, when we look beyond the district reality, towards urban reality, we continue to see trains atolled, the poor quality of public transport. We continue to have the problem of, despite the financial health context that CP lives, not being paying workers, as is the case with the workers of the CP bars. This, in our view, is absolutely unacceptable. But in addition to the financial bet that must be made, from the point of view of infrastructure, what it would also be important to hear from the Minister today is not only about the possibility of deduction of the IRS (tax on the income of natural persons) which has already been achieved, but also about what was in some way promised, which has to do with the creation of a pre-loaded mobility card, through which companies could participate in the mobility costs of their workers, which remains in the drawer. It would therefore be important today to hear from the Minister when such proposals are essential not only for social and territorial cohesion but also for decarbonization.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-19.u116	Mr Rui Tavares has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-19.u117	For what? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-19.u118	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr Secretary of State, Minister : What is really tragic about the disinvestment of decades in the railway in Portugal is that he has been self-inflicted. There are many sectors in which Portugal left late. There are other sectors in which Portugal has been late. This is one of the sectors in which Portugal undoes what it has already done. That is what is really tragic and, let us not deceive ourselves, does not resolve one day at a time. Regardless of whether we can want a more densed national railway plan by the country or more focused on high speed, the truth is that we have to want one, to do and to implement. We cannot just continue to debate the future of the National Railway Plan, without seeing it on the ground. However, as we discuss this future more or less distant, there are things we can do today, and that is what I would focus my questions to the Minister. In the State budget for this year, still negotiated with its predecessor, the goal was clear, the goal, of having a national railway pass, starting with regional trains, until June of this year. Are we in line with the calendar? On the night trains to Spain, there have already been several Luso-Spanish summits, I believe some of them already with Mr. Minister. Is it the theme of the summit, or is it not, we will again have night trains between Portugal and Spain? The Free Paper recently presented a proposal to include workers in the Board of Directors of both the CP and IP. The PS has led -a. The Minister of Economics of his Government says that the model of European capitalism, which has workers in the Board of Directors, is the best thing to do.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-19.u119	You must conclude, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-19.u120	I would like to hear your opinion on this. Why can't we have workers on the Board of Directors in the IP and CP? Finally, a question that has already been asked: when will we have a plan for the payment of the historical debt to the COP? I don't say CP, but to CP, because that's what to say. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-19.u121	To conclude this first round, Mr. Minister for Infrastructures, João Galamba.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-19.u122	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : I begin with the pretext for the interventions of the Left Block and the PCP, in which I look very much. I do not understand the extent to which statements and interventions by the Left Block and the CFP are about the reality of the country and about this government. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we can have all the divisions, you can say that it is insufficient, that it is necessary more, that it is not enough, that it must be faster. But, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, before the government that decides to stop the well-declared reality by you, there is no word of recognition for a government that has agreed with the diagnosis made by the Left Block and the PCP and reversed the situation of historical abandonment to which the railway has been voted, excuse me, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it is no way to hold a serious debate. The gentlemen. Members may think that this government could have done more, which is not enough, can say all that. But by not making a distinction and continuing to criticize this government as if it had done everything that all the previous governments had done, I am sorry, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, that is not the way to take your words seriously. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It's that little, much, good, perfect or imperfect, sir. Ladies and gentlemen, this government has done what you said it was necessary to do: end decades of abandonment, end decades of neglect, stop the destruction of the railway in Portugal and do the opposite. [[PCP protests.]] There's a government that did it, sir. Ladies and gentlemen! It may cost you to say it, but it was this and none more! It was this one! [[P.S.'s applause.]] Can we do better? Oh, my God! Of course. Believe me, we have all the taste and all the interest in listening to constructive criticisms, because our goal is really to do better. in this abstract discourse on decades of abandonment, the criticism addressed to this government is as if this government were 2005, 1995 or the 1980s, when, yes, the governments were PSD or PS, repeat, PSD or PS, and did what you, and well, criticize. The only thing that keeps this speech about this PS government is not to give to take your speech seriously. It is an abstract speech, disconnected from reality and now excuse, unjust, manifestly unjust.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-19.u123	That is the discourse of the "less evil"!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-19.u124	in this respect, I fully agree with the phrase that Mr Rui Tavares said. In fact, Portugal, in many areas, left late, either in literature or in the training of workers. Portugal, in 1974, had the literacy rate that Sweden had in the 19th century. That's a delay! In the railway, there was indeed an amputation, I agree with the honourable Member. And I agree with the honourable Member, too, about the importance of recognizing that it is not easy to re-enter after destruction. We have decapitalized public institutions of means and knowledge, and now — and this is for the Liberal Initiative — we also have a decapitalized private sector, with a lack of capacity and a great deal of difficulty in implementing projects. Mr. Deputies of the Liberal Initiative, as you believe in an ideology of the spontaneous generation, in which all the problems are solved with tax reduction, has some difficulty when advancing by seas never previously navigated by the Liberal Initiative, read, everyone! As the only thing the Liberal Initiative conceives is, when there is a problem, taxes are reduced, I think this generally summarizes the political position of the Liberal Initiative on all matters.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-19.u125	Don't! Go study!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-19.u126	In fact, even strange how it is that, to speed up the works, or to have more trains and not only 117, but twice, it has not yet proposed a small reduction of taxes. Mr President, you will certainly find a reduction in taxes which, in the logic and reasoning of the Liberal Initiative, was even sure that Portugal would have more trains. Mr President, I am going to give you something new: it is that projects are really difficult to do and are also difficult for private companies. Do you know how much of the delays in the works are due to requests from private companies? So they have nothing to do with the diagnosis you made here!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-19.u127	Nothing, nothing, nothing!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-19.u128	Mr President, I am also going to give you another novelty: the State, to implement certain policies and to make certain expenses, yes, has to articulate between different entities. That's how it works. It is not an unnecessary bureaucracy, it is not something like a reduction in taxes or any structural reform — which, of course, IL has good mind what it would be — that would speed up all this. Mr. Deputies, things don't work that way. Speaking in parliamentary groups and Mr. Members who do not understand any projects or works, I also conclude that the arrival does not even know what a train is. [[Mr Filipe Melo's laughs.]] Mr.Lega doesn't know what a train is, he must have never set foot on one. I will give you something new, which must certainly be celebrated in your party. The honourable Member presented the major measure for rail in the country, which is the need for CCTV cameras in all trains. I'm going to give you something new: there's already!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-19.u129	They're not working!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-19.u130	Do you know where else is? In the trains, in the buses, in the electrics, in the meters. [[P.S.'s applause.]] He can't talk about railroad and what he's saying shows he never put his feet there. With regard to the large request of the Arrival, Mr President, look, the Chambers have been here for years. What do you want me to tell you? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-19.u131	But it doesn't work!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-19.u132	On your difficulty in accounting, don't hurt me: you talked about images, but you really need numbers. I don't know how he accounts at home or at his party, but in my own, and the generality of the Portuguese, when we want to have a debate on accounts, we present numbers and not rabisques or drawings.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-19.u133	That's the right story!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-19.u134	Therefore, you cannot make an elementary account of adding and subtracting, with which it is concluded that something that costs X and renders Y, with Y greater than X, makes profits. The country, CP and the Portuguese won because they bought cars in second hand,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-19.u135	Suck! I bought junk!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-19.u136	... for having used national industry, national materials and national workers to recover. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[CH protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-19.u137	Have you paid for the scrap yet? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-19.u138	Do you know what happens now? It's just that whoever sold them doesn't want to sell them again, because he realizes that the country that bought them did a great deal. If you do not realize this, we are sorry, but the Portuguese understand and the CP accounts reflect it, because the results of the CP today are of the greatest importance.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-19.u139	Is the scrap paid? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-19.u140	Finally, the ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Left Block and the CFP, in particular Mr Duarte Alves, said very well that much of the debt of the CP and other public companies is due to the fact that it has been parked and compensation has not been made. You're absolutely right, Mr. Deputies. He simply failed to say that it was this government that corrected this mistake and put an end to it. [[PCP protests.]] But once again, the honourable Member has taken a long time to point out the finger to which the Government X, Y, Z and H has not done, forgetting a small detail, which has been identified as this government has resolved, or has put into practice the resolution of a large part of the problems that it has identified here. [[PCP protests.]] If I have no problem giving much reason to the criticisms made by the PCP and the Left Block, don't hurt me, but I also have some reason to call the PCP and the Left Block to reason. If you want to have a constructive debate, in which the options taken are seriously evaluated, what is in progress and what we can improve, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we must recognise that this government is not the same as the governments that have invested in the railway; it is exactly the opposite! This is the first one to invest! [[P.S.'s applause.]] We invest in the railway and continue to invest in the railway, with great pride, because it is a project that makes sense, that the country needs, and the PS is here to realize it. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-19.u141	We move on to the second round of interventions. To speak on behalf of the PS Parliamentary Group, Mrs Fatima Correia Pinto has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-19.u142	Mr President, Mr Minister, Mr State Secretary, Mrs and Mrs Members : I am amazed by the discharge, or even by the defacetism, with which the PSD presents itself to this debate. [[PSD protests.]] But maybe it's my problem, because I should be used to the lack of memory of this bench. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]] But don't worry, gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. I am a living memory to them and will refer specifically to the heritage of the PSD in the region where I am natural: Trás-os-Montes e Alto Douro. The Corvo Line is without rail service between Vila Real and Chaves since 1 January 1990. Who was the government? Oh, my God! The PSD, with Cavaco Silva.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-19.u143	And today, what exists? Nothing!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-19.u144	Your Line is without rail service between Mirandela and Bragança, since October 15, 1992. Who was the government? Oh, my God! Cavaco Silva's PSD. [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-19.u145	What about Socrates? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-19.u146	The Douro Line is without railway service between Pocinho and Barca d'Alva since October 18, 1988. And who was in the government, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen? Oh, my God! It was Cavaco Silva's PSD. [[PSD protests.]] The gentlemen. Members should follow the example of your ex-Minister Miguel Cadille and acknowledge the mistakes they have made, because the PSD is the real responsible for de-investment on the railway line inside the North and for the socio-economic consequences that have occurred there. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Yes, sir. Ladies and gentlemen, Cavaco Silva was undoubtedly the vault of the railway line between Trás-os-Montes and Alto Douro. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-19.u147	What about Socrates? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-19.u148	They are now presenting themselves to this debate, challenging the Government that the greatest investment is being made on the railway. I recall, then, what is planned and what is to be done, in relation to the same region: the electrification of the Douro Line throughout its extension, a structural work and long-awaited, as well as the strengthening of the operation of this same line; the reopening of the link between Pocinho and Barca d'Alva and the possibility of the internationalization of the Douro Line resulting therefrom; the creation, in the National Railway Plan, of a new line, called the Tres-os-Montes Line, with connection of the Port to Vila Real and Bragança, two district capitals which currently have no railway connection, which will make the difference in the development and growth of this region.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-19.u149	Plan, plan, plan!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-19.u150	But they don't!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-19.u151	But you will, sir!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-19.u152	When? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-19.u153	So, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, between a government that has planned and executed, despite the normal delays that arise there, and a government that has preferred to invest and close lines, according to the legacy of the PSD for decades, I think that the choice — mine and that of the Portuguese — is obvious. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-19.u154	They'll be there! We just don't know when!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-19.u155	Also to speak on behalf of the PS Parliamentary Group, Mr José Carlos Barbosa has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-19.u156	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I had faith that Mr.António Topa would give us some news about his ideas for the railway, but he wanted to follow the path of the PSD leader, who, this week, walked by train to check the problems and to present ideas, and just left us an idea, which I will quote: "Finally, the problems today were on the subway. These are the ideas that the PSD leader has for the country: « After all, he was on the subway. Do not keep on seeking. ” [[P.S.'s applause.]] The journalist ends, saying: « [... ] played Luís Montenegro. » After all, the PSD leader has no ideas for the country. You're kidding the country! [[P.S.'s applause.]] I wonder what ideas they want to carry on for the country. Do you want to continue closing offices? Do you want to continue to stop circulating material? I brought here the table of circulating material that we went to recover and that you left. The speaker displayed the document he mentioned. This circulating material circulates in Switzerland. It's 150 million euros... [[PSD protests.]] I'd like to continue, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen. As I was saying, it is EUR 150 million of circulating material that was lying down, abandoned — a national and global shame — and that we recovered for EUR 15 million and put into service. [[P.S.'s applause.]] But what we want to know, sirs. Members, it is if they agree with us, for example, when we want to quadrupling the line between the Area and the Silver Arms. For what? Oh, my God! To increase the frequency, to increase the supply, to end the circulation problems. Do you agree with, for example, to do more a TTT (Third Floor Cross)? Or, for example, talk about TGV (high speed train)? Or, for example, talk about the National Railway Plan? Or, for example, a simple thing, which is to ensure that trains are built in Portugal? There are two companies, of the three competitors, who want to build the trains here! [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr António Topa, I finish—because, as you know, I am not very infrastructure specialist, but I also want to talk about infrastructure here, which is what you like— telling you that Pedro Passos Coelho asked the railways to retire, emigrate and leave. With this, we lost labor, lost productive capacity. All national companies have 100 % working load. There are delays, but all national companies are doing work. Delays are due to you, who sent people to emigrate. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-19.u157	For an intervention on behalf of the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mr Jorge Salgueiro Mendes has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-19.u158	Mr President, Mr Minister, Mr State Secretary, Mrs and Mrs Ladies and gentlemen: After this energetic intervention by Mr Carlos Barbosa, I don't even know what to say! [[PS rice and PCP Member Duarte Alves.]] But, really, it's sad, today, they continued to visit the 80s, 50s later! It's sad. [[PSD applause.]] Mr Deputy, about a year ago, we had a debate here with the previous Minister, Pedro Nuno Santos, about the 2020 railway programme. At the time the government was very concerned: he was very concerned about the huge delay in the 2020 railway, which had an execution of 15 %. And at the time, his famous phrase came out: "Now it will be! Now it's gonna be! Do not keep on seeking. ” [[PSD member's laughter António Topa Gomes.]] In the absence of a response to the PSD's arguments, it was always the fault of the troika and the Rabbiting Government. Once again, a year ago, it was still the government's fault ten years ago. After one year, the 2020 Railway — I know today, of course — will never be complete before 2025. With Mr Minister, the Vice-President of the IP, Carlos Fernandes, in the face of delays, says: "We are not too late. The problem is the optimistic and diverted timeline of reality released in 2016. » Launched by whom? Oh, my God! By Pedro Marques of the Government of the Socialist Party. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-19.u159	For the current Minister and Secretary of State, the enormous delays are even justified, because there are works. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, at the same time, the problems of the rail transport of passengers are worsening. Only 30 % of passengers assess the service as positive. The strike of bar service workers on trains lasts — four months without wages — and the CP does not find a solution. The strike of the IP workers is endless in sight, with more disturbances than evident to the passengers, but generated a novelty: it generated an authentic train express between Lisbon and Porto, a BRT (busrapid transit) between Lisbon and Porto! Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Baptista-Bastos has celebrated an expression concerning 25 April, by many known: "Where was he on 25 April? » Mr Minister, Mr Secretary of State, Mr José Carlos Barbosa, where were they on June 26, 2011, when the public newspaper released the report that José Socrates and the Ministry of Finance proposed to the troika, with the closure of 800 km of non-retireable railway lines throughout the country, to the wake-up of REFER and CP? [[PSD applause.]] Where were they, in February 2019, when Minister Pedro Marques said that Ferrovia 2020 would reach 40% by the end of the year? Today, it has not even reached 30 %. Mrs Fatima Correia Pinto, the Alfa train was acquired and the decision was made more than 25 years ago by Prof. Cavaco Silva. [[Well remembered!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-19.u160	Finally, speaking of a near future, Minister, when he meets with the Minister of Finance, to heal the debt of the CP, that he suffocates it? The first quarter of 2023 — for when it was promised — is already there and the debt is to be settled as well as the financial suffocation of the CP. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-19.u161	In order to speak on behalf of the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mrs Carla Madureira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-19.u162	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Mr Minister, I bring you today a headline in a daily newspaper, which has left us perplexed. Says the log: « New CP trains without access to disabled persons. Do not keep on seeking. ” Mr Minister, it is 117 new trains and an investment of EUR 819 million, a socialist government which so much appreciates the inclusion and independent life of people with disabilities. Have you forgotten, Minister? Was it contempt? Would it have been to ignore the most fragile, or is this, on the contrary, a fake new? In fact, we have seen this news, but we have not seen any lies from your government. [[Congrats from PSD Members.]] So today, what we want to ask you here — Mr Minister, in this way, you have the opportunity to clarify whether the PSD Parliamentary Group, whether the people who face this difficulty every day, will indeed be able to ensure that people with reduced mobility will be able to enjoy these new trains without any problem, or whether, on the contrary, they will prolong this difficulty in time, which is real, already in today's day. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-19.u163	To continue to speak on behalf of the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mr António Topa Gomes has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-19.u164	Mr President, Mr Minister, Mrs and Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen: To close this speech, I would talk about two issues. The first is the fact that Mr Minister now finds out that the works need project planning and work planning, and that they have never done projects. [[PSD applause.]] For professional deformation, I have a life linked to the works, Mr Minister, and what we see is purely and simply...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-19.u165	A statement of incompetence!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-19.u166	... the definition of incompetence, because a government that does not compromise with deadlines and costs is a government that, in managing works, is incompetence. In the case of construction management, on the railway side, the name for the government is simply incompetence.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-19.u167	I would ask you to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-19.u168	I should like to conclude by way of conclusion, Madam President, to mention only one last issue for Mrs Fatima Pinto on the subject of scrapping. Disgusting is that the government has been six years, or rather, eight years ago—even distracting me! — in function and do not try to understand what fails, this because it fails every day in the railway, and is making the diagnosis of what had been done 40 years ago, when the situations were completely different. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-19.u169	You really have to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-19.u170	Finally, Madam President, as Ortega y Gasset said, « it is me and my circumstances». It was enough for the PS to know a little more philosophy and to do the works better. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-19.u171	Mr Pedro Pinto, from the Parliamentary Group of the Arrival, has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-19.u172	Mr President, Mr Minister, Mr State Secretary, Mrs and Mrs Members: I believe that, once again, the phrase that marks this debate is the same one that marked last week's debate on rail. It is that «there are delays, because there is work on the ground». I don't know if there's work on the ground or not, the Minister said we have 500 km of line in work. What we know, and what they report to us every day, is that there are delays and more delays, harming the lives of passengers, and this is the most important factor. In fact, the Portuguese who catch the train are getting late to work, or then they do not arrive, also because of strikes — and the right to strike is fundamental — because of the lack of train conditions. It is almost a lack of respect for people, when it is said: “No, delays exist because there is work on the ground. Do not keep on seeking. ” Last week, we presented a draft resolution so that in the days of strike the money would be returned to the people. It is no longer curious — the Socialist Party voted against, as it has done with all the projects of the party Arrival, this is normal enough — that the PCP, the Left Block and the Free Party have also voted against. This is curious, because we had talked about the railway and defending people, but then, at the time of voting the projects, they vote against and align with the Socialist Party. This is the great truth! [[Congrats from the CH.]] [[L. Protests.]] Mr Minister, I am concerned that the union is saying that there is no dialogue between the government and the unions — it has been a few days ago — and that they find the lack of reaction of Minister João Galamba and Minister Fernando Medina unbelievable. I would therefore like you to comment on this. Mr Minister, I have heard you speak about the East Line carefully, as if he were the great man of the trains who is tired of walking on the East Line. [[Mr Filipe Melo's laughs.]] I ask you, how many times have you walked in the car on the East Line?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-19.u173	He didn't walk any!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-19.u174	Do you know how many times, Minister?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-19.u175	Zero! Ball! [[PSD Members' laughter António Topa Gomes and Jorge Salgueiro Mendes.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-19.u176	Zero! Not even in election campaign was there. And you know why? Oh, my God! Because you don't know what you're saying. To say that transport is mediocre is a favor. That's not mediocre, that's almost unworthy of human beings going in there, that's because, in summer, it makes 40 oC in Alentejo and, most of the time, the air conditioning is varied. Do you know what that is? No, you don't know, and that's the problem! Come here to talk and criticize others for not going on a train. What about you? Oh, my God! Then that car has had too many, too many failures. I also remembered, in the same region, the Ramal de Cáceres, whose death sentence was signed by José Socrates and terminated by Pedro Passos Coelho. In fact, this branch was very important to the region, as it passed the train to Madrid. Do you know what the Ramal de Cáceres is now, Minister? It's a museum. Now, train stations are museums. Still in the Alentejo — it has already been said, it is not worth being playing on the same subject, we have the case of the line between White House and Beja, without electrification. What does the government intend to do about this? Mr Minister, he also said that he looks a lot at the statements of the PCP and the Left Block. Mr Minister, we already knew that it looks a lot at the PCP and the Left Block — in fact, it is part of the wing of the extreme left that is struck by the Socialist Party — but I thought it was because of most of the trains' carriages in Portugal, particularly in the interior of the country, to be of the time of the Soviet Union. I don't know if there's anything to do with it. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-19.u177	This one hurt--you!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-19.u178	I also said, and I will remind you that this government is already eight years old. Mr Minister, this government is eight years old, although it knows that Mr. Minister was a minister a short time ago, because it was the right arm of Pedro Nuno Santos. What is true is that this government is eight years old, but it seems to have arrived today, it seems that this is the first time we are talking about railways! With regard to the statements you have made with Mr Filipe Melo, I should like to point out that I recently heard a 50-year-old organizer. the Anniversary of the Socialist Party, which said the Socialist Party needs democratic humility. Perhaps this democratic humility had done him good, and he should not have said what he said, as he said, because he knows it is not true. The Minister knows that most carriages in Portugal do not have such CCTV cameras, contrary to what he said. That's the great truth. They have here, in the region of Grande Lisboa, and they can have in the region of Grande Porto, but in the rest of the country, where are they? Tell me where they are! Look, this car we talked about, the East Line, do you have cameras? Of course you don't, Minister, and you know you don't! Therefore, these are the falsehoods of this government and of Minister João Galamba. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-19.u179	I shall finish, Madam President, just to speak at the train stations without conditions. Look, I got pictures here. The speaker showed photographs of several train stations. This is a train station in the Alentejo. Mr. Minister doesn't know, but he's here, he's getting to know. If you want, then I'll give you the picture. This is another train station in Portalegre, capital of the Upper Alentejo. This is the train station.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-19.u180	You really have to conclude, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-19.u181	I'm done, Madam President. Just to finish, I would like to mention a news about the Loures Chamber, which is socialist. It says the following: « Loures House urges the Government to rehabilitate the railway stations near World Youth Day. This means that even in the Great Lisbon region train stations are prepared to receive, for example, the World Youth Day. I think it was important for the government to start working on it. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-19.u182	Mr Rodrigo Saraiva, from the IL Parliamentary Group, spoke for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-19.u183	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister : As you addressed the Liberal Initiative in this second round, of course, I will also address the Minister. If I may, I suggest you don't bring this style here next time, just stick to the contents. It is important to bring to the debate this ferocious animal style reminds us of those times of which only Mr. Minister is still one of the few Saudis, but Portugal does not miss any.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-19.u184	It didn't work out very well.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-19.u185	So let's move on. As I said in my first speech, I was almost moved to quote the interview, the statements and the views of Mr Vice-President of the Infrastructures of Portugal, the question I would like to ask you - taking into account the considerations you have made, as if I had been defending what you were saying - is whether you will resign Mr Vice-President of the Infrastructures of Portugal, since you were almost saying that it was a matter of incompetence and incapacity. If you have a Vice President of the infrastructure of Portugal that is incompetent and incapable,... [[PS Member Protests Eurico Brilliant Dias.]] ... you only have one thing to do when you get to your office, which is to resign the Vice President of the Infrastructures of Portugal. [[Protests by PS Member José Carlos Barbosa.]] Then he also attacked the private initiative, with all those spooks that he brought there, those butterfly bugs that he brought there. It's not worth answering! However, since you have so many problems with the private initiative, but you also have to manage the railway — in particular the things that the State does not do — I suggest you will read a news from the Journal of Business recently on April 13, of which I will read only the title: « Five companies will join to modernise the railway signalling system in Portugal. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-19.u186	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-19.u187	Therefore, if it were for the private initiative, we would already go beyond the execution rates on the railway. This debate also brought two curiosities: the first was the Socialist Party speaking of Aníbal Cavaco Silva. They were always talking about the troika—we are already used to this film, to know what you did last summer, to that ping-pong—but come to talk about Aníbal Cavaco Silva, when they are the party that was in the government in 20 of the last 27 years! Open... [[PS Member's Protest Fatima Correia Pinto.]] You are the ones — you are not responsible! — liable for the situation in Portugal, particularly in the railways. It's not worth them going to the past.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-19.u188	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-19.u189	Then we have another curiosity. in a debate that is marked by the PCP, we thought we would come to the end of the debate and see someone shout: « So you see the strength of the PCP! But then Mr. José Carlos Barbosa comes and he seems to be shouting: "This is how the force of the CP is seen! » It is the curiosity of these debates. [[PSD Members' laughter António Topa Gomes and Jorge Salgueiro Mendes.]] Mr Minister, I will now read a little slowly, to give time to ask your advisors for information. On 22 February, the Liberal Initiative Parliamentary Group put a formal question to the Government — a question relating to the National Railway Plan — which is available on the website of the Assembly of the Republic, but has, however, already passed the month in which it would have to answer, and has not yet answered. The question has to do with suppression — proper expression! — the railway link between Braga and Guimarães, of the National Railway Plan. So I'm going to read the questions, to give some time to, then, get me the answers, because, certainly, as the regulatory deadline has passed, there must be some delay. First question: 'What was the decision-making process and what criteria were considered to exclude this link from the National Railway Plan? Do not keep on seeking. ” Second question: "Was there any analysis of the economic and social impact of the exclusion of this line? Do not keep on seeking. ” Third :« Are there plans for their inclusion in the future? Do not keep on seeking. ” Mr Minister, why haven't you answered us in the regiment yet? In order to respond to the parties, is it also necessary to articulate with any other entity? [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-19.u190	Mr João Dias of the CFP Parliamentary Group has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-19.u191	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Minister : In all the debate this afternoon I have not heard a single word from you about the Alentejo Line. Of course, Mr. Minister will have heard of the Alentejo Line, I doubt he knows it. But she exists, Mr Minister, the Alentejo Line exists and cannot be ignored. Minister, do you know why she can't be ignored? Because it represents a second link between Lisbon and Faro. It is a redundancy of security in relation to the South Line, because it represents a second link between the Sines complex and the Cairo border, the foreign one. It is a redundancy again a security in relation to the transport of growing goods. It represents a reliability by which it cannot be ignored either. It cannot be ignored, because it will ensure the economic development of that much weakened territory, namely agriculture, agro-industry, mining, growing tourism and the dignity of rail transport. The non-existent link between Beja and Faro is unacceptable today, Mr Minister, so I will tell you about this line which is not just the Minister you do not know.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-19.u192	You don't, but you will!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-19.u193	The gentlemen. Members do not know it either, because they always talk about the connection, about the gap between White House and Beja and forget about the connection between Beja and Funcheira, particularly between Ourique and Funcheira. Implementation projects are planned by the end of the year, but the projects and environmental procedures that the Government expects to end at the end of 2024 are missing. It is important to anticipate this date for the first half of 2024, so that the works advance as soon as possible. As regards connection to the airport, the implementation project is missing. Mr. Minister, why isn't the project for the execution of the variant at the airport in the field? In the section between Beja, Ourique and Funcheira, a line disabled, the execution project is not on the ground. What prevents the implementation project from being put on the ground until the reprogramming of the PRR ( Recovery and Resilience Plan ) of the so-called bazouca? Why does it not progress, too, with the reprogramming and cabimentation in this section, in fact, throughout the Alentejo Line? Mr Minister, with regard to the electrification of the Algarve Line, the work is in progress. It is a work that is on the ground, but knows little about it, because it is worth dealing with and also putting into execution project what has to do with the connection to Faro Airport and University. Mr Minister, when do you consider this important connection? [[PSD MP Protests António Topa Gomes.]] And the East Line? Mr Minister, when do you approach the station to the city of Portalegre? When's the increase in the offer? She has already been proud to have placed more on the ground, but she is absolutely insufficient. For when is the most offer and when is the replacement of links to Madrid? [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-19.u194	For an intervention, Mrs Isabel Pires of the Left Block Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-19.u195	Mrs. President. Mrs. Members, Minister : Despite everything, I have listed some specific cases on which we would like to have some answers, because we like to know what is happening with the specific situations of the Beira Alta Line, of the North Line, with the issue, still mentioned, of Beja, of Barca de Alva, with the Vouga Line, with the Porto-Vigo Link. Let's not even talk about Trás-os-Montes because if it's true that PSD has closed, it's also true that PS has not reopened.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-19.u196	It's true! [[Protests of PS Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-19.u197	Therefore, the truth is that, in the general context of the region, in its entirety, there is a tremendous failure in this region, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen. But, Minister, I would like to tell you about the question of workers, which is absolutely essential when we talk about railways. We also raised a question in writing at the beginning of March 2023, concerning the necessary and urgent recovery not only of wages but also of careers within the COP. We know that there has been a very difficult dialogue with the Government on this matter. So the essential question that, from this point of view, we would like to stop, because I think it was important, is why the government, especially — at least the idea that we are left with — since the Minister took possession of it, has such a difficult dialogue with the railway workers of the CP? For when is an effective recovery of the wages of these workers? Finally, I have mentioned this a few times, and I would like to tell you about the situation of CP bar workers. in a previous debate of political declarations we brought here specifically this subject and Mr. Carlos Barbosa of the PS even said that there would be even the hypothesis of CP being studying the internalization of these workers. The truth is, it goes virtually for three months in which 130 families do not have wages. We have learned, and everyone who has been with us, that, at the end of last week, there was supposed to be a response to the unions on this urgent invitation to tender that Mr Minister spoke about the last time he went to the Commission. The truth is, in fact, that answer did not exist. There was a supposed interest, but after all, there was no interest in this contest. On Monday, the planned meeting between CP and workers was cancelled. The essential question is to continue to have 130 workers, almost three months ago, without any source of income. I hope that the Minister will understand once again the seriousness of the situation because these people and families are going through right now. There is the possibility — and this political choice is possible — of the CP internalize these workers and, once and for all, solve the problem of the CP bars and, in particular, of the wages of these workers, but we are on 19 April and there is no answer. Mr Minister, the Left Block will bring this issue back to debate. The PS has led to Mr Minister's hearing on this subject in particular, but we will insist on every opportunity we have. We are waiting for the CP hearing to be scheduled, but the truth is that these families can't wait any longer, these workers can't wait any longer. It is almost three months without any source of income, Mr Minister, and therefore we hope that you can have an answer today to give these workers, because either one or the CP solves the situation or the CP solves the situation. It simply summarizes that. There has to be a political choice about solving the lives of these workers, and that is the answer these workers want and that the Left Block asks again, and so it will make the times that are needed until this situation is resolved. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-19.u198	For an intervention, Mrs Inês de Sousa Real has the floor of the PAN.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-19.u199	Madam President, Minister : Recently, there have been questions that have not been answered, from the question of bar workers who are not getting their due. And this, when there are profits from the CP, for the first time, is absolutely incomprehensible. It also said nothing about the connection of all the district capitals, one of the fundamental objectives in terms of territorial cohesion. But in this second round, I would like to ask you two questions. A first relates to the link with airport solutions. It makes no sense to have infrastructures, such as, for example, in Beja, and there is no improvement of the line and, even more, high speed so that we can effectively shorten distances. On the other hand, also, the National Railway Plan cannot mean the destruction of environmental values, as we have seen in some traces. We simply look at the Vouga Line, where the slaughter of more than 300 rats is already planned, or even for Sines, where the slaughter of more than 10 000 rats is planned because of the rail transport of goods. However, the demands of environmentalists, non-governmental organizations and the population themselves have been very clear: they are all in favour of rail, but not under these conditions, with an environmental bill that will be unsustainable with the destruction of this kind of natural heritage. Therefore, Mr Minister, I would like to ask you to answer whether or not they are available to reassess the traces and ensure the preservation of what is a symbol of our country and natural heritage.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-19.u200	Mr Rui Tavares has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-19.u201	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Let's have an hour and a half debate and I note that so far, it remains for future memory, I have not heard any party defending the privatization of the CP. Strange, because it looks like CP has made a profit and some parties think it's when public companies make a profit that they're even mature to privatize. [[Protests by IL Member João Cotrim Figueiredo.]] Let's hope that doesn't mean that when you catch up with the government, one of the first things you're going to do is privatize the CP. I am glad that Mr Minister has agreed to the diagnosis, but we are now going to the prognosis and I would like to hear the answer to some questions I have asked you because I know you like to give your opinion. I cannot understand what the government has against workers in the Boards of Directors of Public Enterprises.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-19.u202	Again? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-19.u203	It is who knows the land, who knows the company and who has a greater interest in its preservation. in other countries, within and outside the European Union, it works well. Note that in Switzerland, for example, it is not in the law that is mandatory and the railway company has employees in the Board of Directors. I would like to hear your answer. I would also like to know whether we have a firm commitment to have the national railway pass on the ground in June, as is the State budget, and whether there is a plan for the payment of the historical debt to the CP. I say this because this debt is the result of many years when the CP did not receive what it should. This question has already been asked by the CFP, to whom I welcome the marking of the debate because the decapitalized companies, which Mr Minister spoke of in the previous reply, have dramatic results for the country.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-19.u204	You've got until 5:00!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-19.u205	Companies are reduced, workers are lost, outsourcing is used and, at the end of this, costs are increased. It is not for what it is supposed to be — to leave the companies more impoverished — that is useful. We ended up paying more for having a worse job. Therefore, it is now at a time when we are apparently on the way to a surplus, that the government must tell us how long, at what pace, it is that it intends to pay the historical debt of the Portuguese State to the CP.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-19.u206	To close this second round, Mr. Minister for Infrastructures, João Galamba.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-19.u207	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I will try to respond systematically, starting with the PSD. Mr, the Government has no problem recognizing that the 2016 programming was unrealistic, so much so that it has subsequently reviewed it. Do you know why you were unrealistic, Mr. Deputies? Because when the government took office in 2015, it took two decisions on the past plans, which was not to change them, keep them and execute them. This in two areas: at the airport, where you inherited a decision from the previous government, Montijo, and, at the railway, where you inherited the alleged plans and projects and assumed that, in a matter of execution and speed, you would maintain what came from the previous government. Mr President, I do not want to apologize here, but bear in mind that in these two decisions the Government decided to maintain and not change the commitments of the previous government in one, who broke the rope was the PSD, which became against what it had defended.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-19.u208	Oh!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-19.u209	In the other, Mr Deputies, at least acknowledge that what the Government of 2016 decided to maintain was, in fact, unrealistic planning — I agree with you — but that it was an unrealistic plan coming from the previous government. Here, if you would like, Mr, there are shared responsibilities.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-19.u210	It's not like he's gonna answer me!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-19.u211	Perhaps, the government should have suspected the past plans and should have reviewed them or, perhaps, the past government should have implemented those plans, which it has not done. Anyway, this is an outdated debate, Mr. Member, because this same government, recognizing that the programming of 2015 and 2016 was unrealistic, changed it and what is now under way, and in work, does not result from an efficient planning of 2016 or 2015.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-19.u212	There was a planning in 2019...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-19.u213	It comes from a new planning and, in view of this planning, not, Mr, there is no delay: the work is in progress and is proceeding normally. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr.António Topa came here to say that he is a specialist in works.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-19.u214	I didn't say that!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-19.u215	I believe that it is, but it is also appropriate for you to know that trains do not fly, Mr honourable Member, because, if you are a specialist in works, you must recognize two things: if there are works on the North Line, it is natural that trains on the North Line are delayed. Why? Because there's the work going on and there's only one North Line, there's no two. Therefore, Mr Deputies, of the two, one: either you do not recognise that there is a work — and then you would be missing the truth, because the work actually exists —...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-19.u216	A third of the promised!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-19.u217	... or, if you recognize that the work exists, at least, recognize that, when there is work, as trains do not fly, it is natural that you should linger, today, a little more to do that line. But there it is, because of what you do not like to hear: in this case it is true.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-19.u218	in this case! Is that what you're talking about? Only in this case! Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-19.u219	There are delays, only and alone, because there is work and the only reason for these delays is due to the work and nothing else. The reason is simple, Mr, is because trains do not fly. Next, you arrive, I don't think you've asked any questions, so you won't answer any questions either.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-19.u220	I asked if I was on a train!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-19.u221	Mr President, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-19.u222	You're confusing the interventions! Oh, my God! I asked for strikes!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-19.u223	I have just said that I am obliged to conclude, Mr President, that I have never set foot on a train, because you have not noticed that the generality of trains and, now, of meters, of electricity and buses, have this technology which you say is the major failure on the railway in Portugal. So I don't have much more to say, until no more questions have been asked.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-19.u224	You've confused the gentlemen!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-19.u225	In the question of the Liberal Initiative, Mr, there was no diabolization of the private initiative here. I haven't demonized anyone. What he said was that he pointed out the delay or delay of works to problems in the public sector and the financing model—I can no longer remember what the term he had used was. What I am saying is that there is no diabolism here, unless you consider that the perspective in the private sector is that of sanctification and that, even if you dare to point out a failure, it is unacceptable and indeed an attack on orthodoxy. Since we do not share the same religion in this case, Mr President, I do not feel bad, but I do not understand that pointing out a criticism or a problem to a private company is to diabolize the private sector, because I am also able to point criticisms to the functioning of the State, without which this constitutes the diabolization of the State.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-19.u226	Answer the questions there!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-19.u227	He's not responding to anything!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-19.u228	So, honourable Member, I have just said something very simple: decapitalization and delay also affect private companies in the country, as well as cover also affects private companies. On the news on the issue of delays and the risk of the scrapping work—I think it was the PSD Member who spoke of 2025, who came on a news item last week—I have to say two things about that: no, there is no risk of the scrapping work for 2025, it will all be executed in 2024 ; and delays that may exist, and the doubt is whether it will even be in early 2024 or if it will be in March, therefore, any delay of this kind, as the news itself says, is totally and exclusively imputable to problems in the private sector. They say, therefore, I am not diabolicizing anyone, Mr. Now, it is appropriate not to start for these analyses with a kind of posture of holiness, in which the problems and difficulties are only on the side of the State. They're on both sides, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-19.u229	What about Braga and Guimarães?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-19.u230	And a balanced position recognizes them on both sides. It is not bad for me, but apparently, who is here having a balanced position that I am, because the honourable Member was soon bewildered with the possibility of having pointed out a failure or a problem in the private sector.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-19.u231	Me? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-19.u232	I didn't do what I said here. On public consultation, Mr President, the Government respects the procedures which the Government itself chooses to launch — and now also respects other procedures, not only those which the Government chooses to launch. in this particular case, the government chose to draw up a railway plan, use the figure of the public discussion and put it into discussion. This answers the question you asked. Mr President, at the time we did not respond because the public debate was under way — I do not know whether or not the Liberal Initiative participated in the public debate. [[Protests by Mr Rodrigo Saraiva.]] What the Liberal Initiative cannot do, even with respect to the Portuguese all who participated, is, through a public consultation, demand a debate that will take place at the end, as must be done. And there, Mr President, you will have every opportunity to understand, first of all, the choices that the government has made. The government has put the railway plan in question not to pretend that it wants to hear people, but because it wants to hear them. People participate, and there were many, and still good. We are now prosecuting these shares, and then making the amendments that are considered justified. And then the Government will bring the railway plan to Parliament, discuss it, including with the Liberal Initiative, and intend to approve the railway plan in this Parliament. If you want me to tell you, I would very much like most of the parties to support you, because the more parties support you and move on to the National Railway Plan, since it is not a two- or three-year investment implementation plan, the more satisfied the government is. This means that it is a real plan, that it is lasting and that it has the backing of a sufficiently broad number of parties and Members. We want a credible plan, which has been valid for a long time and which, without prejudice to each government, can then take its concrete options and have its priorities, allow us to have a hat in which the generality of the parties is seen and which gives the country a horizon for the realization of a plan. I think that's good. Therefore, Mr President, the Government will draw up the plan for discussion in Parliament, we will certainly have a long debate and the parties can make new suggestions. Those who now recognize that they should have participated in the public consultation and made proposals, but did not, and are sorry, still have the opportunity to do so. I know this is your case, Mr...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-19.u233	The PS has led our proposal!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-19.u234	... and your party who is sorry not to have participated in the public consultation, but will have the opportunity to do so and certainly the National Railway Plan which the Government of the Socialist Party will bring to this Parliament will leave here richer and better, now also with the participation and contribution of the Liberal Initiative.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-19.u235	The PS has plummeted!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-19.u236	As regards the CFP, there were several questions — also asked by Mr Rui Tavares — about historical debt. Yes, we are working on solving this problem. The resolution of this problem will not, as Mr Rui Tavares has now suggested, be phased up. It will be once, and we are very few days away from making the notification necessary to move forward with this project to the European Commission. So, yes, we are working and our goal is to solve this problem this year,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-19.u237	What about the Alentejo Line?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-19.u238	... so that, in particular, the COP will be able, through its own funds and its own resources, to compete at high speed, which it will not be able to do without debt consolidation. Therefore, this is a priority issue for the government and, as is stated in the State budget, it is to realize this year and, as I said, the thing is well referred and we are very close to making the notification, which is mandatory under the legislation, to the European Commission. As for the railway pass, we are working on it and so it will be this year as well.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-19.u239	What about the Alentejo Line? You don't know? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-19.u240	Sir, I'm responding. Mrs Isabel Pires has done something that the Bloco has done many times here — and now the CFP also does and has done so in this debate — which is to mix several issues, which does not actually contribute to the debate. Mrs Isabel Pires here has mixed projects into work, projects whose competition is about to be launched and projects that include a proposal for a future plan. He mixed it up and said it was late.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-19.u241	Everyone's late!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-19.u242	Madam Member, for the sake of the debate, there is a difference between works currently in work on the ground, and which we can discuss if they are late or not late,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-19.u243	And they are!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-19.u244	... works that are about to be launched, and which we can discuss should have been launched sooner or later, and works proposed in the National Railway Plan by this government, which are in public consultation. Mrs. Deputy, we can't mix the three things. I have every interest, and believe that the government has every interest in discussing each one of them seriously.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-19.u245	You look so good! Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-19.u246	Now, Mrs Deputy has smoothed these three realities, mixing everything, trying to suggest that everything was chaos and nothing is happening. [[Protests by the Member of the BE Isabel Pires.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-19.u247	I would ask you to conclude, Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-19.u248	There are some who are working and are therefore actually happening, others are happening, in order to be all ready to launch the contest as planned, and others we put for public debate of the National Railway Plan. But it is the very way in which you put the question which does not allow me to answer, because I did not understand your question very sincerely. by mixing everything, effectively, ended up asking no questions. [[Protests by the Member of the BE Isabel Pires.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-19.u249	I would ask you to conclude, Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-19.u250	I am just finishing up very quickly, Madam President.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-19.u251	And the workers at the CP bars without three months' salary? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-19.u252	Mrs Inês de Sousa Real spoke here of the National Railway Plan and it seemed that she wanted the whole realization, the connection of trains to all capitals. I will give you something new, Mrs Member: if this plan were to be built tomorrow, there would be a lot of bribes going to be shot down, because it is impossible to fill the country with train lines.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-19.u253	Ah!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-19.u254	I mean, listening to Mrs. Deputy, it looks like it's either zero supers or it's a crime. [[NAP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-19.u255	Mr. Minister, you really have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-19.u256	That's because the train goes on long!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-19.u257	You are convinced of one thing: an environmentalism that builds up is not an environmentalism that you think. The green future is a future with works, with things, with railroad, with solar parks, with wind farms.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-19.u258	Thank you very much, Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-19.u259	So if you understand that you can only build these things that you want without bringing down a single envelope, I have some bad news for you: it is not possible.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-19.u260	Mr. Minister, you really have to finish!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-19.u261	And that is why there are rules and procedures to assess how this will be done, ensuring that the impact will be as minimal as possible. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-19.u262	What about workers without wages three months ago? What's going to happen to them? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-19.u263	We're moving to the closing phase. To speak on behalf of the Government, Mr. Secretary of State for Infrastructures, Frederico Francisco.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-19.u264	Now you're going to answer the questions!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-19.u265	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: At the end of this debate, I think it is important to reaffirm our commitment to the railway in five different aspects. First of all, I reaffirm the commitment to the ongoing investment in the works on the ground, on which numbers have already been given here in the previous debate. in this respect, the challenge is that we wanted to identify when it was the last time we had so many miles of line in work and so many jobs, simultaneously, throughout the country, and when we had investment in circulating material, in the recovery of what existed and could be put to service quickly — and that was — and it allowed to stabilize the service and drastically reduce the suppressions, but also in the acquisition of new trains, which was not done more than 20 years ago in Portugal. Secondly, I stress the commitment to strengthening the sector and public enterprises working on the railway: the public service contract with the CP that gave certainty and stability to the provision of this service and that it was decisive that the CP could have presented the results that were now known; and then the missing part in the future viability of the CP as a public enterprise that is the sanitation of its historical debt, which has accumulated over the decades, in which the public service was not properly paid to the CP by the State. We have severed the loss of tables in the CP and IP, with multiple contracts that have been made over the last few years and with the stabilization of business frameworks, which has transformed these two companies into investment executioners and not into companies that were progressively defining. We have trained the authorities, the IMT ( Institute for Mobility and Transport ) to carry out their technical and safety supervisory functions in the railway sector. Thirdly, the commitment to the development of rail careers, which Mr Minister has already mentioned here in his initial speech, and on which we are working on a multi-annual basis to recover all the purchasing power that has been lost to inflation under this legislation. Fourthly, we have a commitment to industry. For this reason, so that we can give conditions to industry, whether in infrastructure or in the manufacture of rolling stock and other equipment, what we have to give is stability and investment perspective. Therefore, in this respect, we work to give sustainability and to assure companies, to settle in Portugal, to hire frames, to invest in equipment and to invest in installations. And finally, I reaffirm my commitment to the future of the railway, to a near future. Then we learned from the failures that we recognized existed in the implementation of the current investment framework and in the planning of this investment cycle, and that is why we started launching the projects for the next investment cycle, for the 2030 National Investment Plan, for the investments that are funded by the next European framework, even before the planning and programming of the European funds itself is closed. Then, for the medium and long term, the National Railway Plan, which is the instrument that will enable the railway network he needs to stabilize in the country. We have received hundreds of contributions, many of them have already been and will be integrated into the plan, which will, of course, come to this Parliament, so that it will speak. But there is one thing we need to be aware of: it will not be in five, nor in ten years that we will compensate for the decades of de-investment and reach all district capitals and have the fully modernized network and manage to have a network that can end domestic flights in continental territory. We often talk about decades of investment and we can talk on several scales of time. We can talk in the 10 years, since the investment in infrastructure practically stopped and paralyzed. We can talk in 20 years, since it was commissioned and delivered the last new train in Portugal. We can talk in more than 30 years, since the peak of the number of passengers transported by rail has been reached. Or we can talk about 80 years, since it practically stopped the expansion of the railway network in Portugal and, in fact, since the contraction cycle of the railway network began, which we are now, for the first time, inverting. So whatever the scale of times we choose,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-19.u266	After eight years, they remembered! It's now!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-19.u267	... whatever the number of decades we have chosen, what we are doing is to reverse all these trends with new lines, with ongoing works, with modernization of existing lines, with modernization of existing trains and with the acquisition of new trains. I conclude in the same note in which the Minister began his intervention. The fact that we are called to this Parliament several times in a few weeks to discuss this issue is a sign that, finally, the country is paying attention to the railway and demanding more of it and demanding more of us in the work on the railway. for our part, we can only ensure that we continue to work to meet these requirements and that the country does not turn back on the train, as happened in the past. As far as it depends on us, this is a train that has already left the station and will no longer stop. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-19.u268	Madam President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-19.u269	Mr Pedro Pinto, would you like to speak for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-19.u270	Madam President, it is for an appeal to the Bureau.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-19.u271	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-19.u272	Mr President, it is only to ask that the questions put by the Minister of Infrastructure be distributed by the office of the Minister of Infrastructure, because he did not hear all the questions that the Parliamentary Group of Arrival asked. We therefore ask the Bureau to bring them to Mr Minister's office, because it is important that we do not pass this false question that we have not asked questions. We have done quite a lot, Mr Minister, that he did not want — or did not know — to answer. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-19.u273	Mr President, the Bureau does not have Mr Minister's office distribute the questions to the government bench. To close this debate, Mrs Paula Santos of the CFP Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-19.u274	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister: The problems of the railway are not resolved with more or less eloquent speeches, but with the realisation of the investments that are about to be made. You don't have enough ads and promises, you need a lot more. in this debate, the government has not committed itself to the exploitation of careers and the professions of railways, nor to the recovery of the purchasing power of these workers.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-19.u275	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-19.u276	Where is the hire of the necessary railways, the integration of the workers of the train bars in the CP? Where is the modernization and electrification of the West or the Alentejo Lines — question to which did you not answer? Where is the reopening of the closed sections, the requalification of the stations and its garrison, the reversal of the PPP of the bridge train? You're not, Minister. This is reality on the ground. No matter what you want, you can't hide this reality that, let me tell you, it's not very different from the previous governments. The country doesn't need proclamations. The country needs investments for the modernisation of the railway, it needs the extension of the network and the offer of public rail transport with more trains and more times. What is needed is to break up with the political options that have been followed. Neither the PS, nor the PSD, nor the CDS, nor the Liberal Initiative and the Arrival give an answer, because essentially everyone defends the same policies responsible for the de-investment, degradation and abandonment of the railway: their liberalisation and privatization. An alternative, patriotic and left-wing policy is needed, as proposed by the CFP, which includes rail as a strategic element for the development of the country, for its modernisation and progress, mobilising the financial resources available through the State budget and Community funding sources which guarantee the appropriate investment based on various axes, namely in the reconstruction of the national railway sector, with the reconstitution of a single, public and national CP, which assumes the commercial exploitation of the entire network, which reintroduces the REFER (National Railway Network), goods and railway terminals, with the restoration of the public capacity for the construction and maintenance of the infrastructure and with the strengthening of the technical and operational framework of railway undertakings. It is also within this framework that the reversal of the public-private partnership of the bridge train is also covered. Another of the axes is the completion of a national plan for rolling stock, which plans investments in the fleet for the next decades, taking into account the expected lifetime of the existing material, as well as the needs to increase the supply of public rail transport, ensuring greater national incorporation in the construction phase. It is also necessary to value railways, in their careers and professions, in the increase of wages, in the recovery of purchasing power — the government's decision is insufficient — in the strengthening of rights. The hiring of workers to end abandoned stations, to meet operational needs in maintenance, to promote the growth of the operation and to rebuild a railway engineering, and to internalize all activities, from bars to trains to infrastructure maintenance. It is unacceptable that the Government has not yet responded to the workers of the fighting train bars for more than two months. It is the responsibility of the Government to take up the employment contracts with the 123 workers and to integrate them into the CP as well as to pay the wages due. It is also necessary to improve the intermodality in mathematics and the progressive freeness of the system. It is also important to carry out investments in the network and services, in particular in the modernisation and electrification of the national railway network in the Algarve, the West, the Beira Alta, the Douro, the East, the Cascais, the Alentejo, from Casa Branca to Beja and the Ourique, with the variant at Beja airport, as well as the quadrupling between Roma-Areeiro and Braço de Plata, in the Belt and Contumil Line to Ermesinde in the Mining Line. Let us not forget the construction of the third railway crossing over the Tejo, as well as the phased construction of the new line for high speed Lisbon-Porto and the completion of the Evora-Elvas connection, ensuring its full use for the transport of passengers and goods, with the construction of railway terminals. It is important to restore the night trains to Madrid and Hendaya as well as the increase in supply on the South Line, recovering the connection to Alcácer do Sal. It is necessary to create a regular service between Guarda, Covilhã and Fundão, as well as the construction of links from Braga to Guimarães and Barcelos or the replacement of railway links to Vila Real and Bragança, among others. Finally, it is necessary to re-qualify the stations and appetizers, strengthen their garrison and resume the process of removing level crossings, introducing improvements claimed by users, workers and populations. This is the necessary alternative policy in the railway, which contributes to the dynamisation of the country's economic activity and the productive apparatus, the creation of employment, territorial cohesion, the promotion of the environment and public transport, reducing the use of individual transport, the modernization and development of the country. It is with this alternative policy that the CFP is committed: with the strengthening of investment in rail, but, above all, with the promotion of public rail transport for users, extending this response so essential to our country. [[PCP applause.]] [[At the moment, President Augusto Santos Silva took the presidency.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-19.u277	Good afternoon, everyone. So we end point 1 of our agenda. We move on to point 2, which consists of the assessment of the Bill No 39 / XV / 1. a ( GOV ) — Clarify the intervention of municipalities in the procedures of construction, expansion or modification of an aerodrome, which drags the Bill No. 704 / XV / 1. a ( CH) — See Decree-Law No 186/2007 of 10 May 2007 laying down the conditions for the construction, certification and operation of national civil aerodromes. To submit Law No 39 / XV / 1. a ( GOV ), I give the floor to Mr. Minister for Infrastructures, João Galamba.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-19.u278	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This bill is intended to amend Decree-Law No 186/2007 of 10 May 2007 which establishes the conditions for the construction, certification and operation of national civil aerodromes. It establishes the operational, administrative, security and facilitation requirements to be applied in those infrastructures and also establishes the operational classification of national civil aerodromes for airport sorting purposes. This initiative, considers the Government, is crucial to solve the problems in the sector and aims to revise and clarify the legislation currently in force in order to ensure the realization of investments considered to be of the highest national interest, in particular the construction of airports. This amendment creates a differentiated certification system for aerodromes and airports, considering that the opinion of municipalities is indispensable for local projects. It is clear that the opinions of the municipalities cannot produce political-based legal effects with regard to regional or national projects. This amendment makes it clear that the opinions of the municipalities are relevant, although not binding, when it comes to regional or national infrastructures. Moreover, the right of veto does not constitute any recognition of the autonomy of political power, because one wonders what would happen in a case where the municipality veto and all the others are in favour. That is why there are different levels of power, and that is why there is local power, national power and, now, European power. It is precisely because different spheres of jurisdiction are recognized and that the powers must be articulated and exercised under certain conditions and not in others. It is clear to everyone that the conditions of construction, certification and operation of civil aerodrome cannot dispense the intervention of municipalities whose territories are affected by their construction and operation, but it is also clear that the country cannot be re-infected by the power of veto of a single municipality. Respecting the autonomy of local power is not giving absolute sovereignty and power to a municipality. It is first to recognize the specificity of municipalities, their scope of action, the way in which local power is associated with national power and to define spheres of action where these powers can be exercised without conflict. The country is not the sum of 308 municipalities. It has 308 municipalities, but does not result from the sum of the 308 municipalities, for the simple reason that a state is more than the sum of the parties. This is not in any way a criticism or devaluation of the local power, but its recognition, its importance in its own sphere and, above all, its compatibility with the Government of the Republic, because a functional State recognizes this. That is also what this bill does. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-19.u279	Mr. Minister has a request for clarification. To formulate it, you have the floor of Mrs Inês de Sousa Real of the PAN.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-19.u280	Mr President, Minister, on this matter, it seems to us that we are once again changing the rules after the game has been distributed. In fact, there is a manoeuvre by the government here, in particular to enable it to build the airport in Montijo. That is inevitably the perception of public opinion. However, apart from the fact that the opinion of local authorities is no longer binding, we do not see any kind of counterpart. The Minister spoke of the importance of the national issue and of the lack of this obstacle by the local authority, but, given the impact on noise, the environment, among other equally relevant matters, would it be important to realize, in the event of impact on biodiversity, why does the Government not propose, for example, a binding opinion by the ICNF (Instituto de Conservación da Nature and Forests)? Or even, given the impact on climate neutrality, why not move forward with the Climate Action Council, which is currently pending in this Assembly of the Republic? Why not ask for an opinion from other entities, such as the Transport Authority itself, considering the impact that airport solutions will necessarily have on infrastructures? It could also bring us, for example, a proposal for the Transport Mobility Authority ( TMA ) and the IMTT ( Institute for Mobility and Terrestrial Transport ) to have a binding opinion. That is why, Minister, our concern is to see whether we all want to be limited to the hegemonic will by the government, or whether, in fact, it will allow, in the field of specialty, other entities to be called to the collation so that we do not have here again the compressor roll of the absolute majority to pass over the local authorities...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-19.u281	The honourable Member has to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-19.u282	I really am concluding, Mr President. It is important to know whether the Government intends to go beyond other environmental values as well — although it has already made clear its position on environmental values.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-19.u283	In reply, Mr Minister for Infrastructure has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-19.u284	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for the questions. Don't hurt me, but all the situations you've identified are laid down in the law and have your own procedures. [[NAP protests.]] She said that it was important to have an opinion from the ICNF: the law already determines the conditions under which there is an opinion from the ICNF; she speaks in counterpart: the AIA regime (Environmental Impact Assessment) already foresees all of this. The honourable Member seems to be unaware of the evaluation procedures that take place for the slaughter of trees and for the execution of certain projects. All of this already exists, Mrs. On the law of noise, tell me one thing: why do you think there is an AIA procedure with an evaluation committee, where the relevant municipalities participate and are consulted? Does the honourable Member think that the municipality should give an independent environmental opinion of the AIA regime?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-19.u285	I think!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-19.u286	You think? Do you understand how absurd that is? Oh, my God! Imagine the situation in which there is an AIA scheme which follows, in accordance with the law, the involvement of all entities, in particular the entities which you have referred to, and which you say x. Next, can a municipality that participated even say y? And then, how do you manage them both? [[NAP protests.]] Things have their own procedures and rules, and everything that the honourable Member has identified here already has its own procedures and rules where this is dealt with properly. Multiplicating opinions and procedures would lead to conflict, and when there is a conflict between two parties, we need to create a third to manage it. So what the honourable Member is proposing is a full of procedures when we have them. Abating envelopes is based on the law, it is defined as possible, who authorizes, in what terms it is authorized and what compensatory mechanisms are there—that is in the AIA regime. We must take seriously the laws we have adopted — or Parliament, or the government — because these procedures must be respected by those who approve them! The honourable Member seems to claim herself a great environmental defender, but then devalues, minimizes or then simply does not know—sometimes I do not know very honestly! — the procedures which meet exactly what the honourable Member is defending. [[NAP protests.]] I have some difficulty understanding. Mrs. Deputy, there's no compressor roll of anything, there's an anomaly. It makes no sense to have national infrastructures subject to the power of veto of a municipality. Imagine what it would be like, Mrs. Member, if we had to have opinions from all the municipalities to build the A1 motorway and the A2 motorway? I think we were still in the middle of the project and we would have a highway like this, because if each municipality...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-19.u287	Mr. Minister, you have to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-19.u288	Look at what the honourable Member is defending. The honourable Member strongly argues that each municipality, individually, has a veto over national infrastructure. This has only one conclusion: it becomes inviolable for the country to deliberate, decide and build national infrastructures.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-19.u289	Thank you very much, Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-19.u290	They are called airports,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-19.u291	Mr Minister, I will repeat, Mr Minister has to conclude. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-19.u292	... highways or anything else. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-19.u293	To present the initiative of the Arrival, Mr André Ventura has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-19.u294	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, Mr. Members: The proposal that the Government brings us here today gives the idea to the country that when something is put on the path of the PS there are two ways to solve, but the easiest, the most common, the permanent, is only one: remove what we have in front of us to meet the will we have. I did not want to begin the presentation of this project without bringing to this Parliament — it is nothing about Brazil, Mr President — the National Association of Municipalities and the opinion it gave on this project. How is it possible that an association that should defend municipalities, when a government project is to take the power of veto to municipalities, comes to say that it has nothing to hinder? It is a good example of how PS attempts by state apparatus, associations and agencies are destroying democracy in Portugal. [[Congrats from the CH.]] It's a bit like this story of Judge Ivo Rosa. When a judge or the Central Court of Criminal Instruction or the Public Ministry are not liked, courts are dismantled, judges are destroyed, justice is taken. Those of whom we like, go to Europe, to luxury positions proposed by the government. That's how the PS does and so it's always the way the PS does, because when he doesn't like anything, he only knows how to revoke, destroy and then put on his mercy.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-19.u295	50 years!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-19.u296	Of course this project has several problems for which PS preferred not to look. With regard to European legislation in this area, there is a clear opinion of the National Civil Aviation Authority ( ANAC ), which gives the PS and the Government the possibility of amendments that would, indeed, meet the European legislation on this subject, in particular to the power of municipalities. The PS prefers to do just one thing, which is to say: "If you don't want my location of the airport, then I don't change the location, I don't change the content of the opinions, I take you to the power to give any opinion and that seems to be taken into account. It is the socialist way of working, which is to say: « Either they agree with us or they will take the same with things, agree with or do not agree with us. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-19.u297	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-19.u298	This is not called democracy; it is called dictatorship and the socialist people to fill the state apparatus. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-19.u299	And he's defending democracy, imagine if he wasn't!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-19.u300	Of course this picture will remain for the parliamentary annals, in which Pedro Nunes Santos replied to the Arrival saying: "Don't be mistaken, Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr André Ventura, I will decide the location of the new airport. Do not keep on seeking. ” The speaker displayed the document he mentioned. I now do not see you here in this debate,... [[CH's laughs.]] ...is probably either in the TAP Committee of Inquiry or hidden under the table, but it could be here, the young Turkish could be here, but it's not. You're not, and you know why? Because just as in this location of the airport, it is tricked behind trickery, deceit behind lie, always with the same objective: satisfy the PS, harm Portugal. [[Congrats from the CH.]] That is always the objective of the socialist government. So, Mr President, we do not believe — and I want to make it clear here — we do not believe or trust that the PS will do the right thing in this matter. We do not trust, nor do we believe that, without the opinion of the chambers and without their obligation, the PS meets the one that is the regional interest, the local interest and the environmental interest.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-19.u301	But the cameras exist.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-19.u302	Therefore, we propose in this bill that, when the PS invokes the highest national interest, it must be validated by this Assembly of the Republic and not just by a choice to the closed door, between Minister João Galamba and Prime Minister Antonio Costa, or in an exchange of talks of WhatsApp between Minister João Galamba and his secretary of state, or between some public company. We prefer it to be with Parliament's support and Parliament's approval. To do the opposite is to take action to continue the jokes that we are watching and that the country is seeing everything. Now it's at TAP, in a few years we'll be discussing an investigation committee on the construction of the airport. Don't count on us for that. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-19.u303	You now have the floor on behalf of the PS Parliamentary Group, Mr André Pinotes Batista.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-19.u304	Mr. President, Mrs. Minister, Mr. Minister, Mr. Secretary of State : Allow me, first of all, to make a reference to today's 50th anniversary of the founding of the Socialist Party. [[P.S.'s applause.]] What a great pride it is to belong to a party and to a parliamentary force that allows us, for example, to note the following: already in the previous debate, the railway, we had noticed that the alpha of the notion had not passed in all Parliamentary appetizers, but now it has also been confirmed in this debate. Democracy allows us to say what we think, to fight for what we believe, and even, Mr President, in this House, which is the common ground for all Democrats, to hear things in which it is very difficult to believe. Mrs Inês de Sousa Real said in her speech that the rules cannot be changed in the middle of the game. First of all, Mr Deputy, this is not a game, it is the development of the national economy, it is the development of an entire sector. But even if the honourable Member wanted to consider it a game, she could not fail to have the notion of the following: the game of the economy plays in permanence. [[NAP protests.]] And when we fall in love with our own soundbits, when we repeat them so many times—because the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group has heard this idea, that this is an amendment to the extent of a location—what happens to you in this connection PAN and arrives, which is not new, but still startling, has to do with the following: you are turning away from reality. [[Mr André Ventura's laughs.]] We are not changing to any location, we are making a change with weight and sense. Mr Ventura had already used to us wanting to be him saying that it was the voice of the people, but today he wants to be more, he wants to be telling what the government is telling the people. We do not allow you, Mr...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-19.u305	Is it part of the government? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-19.u306	... and we do not allow you for the following: if it was real what Mr. André Ventura here said, there was only a good judgment when the judgment was made by the authorities, in his tent theory, a novelty had to give him: most of the autarchs are socialist.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-19.u307	And what is implied in your reasoning is that you have a tempting view of everything you command, of everything you lead.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-19.u308	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-19.u309	Not us. We really respect the autonomy of local power,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-19.u310	Respect, respect!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-19.u311	...because we have the largest number of autarchs leading cameras, but we also have many quality autarchs that are in opposition.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-19.u312	Some are in prison!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-19.u313	I understand that you do not understand what the democratic local power is, but you need to do this underlined. This Bill No. 39 comes to clarify a decree-law, which was right to be, which comes to regulate how we could build, certify and exploit those that were aerodromes of type I, II, III and IV, to which Mr did not allude, mixed everything, but that is also part of populist dialectics.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-19.u314	It's the IV!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-19.u315	What we are now going to do is clarify the following: some Portuguese understand that in order to make a strategic decision, to make a strategic planning of a country, can it be resilient to an interest in a single territory?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-19.u316	To your territory!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-19.u317	Look, let me tell you, I think the interests of these territories are legitimate, but it has to be with thought and with good sense, in which, in the arc of that which is our Constitution and our legal order, each authority fulfils its role. I want to tell you, in fact, the following: it is false that you stop being heard. On the contrary, in those of type I, II and III aerodromes, they will continue to be heard and appear binding ; and in those of type IV, they will also continue to be consulted, but we do not confuse what is participation and what is tax.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-19.u318	Sure, sure!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-19.u319	We understand well their political practice and, not wanting to advertise to any media agency, there is a podcast of Vítor Matos very interesting to understand how it sees political reality, but that's not how we see it.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-19.u320	I could pass the podcast here!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-19.u321	We really respect all party forces and all levels. [[CH protests.]] But let me tell you, Mr Commissioner, what was like the legislator's spirit in 2007 — in an even less globalized world than in today's world, in a less competitive world among airlines, where even economic geopolitical was different — was progress. And what we want today is to improve this progress, to make things more balanced and balanced. Mr President, the proportionality of our legal architecture should be of interest to Prof. André Ventura, but as I am addressing Mr. André Ventura, I realized that this is of little interest to him.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-19.u322	But are there, or are there, European rules? You don't know!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-19.u323	He knows!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-19.u324	And it is important to say the following: in order for us to finally have what everyone proclaims, but only the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group has taken steps, which is the expansion of Lisbon's airport capacity, this is an indispensable step. The gentlemen. Members cannot continue to come to the second, fourth and sixth times complain that the airport that stopped on Tuesday and Thursday is not done. But this is not just an issue of the airport sector, because if you want to go grab the one that was the example given by Minister João Galamba, would you like to imagine what we had 308 Limiano cheeses? It makes sense and it's normal for the autarchs of every place to do it,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-19.u325	It was the PS!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-19.u326	... but you certainly like to make these criticisms on the second, fourth and sixth, you cannot forget what you said on Tuesday and Thursday. Imagine, then, that in relation to the TGV (high speed train) rather than being thought of as a modernizing structure of our economy, our mobility and our territory, we had to start asking each municipality if yes or no, and then we would do the ziguezague. And the honourable Member would make the journey that he is inviting us to make, which is that of irresponsibility.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-19.u327	That you approved!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-19.u328	Yes, Minister, I end with this: sometimes, to be a statesman, you have to be a statesman. It's tautological, but it's true. To do this, we change a law, because it has to be changed. That's all, Minister. The change of this law will have the favourable vote of the Socialist Party,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-19.u329	Really? Are you going to vote in favour of a government bill? Oh, my God! They've lost their heads!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-19.u330	... because it is a thoughtful change, of good sense and that the other parties, outside this parliamentary bubble, will one day also appreciate it. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-19.u331	They should think the same for health and education!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-19.u332	For an intervention on behalf of the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mr João Barbosa de Melo has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-19.u333	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Government's bill aims, as we have seen, essentially, to withdraw to municipalities a kind of veto law which the Decree-Law No 186/2007 gave them in the decisions on the construction and expansion of airports. In the current time, the main visas are the municipalities affected by the future Lisbon airport solution, which no one still knows where it will be located until at least the technical commission finishes its work. The responsibility of those who have ruled for seven and a half years—it is never too much to remember—but it cannot continue to be diluted in commissions, pandemics, war or the usual language of responsibility or responsibility of those who have ruled before. It has, in fact, passed through this debate this language, as is usual. No one here has any doubt that the new airport solution to Lisbon was urgent ten years ago, not now,... [[Protests from PS André Pinotes Batista.]] ... and that the situation gets worse every day, endangering the hub of Lisbon and the TAP itself. I only share what happened yesterday, on a flight that arrived from Caracas, early in the morning, flight TP173. The trip went well, the passengers were satisfied, because the flight arrived before the hour, see there! The passenger Maria was finally going to be able to catch the connection to Munich, without a problem; the passenger Manuel was going to be able to come home, pick up the children and take them to school. All satisfied, five stars for TAP. This is unless, after a few minutes inside the stationary plane, the commander comes to the microphones to explain that he is waiting for directions to park. The clock is running, the time is running, and finally, when the doors of the plane opened, 300 passengers had been 1 hour and 40 minutes — I repeat, 1 hour and 40 minutes — waiting for an airplane to stop. And there Maria lost the connection flight and there Manuel remained without taking his children to school. Even if there is an explanation for this particular case, one thing we have experienced for a long time: such situations occur too often at Lisbon airport. And it happens, of course, because the airport is bursting through the seams, it's unable to solve things that usually at other airports can easily be solved. And the solution is not seen, nor even palliative care is seen for this in the coming days. After decades of weighing, studying, we haven't even been able to get to the location yet, but we're going. At the end of seven and a half years, then, of a socialist government that was addicted to blaming who was before, is it now that the government will actually decide? We hope so, I hope so. With this proposal being discussed today, the government is preparing the way for no municipality to dare to put sticks on the wheel, from here on. To move on such issues as this, in any case, should require very good sense. For PSD, the autonomy of local power is a key point of our architecture. [[PSD applause.]] [[Protests from PS André Pinotes Batista.]] It has to continue to be that way. There is a local sphere, a regional sphere and a national sphere, and the three must be called upon to make decisions. Thus, and in respect for this autonomy, we believe that the municipalities affected cannot fail to be heard, consulted and actively involved in decisions. For PSD, it is essential, in public policy options like this, that the interests of all affected are weighted,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-19.u334	That's in the law!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-19.u335	... to clarify the conditions to be laid down on the territory, in particular those resulting from constraints on land use or environmental risks. therefore it makes no sense to remove the municipalities of this process. We thus follow the reparations that both the National Association of Portuguese Municipalities ( ANMP ) and the municipality of Lisbon make to the bill, when they say that «the government should establish a mechanism that indicates the foundations, [...] a mechanism that would prevent the position of the municipalities from being “removed or emptied», says the Lisbon Chamber. As the National Association of Portuguese Municipalities also says, what should be established was "a mechanism for conciliation and harmonization of interests, which allows the State and the municipalities to articulate policies and interests to protect, (...) like what happens in matters of spatial planning". Finally, the PSD also monitors the two opinions referred to in regard to the elimination of the « possibility of projects of national interest being hampered by mere reasons for political divergence ». Being our country in this waiting compass, until the end of the work of the independent technical committee, there is time to make a better law than this one. There was time to make a law better than this, without attributing unjustifiable veto powers—yes— but safeguarding the involvement and participation of all persons and entities with interests in the territory. To solve the problem of unjustified vetoes, it can do better. It is with more civic participation and more municipal involvement—not the other way around! — that we can have better public decisions. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-19.u336	Mr Rui Tavares has the floor now.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-19.u337	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: If there is something that should not be done, it is learned - in schools - that is to legislate ad hommem, that is to say, for a person in particular. Here, in this case, we have legislation that is ad municipality, i.e. it is for a municipality, moreover, for two — for Moita and for Montijo.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-19.u338	It was Moita and Seixal! It has nothing to do with what you're saying!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-19.u339	So the Minister tells us here: "we imagine that a municipality decides to have such a lack of solidarity that decides to stop the development of the country. What would we do? Mr Minister, there is no need to imagine, because we are not talking about something in abstract, we are talking about something in concrete. There are two municipalities, in particular one — Montijo — which is against the location of the airport in Montijo. And that's why we're here and so it's better to assume it.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-19.u340	Montijo was in favour, sir!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-19.u341	Above all, the municipality concerned is right in environmental issues, is right in the pressure on the estuary, is right in the pressure on that population. Therefore, if you want to avoid the impression that you are legislating for a particular case, then the decision of the airport is closed and then you sign yourself, i.e., as has already been said, and well, the rules are changed after the game played. Recently, Mr André Pinotes Batista said, with the enthusiasm of the 50 years of the PS — congratulations to the PS for his 50 years! — that the law has to change because it has to change, but this is not the right argument. I think that the PS, with its 50 years of age, should have learned something: when the law changes to avoid small troubles—Little burdens are in the Moita —, it ends up getting into great burdens — Big diseases remain in the Montijo. In other words, it changes the law because there are some authors who are boring, but then it has the citizens who see and realize that there is a government...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-19.u342	Mr. Deputies, you have to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-19.u343	...which changes the law because it has to be changed, because it passes over everyone, and so it gets into the big trouble that we've seen here.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-19.u344	To intervene, on behalf of the Left Block, you have the floor of Mrs. Joana Mortagua.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-19.u345	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We spoke of Big Sarihos, a place, indeed, known for its eels, and of Small Sarihos. Over here, there are also positions that most seem to be eel positions.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-19.u346	Eel, I like it!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-19.u347	We are talking about lack of legislation and we will stop pretending that we have come here from nothing — as Mr Rui Tavares said — and that this is not an amendment of the customised law for a decision that is to make an airport in a particular place. But before that, we will talk about the lack of knowledge of the law, of the environmental, international and national obligations of the Government of Portugal. We will talk about the fact that the Government has ignored that it was obliged to make a strategic environmental assessment for the decision of the Lisbon airport and to commit itself to an airport in Montijo which, at least, violates a huge set of environmental standards and rules, including the obligation of a strategic environmental assessment. We are going to talk about the fact that the government has ignored the existence of — good or bad, but there is! — a law giving veto to municipalities that feel affected by such infrastructure, with this impact, and having been ANAC who said that it did not appear about the airport in Montijo because the airport project did not even comply with the law that gave the municipalities veto. in this case, I would like to ask Minister João Galamba if he was unaware, it was irresponsibility, what was it?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-19.u348	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-19.u349	Do they not know the law, or have they simply resolved to ignore it, to see if no one would give for it, until the ANAC came to say that it cannot be, because there is a municipality, or several municipalities, that have not spoken? This is the first point: if there is anyone who has failed and does not know the law, in this matter, it was the government. Secondly, we have 308 municipalities, but their sum does not make a country—it does not, it is true! — but I am glad that there was one who had the good sense to prevent the government from taking a decision that corresponds to an environmental crime for the country, which is to make an airport, supposedly a large international airport.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-19.u350	Environmental crimes are not solved by vetoes!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-19.u351	In the meantime, it has been proved that—and I am not even going into the inconsistencies of the « decree goes and decree comes», of ministers and state secretaries who are not even here anymore, I am not going in there! — in fact, what the Government was planning to do in Montijo was an environmental crime, with the construction of an airport in one of the most important wetlands in Europe, certainly the largest in the protected Iberian Peninsula, with biodiversity characteristics that would make Mr. Prime Minister blush when he goes to the big summits for the climate to say that Portugal is a country that takes pride in its green policies and its war on climate change. Therefore, although there was a municipality that decided to use its veto power to protect the environment and to protect its populations. If I were an author at the Barreiro, Mr. André Pinotes Batista, I had many cautions to defend what Mr. Deputy here defends, because it was precisely the populations of Barreiro and Moita who would suffer the most with this project. Finally, I wanted to give another stereographic note, so let us say about this process, which has to do with the PSD. When ANAC decided not to authorize the project, because it did not comply with the law, Mr. Prime Minister made an agreement with the former PSD President Rui Rio, in which they exchanged the vote in favour of this law for a strategic environmental assessment. We did not know whether the new PSD direction would meet the agreement that was made with Rui Rio.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-19.u352	Mrs. Deputy, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-19.u353	Mr. President, I'm done. « King dead, king put », this is a PSD decision. [[Protests from PSD MP Sonia Ramos.]] What we want to ensure is that the law is not made according to an airport that is a bad option, but that it preserves the balance of powers, because, if not, the one who loses is the environment and the climate. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-19.u354	Mr Paula Santos, from the CFP Parliamentary Group, now has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-19.u355	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, Minister : It is not worth trying to emphasize this proposal with a set of arguments, because we all know how it appears here the debate. It is not a process that happened because it was understood that there was a need to improve the law. No, no, no. This proposal appears because the government wants to circumvent the position of a municipality that is contrary to the interests of ANA / Vinci. This is the issue that is on the table because, in defending the interests of the people, in defending the national interest, also in defending our environment, of our country's development, there was a municipality that considered that the Montijo airport was not a solution. And it's in the eyes of everyone who isn't the solution. Only the government — not only the government, but also the PSD! — maintain a position of subalternisation in the light of the guidelines and interests of ANA / Vinci.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-19.u356	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-19.u357	It is a government that maintains a position of submission and, with this legislative amendment, wants to continue to maintain untouchable the thousands and thousands of profits that ANA / Vinci has obtained in recent years. When ANA was public, revenues from airport charges were invested in the development of our airports, their modernisation, the improvement of these infrastructures, but now we see what investments are and we also see the accumulation of profit by ANA. This runs counter to the general principles of the drafting of laws, which should not be intended for specific cases, but must be considered for the general and abstract. In fact, the National Association of Portuguese Municipalities itself refers exactly to this in its opinion. This is what the Government here brings — this bill — in fact seeks to circumvent this principle of law and seeks to circumvent the position of the municipalities, contrary to the construction of the airport in Montijo. [[Protests by PSD Member Antonio Cunha.]] I would like to add the following: there is a decision that has been taken, more than a decade ago, of the construction of the new Lisbon airport in the Campo de Tiro, in Alcochete, but that same decision and that construction have been suspended in the meantime. The option by the airport at Montijo only arises after the privatisation of ANA / Vinci. This same coincidence is still curious. Who is blocking the construction of the new airport is the PS, the PSD and the CDS, which not only did not implement the decision that has already been taken — which has not been reversed and which is consensual in our country, with a set of studies carried out by the National Civil Engineering Laboratory ( LNEC ), by technical experts—and also the government, with the PSD, decided a new postponement, compromising the future and the development of our country. [[PSD protests.]] This is your responsibility: not to build an airport and the infrastructure necessary for the development of our country, as well as to maintain a position of total subalternization to the interests of ANA / Vinci, rather than to defend the interests of our country. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-19.u358	Mr Guimarães Pinto, from the IL Parliamentary Group, now has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-19.u359	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin to welcome democratically the Socialist Party for the 50 years it celebrates today, hoping that the party will be faithful to its origin, of party created to keep the extremes away from power and not to use them as crutches to keep within it.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-19.u360	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-19.u361	On the subject under discussion, it is of the most fundamental justice that a population can have a word to say when any investment — whether an airport or a lithium mine — can create significant externalities in its region. It is of the most fundamental justice that the population hopes to be rewarded by these negative externalities. It is of the most fundamental justice that, only before the agreement of the local population, if you realize that these compensations exceed the negative externalities, this investment must be taken forward. The change proposed by the Government implies that the national government can impose an infrastructure on a municipality, without its people agreeing or its representatives having a binding word to say. If all this is not enough, it is clear that this law has a concrete purpose, which is to overcome the objections to the construction of the new airport in Lisbon. If this proposal had no further problems, only the fact that it was a proposal made according to a specific case, and not a general and abstract law, as all should be, would that be enough not to accept it. In addition, this proposal will allow the population to be imposed an infrastructure that violates municipal plans, democratically approved, an infrastructure that may lead to violations of environmental rules, or even an infrastructure rejected by a large majority in a local referendum. It can't be worth everything to show the work. The Liberal Initiative will always be on the side of subsidiarity and the rights of the local people to have a say about what happens in their neighbourhood, their territory, about what can cause them harm and negative externalities. Disrespecting the opinion of local populations is disrespecting people. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-19.u362	Mr Ventura, from the Parliamentary Group of the Arrival, now has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-19.u363	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The arrival was no longer going to intervene, but given the intervention of Mr André Pinotes Batista, he decided to do so. Mr. Member, I was not trying to teach you anything, because I have serious doubts that you can grasp, in all extent, everything I have to tell you,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-19.u364	Thank you very much!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-19.u365	... but it was enough for you to do an analysis of the European regulations that exist in this area—that I imagine you have not done, nor do you understand much—to see Regulation ( EU) 2018 / 1139 of the European Parliament and of the Council, and to understand the awkwardness and absurdity of this proposal. That's enough. So, look, since I wanted to talk to Prof. André Ventura, Prof. André Ventura will give you some advice that, in law, says a lot. [[CH's laughs.]] Do you know what it is? And it is also for Minister João Galamba. It is that the law should change for relevance, it should not change for convenience, Mr. And that's what PS always does, it's changing for convenience. [[Congrats from the CH.]] You see, Mr. Deputies? You've learned something today, which is very good already, it's very good already!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-19.u366	Thank you very much, sir. Professor!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-19.u367	Now, Mr. Member, there is something I cannot let go, which is Mr. Member to accuse us of the common ground of democracy, that the PS is here — we are not going to congratulate the PS, as the Liberal Initiative did, is not our role here — but I did not speak in a tempting network about the state,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-19.u368	Go, go!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-19.u369	... asphyxiation of institutions and absolute control of State degradation. Do you know who it was? I'll tell you who it was, and you'll learn.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-19.u370	I'll learn!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-19.u371	He was António Campos, founder of the Socialist Party. [[Congrats from the CH.]] Mr. Deputy, you've been founder of the Socialist Party! I know he's not going to your dinner today, and you're sad about that.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-19.u372	Mr. Deputies, you have to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-19.u373	I will finish, Mr. President. I know that Dr. António José Seguro is not going either, and the engineer — a parentheses engineer — does not seem to go either. [[CH's laughs.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-19.u374	For those who don't connect anything to the PS, you already know what the guests are all!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-19.u375	I will finish, Mr. President. This illustrious founder of the PS said: "Today is total degradation. All the institutions, all those who have given us immense work to create, are all falling apart. The fight for which I have fought, why so many of us have fought to guarantee rights, freedoms and guarantees, all those for whom we have fought today are at stake. All institutions are in crisis with this socialist government. Do not keep on seeking. ” Mr President, as the phrase is from a PS founder, I abstain from further comments and return it to the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-19.u376	To close the debate, Mr. Minister for Infrastructure, João Galamba.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-19.u377	He's going to talk about José Socrates!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-19.u378	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : I would begin by completely rejecting the instrumental vision of the institutions revealed by the Left Block and the PCP in this debate. This bill is either right or wrong, or good or bad. [[PCP and BE protests.]] What are you guys doing? Members here said that this existing law gave you very good, because since you don't like the airport in Montijo... [[PCP and BE protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-19.u379	But you don't like the law either!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-19.u380	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we are debating the relevance or impertinence of a law, and discussing it for its substantive merits. The law makes sense or makes no sense. What are you guys doing? Members here have said that, in your opinion, a law is measured by the instrumental value it can have at any time. What you said was: « Although she was there, she gave us a good deal because, in this case, as we did not like the airport in Montijo, although the law gave veto to those who also agreed with us». Mr Guimarães Pinto's speech, I think it reveals a wrong concept of freedom. I disagree with what you said, but Mr. Carlos Guimarães Pinto did not advocate an instrumental view of the institutions. He defended the existing law, or at least criticized the current law, because he understands that it is wrong. All right, all right, we have a disagreement. Mrs. Members, and I am also addressing Mr Guimarães Pinto: I fully disagree with what he said about the violation of human rights. What you are proposing is an impossible view of freedom, because it is not possible for each municipality to have what you want to recognise to a municipality.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-19.u381	Sure!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-19.u382	It's impossible. You cannot respect the dignity and sovereignty of all municipalities without first qualifying how, in what terms and with what scope this power is exercised. Look, it's enough from the liberal notion of freedom. My freedom ends where the other's starting.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-19.u383	But that's what I said!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-19.u384	And, therefore, the autonomy and the power of veto of a municipality, in a national infrastructure, ends where? Where the freedom and autonomy of each of the municipalities begins. And what is the only way, Mr President, of consecrating a harmonious, complementary, articulated and complex vision of freedom where you want to recognize it is possible? It is the one that recognizes the autonomy of local power in certain areas, the importance of having an entity capable of acting on behalf of the national interest, with own, legal procedures, as is evident...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-19.u385	Of course, it's obvious! [[Protests by the Member of the IL Carlos Guimarães Pinto.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-19.u386	Mr President, is the honourable Member against expropriation for the public interest?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-19.u387	Mr. Minister has to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-19.u388	Are you against the figure of expropriation for the public interest?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-19.u389	in this case, the State compensates the owners!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-19.u390	But it's paid!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-19.u391	The honourable Member is opposed to the suspension of the PDM(municipal directors' plans) decreed by the Government, which has always existed, for the possibility of carrying out... It is that all of this, Mr President, are existing institutions, laws and procedures, precisely for, recognizing the autonomy of local power and a set of other values, harmonizing them and having a functional whole.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-19.u392	Thank you very much, Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-19.u393	Your proposal, if it were to be followed, Mr...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-19.u394	Mr. Minister,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-19.u395	... would be total dysfunction,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-19.u396	Mr. Minister,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-19.u397	... for manifest concrete impossibility of carrying out...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-19.u398	Mr. Minister, you are...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-19.u399	...the value that Mr. Deputies were defending. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-19.u400	Now only five Members are beating their hands!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-19.u401	I would ask the Minister for Parliamentary Affairs to take the necessary steps to ensure that all members of the Government who come to this bench understand and respect the role of the President.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-19.u402	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-19.u403	Let us now enter the third item on the agenda, which is generally discussed in Bill Nos 72 / XV / 1. a ( BE ) — Strengthens the protection of sexual orientation, gender identity and expression and sexual characteristics ( fifty-fifth amendment to the Criminal Code), 359 / XV / 1. a ( BE) — Strengthening the right to exercise the right to self-determination of gender identity, gender expression and the right to the protection of sexual characteristics in school, 21 / XV / 1. a ( PAN) — The first amendment to Law No 38 / 2018 of 7 August establishing the right to self-determination of gender identity and gender expression and the right to the protection of the sexual characteristics of each person, and to the approval of its regulations, 209 / XV / 1. a ( L) — Prohibition and criminalization of « conversion practices », aimed at the suppression of sexual orientation, gender identity or gender expression, 332 / XV / 1. a ( PS ) — establishes the framework for the issuance of administrative measures to be adopted by schools for the purposes of the implementation of Law No 38 / 2018 of 7 August, 699 / XV / 1. a (PAN) — Prevents criminalization of practices with a view to changing, limiting or suppressing sexual orientation, gender identity or expression, and promotes the study of these practices in Portugal and the guarantee of support and response mechanisms, 705 / XV / 1. a ( CH) — Strengthen the protection and privacy of children and young people in spaces of privacy in school context and 707 / XV / 1. a ( PS ) — Prohibits practices against LGBT+ people through so-called « sexual conversion therapies ». To present the Bills of the Left Block, Mrs. Joana Mortágua has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-19.u404	Mr. President, I'll just wait for...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-19.u405	Yes, Mrs Deputy, I ask you to wait a little while the benches reconstitute your teams.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-19.u406	Was a new assembly elected? Oh, my God! [[Pause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-19.u407	I think you're in a position to intervene now. Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-19.u408	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The struggle of the LGBTIQIA + movement (Lesbian, Gays, Bissexuals, Transgénero, Queer, Intersexo, Assexo and others) — whose salute activists — achieved, despite resistance, discrimination and prejudice, to make our country a more free country for everyone. It is a conquest of freedom, but it is a conquest, too, of rights. These rights are enshrined in laws. The law of self-determination of gender identity is one of these enormous achievements, a law passed in 2018, which is lacking regulation in schools. There is a lack of regulation in schools, not because the court said that this law was not suitable for the Constitution or that it was in some way unconstitutional, on the contrary, a lack of regulation in schools because the Constitutional Court understood that it was not the government that had the power to do so and that Parliament should do so. This is what the Left Block here proposes today, the regulation of this law in schools, so that schools are an area of security and equality, without discrimination, hatred or violence. To this end, we propose measures for the prevention and promotion of non-discrimination throughout the school community, training measures, communication mechanisms, complaints channels — so important and so spoken, well now, for the days running, in relation to sexual harassment — the obligation to communicate to the CPCJ (Commission for the Protection of Children and Youth) in relation to discrimination and harassment, measures to protect identity and gender expression, respect for the self-assigned name in the administrative documents, especially in public documents, respect for the use of clothing, so that we can dress in the way we want, and ensure that everyone, everyone, has access to bathing and bathing homes, taking into account their express will and ensuring the safety and well-being of the school community. The second draft law we present here has to do with the prohibition of conversion practices, i.e. all practices aimed at changing or correcting sexual orientation, gender identity or the sexual characteristics of any person. All these practices are a form of violence and torture, whether more physical or more psychological. All of them must be criminalized to protect our children, our young people, to protect everyone. They must be criminalized, insofar as the idea that sexual orientation or gender identity is a disease is also an idea, she herself, which is a crime. This ban already exists in other countries, this ban is requested by the European Parliament, is requested by the UN ( United Nations ), this prohibition is a requirement for human rights, and the lack of knowledge that such practices exist in Portugal is no excuse for convivence, because many of the organizations such as ILGA (Lesbian Intervention, Gay, Bissexual, Trans and Intersex ) have denounced the existence of such practices, even though public entities do not receive their complaints. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I am not saying that there can be no opposition to these projects in this House to the extent that homophobia, transphobia and prejudice also exist in society. The only thing I say is that they will have our firm opposition to human rights and the defense of the Constitution. [[Congratulations from BE, L and PS Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-19.u409	To present the NAP initiatives, Mrs Inês de Sousa Real has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-19.u410	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : I would like to begin by welcoming the associations present here — ILGA, AMPLOS (Association of Mothers and Fathers for Freedom of Sexual Guidance ), the Ex-Aequo network and also Opus Gay — not only for the work they have done for inclusion, equality and non-discrimination, but also once again for their resilience from the point of view of safeguarding human rights. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, today's debate is about human rights, it is about how we want to strengthen the right to self-determination and gender expression in Portugal. A debate in which we demonstrate zero tolerance for convictions and practices that violate people's rightsLGBTI and that puts us on the right side of history, especially in the context of a European Union in which far-right parliamentary countries, such as Hungary or Poland, pursue and stigmatize the LGBTI community and its families in a inhumane way. The debate today is not about bathrooms, it is about the recognition of people in what they are. It is about how to ensure that a child and a young person in basic education, a small town or city, do not have to wait to go to university, in Lisbon, in Porto or Coimbra, to be who it is. Or rather, you don't have to break up with the world you know to be who it is. For this reason, the NAP proposes a law that, by continuing the advances of the gender self-determination law itself of 2018, takes the necessary steps to ensure that schools are a safe port and a friendly voice for a child or young trans, in a difficult process, in which they have to go through a series of emotional, physical and, still, by the discriminatory look of others, so many times, even by the family itself. Today's debate is not done in a perfect country, as far as the rights of LGBTI people are concerned, we know that. It is done in a country where studies tell us that 3% of LGBTI people have already been subjected to sexual conversion therapies, in which 11% of LGBTI people have already seen their homosexuality treated as a disease that needs healing. In Portugal, in the middle of the 21st century, there are still gay cures, such as prescription for medication of antidepressants to limit libido, hospitalization in psychiatric clinics or the use of hypnosis and electrochoques, in exercises and practices that face desires, and that are no more than physical, sexual abuse and also the freedom and self-determination of each and every one. These practices are cruel, torture and attack the most basic values of human dignity. And it is for this reason that, not only following what is the consolidated recommendations of the World Health Organization, but also of civil society and the civilizational becoming of our country, the NAP today proposes that this legislative vacuum be filled, criminalizing and prohibiting these cruel practices. [[Congratulations from BE and PS Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-19.u411	Mr Rui Tavares has the floor to present the initiative for the Book.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-19.u412	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This House has a certificate of birth—it is the Constitution of 1822, which is represented in this Chamber and which we have recently celebrated—and has a first act, the extinction of the Inquisition—we pass every day, at the foot of the Senate Hall, by the painting of the Member who proposed it—which was a forced conversion machine that lasted centuries in this country and that said: "You are Jewish, you must be a Christian; you are Protestant, you have to be a Catholic; you are an atheist, you have to believe in God". Therefore, what we are dealing with here today is the primary function of a Parliament, of any Parliament, to guarantee the right to free conscience, autonomy and personality development. That no one can say, now, in the 21st century, «you have this sexual orientation, you have to have another, you have this gender identity, you have to have another, and for this we are going to submit to a forced conversion». So, what we're discussing here today is not modernism, it's modernity, that's what this House has been for since this House was born. when we are discussing this - here today, in the various proposals that have been put forward - including one of the Free, which aims to amend Law No. 38 / 2018, which establishes the right to self-determination of identity, and to change the Criminal Code, so that it becomes a crime which is obviously a crime, which is to force someone's conscience and orientation - we are doing what Parliaments serve, which is to defend what is in the Constitution, the right to free expression and to the free development of personality. After 40 years, only since homosexuality in Portugal ceased to be a crime, 30 years after it was no longer considered a disease, after a 20th century in which perhaps the greatest genius of mathematics, who freed us from Nazism in World War II, Alan Turing, was subjected to forced conversion practices, chemical castration, entered depression and committed suicide — it was the payment he had had for deciphering the Nazi codes in World War II—the 21st century must be different. I therefore call on all the parties represented in this House to approve a number of these proposals, to let them go to the specialty, not to choose one over the other, and to make a bill that will serve this Parliament in the 200 years of that Constitution, to do what Parliaments are for.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-19.u413	Thank you very much, Mr.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-19.u414	You do not heal what is not disease, you do not heal what is not crime, and you never, you can never force your conscience. Thank you very much. [[Congratulations from BE and PS Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-19.u415	To present the Bill Nos 332 and 707 / XV / 1. the Socialist Party now has the floor of Mrs Isabel Moreira.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-19.u416	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, organizations present here LGBTI rights defenders ( lesbians, gays, bisexuals, transgender and intersex): We are here to implement a simple decision of the Constitutional Court. In 2021, it was declared the mere organic unconstitutionality of some rules of the law of the self-determination of gender identity. These standards, already tested in schools, become law rather than a regulatory act. Schools inevitably realize fundamental rights provided for in the Constitution and in the law, and the rights of these children and young people are fundamental rights, they are human rights. The rule of law must protect the exercise of the right to gender identity and expression and the sexual characteristics of students. We are talking about the well-being and healthy development of students and students. Following the decision of the Constitutional Court, it is necessary to create a legal regime that guarantees this very: respect for the uniqueness of each child and young person, the prevention and promotion of non-discrimination, the adoption of detection and intervention mechanisms on risk situations, the creation of conditions for adequate protection of gender identity, gender expression and sexual characteristics of children and young people, and training aimed at teachers and other professionals. The hate of campaigns common to Bolsonaro or Trump has transformed complex laws, which ensure the autonomy, privacy and self-determination of students, into discussions about bathrooms. They offend children and young people, creating an imaginary world in which these concrete people, these concrete people, persecuted and discriminated against, gain courage, at school, to say who feels it is to — imagine! — invade bathrooms and commit crimes. Crime is spreading that message. This law is about human lives. Because of their specificities, they need everything, less information and, above all, the misinformation of the weak. Against this horror, against those who like Orbán and his persecution of LGBTI people, we continue on the firm path of information and awareness. Let the school be an area of freedom and respect, that is the school of the Constitution of April, which has been saying that equality is right and that discrimination is unacceptable. [[PS, PCP, BE, and L applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-19.u417	To present the initiatives of the Socialist Party, Mr. Miguel Rodrigues has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-19.u418	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : I also welcome all human rights organisations present here. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the advance of freedom and equality in our country was a hard process, often cruel and, like all, built tragically on the suffering of many people. Whether we talk about discrimination based on ethnicity, the emphasis on the use of Portuguese or sexual orientation, the route was invariably the same. Access to gender self-determination, marriage, adoption and even blood-giving were slow but fair progress. All these rights enjoy a common factor: the freedom of the individual to freely assert himself as he is or as he wishes to be. So today's debate is a little different. In contrast, because it concerns the attempt to deny a human being the possibility of developing, growing and enjoying their freedom, seeking to convert or subjugate him, as if the gender identity or sexual orientation of someone were disease capable of being cured. The so-called conversion therapies have nothing to do with therapy. They are the last resort — if you want, they are the last resort — of those who seek to impose their own prejudices on others. For people LGBTQIA +( lesbians, gays, bisexuals, transgender, queer, intersex, sex and others), this is not a new reality. It is, unfortunately, another daily attack, to which we have been accustomed since Antiochus drowned in the Nile, so many centuries ago. The Socialist Party, along with other forces in this House, whose initiatives we welcome, will criminalize these practices. It is not acceptable anywhere that, due to physical, psychological or drug abuse, one seeks to suppress or force the sexual orientation of another. Today, we end up, once and for all, with this scourge. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It would be of the deepest arrogance that a word was not given to so many and so many whose life is forever stained by these supposed cures, those who were victims and decided to speak and those who were victims, but could not find the words. Courageous as the Rui, as the Peter — or Saza, for those who know him best — and as many activists, within and outside this Assembly of the Republic, whose daily efforts are for us a ladder for the future. Today, in honor of all, of all people, we climb this ladder, never to return back. [[P.S.'s applause.]] This is not a new debate, but I do have the hope that it will be the last, because we have walked — or, rather, we have left — too much to get here. Today, in this fiftieth anniversary of fighting for freedom, we debate and, with some hope and some luck, tomorrow, as always, we will wake up freer. [[P.S., BE, and L.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-19.u419	To submit Bill No. 705 / XV / 1. Mrs Rita Matias has the floor of the meeting of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-19.u420	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Last year, 26 000 students were out of class. The teachers are on the street and ask for the dignity of their career. Seven years of socialist government later, there is no answer to these problems, which are the real problems. And what does the Socialist Party bring to us today? Mixed bathrooms. In schools, there are lack of speech therapists, lack of gestual language teachers, lack even psychologists—and the arrival asked for this last month, asked for that which was vetoed by this Assembly. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-19.u421	But what is this House quick to do in the name of inclusion? He is prepared to bring to the schools the person responsible or counsellor for gender identity. Therefore: professionals, especially health professionals, in schools, not; activists of gender ideology, yes— Country of priorities invested. Portuguese, your children are being eroticized and hypersexualized in schools, since pre-school. [[Congrats from the CH.]] [[PS Protests and PSD Deputies.]] to your children, they distribute questionnaires from the PRESSE notebook ( Regional Program of Sexual Education in School Health ), inviting them to answer questions such as "how many positions exist in sex? or "Why do women like oral sex? Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” They are now sorry to be upset because, if it is unworthy of a parliament to say this in Parliament, the more unworthy a teacher is to have this kind of pornographic conversation, in a school, with students. [[Congrats from the CH.]] And after all this banishment, they tell the student: "Go to the bathroom you want, as you like. Do not keep on seeking. ” After this whole gang, they reduce your child's identity to sexuality and how they encourage him to practice it.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-19.u422	But what is this? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-19.u423	Whether animals are catalogued by the way they reproduce, or not, I understand, but human identity is far broader than these characteristics, and reducing it is an attack. So don't be fooled by these beautiful words. What these parties are proposing today is that in the bathroom where your son will also be able to enter women; that in the spa where his 11-year-old daughter takes off and bathes can also enter male colleagues, corpulent, 18-year-old and at the end of puberty. This House chooses gender ideology and your child's doctrine as a priority, and only the Arrival has made firm opposition to this tragedy. [[Congrats from the CH.]] And, yes, I speak of doctrine, I speak of new habits, a new language that in no way translates and that nothing answers about the real problems of Portuguese. They limit the possibilities of families opting for domestic education, pursue judicially the families who want to protect their children, but never did they for girls victims of forced, child marriage, which are prevented from completing their studies — Country of inverted priorities. [[Congrats from the CH.]] It is said by women, but they deliberately ignore that, in the United States, university swimming athletes say they feel attacked and invaded in their privacy because they are exposed to athletes with male genitalia. It is said by women, but they ignore that in the United Kingdom they are now debating the end of these bathrooms, since the 2018 data show that the number of harassment and sexual abuse that took place in these bathrooms was 90% of the total abuse. Therefore, what has to be said today in this House is that responsibility for the abuses and violations that may occur in these bathrooms is yours and who will inevitably approve these measures. [[Congrats from the CH.]] The data are on the table and the gentlemen are choosing to ignore. They have no doubt that when the Government of Portugal arrives, we will reverse this and all the unjust laws that do not protect and do not dignify our children. [[Congrats from the CH, with Members standing.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-19.u424	They're not doing anything!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-19.u425	You now have the floor for an intervention on behalf of the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mrs Lina Lopes.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-19.u426	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Today, eight bills are presented on sexual orientation, gender identity and sexual characteristics, as well as on the prohibition and criminalization of conversion practices, the authorship of the parties BE, PAN, L, PS and CH. I wanted to start this debate by stressing that, according to the United Nations, gender identity is the way an individual recognizes himself and how he perceives his own identity. The draft laws of BE, PAN, Livre and PS condemn so-called conversion therapies and advocate their penalization and prohibition by considering offensive practices against LGBTI people. For several years, different conversion therapies were viewed as something necessary to help patients heal themselves of homosexuality and efforts to avoid change were promoted aggressively, believing that homosexuality was a curable disease. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, there are several scientific studies conducted, both nationally and internationally, which discourage these conversion therapies. I stress that there are already several countries that penalize these abusive practices. Recently, countries such as Canada, Israel, France and New Zealand have also criminalized these therapies. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, in accordance with Article 9 ( b ). that of the Constitution, one of the priority tasks of the State is to guarantee fundamental rights and freedoms and respect for the principles of the State of democratic law. So it is also up to us as Members to guarantee and respect the fundamental rights of LGBTI citizens. As Oscar Wilde said, «egoism is not to live our way, but to want others to live as we want».
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-19.u427	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-19.u428	In essence, it is to impose on others our will, our ideas made, our stereotypes, our way of seeing things — and I stress the word 'impose'. It's not explaining or defending something, it's imposing. On sexual orientation, gender identity and sexual characteristics, there are four draft laws submitted by BE, PAN, PS and CH which are supposedly beyond the unconstitutionality of Article 12 (1) and (3). the Law No 31 / 2018, of 7 August. I would like to recall that the unconstitutionality found by the Constitutional Court has nothing to do with any specific content of the Government's diploma. This is only the fact that the diploma had its genesis in the government rather than in the Assembly of the Republic. If the bills presented were approved with the current drafts, it is foreseeable that schools will be confronted with the need to introduce significant changes in the organization of some spaces and equipment and how their leaders and employees should address gender issues. If we look, for example, at the PS bill, this one only refers to in Article 4. the, which the school must have responsible agents and with adequate training and in Article 6. the, which should be able to support, and I quote, « children and young people who manifest a gender identity or expression that does not correspond to gender identity at birth ». And we should do so, and I quote, "in conjunction with parents, education officers or legal representatives". Ladies and gentlemen. Members, I think we all agree that the aim of the school is to ensure that the autonomy, privacy and self-determination of young people are respected and that acts of discrimination or disrespect for their identity are avoided, not that any gender orientation is intended to be induced or enforced. In fact, it would be intolerable to require such action by school staff. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the school is indeed very important in the lives of children and young people, but its aim is not to define what they can or cannot do. The school must, yes, teach children and young people to learn to learn, as Humboldt said, in order to develop the autonomy and self-determination needed to know what they can do for themselves and for others. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the Government will have to allocate funds in the State budget for the training of school leaders and officials. It will also be necessary to design and execute works to alter various spaces in schools. The State budget has an article entitled « Gender perspective budget », which stipulates the obligation to draw up gender plans and assessments in the various ministries. To date, its execution has been high and low. Thus, it would be a remarkable act of transparency if the Government clarified the words it decides to assign to gender equality every year. Now here is a budget heading that could include the amount that the Government intends to allocate to carry out the training of teachers and employees and for works in schools, which will be necessary to implement what is stipulated in the various bills. The question we should ask is whether there are resources to implement the changes imposed by the various bills. In conclusion, the PSD considers that the State should first guarantee fundamental rights and freedoms and respect for the principles of the democratic rule of law and should therefore intervene to prohibit and avoid conversion therapies. Secondly, the school should ensure that the autonomy, privacy and self-determination of young people are respected and the acts of discrimination or disrespect for the expression of identity of young people are avoided. The PSD also considers that, in an act of transparency, the Government will clarify the annual funding to promote gender equality. [[Congratulations from the PSD and BE MP Joana Mortagua.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-19.u429	You now have the floor to speak to Mrs Carla Castro of the Liberal Initiative.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-19.u430	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members and associations present here: I begin by recalling Article 13. the Constitution, in which « all citizens have the same social dignity and are equal before the law». I reinforce that everyone, without exception, is entitled to the same treatment and dignity, regardless of their sexual orientation, gender identity or gender expression, as well as to live in the enjoyment of their individual freedoms. from the point of view of education, it is therefore important to educate for an inclusive, tolerant and non-discriminatory society. For example, the fight against homophobia, transphobia, xenophobia and so many other phobias are clearly unfinished struggles and we must be intransigent. It is essential for the Liberals to have deep respect for individual freedoms and that means, exactly, we fight for the freedom of all. In the projects that are being appreciated today, it is important to highlight all the rights in question, which also include the rights to privacy and privacy. And this fight, this promotion is much more than a gender theme. In our votes, we will have the principle of rejecting extremist solutions designed to make electorally profitable radicalised niches that promote social confrontation. We remember that the defence of one's rights cannot be taken into account in the rights of others and we demand that everyone's rights be equally promoted. We know that the struggle for the exercise of various freedoms, rights and guarantees is unfinished on many fronts, and liberals are constantly fighting for this construction. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-19.u431	You now have the floor to speak on behalf of the CFP, Mrs Alma Rivera.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-19.u432	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: A number of projects are currently under discussion that basically address the issue of the exercise of the right to self-determination of identity, gender expression and sexual characteristics in the school environment, as well as projects that seek to combat the conversion practices of sexual orientation. Although each of these issues deserves appreciation, it is important to say that these projects aim at achieving the equality that the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic recognises to all citizens. When he says that everyone has the same social dignity and is equal before the law, that no one can be privileged, benefited, harmed, deprived of any right according to, among other things, sexual orientation—in a list that is obviously not taxive and that covers the most diverse factors of discrimination—, what is said is that everyone should be treated with equality and everyone should be guaranteed the conditions for the free development of their personality. The prohibition of discrimination is still positive when Article 26. , it is said that everyone is recognized the rights to personal identity, to the development of personality and, among others, to legal protection against any form of discrimination. Therefore, as many as seek to mist the debate and reduce it to bathrooms, what is being discussed today are measures that the State must adopt to achieve equality and combat discrimination against LGBT people. On the first issue, related to the school context, we believe that, for prevention and combating discrimination, the school context is absolutely fundamental and plays an important role in promoting citizenship and equality, and measures to enable schools to combat discrimination and not reproduce them should be implemented. In fact, one of the problems we identified in this front is the lack of implementation of sexual education, which resulted from a proposal from the PCP, but which continues a mirage, in the vast majority of schools, and a small portion of what the law sought to encompass.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-19.u433	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-19.u434	The school must be an area of democracy, of inclusion, a safe space for all children and young people, so we follow the generality of the proposals, without prejudice to the fact that they can be improved, in this or that aspect, in particular. With regard to the practice of conversion of sexual orientation, and regardless of the doubts that may arise as to whether criminal law is the most appropriate instrument and the creation of a new criminal type is justified, as already provided for in the Criminal Code, there can be no doubt. — that this is an unacceptable practice, incompatible with a country based on the dignity of the human person and much less with a free, just and solidarity society.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-19.u435	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-19.u436	However, it is also worth mentioning the need for specific training of the various professionals, including health professionals, for the needs and for the concrete reality of LGBT people. There is still a long way to go, in school, in health, in all the services that the State provides, to recognize and train people for these realities. What we are dealing with today is, in essence, the right to freely develop personality, identity and to live a full, happy and assumed sexuality, and that is why we will contribute. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-19.u437	For an intervention, you now have the floor of Mrs Joana Mortágua, of the Left Block.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-19.u438	Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. Members: In the 1940s, the first Portuguese international dancer, Valentim de Barros, was deported from Nazi Germany. In 1949, he was hospitalized in the psychiatric hospital Miguel Bombarda with the diagnosis of homosexuality, having been subjected to lobotomy and electric shocks. He died on the day of his discharge, 48 years later—just after April 25, after homosexuality ceased to be considered a disease. He died alone, upset and gay. The horror that this story provokes us must reflect on the law that we want for the 21st century, because all attempts of conversion practices of orientation, identity or sexual characteristics, all attacks on self-determination are children of this same prejudice that led the dancer Valentim de Barros to be hospitalized in 1949 at Miguel Bombarda Hospital. It is not possible to say that this story causes us such horror that we can consider it unacceptable, but then not say that this horror has to be reflected in the Criminal Code with a clear criminalization of these practices; with a clear criminalization of any professional, or person who claims to be professional, who does so; and with aggravating in certain circumstances, where damage and damage—even physical and moral—or in which victims are particularly vulnerable. It is natural that all projects are different, and still well. It means that we are not all tuging each other, but what we expect is that from here comes not only a legal framework for the protection of all people and self-determination, but also a criminal framework for the punishment of these crimes that is a very clear sign for our society. [[Congratulations from BE and PS Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-19.u439	Mrs Joana Cordeiro, of the Liberal Initiative, has the floor now for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-19.u440	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: in this remaining time it is a challenge to speak in the various proposals on so-called conversion therapies. This is a debate that, in our view, confronts two fundamental rights: the rights of the individual, often less old, are never forced to submit to a certain practice against their will; and the right of the adult, conscious and responsible individual to access a certain practice. But this debate also involves the individual right to sexual self-determination, respect for human rights and the principle of human dignity. It is a debate about practices that address these rights without any scientific basis, which have very negative consequences on the mental and physical health of those who submit themselves to them and that, between reports of coercion, threat and intimidation seek to change what cannot be changed, the identity and intimacy of a human being. in this Parliament, several times as with regard to covid-19, it has been debated, and it has been debated a lot! — on how to impose the will of the State on the individual, and the Liberal Initiative has been and has always been on the right side. Thus, we cannot today, on the same principle of defence of the individual, compact with situations in which one can force another to follow a practice that this does not want. The proposals under discussion need to be amended. There are improvements that can be made, that better defend individual freedom and that strengthen support and protection mechanisms for all those who are born and live in environments that do not allow them to be those in complete freedom. The Liberal Initiative is available for this work. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-19.u441	Mrs Isabel Alves Moreira now has the floor to speak for the PS Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-19.u442	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I would just like to conclude with celebration the enormous, almost, consensus that exists in this House about the need to protect the human rights of children and trans adults, who are the human rights in question. Protect in school and protect these people from torture. In fact, the only project that was presented and which has as its sole object «bathrooms» was the project presented by the Arrival. Perhaps it would be appropriate to tell Mrs Rita Matias, regarding all that she said and that it does not correspond to the truth, but that comes in the path of a speech of disinformation and hatred,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-19.u443	Tell me in your eyes, if you have the courage!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-19.u444	... that, if you wish, you can inform a new militant from the Arrival, former MP Cristina Rodrigues, that so many proposals have been made about the LGBTI community, about the criminalization of false therapies, about inclusive spaces for trans people.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-19.u445	Baixinha! Baixinha!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-19.u446	Now that you're in your game, talk to her. She'll inform her. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-19.u447	You now have the floor, for an intervention, Mrs Rita Matias of the Arrival.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-19.u448	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In fact, this fruit salad of themes that has been brought into the debate makes it very good for the truth to be hidden and, therefore, speaking in radicalization of speech and false information from those who have not mentioned a single opinion or a single study in their proposals is at least a great hypocrisy. [[Congrats from the CH.]] But since they want data and information, I'll give them. I have here news — which will then be distributed, Mrs Isabel Moreira — of March 14, 2023, in the United States, where it reads: « A student's mother who tries to force the opening of the cubicle where her daughter was and the door reaches the girl's head. Do not keep on seeking. ” More: "A woman was raped in a mixed bathroom in the United Kingdom and the man claimed that she felt like a woman and, therefore, was in use of her legitimacy to attend that space. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-19.u449	Mixed bathroom! That's contradictory!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-19.u450	This is what you try to hide. But they also try to hide, and do not mention, in particular, the opinion of the National Council of Ethics for Life Sciences, cited only by the Party of Arrival, which says that the defence of the rights of... [[PS protests.]] [[Pause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-19.u451	Time is running out, Mr. President! Time is running out!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-19.u452	You may continue your speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-19.u453	Thank you very much, Mr President. Meeting the conditions,... [[Ah!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-19.u454	I think the gentlemen. Members have not yet realized that they have no legitimacy in order to silence the Members of the European Union. They have to take us here because we have the legitimate representation of more than 400 000 Portuguese. [[Congrats from the CH.]] [[You never let him talk!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-19.u455	I really want to conclude, Mr. President, if you leave me.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-19.u456	Please, Your Honor. [[PS protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-19.u457	Thank you very much, Mr President. The opinion of the National Council of Ethics for Life Sciences, seems to be that which only the Party has quoted, says that the defence of one's rights cannot be done at the expense of the other's rights; that bathrooms should be maintained through women and men; and that individualized spaces should be created at most for another type of frequency—proposed that which comes here to defend girls and women who are being victims of harassment and abuse in bathrooms. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-19.u458	That's not enough!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-19.u459	We can't say one thing on Monday and on Tuesday. We cannot tear our clothes through some cases of harassment, but then want to make other cases of harassment viable. And, therefore, the data do not play for you. What I have to say on the side of arriving is zero tolerance to all sorts of harassment and legitimation of it. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-19.u460	To close the debate, Mrs Joana Mortágua has the floor of the Left Block.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-19.u461	Thank you very much, Mr President. To close this debate, I would also like to 'discover' a truth. I am well aware of Mrs Rita Matias' speeches on this subject, and it was therefore very curious that I read the draft law of the Arrival on the issue of bathrooms and gender self-determination. I read that they presented this project with respect to the movements of citizens who had mobilized on this subject and cited a movement of citizens in particular, the movement called "Leave the Children in Peace". I was then on Facebook from this citizen movement to realize what they thought about this issue—because I could not identify them, but that they would certainly be more anonymous or well-known militants of the Arrival—and I found many things. I found many debates about whether or not children should eat insects; I found debates about whether or not children should be exposed to Greek statues of the classical period, because they were naked; I found a great deal of Salazar education; I also found a post to say that it was sick that the Lisbon Chamber now had inclusive drinks! [[Rice from PS and PCP Members.]] It was sick that even the drinkers were included! See there that people in wheelchairs can access a drink! Open... I also found the absolute prohibition of the word « gender ». So it was with this spirit that I read the proposal of the Arrival.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-19.u462	To see if you learn anything!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-19.u463	When I found the proposal and read it, I understood that it does not only propose bathrooms that are distinguished by gender, not sex — they caught Mrs Rita Matias outside Parliament and replaced'sex' with 'gender'! -,... [[The laughs of the members of the PS Isabel Alves Moreira and Pedro Delgado Alves.]] ... which presupposes that transgender people, in the proposal of the Arrival, continue to be able to attend the two bathrooms, as in addition to this, it still proposes a mixed bathroom. The only party that proposes mixed bathrooms in this Parliament is the Arrival, and this is a fraud that has to be 'unhipped'. [[Congratulations from BE, PS, PAN and L.]] Because, Mr President, there is one thing I want to make clear: this does not say anything about arriving or about its transphobia; this says a lot about our society, when it can't even translate its transphobic and homophobic speech into bills in this House because it knows that our society does not tolerate the so-called "conversion therapies", does not tolerate transphobia, does not tolerate discrimination.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-19.u464	You can continue to offend me! No one offends you!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-19.u465	So today, I would like to greet Portuguese society so that, in the constitutional debate that we are doing now, all these rights are enshrined in the consensus that they seem to deserve in the projects presented here. [[Congratulations from BE, PS and PCP Member Manuel Loff.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-19.u466	We are thus at the end of today's agenda. Before we move on to the file, I would like to congratulate the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group on the occasion of 50. the anniversary of the foundation of the PS. I now call on Mrs. Maria da Luz Rosinha to read the file.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-19.u467	Mr President, I shall take account of the entry into the Bureau of several legislative initiatives which have been admitted by Mr President. First of all, I refer to Law No 71 / XV / 1. a ( GOV ) — Approves measures within the framework of the « More Housing » intervention plan, which falls to 6. the Commission in connection with 5. the Commission, and 72 / XV / 1. a ( GOV ), which drops to 1. the Commission. They also introduced Law Projects Nos 714 / XV / 1. a ( IL ), which falls to 5. the Commission and 715 / XV / 1. a ( IL ), which falls to 1. the Commission. And finally, the draft Resolution Nos 624 / XV / 1 entered the Bureau. a ( CH ), which falls to 11. the Commission, 625 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ), which falls to 13. the Commission, 626 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ), which falls to 12. the Commission, and 627 / XV / 1. a ( PSD ), which falls to 7. the Commission. That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-19.u468	Thank you very much, Secretary. Mrs. Members, tomorrow's plenary session contains the reading of the message of the President of the Republic, addressed to this House, on the non-promulgation of the Decree of the Assembly of the Republic No 43 / XV, that « regulates the conditions under which assisted medical death is not punishable and amends the Criminal Code », following the agenda set by the PSD, which is a political debate on the subject « Justice ». Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, see you tomorrow. [[It was 18 hours and 44 minutes.]]
