ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-06.u1	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. We have quorum, so we are in a position to start our work. The meeting is open. [[It was 15 hours and 5 minutes.]] I wish everyone an excellent new parliamentary year. Let us begin by considering an opinion on the replacement of a Member of Parliament. For reading the opinion of 14. the Commission has the floor to Mrs Maria da Luz Rosinha.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-06.u2	Mr President, very late for everyone. I note that, at the meeting on 6 September 2023, it was observed that the suspension of Mrs Cláudia Patrícia Quitio Bento fulfils the legal requirements, being replaced by André Pereira Cardoso Marques, with effect from 1 September 2023, for a period of 180 days, i.e. until 27 February 2024.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-06.u3	Let us then vote for the opinion. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Let's move on to reading the file now. I ask for a little patience, because parliamentary creativity is great, so that the volume of information that Mrs Maria da Luz Rosinha will now lend us is also great.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-06.u4	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, I note that the Left Block Parliamentary Group has requested that Bill No 867 / XV / 1 be removed. a ( BE) — Urgent measures to ensure the full functioning of the emergencies and other services of the institutions of the National Health Service ( SNS ), capture and fix professionals and ensure access to health for the entire population.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-06.u5	I'm sorry, Madam Secretary, but I forgot to ask the ladies. Authorities please open the galleries to the public.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-06.u6	It was the holiday!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-06.u7	It's the holiday effect, yet. Please, gentlemen. Agents. I'm sorry, Your Honor. I'll take it back, please, to read the file.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-06.u8	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, I also realize that the Parliamentary Group of the Arrival has withdrawn Bill No 860 / XV / 1. a (CH) — Ensures the possibility of depositing interest payments to credit borrowers. They have entered the Bureau, and have been admitted by Mr President, several legislative initiatives. First of all, I refer to Law Nos 100 / XV / 1. a ( ALRAA ), which falls to 1. the Commission, in connection with 7. the Commission, 101 / XV / 1. a ( GOV ), which drops to 9. the Commission, in connection with 1. the Commission, 102 / XV / 1. a ( GOV ), which falls to 6. the Commission, in connection with 11. the Commission, and 103 / XV / 1. a ( GOV ), which drops to 1. the Commission, in connection with 13. the Commission. Law No. 855 / XV / 1. a ( Citizens ), which falls to 10. the Commission, 861 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ), which falls to 12. the Commission, 865 / XV / 1. a ( BE ), which falls to 5. the Commission, 866 / XV / 1. a ( CH ), which drops to 1. the Commission, 868 / XV / 1. a ( PAN ), which falls to 5. the Commission, 869 / XV / 1. a ( PAN ), which falls to 7. the Commission, 870 / XV / 1. a ( PAN ), which falls to 11. the Commission, 871 / XV / 1. a ( BE ), which falls to 10. the Commission, in connection with 13. the Commission, 872 / XV / 1. a ( CH ), which drops to 1. the Commission, and 873 / XV / 1. a ( CH ), which falls to 5. the Commission, in connection with 6. the Commission. It also entered the Bureau and was admitted by Mr President, motion for a resolution No 18 / XV / 1. a ( GOV ), which drops to 2. the Commission. Resolution Nos 843 / XV / 1 were also admitted by Mr President. a ( PSD ), which falls to 10. the Commission, 844 / XV / 1. a ( PSD ), which drops to 6. the Commission, 845 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ), 846 / XV / 1. a and 847 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ), down to 6. the Commission, 848 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ), which falls to 9. the Commission, 849 / XV / 1. a ( CH ), which falls to 3. the Commission, 850 / XV / 1. a ( PAN ), which drops to 8. the Commission, 851 / XV / 1. a ( PAN ), which falls to 11. the Commission, 852 / XV / 1. a ( PAR ), which falls to 2. the Commission, 853 / XV / 1. a ( CH ), which falls to 10. the Commission, 854 / XV / 1. a ( CH ), which falls to 13. the Commission, 855 / XV / 1. a ( CH ), which drops to 1. the Commission, 856 / XV / 1. a ( PAR ), which falls to 2. the Commission, 857 / XV / 1. a ( PAN ), which falls to 12. the Commission, 858 / XV / 1. a ( PAR ), which falls to 2. the Commission, 859 / XV / 1. a ( CH ), which drops to 1. the Commission, 860 / XV / 1. a and 861 / XV / 1. a ( PAR ), down to 2. the Commission, and 862 / XV / 1. a ( CH ), which falls to 10. the Commission. I have finished and thank you for your valuable help, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-06.u9	Mrs Maria da Luz Rosinha will now please read a statement.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-06.u10	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, in accordance with Article 195 ( 5 ). the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly of the Republic, it is stated that the procedure concerning Parliamentary Assessment No 2 / XV / 1 is expired. the, in relation to Decree-Law No 50 -A / 2022 of 25 July, which establishes the remuneration scheme for the additional work carried out by doctors in emergency services presented by the Parliamentary Group of the Social Democratic Party, since the proposed amendments were rejected in the Committee on Public Administration, Planning of the Territory and Local Power, having the plenary been informed of the fact.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-06.u11	Thank you very much, Secretary. Let's get to the agenda now. The first item on the agenda is the reading of the message of the President of the Republic on the non-promulgation of the Decree of the Assembly of the Republic No 81 / XV — Approves measures in the field of housing, making several legislative amendments. I am reading the message from Mr. President of the Republic : « Your Excellency, the President of the Assembly of the Republic : I address you in accordance with Article 136 ( 1 ). that of the Constitution, transmitting this message to the Assembly of the Republic on Decree No 81 / XV, which adopts measures in the field of housing, and makes several legislative amendments, as follows: 1. The emergence of the housing crisis, which affects, especially, the most vulnerable young people and families, but begins to reach the middle classes, as well as the need for increased supply of housing buildings led the government, six months ago, to announce an ambitious More Housing program, soon after recreating a ministry for housing. This programme included significant administrative simplification measures, accepted in another diploma of the Assembly of the Republic, which I just promulgated. But above all, it appeared in the eyes of Portuguese focused on five very strong ideas: 1. a — The forced lease of private homes, returned, increasing the offer of housing; 2. a — Limitation to local accommodation, thus also allowing the increase in the offer of affordable rental; 3. a — Strengthening the role of the State in the supply of more houses, by itself and in collaboration with cooperatives, extending the above-mentioned accessible lease; 4. a — The provision of public stimuli to privates to increase the intended supply; 5. a — Transitional measures, including limitations on the rise of income, during the start-up and consolidation period of the programme. All with a view to introducing into the housing market a quick shock, which would lead to the emergency, was visible until 2026 — the term of the legislature — and allowed to stop the vertiginous rise in the cost of housing, while it was expected that the interest in real estate, which cost one million and two hundred thousand contracts, would cease its suffocating rise. 2. The presentation of the More Habitat programme ended up polarizing the debate around two central themes — forced rental and local housing. The effects were immediately: 1. — has eliminated other proposals and measures and has made it very difficult for a desirable regime agreement on housing outside and within the Assembly of the Republic ; 2. o — It gave a reason — fair or unfair — for perplexity and expectation of any private investment, without which any global solution is insufficient; 3. o — Radicalized positions in Parliament, leaving the absolute majority almost isolated, attacked, on the one hand, of proclaimed style, unrealistic and, perhaps, unconstitutional, to fall, in excess, on the private initiative, and on the other, of insufficiency and shyness in State intervention. As of March 9, I spoke about the risks of overly optimistic speech, high expectations for the deadline, the means and the administrative machine available and, therefore, of possible unrealisticity in the planned results. 3. Six months later, this diploma unfortunately confirms these risks. 1. o — Except in a limited way and with European funds, the State will not assume direct responsibility in the construction of housing; 2. o — The support given to cooperatives or the use of public buildings or private buildings acquired or contracted by affordable leases implies slow bureaucracy and recourse to entities with other tasks, such as the Development Bank, or without means at the time required, such as the IHRU (Instituto de Habitação e da Rehabiliación Urbana); 3. o — The forced lease is so limited and durable that it appears as a purely symbolic emblem, with a political cost greater than the tangible social benefit; 4. o — The same complexity of the local housing scheme makes it doubtful that it will be able to achieve the desired effects quickly; 5. o — This diploma, in spite of the corrections in forced leases and local accommodation, makes it difficult to recover some lost confidence on the part of private investment, and is certain that the public and social investment provided for in it is contained and slow; 6. o — No new measures are seen, of immediate effect, to respond to the suffocation of many families in the face of the weight of interest increases and, in numerous situations, in incomes; 7. o — The regime agreement does not exist and, without change of course, may not exist until 2026. 4. In simple terms, it is not easy to see where the promised house offer will come from with efficiency and speed. It is an example of how a bad start to respond to a lack that time has become dramatic, crucial and very urgent can negatively mark it, without obvious short-term political recovery, despite the work put on the junction of several laws in one and certain positive ideas, diluted by the essential solutions found. This is all added, neither in forced rent, nor in local housing, nor in the involvement of the State, nor in its support for cooperatives, nor in the concrete means and deadlines for action, nor in the total absence of agreement of a regime or minimum party agreement, the present diploma is sufficiently credible with regard to its short-term implementation and therefore mobilising for the challenge to be faced by all its indispensable protagonists — public, private, social and, above all, Portuguese in general. I know, and we all know, that the absolute majority of parliament can repeat, in a few weeks, the approval just voted on. But, as you will understand, this is not what can or should prevent the expression of a fundamental conviction and a serene negative analytical judgment. in these terms, I return, without promulgation, Decree No. 81 / XV, which approves measures in the field of housing, making several legislative amendments. The President of the Republic, Marcelo Rebelo de Sousa. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-06.u12	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-06.u13	We now turn to the second item on our agenda, which consists of political declarations. To give the first political statement on behalf of the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mr Hugo Carneiro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-06.u14	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Today, the country has impairable conditions to lower taxes. Point, paragraph! These are conditions that did not exist, with this magnitude, in January 2022 and which largely result from the inflation tax. I recall that in January 2022 the forecast of inflation was about 1, 5 % and ended up at 7, 4 %. The Portuguese feel crushed by the burden of tax, which reached historic peaks in 2022. Even in relative terms, in the face of per capita wealth, Portugal has the sixth largest tax effort of the European Union. For the Portuguese to understand, it is not the same thing we pay for a coffee in Portugal or a Danish to pay for a coffee in Denmark. It is that, in view of everyone's income, even for a Danish a coffee is cheaper than in Portugal. The government, by its action, has become a block to the management that the Portuguese make of their lives. The Government promised in the Stability Programme that it would lower the IRS (tax on income of natural persons) from EUR 2000 million up to EUR 2027, that is EUR 500 million each year. But the Socialist Executive ignores that the conditions existing today, by virtue of a much higher revenue collection than the estimated in the State budget, go beyond the estimates it presented. We therefore need to reduce by 2023, at least EUR 1200 million. I repeat, as early as 2023. [[PSD applause.]] And why 2023? Oh, my God! Because the state is collecting much more than it expected in tax revenue in 2023 and, if we saw, this year the forecast was that tax revenue would increase by EUR 1373 million compared with 2022. By July, the increase towards the same period of 2022 had already amounted to EUR 2607 million. The increase in revenue in the first seven months of the year is twice as much as the State budget provided for the total of 2023! I repeat: in seven months, he entered the most in the state vaults as a double revenue increase of what was predicted for the 12 months of 2023. In other words, in the first seven months of the year, more EUR 1224 million was charged than was expected to be the tax revenue increase throughout the year of 2023. What about the IRS in particular? The forecast was that the State would charge more than 436 million euros throughout the year than it paid in 2022. Until July, and over the same period last year, the increase in IRS revenue was already EUR 962 million. In the first seven months of the year, the State has already received, on the basis of IRS revenue, an amount that exceeds twice as much as it anticipated as an increase in revenue for the 12 months of 2023. If we retain the tax revenue increase that was planned for the whole year of 2023, there are still EUR 1234 million. If this remaining amount of money is used to lower taxes, the forecast increase in tax revenue, the forecast budget balance and the reduction of the planned debt will not be skewed at any rate.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-06.u15	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-06.u16	So why would the government decide on the fate of this revenue, without doing justice to those with whom it paid those taxes, to the middle class? They're not the richest, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen. They are the Portuguese who strive to live their lives with much effort and to make many accounts, with the burdens they bear with housing, with the costs of putting their children to study at school, with the supermarket accounts, with books and school materials, or with the fuel to work, just to give some examples! Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we must not forget that between the reality that the Government presents to the Portuguese and the enormous difficulties that they are experiencing will be a great distance. [[PSD applause.]] The government boasts of employment numbers, but forgets that half of the population earns less than 1000 €. Do you know how much it costs to rent a T1 in Lisbon? Values in the order of 1100 €. Who's holding on? This is the Government of the maximum tax burden and of the minimum public services. There is no family doctor for everyone, as the government promised. Some conservatories have to close because of the lack of workers. And even some finance services keep, until today, inexplicably, the service to the taxpayer only by previous marking. It is a country without direction, without management, where the government is living from tax collection and of some luck. Yes, good luck, because neither the numbers of economic growth are due to the government, but to the efforts of private companies and workers. [[PSD applause.]] It is this government that chooses to postpone any effective measure to solve the problems of housing. It ignores the warnings of the opposition and overlooks the recommendations of the President of the Republic. And even the Banco de Portugal has already warned that thousands of families are at risk of spending 50 % of their wages on housing. We also know that families have already channeled 600 million euros of their savings to cut down on housing credit. And we also know that the saving rate has reached historic minimums. A country with low wages, with cost of access to brutal housing and with reduced savings: this is the tax of the socialist brand. It is because of this « state of the place » that many young people have left the country because the social elevator has stopped operating in Portugal. Mr. President and Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, it is because of all of this that the PSD has taken the initiative to put the finger on the wound and as early as September 20 we will be here discussing a tax reduction package. In 2023, we want to return EUR 1200 million in IRS and propose a rate of up to 15% of IRS for young people. We cannot be complicit with the fact that the State is collecting this recipe without doing justice to the Portuguese. The country is not in a position to postpone these decisions. By 2022, the PSD had submitted proposals to reduce taxes and the PS had lead them. We therefore challenge the Government and the majority who support it to come to land and approve these measures that benefit the Portuguese. This is not a party struggle. This is a struggle for fiscal justice, which should all unite. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-06.u17	Mr Ventura has the floor for a political statement on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the European People's Party.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-06.u18	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: At the beginning of the political year, it was important not to lose what has happened in recent days. I am talking about the repair that Mr. President of the Republic, after vetoing the More Housing programme, made the Socialist Government in the State Council. According to what came to the public, Marcelo Rebelo de Sousa pointed out the disaster that was the management of the Socialist Party of the TAP file (Portuguese Air Transport) and Antonio Costa remained silent.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-06.u19	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-06.u20	Silently in front of the TAP, silently in the face of corruption, silently in the face of the disastrous management of the country over the past few months, Antonio Costa is now the livelihood of a public power that has not done more than desecrate and destroy Portugal. Marcelo Rebelo de Sousa made the criticism we all made here. The management of TAP was a disaster, as a disaster was the commission of inquiry that took place in this Parliament. Antonio Costa, once again, remained silent.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-06.u21	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-06.u22	But we must not forget that, the day we meet here, we have a lot to point out to the public power in Portugal. Through the Socialist Party, the PSD and others — which do not scare us — Marcelo Rebelo de Sousa promulgated the new drug law. It was important for those in the autonomous regions to hear us and who have faced the scourge of drugs, yes, day and day, to know that in this Parliament there were those who abstained and who voted in favour of decriminalization of synthetic drugs. For us, unlike PS and PSD, there is no doubt. Whoever deals drugs, whatever it is, is in prison that must have its place. [[Congrats from the CH.]] Therefore, although there is still a campaign going on in the Autonomous Region of Madeira, where, although some do not want the arrival to compete, the arrival will show that there is only one party that will fight against the decriminalization of synthetic drugs in Portugal. [[Congrats from the CH.]] Yes, I speak of what many families suffer as a drama, of what so many men and women in this country know that it was the destruction of their children, their families, their loved ones, while some fill their pockets with drug trafficking.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-06.u23	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-06.u24	This Parliament, which has joined in saying that drug trafficking is 'amen', will have a blocking force to say that drug trafficking is behind the steps that must take place. [[Congrats from the CH.]] But he didn't even live on drugs this summer. It has also had its high time with the Socialist Party saying that it will reconfirm the More Housing programme approved in this Parliament. Yes, the country has seen the problems we face, families that cannot pay their homes, an expected increase of 6, 97% for next year, and the PS has brought the solution we all expected: forced rents, contributions on local housing, more taxes and the end of business licenses. The President of the Republic, and well, said : « This is no solution». And the PS, instead of having the democratic humility to say "if this is not a solution, let's reformulate", no, found itself in the worst that its extreme left brings and said: "Let's confront the President, let's confront Parliament and we'll confront the country, to keep this programme. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-06.u25	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-06.u26	Mr. President and Mr. Members, this programme is not « more housing». This program will not help a single family in Portugal to pay for your home. This programme should be called « housing disaster », because it is what the PS has done to housing in Portugal. Never in such a long time did the housing cost so much in Lisbon, Porto, Funchal, Braga. Never at such a time was renting so expensive in Lisbon, in Porto, in Braga, in Funchal! [[Congrats from the CH.]] It's never been so expensive in such a long time! And the fault was always the same : of the Socialist Party, in Portugal. So don't ask us to come quietly for the new parliamentary year. The arrival comes with everything and comes with all the strength it has, because since others do not do their work, we even came this year to end the Government of the Socialist Party in Portugal. [[Congrats from the CH.]] Mr. President and Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, we witnessed yesterday and yesterday, painfully, the parade of the Minister of Health on several screens in our territory. Smiling, playful, even with a bit of humor, the Minister of Health continues to parade through the lands of Portugal. The Portuguese are not as fortunate as they are when they move to a hospital or a health center. Yesterday, another elderly man died at the Beatriz Angelo Hospital, while waiting for his transfer to the Hospital of Santa Maria — the same fact that led to the resignation of Marta Temido as Minister of Health. Men and women in our country, who pay taxes and support this tentacle of the state that not to increase, see themselves without open doors in hospitals, without doctors who welcome them and without professionals who receive them, such as saying: "Get as you can! Do not keep on seeking. ” Mr President, if anyone should be ashamed at this moment to appear before the Portuguese, to set up their roles, to close their ministry and to leave although he was the Minister of Health, because, for us, another old man who died in a hospital is another pity for the Government of the Socialist Party. [[Congrats from the CH.]] It's just that, unfortunately, not only in health, not only in the economy, not only in the home does the country go wrong. New strikes are announced for September and millions of parents, who want their children in schools, will have new strikes starting the school year, with a Minister of Education going through this Parliament, without looking at a single problem. There will be new strikes of the officials of justice, who only benefit the former Prime Minister, who, while we are discussing here, continues quietly in Ericeira, eating ice cream and drinking beer. This is the country we have. This is the country with which we do not agree. And this is the country we're going to fight against! Mr. President and Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, some may laugh and some may find it funny. Outside, the Portuguese aren't very happy to see the PS laughing at the Portuguese misfortunes. But the absolute majority are like the wind that passes in a storm. They go and they come. If there are others who don't want to deal with it, we'll be here to catch the nuts that the Socialist Party will leave in this country. We don't forget the court officials on strike. We don't forget the teachers on strike. We do not forget all those who now point their finger to the government and say: "We want a different country! Do not keep on seeking. ” Don't despair! Don't be afraid! We, and only us, will be your voice in this new political year that will now begin. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-06.u27	Sir, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-06.u28	I wanted to finish, Mr President, because I know that my intervention time is already running out,... [[The laughs of the members of the PS Carlos Pereira and Francisco César.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-06.u29	A long time ago! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-06.u30	... saying the following: In this new year that now begins, we must once and for all lose the temptation to ship the Socialist Party. To talk about tax cuts, talk about this and that without any realisation only helps the government party. for our part, we must be clear: the Socialist Party is today the greatest face to our democracy and our democratic regime. It's against him, only against him, and for all the Portuguese we have to stand up and we have to fight. This country, the socialist country, will end, sooner or later. on our part, a motion of censure next week will be the first step to do so. [[Ch's applause, stand up.]] [[PS protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-06.u31	To give a political statement on behalf of the Liberal Initiative Parliamentary Group, Mr Rodrigo Saraiva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-06.u32	For the week, you know!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-06.u33	So you don't want to discuss taxes for the week?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-06.u34	Let's see if they vote in favour!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-06.u35	I ask silence to hear the speaker.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-06.u36	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We want to talk about the future today, we want to talk about ambition. We want to talk about the ambition whose culture rarely exists in Portugal, as if the ambition that other peoples cultivate with pride was a crime or a sin among the Portuguese. Like it's not legitimate to ambitious anymore. As if it were not good to want a country that is fairer, more prosperous, more free. As if it were not desirable for everyone to aspire to rise in life for his merit and his effort. It is time to stop misgivinging the word « ambition ». Without an ambitious, incomplete and demanding vision people do not progress, societies do not develop, countries stop and problems always remain unresolved. We see what happens today in Portugal, precisely because of this lack of ambition that has characterized socialist governance. instead of promoting ambition, the governments of António Costa only brought degradation and stagnation. Antonio Costa is limited to managing what there is, what it is, and what it will always be. He lost a single environment, the greatest ever influence of European money in Portugal, in an unforgivable way. Today, the government receives more than EUR 1 million per hour, but for what? To develop the country? To make structural reforms long overdue? To show the most qualified youths that it is really worth staying here instead of emigration to other countries where their value, knowledge and ambition are really rewarded? No, none of this. Because this PS government is a government without ambition, which is content with small remedies, without any fundamental reform, unable to highlight our country in the main European prosperity indexes and which will throw us at the bottom of the tables of all these rankings. It is a government that has given up modernising Portugal and does not do what it promises. You promised more effective justice and what do we have? Courts closed, proceedings postponed and Citius always collapsed. You promised qualified education and what do we have? Another school year to start, with students without classes, distressed parents, demotivated teachers. You promised health to everyone and what do we have? Longer waiting lists for consultations and surgeries, plus one and a half million Portuguese without family doctors—and this number seems to tend to increase—and citizens who die at the hospital door because of lack of care. Has he promised young people that they would have access to housing and what we have? A state that can't even make an inventory of its heritage and which, above all, strangles the private initiative in a sector that could give more opportunities. He promised to nationalize TAP and also promised to privatize TAP, everything and its opposite, always failing before and after. And on the way, he wasted EUR 3, EUR 2 billion to the Portuguese—and still tried to convince us that we would see that money back. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, these are just a few examples. Almost eight consecutive years of PS governance under the command of Antonio Costa, wages are degraded, purchasing power decreases, quality of life is removed from European standards. They make up the excuses they want, but Antonio Costa has no excuse. [[Applause from the IL.]] He does not want to reform and is unable to manage with what he has, although he receives more money than ever, not only in structural funds, but also due to the strengthening of tax revenue, due to inflation. In addition, it has an absolute majority in this Parliament, which does not prevent it from completely failing. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, is this the country we dream about or want? Is this Portugal that our children deserve? Don't! Not at all! And that is why we, in the Liberal Initiative, do not comply, do not cross our arms. At the Liberal Initiative we have more ambition. We have the ambition to want a better Portugal, to demand a country that does not see to start many of its best talents due to lack of real opportunities, to demand a well-managed State, in which the citizen feels the return of every cent that pays taxes. Yes, we understand that it is urgent to return income to people — this is one of our usual flags. We had already defended the reduction and simplification of the IRS when no one else spoke about it. But we propose a serious change, not the smooth descent that the government is preparing to announce with the illusionist technique. With the PS, you know: give with one hand and then you'll take both. The Liberal Initiative is by far the most ambitious party in this area. [[Uh...!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-06.u37	We want to return 1540 € of annual income to a couple who receive the monthly average gross wage, which in Portugal is today of 1411 € — money returned to the citizens, freer from the state's fiscal ties. Yes, money is people's, it's not state. We also have more ambition in the field of health, where we want to finally create a universal system of access, putting an end to the ideological dogmas that PS brought. [[Applause from the IL.]] In our draft basic health law we propose an integrated system, allowing Portuguese to choose the most suitable offer in the public, private or social sectors, with much more efficient management, disposal of waste and reduction of waiting times. All this to be regulated and evaluated by an independent entity — a health with less state, but in better state. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, taxation and health are two examples that we stand out today. We could also talk about education, housing, transport, justice, security forces, armed forces. For the Liberal Initiative, « ambition» is the right word and it is what distinguishes us from the PS and so many others in this House: the ambition to want a truly European country, a country that is not demanding subsidies to ensure current management, a country capable of returning income to people and in which they do not feel that they are impoverishing, even working. We have an ambition to see Portugal grow, to build a political alternative to the socialism of António Costa, to this PS which is content with a diminished Portugal, a little Portugal. The Portuguese deserve a lot more and they'll get a lot more. We have that conviction, we have that ambition. The Portuguese know that, with the Liberal Initiative, there will always be an alternative with ambition to make Portugal grow. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-06.u38	To make a political statement on behalf of the CFP, Mr Manuel Loff has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-06.u39	It's goodbye!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-06.u40	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Start September and return to our lives the problems that August, for some, has tended to make you forget. They are parents and mothers who do not find place in day care for their children, they are students who will start classes without teachers, they are teachers who will pick up again in suitcases and look for a new school, a new home, pay at the price of scandal — the same happens, these days, with many higher education students. They are doctors and nurses who will return to hospitals where, such are the difficulties of the SNS, if they work as if they were in a state of war. They are men and women who, when living from their salary or retirement pension, count the days for, after paying rent or monthly payment to the bank, see if what remains is enough to eat, to pay the light, the water, the gas. The precariousness in which the current government, like several of the previous ones, leaves public services to live has much to do with the precariousness in which most Portuguese people live. It does not fall from heaven, it is not the fault of the pandemic or war, it is even the responsibility of those who rule and make choices. The absolute majority allowed the Portuguese to see what so many love vows the PS makes to the SNS and to the public school, as if the lack of doctors and teachers had nothing to do with their government. So much statement on the right to work for mothers—especially for them—and that is what is seen in the lack of childcare leave. Both by the older ones and, this year and a half, by resisting to raise pensions, late and ill, always below inflation, obliging the most stapofty rules to receive social benefits. It started another September and we continue without free daycare for all, indeed, pure and simply without enough daycare. over the past six months in which I was here as a PCP member, I have often asked Mrs. Minister of Labour, Solidarity and Social Security without account as we would have been when we arrived here. The Government knows that to cover all children up to 3 years of age, it is necessary to double the number of vacancies available from the current 120 000 to 250 000. However, around us, what we see is the pilgrimage of parents and mothers looking for a vacancy, while the Prime Minister and the Prime Minister are quick to mark the agenda of the news with the promise, up to 2026, of 26 000 vacancies, which are neither available today nor will ever arrive to meet the needs. The CFP has repeated that it is necessary to build a public network, because without it, there will never be a child for everyone, regardless of socio-economic conditions. To those who say that this would not be done day by night, we remember that it will never be done if you do not decide to do it and start the job! It was the same farm with the free of charge of the daycare centers and with so many other initiatives of the Communist Party. Today, however, the government has noticed how once families feel entitled to free access to it for some. The daycare is absolutely central to the growth of children and is the decisive stimulus to birth, because it gives security at the time of the decision to have a child. The Minister of Labour announced some days ago that children covered by the Creche Feliz programme should reach 85 000 this year. The government has not yet explained what prevents it from guaranteeing freeness to all children now! on the other side of life, the fourth of the Portuguese population aged over 65 is especially exposed to the degradation of living conditions. With very low pensions, which today quickly lose value because of the increase in the cost of essential goods and housing, they need, in order to guarantee a dignified and rightsful life, a public network of social support equipment, including necessarily public homes, which the Government also refuses to create. In the social tasks of the State, the PS Government continues to do more than that, to remedy almost always bad structural problems and not to resolve them with timely measures. This is not just a political discussion. It is a debate for democracy. It is here that one perceives whether it is 'promoting' or not, as established in the Constitution — and I quote — '...the well-being and quality of life of the people and the real equality between the Portuguese, as well as the realization of economic, social, cultural and environmental rights...'. in the same way, public school is not a right of everyone when hundreds of thousands of students do not have classes because teachers are missing. They were PS governments, like the current government, who systematically attacked teachers in their professional dignity, in their rights, starting with the sharp disrespect in counting the time of service. Attracting young people to the teaching profession in these circumstances is an illusion and does not imply that anyone who does so would not calculate the consequences of this policy. In higher education today, even now, tens of thousands of new displaced students are looking for rooms — less and more expensive than ever — in a framework where public residences cover no more than 9 % of the needs and where plans, late again, of the Ministry of Technology and Higher Education to increase the offer of accommodation in four years, do not provide more than 13 % of the needs. For a young person entering higher education, this is increasingly a central criterion for choosing training. For many it is the obstacle that prevents further studies. In health, there are more than 1, 7 million Portuguese without family doctors, many without emergency services in hospitals, no consultations, no time surgeries. Doctors and nurses leave the SNS. A doctor at the National Health Service makes an extraordinary average of 300 hours, twice as stipulated in the law, and the Minister of Health has proposed the increase of the extraordinary annual work limit from 150 to 350 hours. It is to nurses and doctors—which I greet here—with their strike, and not to the government, who have managed to defend the SNS, as teachers have managed to defend the public school. Public services are not only the real dimension of the enjoyment of social rights on the part of all citizens, they are also an essential condition of the construction of social democracy, ensuring that such central areas as health, education, the care of children and older people — two of the most important tasks of social security — do not become a pure business and a blatant accumulation of profit in the hands of the richest, either in the form of business for large economic groups or in the form of immoral interest, with the indebtedness to the bank of those who need the most support of the state and the community as a whole. Allow me a note of farewell: I will leave the place of deputy within days and return to my university activity, with pleasure. Even if we know that democracy is far from dependent solely on the institutions—and I and the CFP believe that democracy takes place in many other instances of life and therefore also outside the institutions—the work of Members and Members of Parliament has a very important role in the quality of democracy, in our ability to represent people, the Portuguese people. in these six months, I hope to have fulfilled my mandate with commitment, patience, spontaneity and enthusiasm that must characterize those who represent women and men who trust the PCP, seriously on the left, to resist Portugal's "democratization" and for 50 years to rebuild the joy of April. I thank the cordiality of those who have been cordial, the friendship of those who have granted me, the admirable professionalism of those who work in this House. In particular, I thank my comrades of the Parliamentary Group of the Portuguese Communist Party. Good work and always! [[PCP, PAN and PS and PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-06.u41	Thank you very much. For my part, I should like to thank you — I believe that on behalf of the whole Parliament — the dedication and work done by Mr Loff and wish you a good return to professional and academic activity. For a political statement on behalf of the Left Block Parliamentary Group, Mr Pedro Filipe Soares has now given the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-06.u42	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We are watching what was announced today. The disaster on public or private day care centers shows the ineffectiveness and falsehood of the government's promise, with Creche Felis — free breaks on daycare for children, without the burden of having the present price, where having a child in a daycare is more expensive than having her in higher education. From that point of view, the government has failed. The government promised and failed to do so. Just look at the numerous cases that are reported publicly to perceive the despair of tens of thousands of families. Tânia has gone 42 hours looking for a vacancy, but it has not, and there are so many 'Tânias' for this country that show that the government has not fulfilled what it has promised — and it has not been for lack of warning! Last July, we told the Minister that she was not able to give birth to the government's promise that the government was going to fail and that it would penalize our country's families. The Minister said that everything was resolved and, of the various cases presented to her, she said: « But the app that the government created says there are places available». However, the families consulted the app and there was no app to untie the entrance to the day care center, it was another part of the ambush. They promise free vacancies, but there aren't even vacancies in the day caretakers. They promised families that they would be dishonored at this enormous cost, but they did not respond to this reality. They promised and didn't. They put in despair tens of thousands of families and this is the reality of the Socialist Party's governance. It is one more proof that ruling against people has become the mark of this government. Those who do not respond to the first childhood do not know that it is, with this lack of response, to destroy the ability to build a better future. Those who do not respond to the first childhood are also not responding to the lack of income of families, because this is another form of impoverishment that exists in our country. Those who do not respond to the first childhood know that they are promoting gender inequality, because, of so many cases that have come to us, they are always women, who are sacrificed in their professional career because of lack of public response. However, the government tells us that it promotes equality. The government tells us to promote improved income. The government tells us that it promotes policies for early childhood. Now, these are empty words, hollow, empty words, from which none of these priorities are placed on the table, rather than on the contrary. He did not do what he could and could have done to ensure that these problems did not happen. Will the government, by any chance, promote the entry of women into the Social Security Institute to increase the number of women available and thus give more responsiveness to families? No, on the contrary, it has been devalued for years and at war with the lovers of social security. Would the government have ensured that all the country's available capacity, first and foremost by the authorities, was mobilized to respond to families? No, and despite being alert to this situation, this government continues to prevent the authorities from giving a public offer, even when the authorities themselves have the willingness to do so, when they want to do so, when, for example, the authorities of the interior know that it is one of the factors for the establishment of the population. No, not only does the government not only fulfill its promises but it is also part of the problems faced by families. It is this government that prevents solutions from being implemented. And why does that happen? Because it is a government that does not place families, the first child and those who work first. So why doesn't this government do it? So why don't you do it, knowing there's availability of the public accounts? There's a strike! Everyone says: "There's a strike, there's a strike! » Only do not strike families, only do not strike in the first childhood, only do not strike in the ability to create problems in the country. On the contrary, there they are always picketing, always ensuring that problems exist and that they do not let us turn the page of these difficulties. The budgetary strike is the demonstration of who governs Brussels to see, of those who accept social inequality, who likes bankers and the economic elite, and of those who leave behind who has a family and who works and needs their wages. The government has chosen its side and knows that it has one who fights it, knows that it has one who beats his foot and that, by doing so, it is building an alternative that does not pass through this Socialist Party,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-06.u43	That's true! Get through here!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-06.u44	... who turned against the families and against the country.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-06.u45	For a political statement on behalf of the PS Parliamentary Group, Mr Eurico Brillante Dias has now given the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-06.u46	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This meeting of the Standing Committee marks the beginning of parliamentary work, but we are still at the first session, a session that is now over and which is marked by the war in Ukraine and by the inflationary outbreak that penalized the lives of Portuguese and the economy. I recall that one year ago, in the Standing Committee, the debate was marked by the volume of support that the State was providing to economic operators. After a year, we know that Portugal is among the countries that most supported families in the context of the energy crisis, occupying 5. o a list of 41 countries. According to OECD estimates ( Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development ), Portugal will spend around 4, 8 % of GDP ( gross domestic product) on support for families and businesses during the years 2022 and 2023. [[P.S.'s applause.]] These support was needed, given the social emergency, but were also economically efficient. In August inflation in Portugal stood at 3, 7 %. Our country presents 8. the lowest rate of the European Union, below the average of the euro area countries. According to Eurostat, Portugal has the lowest inflation of the euro in food and drink. Inflation in this type of products has declined since April, when VAT (value added tax) zero was implemented by the government, despite statements by the leader of the main opposition party against the measure. Luís Montenegro said on 18 April this year that zero VAT has zero impact— plus a failed analysis. If there were any doubts, it is clear that following the ideas of the PPD-PSD does not yield good results. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr President, the economic indicators show the effectiveness of the government's approach. In 2022, Portugal grew 6, 7%. It is expected that by 2023 GDP growth will be between 2, 4 % and 3 %. Economic growth in Portugal, in 2023, is expected to exceed the first expectations of the generality of the institutions. This performance explains the low unemployment rate and is fundamental to ensuring the reduction of public debt and supporting support for families and businesses. Portugal is actually 5. the OECD country with the highest growth in the first half, facing the end of 2022, extending the consistent pattern of convergence with the European Union. [[P.S.'s applause.]] In 2022, Portuguese exports represented for the first time more than 50 % of GDP. Portugal was announced and indicated by an independent entity such as 6. the country which more foreign direct investment projects have captured, exceeding — see, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen to our right! — the famous Ireland. In the second quarter of this year, Portugal has reached the largest number of workers - 4 million and 979 thousand. Apart from the job created, unemployment continues to decline: between the first and the second quarter of this year we have fewer than 55 000 people in unemployment. The social cohesion of employment is a central element for a left-wing party and that is why, since 2015, with these policies, we have fewer than 700,000 Portuguese at risk of poverty and social exclusion. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Only a left-wing policy of a truly social-democratic party, which has people in the center, can achieve these results. It is essential to continue the path of income growth, the increase in minimum wage and the increase in average wage, ensuring the Government's objective of raising the weight of wages in GDP, for which, it is said, we have encouraging data. Since 2019, Portugal has had the greatest change in the weight of wages in GDP among OECD countries, with a further 1, 8 percentage points, with the European average falling 0, 5 percentage points. [[P.S.'s applause.]] These results were achieved in dialogue with the community, in dialogue with the social partners. As the OECD says, the tripartite 2022 agreement on wages and competitiveness in Portugal shows how tripartite social dialogue can be revitalized to help ensure fair distribution of the costs of high inflation. [[P.S.'s applause.]] But there is more: there is the lowest percentage of workers receiving the minimum wage, since 2016, and the national minimum wage has increased by 50 % since 2015. This with another particularly relevant fact: for the first time we have an approach between men and women who receive the minimum wage, which means we fight inequalities, as well as gender inequalities, approaching this ratio and equaling men and women. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, it is necessary to enforce the income agreement, it is necessary to continue to exercise a majority of dialogue, it is necessary to continue to implement the dignified work agenda, and I cannot fail to give two notes here today. For us, it is particularly important that this Parliament has approved the Dignified Work Agenda and that we are thus promoting social inclusion. The number of workers and domestic workers tripled since the entry into force of the dignified Work Agenda. I repeat : it tripled the number of domestic workers registered in social security since the entry into force of the dignified work agenda. [[Congrats from PS Members.]] But there are more: there are workers from the digital platforms who are using the courts after the approval of the Dignified Work Agenda to see their work rights recognized. contrary to the opposition, 2022 and 2023 were years of economic growth, increase in employment, increase in income and reduction in public debt. It is important to point out that, a year ago, the PPD-PSD bench — it is going to see the floor — said one Member: « The PS, the government, is driving the country to bankruptcy 2.0 ». But now, for now, you're asking for quick tax reductions. This is the converted opposition PPD-PSD that sighed by the devil, but now promises to descend from taxes, to torture and to law. It is appropriate to say that it is a conversion without a contribution act, but welcome to the tax reduction on work, after, for two years, they went on to say, successively, that this was not the priority, that the priority was to reduce the IRC (tax on the income of the public) the corporate tax. [[P.S.'s applause.]] I will finish, Mr. President. The results achieved should not dull our ambition. We must continue to pursue a path of fair and supportive growth. That is why the Government's Stability Programme provided for a reduction in IRS in April. This reduction and substantive work will be carried out within the framework of the State budget, as promised. This majority acts with predictability and balance. Certain parties, in the wake of what they promised less than two years ago, are now entering a kind of tax auction. They ignore good budgetary practices and labor law and promise permanent tax reductions, while ensuring certain accounts. Since 2015, there has been a deployment of five to nine steps of the IRS, which has essentially benefited the middle class. This majority believes in fiscal progressiveity and the middle class well knows who is next to them at times of greatest need.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-06.u47	You know what it's like to pay taxes!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-06.u48	It was this majority who applied, promising to increase the weight of wages in GDP and increase the progressiveity of IRS. That is why, unlike the opposition to the right, we deserve the confidence of the Portuguese people and deserve the confidence of the Portuguese people.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-06.u49	We deserve it too!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-06.u50	Mr President, fulfilling our electoral commitment, facing the demanding context and exercising a majority of dialogue is what guides us. We are a majority of progress, progressive, that counts on everyone and that will always be, always, alongside the Portuguese, to build a better future. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-06.u51	It's not even time!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-06.u52	You now have the floor for a political statement on behalf of the PAN, Mrs Inês de Sousa Real.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-06.u53	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin by welcoming you and wishing you a good return and by giving Mr Manuel Loff a special word, wishing you a good return to your professional activity. in these political statements today, the housing crisis has indeed marked the agenda, either because of the increased cost of living and the difficulty of access to affordable rent, or because of interest rates, which continue to increase and suffocate families. However, the public housing park is concerned not to leave the paper and the so-called "compressor roller", rather than being used to start the work, on the contrary, remains stopped, blocking the changes that are so lacking in order to bring help to families. But there is a particular housing crisis that the NAP wants to talk about today. I'm talking about the crisis of our common house. Even yesterday, the UN Secretary-General (United Nations) warned that we are already in a climate collapse, saying that the climate is imploding faster than we can handle, with extreme weather phenomena reaching all corners of the planet.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-06.u54	What about the tourdas? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-06.u55	Ladies and gentlemen. Members, Portugal is not only immune, as it is one of the countries that will be most affected by the impacts of climate change. in the same way that it is failing in the housing, the scenario is no different with regard to ensuring that future generations will be able to continue to have a habitable common house. The protection and preservation of natural values, such as forest, oceans and biodiversity, are fundamental to ensuring climate stability and the future of future generations, which has been supported by the academy, the UN itself and its rapporteurs, by the young people who manifest themselves and who have even decided to prosecute States. by the visas, the APA (Portuguese Environment Agency), the Ministry of the Environment and the Government themselves continue to ignore all these warnings and promote policies that call into question these values. Unfortunately, there is no lack of examples that demonstrate it and that it translates into the announced destruction of the tree in our country, a real "order to slaughter" in Portugal, through the hands of the government and on behalf of the Environmental Simplex, which was approved and which came to liberalize the construction of photovoltaic power plants, without heeding cumulative effects or environmental protection. There are centrals for all tastes and even centrals with poetic names, but those who lose are trees, biodiversity and, above all, all of us. We well know that the energy transition to the most sustainable and renewable production modes is urgent, but how green and neutral is any project, if it is done at the expense of the destruction of habitats, ecosystems that have taken tens, hundreds or even thousands of years to form? at this time, at the cost of 15 construction projects of photovoltaic power plants, under the public consultation process, more than 4400 ha of natural areas are at risk of being destroyed. Only to have a perception, we speak of an area equivalent to the sum of the municipalities of Lisbon, Porto, Faro and Cascais. It would be equivalent to accounting for the total area of 586 times this Assembly of the Republic. And the compensation measures of this type of projects may seem very nice on paper, but do not compensate or take into account the damage that is done and the imbalance that causes in ecosystems, essential to life in the short and medium term. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the destruction of nearly a quarter of these 4400 hectares of the natural zone is due to the photovoltaic power plant of Santiago do Cacem, where nothing more will be struck, nothing less than 1, 5 million trees. And many of these trees are overcrowding and cooking. In the case of Cercal do Alentejo, this destruction will create only some fantastic four jobs, completely sacrificing the tourist potential of the region, the surrounding landscape and still nature tourism. In Estoi, the government also allows the destruction of more than 156 ha. In Ourique, it blows to the side of a project of photovoltaic power plant very close to a special protection zone of Castro Verde that gives shelter to species such as the Imperial eagle, one of the most threatened birds in Europe and with high vulnerability status, which is among the rarest in the world and which we have the privilege to have in our country. We cannot one day proclaim the protection of biodiversity and spend—and well! — thousands of euros in the protection of the Iberian lynx and then contribute to the end of other species and habitats at risk, such as the hybrid lobe, a species protected and strongly threatened by projects such as the lithium mine in Montalegre.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-06.u56	The wolves eat the sheep!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-06.u57	Ladies and gentlemen. Members, conservation is currently threatened by several dimensions, from the interests of livestock and hunting until, more recently, the European Union's own intention to undermine legal protection for the British wolf, a retaliation decision by President Ursula von der Leyen, even though we regret the death of his pony. The PAN, as an environmentalist and responsible party that is, does not demonize the photovoltaic power stations, quite the contrary. We know that without renewable energy we will not reach the goals of climate neutrality that the country is linked to and that the planet needs. But to continue with this kind of policy is not to decarbonize; it is greenwashing. The alternatives exist, just look at the National Laboratory of Energy and Geology, which created a map with alternative locations for the installation of photovoltaic power stations: for roofs of public buildings, already concreteized areas, for built heritage, for inactive quarry or abandoned mines. We see that there is no lack of alternatives, there is a lack of political will. But, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, this is not an exclusive of the PS Government. We look at Madeira, the PSD government, and the threat it poses on the laurissilva forest, or for megalomanous projects such as that of the Courral das Freiras cable car. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, let's see the envelope, the national tree, disappearing, it's not poetic, it's tragic! And the same can be said about other nature and biodiversity. It was the extractivism that brought us to the climate crisis and it will not be the extractivism that will lead us out of it. It is the future of present and future generations that is at stake. in this holiday return, I leave the appeal to Parliament in this new Legislative Session to preserve nature and biodiversity, and respect for animals, too, its great cause. It is that we will still be in time to avoid the climate collapse that Antonio Guterres told us, the Secretary-General of the United Nations, and to prevent the order of evictions from coming to our door by means of climate change. But for this, it takes will, political courage, it needs to make a difference, it needs to act and act now.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-06.u58	For a political declaration by the Free Party, Mr Rui Tavares has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-06.u59	Mr President, Caras e Caros Collegas : About 50 000 of our young citizens have already entered the first phase of the competition for access to higher education, and in the second phase at least about 10 000 will come in. Until 2018, it was always less than half the Portuguese population at the age of entering the university that actually accessed higher education, universities and politics. It is an extraordinary path for a country that, at the beginning of our democracy, had only residual proportions and population elites to enter university. Now, with the figures this year, we are beginning to approach the two-thirds of the university-age population who actually enter, or who can enter, higher education, universities and polytechnics. Never in the history of our country has this happened and much is due to the will of our people as a whole, who, after conquering democracy, had as one of their main objectives to have their children at university and in politics. However, if this path is extraordinary, how sad it is that some of these students and these students lose the opportunity to enter university right now, at the moment they have achieved their goal, because the costs are expensive, because access to housing is impossible, because the tips have not yet been abolished, because the cost of living is as we know. How sad that many of these young people, some of them the first in their families to enter university, end up not realizing or delaying their dream for a long time! How sad for them and them, and for the country as a whole, who loses with it a qualified workforce, the only one who is able to bring us closer to the economy of the knowledge of high added value that our country needs. The university has an ideal and from here, greeting those who have entered, I want to talk to them about this ideal, which is basically very simple. The ideal of the university is the ideal of ideas. It is a huge privilege to study at that institution where they are taught, where they are discussed, where they listen to the ideas that have been developed for millennia in the few years in which we are there. I also welcome our colleague Manuel Loff, who is now returning to college to return home. We know that, often at the university, the teachers who challenge us most are those of whom we disagree, that the students who challenge us most are those who do not agree with us. Here, agreeing or disagreeing, as long as you were here—I allow the treatment so informal— this House was a house with more ideas. And universities are home to ideas: ideas about how society works, ideas about how nature works, ideas about their own ideas. As long as you take advantage of it, everything else comes up. [[Congrats by the PS Member of the Gambôa Rosário.]] So far, Portugal had a relatively simple path to achieve in terms of higher education: trying to do what others have already done, trying to reach more or less where others had already arrived, centuries of delay, it is true, but to do so within a generation. Now, we have to take another path and that is what we need to do: innovate, do different, experience what may have been tested in some other countries. The university must be knowledge, above all, all knowledge, for everyone and whenever necessary. Two thirds of university-aged young people in higher education, universities and polytechnics, do not arrive. We must give access to the university to all those who want to attend it. We should really think about turning the 12. the year, which no longer has its utility as a funnel for higher education, in a zero university year, where everyone has at least a little experience of what is higher education, whether or not to continue, so that everyone, when they are 30, 40, 50 years old, when they need to redeploy their life, their career, have a university home, or in politics, to return to. We need to support further research and we cannot say, as the current minister says, that « anyone who wants to finance research should think mainly of European funds ». At the moment that research is still fragile in Portugal, threatened by a precarious situation that we have not yet managed to unleash — far from that — we have to finance the research. We cannot have a university that focuses only on what makes profit and that completely forgets humanity. I have not yet heard the current Minister of Science, Technology and Higher Education even mention humanity during his mandate and this is a cause of great concern. We need new ideas for old houses. I believe that everyone in the Assembly of the Republic has agreed unanimously to approve the proposal of the Free so that quartiles would be transformed into university residences. However, we heard from the Ministry of Science, Technology and Higher Education that it was not necessary to go there, because students do not want to live in comrades. I was, I confess, surprised, because I would never have thought that this adaptation would simply go by putting students in comrades and I thought there was much more to do to take advantage of the extraordinary heritage we have in the center of our cities and that can be renewed for university students. But here it is when, on August 30, the Government of our country itself announces, with some pump, on its official website that youth hostels reinforce the offer of student accommodation, at prices between €200 and €300, for double or multiple rooms, i.e., comrades. What are we staying on? So, if this was possible after all and it wasn't wasted for the ministry, why didn't we advance with the transformation, with the renewal of the barracks in university residences? Why does the discussion of the university financing model continue to be held at the closed door? He hasn't come through this Parliament yet! We have heard university colleagues, national and foreign, telling us that they have been consulted by the ministry on the financing model, but the Members and Members of this House have not yet been consulted. There is a need for a tripod of funding that has part of the economic activity, through businesses and IRC, as in other countries of the world, to fund a strategic fund for higher education development, for laboratories, libraries, long-term projects, a part of the General State Budget is needed to ensure operating expenses and a fund of support for higher education students for scholarships, for residences, for meals and, finally, to end the tips. Portugal has unprecedented conditions for higher education and research—not only national but also foreign—to attract foreign students and researchers and even higher education institutions who want to do study centres here. But, as in the university ideal, first of all, we must respect this search for ideas for ideas, this search for knowledge, all knowledge, for everyone, whenever necessary. If we do, everything else will come by drag. What we have so far from this government mandate leaves us very anxious about what is needed to build this path.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-06.u60	We therefore close the point on political declarations and proceed to the vote. I would like to ask the services which open the register of verification of the quorum and to the ladies and gentlemen. Members to register. [[Pause.]] All right, I have the information that everything is handled. Mr. Eurico Brilliant Dias asked for the floor. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-06.u61	Mr President, Mr Bruno Aragão has replaced, and we have given this information, Mr Porfirio Silva, and it cannot be recorded.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-06.u62	Yes, cases of replacement of Members are identified by the services and are duly registered. We can then, first, end the bell that announces the start of the votes and that is still playing, until the day we finally end the bell.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-06.u63	The bell needs it!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-06.u64	Secondly, I ask the services to close the quorum verification period and to advertise the result. [[Pause.]] We've got quorum, so we're going to get to the deliberations. We begin by voting on draft resolution No 852 / XV / 1. a ( PAR) — Move of the President of the Republic to Poland. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We continue with the vote on draft resolution No 856 / XV / 1. a ( PAR) — Movement of the President of the Republic to São Tomé and Príncipe. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Draft Resolution No 858 / XV / 1. a ( PAR) — Move of the President of the Republic to Ukraine. [[Put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of PS, PS, CH, IL, BE, PAN and L and votes against the CFP.]] With no objection, we shall now proceed to the joint vote on draft resolutions Nos 860 / XV / 1. a ( PAR) — Move of the President of the Republic to Canada and 861 / XV / 1. a ( PAR) — Movement of the President of the Republic to New York. [[After the vote, they were adopted unanimously.]] That is how we close the meeting of the Standing Committee. The next sitting is the plenary session on 15 September, which opens on 2 September. the Legislative Session. Very good work up there. The meeting is closed. [[It was 16 hours and 24 minutes.]]
